COUNTY CODE OF
BLAINE COUNTY, IDAHO
1996
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-04, passe 4-15-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This County Code of Blaine County, as supplemented, contains ordinances and
resolutions up to and including ordinance 2025-04, passed April 15, 2025 and
resolution 2021-19, passed June 22, 2021. Ordinances and resolutions of the
County adopted after said ordinance and resolution supersede the provisions of
this county code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent
therewith. Consult the County office in order to ascertain whether any
particular provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-05
Amending
TITLE 9, ZONING REGULATIONS, CHAPTER 35, COMMUNITY HOUSING OVERLAY DISTRICT
 
 
AN ORDINANCE OF BLAINE COUNTY, IDAHO, AMENDING TITLE 9, ZONING REGULATIONS,
CHAPTER 35, COMMUNITY HOUSING OVERLAY DISTRICT BY EXPANDING DEFINITIONS,
REMOVING MAXIMUM DENSITY, AND AMENDING PARKING AND OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
 
RECITALS
 
WHEREAS, the Board of County Commissioners (Board) is empowered by the Local
Land Use Planning Act of 1975, Idaho Code Section 67-6511, to adopt and amend
regulations establishing zoning districts and appropriate uses therefore;
 
WHEREAS, Pursuant to Blaine County Code §9-31-1 (amendments), “The text and
maps of this title may be amended whenever the board deems that amendment is
required for public convenience or necessity, or for the general welfare”;
 
WHEREAS, the amendments will not create excessive additional requirements at
public cost for public facilities and services;
 
WHEREAS, Opal Engineering applied to amend Title 9, Chapter 35 on October 18,
2024, thereby initiating the amendments;
 
WHEREAS, the Planning and Zoning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing
on January 9, January 23, and February 20, 2025, and recommended that the Board
approve the proposed amendments as amended, finding them in compliance with
Blaine County’s Comprehensive Plan and having no negative impacts on potable
water sources or on the delivery of services;
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Blaine County Code and Idaho Code, the Board held duly
noticed public hearings on April 1st, 2025, considered the Commission’s
recommendation, took public comment, and evaluated the matter. On April 1 st,
2025, the Board approved the proposed amendments, finding them in compliance
with Blaine County’s Comprehensive Plan and having no negative impacts on
potable water sources or on the delivery of services;
 
NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Board of County Commissioners of Blaine
County, Idaho:
 
SECTION 1.  That Blaine County Code, Title 9, Chapter 35, Community Housing
Overlay District, is hereby amended by the deletion of the stricken language
and insertion of the underlined language as follows:
 
9-35-2
COMMON OPEN SPACE: A usable area held for the use and benefit of the owners of
dwelling units or lots in a CH-PUD and which is devoid of streets, parking
areas, and buildings not intended for recreational or community purposes.
Common open space does not include any land within the required setback from
State Highway 75 or within individual single-family or duplex lots.
 
HOUSING CHARITY: An IRS-authorized charity or nonprofit administering or
developing Community Housing as herein defined.
 
 
 
9-35-8.B
            1.   Community housing shall be provided through any of the
alternative methods set forth in subsection 9-35-10A of this chapter. The
Blaine County Housing Authority (BCHA) shall be the responsible local governing
agency for ensuring compliance with the community housing requirements. The
community housing may be operated in accordance with the policies, procedures,
practices, standards, guidelines and charitable purposes of the housing charity
rather than those of BCHA. The applicable average income categories under this
ordinance must be complied with (and in such case, the terms, procedures,
practices, standards, guidelines, plans and charitable purposes of the housing
charity). Alternatively, rental community housing units may be provided in
compliance with HUD low income rental limits for Blaine County and IHFA
management and compliance guidelines. Annual compliance reports shall be
provided to BCHA for review, deed covenants shall include this requirement.
      2.   All units within a CH-PUD shall be connected to a central water
system and a central sewage disposal system meeting Idaho DEQ standards. Units
proposed to connect to Sun Valley Water and Sewer District (SVWSD)
infrastructure shall require a will-serve letter prior to CH-PUD application.
Easements for water and/or sewer main lines shall be required to provide
interconnection of these utilities to adjacent parcels in all subdistricts in
accordance with the master plan.
 
9-35-9.C
Table 2
 
Subdistrict Maximum Base Density Per Acre Minimum Base Density Per Acre
CH-C        12 None*                      6
CH-S        10                            6
  *There will be no fixed maximum base density for residential units in the CH-
C Subdistrict.  Instead, the maximum density will be the density that may be
achieved under the applicable standards of 9-35-10.B (Bulk, Parking, and Open
Space Standards) and 9-35-10.C (Design Standards). 
 
9-35-10.A
1.   Constructed (Or Provided) By Applicant On Site Or Off Site: The CHUs may
be for sale, for rent, or a mix of ownership and rental units. The applicant
shall submit a CH plan based on input from BCHA that outlines the location,
number, size, and targeted average income category of the units based on
evidence of current need. Use of the BCHA housing waiting list is recommended;
if an applicant requests to forego use of the BCHA waiting list, the applicant
shall state reasons why. Units need not be of new construction but shall meet
all applicable standards as recommended by BCHA and approved by the board. On
site CHUs may be provided in addition to the number of market rate units
calculated at the base density. The percentage of CH required is set forth in
Table 3 of this section:
 
5.   Maintaining Affordability Of CH: A deed covenant, community trust land
lease, regulatory agreement, or other document shall be recorded for all rental
or ownership community housing units, which shall be in a format approved by
the board, acceptable to and with comment from BCHA, and shall set forth
eligibility requirements and income categories served, with pricing established
according to the CH guidelines. Alternatively, rental community housing units
may be provided in compliance with HUD low income rental limits and IHFA
management and compliance guidelines. The term of the affordability covenant
shall be determined during the PUD application process and shall begin on the
date that the community housing unit is first placed in service as affordable
housing, or as determined by the Board of County Commissioners. Developments
that propose to provide a higher percentage of community housing than required
in Table 3, may request a reduced covenant length of time.
 
9-35-10.B.1
Table 5, Note 2
2.   Building Footprint: The maximum residential building footprint shall be
ten thousand (10,000) square feet per building, including all enclosed space
measured from exterior building walls.
 
 
Table 5, Note 3
      3.   Parking Standards: Parking standards shall be as established in
chapter 28, "Off Street Parking And Loading Facilities", of this title except
as follows:
Light industrial uses: 1 space per 1,000 gross square feet.
Uses not listed: 1 space per 500 gross square feet.
Multi-family developments shall provide: 
(a) 1 space for each studio unit; 1-bedroom and 2-bedroom units;
(b) 2 spaces for each 3+ bedroom unit, tandem parking spaces are allowed for 3+
bedroom units; and
(c) bicycle parking at a ratio of at least 1 space per 2 units.
 
 
Table 5, Note 4
      4.   Common Open Space Standards:
         a.    The minimum portion of the project land area seven hundred fifty
(750) square feet per free market unit shall be reserved for common open space.
shall be ten percent (10%) in the CH-S and CH-C Subdistricts. Common open space
shall be convenient to and usable by residents of the development rather than
existing as unrelated, isolated fragments, and shall include at a minimum
finished grading and ground cover, trees and shrubs, trash containers and park
bench(es).       
   b.   The common area open space in developments with more than twenty (20)
market rate units shall provide common open space at a rate of seven hundred
fifty (750) square feet per free market unit and shall include at a minimum
finished grading and ground cover, trees and shrubs, trash containers, park
bench(es), and picnic tables and other active park space or recreational
improvements.
         c.   The common area open space requirement may be satisfied with
Ddedicated common open space located off site, but within a convenient
pedestrian walking distance for residents of the project, within or directly
adjacent to the overlay district and with improvements noted in subsection B4a
or B4b of this section, may be permitted, subject to such conditions or
limitations as the board may require to mitigate adverse impact or to ensure
that the benefits derived from the proposed open space are of comparable value
and benefit to residents of the community housing overlay district.
 
9-35-12.B
1.   Ownership/Land Control: Application may be filed by at least one holder of
an interest (ownership or long term - 99 years or more - lease) in the real
property. The entire project shall be under the same ownership or controlling
interest and evidence of title to the property shall be submitted with the
final plat application for a CH-PUD, when applicable. Applications submitted by
the BCHA or licensed nonprofit housing agencies a Housing Charity as herein
defined may proceed to final plat hearing(s) prior to ownership upon approval
by the Administrator.
 
Section 6. Severability Clause. The Board of County Commissioners intends that
each separate provision of this Ordinance be deemed independent of all other
provisions herein, and it is further the intention of said Board that if any of
the provisions of this ordinance be declared to be invalid, then all other
provisions thereof shall remain valid and enforceable.
 
Section 7. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect
from and after its passage, approval and publication.
 
 
Regularly passed, approved and adopted by the Board of County Commissioners of
Blaine County, Idaho, this ___5th ___ day of ____May_________, 2025.
 
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF BLAINE COUNTY, IDAHO
 
 
               
Angenie McCleary, Chair
 
 
               
Lindsay Mollineaux, Vice-Chair
 
 
               
Muffy Davis, Commissioner
 
 
ATTEST:__________________________________
Stephen McDougall Graham, Clerk    (seal)
 
 
 
 
Published in Idaho Mountain Express on:
 
_________________
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-08
 
Blaine Co. Ord. NO. 2025-08 – Title 9, Zoning Regulations and Title 10,
Subdivision Regulations, Multiple Chapters, Housekeeping
Page
BLAINE COUNTY ORDINANCE NO. 2025-08
MISCELLANEOUS AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 9, ZONING REGULATIONS,
AND TITLE 10, SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
 
 
An Ordinance of Blaine County, Idaho, amending Title 9, Zoning Regulations,
Chapter 2, Definitions; Chapter 3, General Provisions; Chapter 4, Zoning
Districts and Their Base Densities, Overlay Districts and Boundaries; Chapter
5, Productive Agricultural District (A-20); Chapter 5A, Productive Agricultural
District (A-40); Chapter 6, Rural Residential District (R- 10); Chapter 6A,
Rural Remote District (RR-40); Chapter 6B, Resource Conservation District (RC-
160); Chapter 7, Residential/Agricultural District (R-5); Chapter 8, Rural
Residential District (R-2 ½); Chapter 9, Planned Residential District (R-2);
Chapter 11, Medium Density Residential District (R-.4); Chapter 12, High
Density Residential District (R-1/4); Chapter 14, General Commercial District
(C); Chapter 15, Chapter 17, Floodplain Overlay and Riparian Setback District;
Chapter 21, Mountain Overlay District; Chapter 21A, Scenic Highway Overlay
District; Chapter 22, Avalanche Overlay District (A); Chapter 25, Conditional
Use Permits; Chapter 27, Nonconforming Uses And Buildings; Chapter 29, Signs,
Chapter 30, Variances Expiration; Chapter 31, Amendments; Chapter 36, Mobile
Home/Manufactured Home park Overlay District; and Title 10, Subdivision
Regulations, Chapter 2, Definitions; Chapter 4, Procedure for Approval and Plat
Contents; Chapter 6, Planned Unit Developments; Chapter 8, Enforcement
Violations and Penalty, Providing A Severability Clause And Effective Date.
 
  RECITALS
 
WHEREAS, the Board of County Commissioners (Board) is empowered by the Local
Land Use Planning Act of 1975, Idaho Code Section 67-6511, to adopt and amend
regulations establishing zoning districts and appropriate uses therefore;
 
WHEREAS, Pursuant to Blaine County Code §9-31-1 (amendments), “The text and
maps of this title may be amended whenever the board deems that amendment is
required for public convenience or necessity, or for the general welfare”;
 
WHEREAS, the amendments will not create excessive additional requirements at
public cost for public facilities and services;
 
WHEREAS, the text amendment reflects the desired outcomes of Blaine County’s
Comprehensive Plan;
WHEREAS, the Blaine County Board of County Commissioners (Board) initiated the
amendments on June 3, 2025;
 
WHEREAS, the Planning and Zoning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing
on July 24, 2025, and on that date, recommended that the Board approve the
proposed amendments as presented, finding them in compliance with Blaine
County’s Comprehensive Plan and having no negative impacts on potable water
sources or on the delivery of services;
WHEREAS, pursuant to Blaine County Code and Idaho Code, the Board held duly
noticed public hearings on August 19, 2025, considered the Commission’s
recommendation, took public comment, and evaluated the matter. On August 19,
2025, the Board approved the proposed amendments, finding them in compliance
with Blaine County’s Comprehensive Plan and having no negative impacts on
potable water sources or on the delivery of services;
 
NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Board of County Commissioners of Blaine
County, Idaho:
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1.
CHAPTER 2 DEFINITIONS
9-2-1: Definitions Of Words And Terms
ACCESSORY USE/ STRUCTURE: A use or structure subordinate to the principal use
on the same lot or premises and serving a purpose customarily incidental to the
use of the principal building, including but not limited to detached garages.
The gross floor area of an accessory structure shall not exceed seventy five
percent (75%) of the gross floor area of the primary building containing the
permitted use on the lot. Exceptions: The size limitation shall not apply to
agricultural buildings, indoor riding arenas, or accessory dwelling units that
are detached from any other building containing an accessory use. An accessory
use is a use that is commonly, habitually, and by long practice established or
associated in Blaine County with such primary use. 
AGRICULTURAL BUILDING: A building as defined in Title 7 of this code,
Section 7-1-3 (I) Definitions and Idaho Statute. Agricultural buildings may not
be combined with other uses.
AGRICULTURAL BUSINESSES: An agricultural business shall be a commercial use
where activities occurring on the site are compatible with the surrounding
agricultural lands. It shall occupy and use to the extent possible existing on
site agricultural facilities, buildings and other structures. Such agricultural
businesses shall include, and not be limited to, the following: 
   A.   Commercial pet care, breeding and boarding. 
   B.   Storage, fabrication and sales of irrigation systems. 
   C.   Alcohol plants such as winery, brewery or distillery. 
   D.   Greenhouses and commercial nurseries with an on site retail facility. 
   E.   Landscape contractor or wholesaler with more than two (2) employees. 
   F.   Stables and riding schools. 
   G.   Guest ranches. 
   H.   Processing of milk products. 
   I.   Storage, mixing, blending for the purpose of sales of fertilizers or
compost not to include restaurant waste. 
   J.   Transportation services for hauling agricultural products. 
   K.   Post and pole fabrication. 
   L. Timber production 
COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM: Refer to IDAPA 58-Department of Environmental Quality;
currently, 58.01.08 - Idaho Rules for Public Drinking Water Systems –
DEFINITIONS. Also refer to the definition for a Public Water System within this
Title.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction of buildings, structures or
accessory structures, or the construction of additions or substantial
improvements to buildings, structures or accessory structures; the placement of
mobile homes; extraction, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials; and the deposition or
extraction of materials, including the construction of dikes, berms and levees.
DWELLING, ACCESSORY: A separate building or portion thereof or portion of a
residential building excluding mobile homes and Tiny Home on Wheels which may,
but is not required to, provide complete, independent living facilities for a
household including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, cooking, eating,
and sanitation. The primary factors which cumulatively may result in a building
or portion of a building being classified as an accessory dwelling unit are
that:
   A.   The area is not functionally integrated with the floor plan of the
primary residence it does not share a common hallway, it has a separate
entrance, and it can be locked off and used independently from the primary
residence.
   B.   There is a kitchen area consisting of a sink, counters, cabinets,
refrigerator and cooking appliance; or electrical outlets and plumbing that
would support kitchen facilities.
   C.   There is a bathroom consisting of a toilet, sink and shower or bathtub
or both.
Said accessory dwelling shall be clearly subordinate to the principal
residential use on the lot and shall serve a purpose customarily incidental to
the use of the principal residential use. Said unit shall meet criteria set
forth in section 9-3-11 of this title. Exception: A building or portion of
building that does not exceed five hundred (500) square feet and does not have
a kitchen (i.e., sink, counters, cabinets, refrigerator and cooking appliance;
or electrical outlets and plumbing that would support kitchen facilities) and
has no more than a half bath (i.e., sink and toilet) may be considered
an accessory building and not an accessory dwelling unit.
 
Exception to ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT Definition
(Less than or equal to ) 500 SF YES
KITCHEN                         NO
FULL BATH                       NO
HALF BATH                       YES
GARAGE                          NO (see accessory structure definition)
 
DOMESTIC WATER: Water used for indoor and/or outdoor household purposes.
Including water provided by municipal/community/public water systems and
domestic exemptions wells.
GARAGE, RESIDENTIAL: A building or portion of a building that is primarily used
for the parking and storage of passenger vehicles owned and operated by the
residents thereof. A garage may contain other accessory uses related to the
residential use of the property such as storage of household goods and property
maintenance equipment, laundry facilities, work area, etc. A garage may contain
a half bath consisting of a sink and toilet, but no shower or bathtub. Detached
garages must meet the accessory structure definition. 
POTABLE WATER SOURCE: Private water system, such as wells and springs, or
public water systems. Also known as drinking water, comes from surface and
ground sources and is treated to levels that meet state and federal standards
for human consumption.
PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM: A system that provides the public with piped water for
human consumption, if such system has at least fifteen (15) service connections
or regularly serves an average of at least twenty five (25) individuals daily
at least sixty (60) days out of the year.  Also refer to IDAPA 58-Department of
Environmental Quality; currently,58.01.08 - Idaho Rules for Public Drinking
Water Systems – DEFINITIONS  Such term includes:
A. Any collection, treatment, storage, and distribution facilities under
control of the operator of such system and used primarily in connection with
such system; and
B. Any collection or pretreatment storage facilities not under such control
that are used primarily in connection with such system.
RECREATIONAL ACCESS: Generally, refers to the right or opportunity for the
public to use private or public land for various leisure activities, including
but not limited to any of the following or any combination thereof:
   Hunting, fishing, shooting, trapping, camping, picnicking
   Swimming, boating, rafting, tubing, waterskiing, paddleboarding, kayaking
   Hiking, running, horseback/animal riding
   Pleasure driving, bicycling, motorcycling, operating recreational vehicles
and off-highway vehicles,
   Snowmobiling, cross-country skiing, backcountry skiing and snowboarding,
snowshoeing
   Sightseeing, exploring, photography, viewing or enjoying wildlife,
historical, archeological, scenic, geological or scientific sites.
Idaho has a recreational use statute (currently Idaho Code §36-1604) that
provides a limit of liability for landowners for unintentional injuries to
recreational users of their property. 
RECREATIONAL FACILITY, PRIVATE: a privately owned facility, building, and/or
site used for a park, campground, marina, golf course, playground, athletic
field, gymnasium, swimming pool/spa, trail system, or other facility used for
recreational purposes not available to the public.
NURSING HOME: Facility for the care and treatment of more than three (3)
elderly patients; includes rest homes and retirement homes.
RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY: a facility or residence, however named, operated on
either a for profit or nonprofit basis for the purpose of providing necessary
supervision, personal assistance, meals and lodging to three (3) or more adults
not related to the owner of the facility. Assisted living facility is included
in this definition as currently defined in §39- 3302
STREET FRONTAGE/FRONTAGE: The linear distance that a property line abuts a
public street or County approved private road providing access, from one
property line intersecting said street to the farthest distant property line
intersecting the same street.
 
 
SECTION 2.
CHAPTER 3 GENERAL PROVISIONS
9-3-10: STRUCTURE SETBACK S ON HIGHWAY 75:
1.   Setbacks are described in each corresponding zoning district;
additionally,
2.   All structures along Highway 75 shall be set back a minimum of one hundred
feet (100') from the edge of the right of way. Utilities and driveways are
exempt. Signs within this setback are regulated in chapter 29 of this title.
Fences, walls, earthen structures and landscape are regulated in chapter 21A of
this title. Address markers are regulated in section 7-7-5 of this code. (Ord.
2009-09, 12-22-2009)
3.   All structures adjacent to public land shall be subject to a thirty foot
(30’) setback from the lot line bordering federally managed and Idaho
Department of Lands public land, to ensure thirty feet (30’) of defensible
space as required by 7-7-5(H).
 
9-3-11: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT(S) AND TINY HOME ON WHEELS:
B.   Restrictions: All accessory dwelling unit(s):
1.   Shall be limited to a maximum one thousand two hundred (1,200) square foot
floor area. Said floor area shall be the total of all floor areas as measured
from the exterior face of the exterior walls. ADU garage space up to an
additional one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet is allowed. ADU’s that
have floor area of four hundred (400) square feet or less shall use
requirements in International Residential Code, Appendix Q - Tiny Houses.
a.   The area encompassing the mechanical system shall be included in the
square footage calculation. If the mechanical equipment is located in the crawl
space or the attached ADU garage, it shall be exempt from the square footage
calculation.
C.   Restrictions: All Tiny Homes on Wheels:
7. Tiny Home on Wheels Permit Required.
 
 
9-3-16: WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES:
9-3-16-7: CATEGORICAL EXCLUSIONS:
   B. Administrator's Review Of Categorical Exclusions: The Administrator, in
consultation with the County Engineer, or other qualified person as designated
by the County, shall review all written requests for determinations of
categorical exclusions under this section, and promulgate appropriate forms to
be used for such requests. The applicant shall have the burden of demonstrating
that the proposed development proposal falls within and meets the requirements
of a categorical exclusion. The Administrator shall issue a written decision
within thirty one (31) days of receipt of an application for determination of
categorical exclusion. The Administrator, prior to issuance of his/her
decision, may request additional information from the applicant, including,
without limitation, technical review from the County Engineer or other
qualified person designated by the County. Said technical review shall be at
the applicant's expense. Failure to provide such requested information within
sixty (60) days of request shall be grounds for denial of the request for
determination of categorical exclusion. The thirty one (31) day time period for
issuance of the Administrator's decision shall begin to run anew following the
date of the Administrator's receipt of additional information from the
applicant. Such period also shall be tolled during any periods that the
Administrator does not have reasonably safe access to the site of the proposed
development. Any person aggrieved by the written decision of the Administrator
as to a categorical exclusion may appeal the Administrator's decision to the
Board, according to the procedures and time requirements of section 9-32-3 of
this title
 
 
SECTION 3.
CHAPTER 4 ZONING DISTRICTS AND THEIR BASE DENSITIES, OVERLAY DISTRICTS AND
BOUNDARIES
9-4-2: ZONING DISTRICTS AND THEIR BASE DENSITIES:
I.   Special Use Overlay Districts:
(APA) Agricultural Protection Area
(AV) Airport Vicinity Non-Friedman Airport Vicinity Overlay District
(FMAV) Friedman Memorial Airport Vicinity Overlay District
(MHO) Mobile home/Manufactured Home Park Overlay District
 
 
 
SECTION 4.
CHAPTER 5 PRODUCTIVE AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (A-20)
9-5-5 (A-20) ACCESSORY USES:
A.   Living quarters for persons employed on the premises; provided, however,
that mobile homes /manufactured homes shall be set back at least fifty feet
(50') from any property line (100 feet from Highway 75). Living quarters for
employees shall be limited to parcels in the A-20 District, twenty (20) acres
or greater in size, up to two (2) units per twenty (20) acres.
H. Accessory Use/Structure
 
9-5-7: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
F. Additional Minimum Setbacks to all lot lines: One hundred feet (100’) from
State Highway 75, thirty feet (30’) from federally managed, and Idaho
Department of Lands, public land
 
 
SECTION 5.
CHAPTER 5A PRODUCTIVE AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (A-40)
9-5A-5 (A-40) ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   Living quarters for persons employed on the premises; provided,
however, that mobile homes/manufactured homes shall be set back at least fifty
feet (50') from any property line (100 feet from Highway 75). Living quarters
for employees shall be limited to parcels in the A-40 District forty (40) acres
or greater in size, up to two (2) units per twenty (20) acres.
H. Accessory Use/Structure
9-5A-6 (A-40) CONDITIONAL USES:
E. Temporary use of a mobile home/manufactured home during construction of a
permanent dwelling for a period not to exceed one year....
H. Permanent use of a mobile home/manufactured home as a primary residence on a
parcel of land at least forty (40) acres lying within the district; provided
that the mobile/manufactured home be certified by the builder to meet current
building standards in effect for the County.
 
9-5A-7: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
F. Additional Minimum Setbacks to all lot lines: One hundred feet (100’) from
State Highway 75, thirty feet (30’) from federally managed, and Idaho
Department of Lands, public land
 
 
SECTION 6.
CHAPTER 6 RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-10)
9-6-5 (R-10) ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   Living quarters for persons employed on the premises; provided,
however, that mobile homes/manufactured homes shall be set back at least fifty
feet (50') from any property line (100 feet from Highway 75). Living quarters
for employees shall be limited to parcels in the A-40 District forty (40) acres
or greater in size, up to two (2) units per twenty (20) acres.
H. Accessory Use/Structure
 
9-6-7: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
F. Additional Minimum Setbacks to all lot lines: One hundred feet (100’) from
State Highway 75, thirty feet (30’) from federally managed, and Idaho
Department of Lands, public land
 
 
 
SECTION 7.
CHAPTER 6A RURAL REMOTE DISTRICT (RR-40)
9-6A-5 (RR-40) ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   Living quarters for persons employed on the premises; provided,
however, that mobile homes/manufactured homes shall be set back at least fifty
feet (50') from any property line (100 feet from Highway 75). Living quarters
for employees shall be limited to parcels in the A-40 District forty (40) acres
or greater in size, up to two (2) units per twenty (20) acres.
H. Accessory Use/Structure
 
9-6A-7: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
F. Additional Minimum Setbacks to all lot lines: One hundred feet (100’) from
State Highway 75, thirty feet (30’) from federally managed, and Idaho
Department of Lands, public land
 
 
SECTION 8.
CHAPTER 7 RESIDENTIAL/AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (R-5)
9-7-4 (R-5) ACCESSORY USES:
B.Farm Agricultural related structures and garden buildings
G. Accessory Use/Structure
 
9-7-6: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
E. Additional Minimum Setbacks to all lot lines: One hundred feet (100’) from
State Highway 75, thirty feet (30’) from federally managed, and Idaho
Department of Lands, public land
 
 
SECTION 9.
CHAPTER 8 RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-2 1/2)
9-8-4 (R-2 ½ ) ACCESSORY USES:
B. Farm Agricultural related structures and garden buildings
G. Accessory Use/Structure
 
9-8-6: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
E. Additional Minimum Setbacks to all lot lines: One hundred feet (100’) from
State Highway 75, thirty feet (30’) from federally managed, and Idaho
Department of Lands, public land
 
 
SECTION 10.
CHAPTER 9 PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT (R-2)
9-9-4 (R-2) ACCESSORY USES:
B.   Farm Agricultural related structures and garden buildings
G. Accessory Use/Structure
 
9-9-6: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
E. Additional Minimum Setbacks to all lot lines: One hundred feet (100’) from
State Highway 75, thirty feet (30’) from federally managed, and Idaho
Department of Lands, public land
 
 
 
SECTION 11.
CHAPTER 10 LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-1)
9-10-4 (R-1) ACCESSORY USES:
B.  Farm Agricultural-related structures and garden buildings
F. Accessory Use/Structure
 
9-10-6: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
E. Additional Minimum Setbacks to all lot lines: One hundred feet (100’) from
State Highway 75, thirty feet (30’) from federally managed, and Idaho
Department of Lands, public land
 
 
SECTION 12.
CHAPTER 11 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-.4)
9-11-4 (R-.4) ACCESSORY USES:
B.  Farm Agricultural related structures and garden buildings
F. Accessory Use/Structure
 
9-11-6: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
G. Additional Minimum Setbacks to all lot lines: One hundred feet (100’) from
State Highway 75, thirty feet (30’) from federally managed, and Idaho
Department of Lands, public land
 
 
SECTION 13.
CHAPTER 12 HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-1/4)
9-12-4 (R- ¼ ) ACCESSORY USES:
B.  Farm Agricultural related structures and garden buildings
F. Accessory Use/Structure
 
9-12-6: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
G. Additional Minimum Setbacks to all lot lines: One hundred feet (100’) from
State Highway 75, thirty feet (30’) from federally managed, and Idaho
Department of Lands, public land
 
 
SECTION 14.
CHAPTER 14 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C)
9-14-3: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses for this district are limited to the following:
H.   Nursery for children, nursing homes Residential Care Facility.
9-14-3 (C) Accessory Uses:
E. Accessory Use/Structure,
 
9-14-6: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
G. Additional Minimum Setbacks to all lot lines: One hundred feet (100’) from
State Highway 75, thirty feet (30’) from federally managed, and Idaho
Department of Lands, public land
 
 
 
SECTION 15.
CHAPTER 17 FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT (FP) AND RIPARIAN SETBACK DISTRICT (R)
9-17-9: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT PROCEDURE:
C.   Application: An application for a conditional use permit shall be filed
with the Administrator by at least one holder of an interest in the property or
their agent accompanied by the fee established. The application shall include
the following information:
2.   Additional information that may be requested by the Administrator in order
to review a specific application may include, but is not limited to, the
following:
a.   Eight (8) sets of plans when application requires commission approval, six
(6) sets of plans when application requires Board approval, or two (2) sets of
plans when the application requires hearing examiner approval or when
submitting an application for a building permit, Plans drawn to scale showing
the nature, location, dimensions and elevation of the lot, existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, floodproofing measures and the
relationship of the above to the location of the channel, floodway and the
flood protection elevation for the lowest floor which shall be two feet (2')
above the base flood elevation or highest adjacent grade of the building site
where no base flood elevation exists.
 
 
SECTION 16.
CHAPTER 22 AVALANCHE OVERLAY DISTRICT (A)
9-22-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this District is to restrict and guide development in areas of
avalanche hazard. Such areas are categorized as either high hazard
or low moderate hazard, for which different regulations shall pertain.
 
9-22-3: HIGH HAZARD AREAS:
No public roads shall be located within high hazard areas and no building
permits for residential, commercial or industrial uses will be issued within
the high hazard areas, as shown on the Avalanche Overlay maps or site specific
avalanche studies. All density accumulated by ownership of these lands is
transferrable to contiguous land in the same ownership which is not located in
a high hazard area. However, the transfer of density is not guaranteed and
shall be allowed only if the Commission and the Board find it in conformance
with the purposes and standards of the Planned Unit Development Ordinance 1 .
 
 9-22-4: LOW MODERATE HAZARD AREAS:
Residential uses are permitted in low moderate hazard areas. The following
performance standards shall apply to all structures built within
the low moderate hazard areas:
 
 
SECTION 17.
CHAPTER 28 OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES
9-28-2: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIRED, BY USE TYPE:
 B.   Parking Spaces Required By Type Of Use:
      2.   Commercial:
c.   Nursing homes Residential Care Facility: One for every four (4) beds plus
employees' parking.
 
 
SECTION 18.
CHAPTER 29 SIGNS
9-29-3: PERMITTED SIGNS FOR USES CONDUCTED ON THE SAME PREMISES:
   A.   A sign permit is not required for the following signs:
 4.   A ranch identification sign incorporated into the entry gate of
agriculturally exempted parcels shall be allowed, up to twenty (20) square
feet, with a minimum height of 13 ft 6 inches and a minimum width of 20 feet
per current International Fire Code. 
 
 
SECTION 19.
CHAPTER 29B ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND FENCES
9-29B-1: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
A.   Detached Accessory Structures:
      1.   Detached accessory structures meeting all of the following criteria
are exempt from building permit:
         a.   Non-habitable (e.g., storage shed, livestock shelter - must be
utility "U" occupancy according to the International Building Code).
         b.   Maximum floor area of one hundred twenty (120) square feet.
         c.   Maximum building height of twelve feet (12'). See definition of
building height in section 9-2-1, "Definitions", of this title.
Detached accessory structures that do not meet all criteria of subsections A1a
through A1c of this section are required to have a building permit and shall
comply with the required yard setbacks of the zoning district within which they
are located.
      2.   Minimum yard setbacks for detached accessory structures meeting all
criteria of subsection A1 of this section are as follows:
         a.   Front yard setback: One hundred feet (100') on State Highway 75,
fifty feet (50') for other major roads, twenty five feet (25') for minor roads.
         b.   Side and rear yard setback: According to the minimum yard
setbacks of the zoning district within which they are located. Exceptions:
            (1)   On lots less than two (2) acres in size, three feet (3').
            (2)   One hundred feet (100') from State Highway 75.
            (3)   Thirty feet (30') from State- and Federally-managed public
lands.
         c.   Setback from any other building: Three feet (3').
 d.   If platted building envelope exists, see building envelope requirements
in 10-2-1 Definitions of Words and Terms
 
 
SECTION 20.
CHAPTER 30 VARIANCES
9-30-9: EXPIRATION: All variances shall expire one year after their issuance
from approval of the Findings of Fact and Conclusion of Law if a building
permit has not been obtained for the purpose of exercising the variance. If a
building permit has been obtained, the terms of the building permit apply. If
good cause for delay in obtaining a building permit is shown, the administrator
may once only extend the approval period not to exceed one year, provided
application is made for an extension before expiration of the permit.
 
 
SECTION 21.
CHAPTER 35 COMMUNITY HOUSING OVERLAY DISTRICT (CH)
9-35-5: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses shall include those listed as permitted in the underlying zoning
district(s). Residential uses are permitted through the CH-PUD process in
detached single-family, duplex, multi-family, multi-unit townhouse or
condominium, or combination thereof, housing types. Limited commercial uses may
be allowed through the CH-PUD process in the following subdistrict only:
   A.   CH-C:
Nursing homes. Residential Care Facility.
 
 
SECTION 22.
CHAPTER 36 MOBILE HOME/MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OVERLAY DISTRICT (MHO)
9-36-7: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
   C.   Street Corner Lot Setback (From Exterior Property Line): Fifty feet
(50') from corner.
 
Title 10
 
SECTION 23.
CHAPTER 2 DEFINITIONS
10-2-1 DEFINITIONS:
COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM: Refer to IDAPA 58-Department of Environmental Quality;
currently, 58.01.08 - Idaho Rules for Public Drinking Water Systems –
DEFINITIONS. Also refer to the definition for a Public Water System within this
Title.
CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of: a) an undivided interest in common in
real property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any
combination thereof, together with b) a separate interest in real property or
in any combination thereof. Set forth in Idaho Code, currently section 55-101B,
as the same is amended and modified from time to time, and as further defined
and described in the Idaho Condominium Property Act.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction of buildings, structures or
accessory structures, or the construction of additions or substantial
improvements to buildings, structures or accessory structures; the placement of
mobile homes; mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials; and the deposition or
extraction of materials, including the construction of dikes, berms and levees.
DOMESTIC USE/ DOMESTIC PURPOSE DOMESTIC WATER: Water from wells granted by the
Idaho Department of Water Resources under the domestic exemption, As defined,
pursuant to Idaho Code, Title 42-111.
DOMESTIC WATER: Water used for indoor and/or outdoor household purposes.
Including water provided by municipal/community/public water systems and
domestic exemptions wells. Water from wells granted by the Idaho Department of
Water Resources under the domestic exemption
PLAT: A graphic representation of a condominium or subdivision showing the
division of land into lots, parcels, blocks, streets and alleys and other
elements of a subdivision, cemetery, townsite or another tract of land, or a
replatting of such including certifications, descriptions and approvals.
POTABLE WATER SOURCE: Private water system, such as wells and springs, or
public water systems. Also known as drinking water, comes from surface and
ground sources and is treated to levels that meet state and federal standards
for human consumption.
PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM: A system that provides the public with piped water for
human consumption, if such system has at least fifteen (15) service connections
or regularly intended to serve an average of at least twenty five (25)
individuals daily for at least sixty (60) days out of the year.  Also refer to
IDAPA 58-Department of Environmental Quality; currently, 58.01.08 - Idaho Rules
for Public Drinking Water Systems – DEFINITIONS  Such term includes:
A. Any collection, treatment, storage, and distribution facilities under
control of the operator of such system and used primarily in connection with
such system; and
B. Any collection or pretreatment storage facilities not under such control
that are used primarily in connection with such system.
UNDUE HARDSHIP: Special conditions depriving the applicant of rights commonly
enjoyed by other property owners in the same district under the terms of this
title, but not merely a matter of convenience and profit.
 
SECTION 24.
CHAPTER 4 PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL AND PLAT CONTENTS
10-4-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURE:
   C.   Review By Agencies:
      1.   Transmission Of Application: ( . . . )
   (. . .)
   o. Applicable Irrigation Districts.
 
10-4-6 SHORT PLAT PROCEDURE
A.   Application
1.   Regular Short Plat: Any property owner desiring to condominiumize
or divide land into four (4) or fewer lots may submit an application for short
subdivision to the Administrator. One or more original parcels of land must be
included and subdivided according to the terms of this chapter.
 
10-4-7: VACATION, DEDICATION AND OTHER PLAT APPROVAL PROCEDURES:
 D.   Plat Amendment And Correction:
An owner or subdivider requesting a minor amendment shall be required to file
an application with the Administrator. The Administrator may require additional
information reasonably required for thorough review of the application. The
Administrator shall provide written notice of such application to all property
owners within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundary of the lots
proposed for plat amendment. Such notice shall inform owners that they may
comment on the application during a period of not less than fifteen (15) days
after mailing of the notice and prior to final action on such application.
Following expiration of the comment period and upon a finding by the
Administrator that:
a. (1.)The application is in compliance with the provisions of this Code, the
Administrator shall recommend approval or approval with conditions to the Board
for final action;
b. (2.)The application is not in compliance with this chapter, the
Administrator shall recommend denial and state the reasons in writing to the
Board for final action; or
c. (3.)   Further review is warranted, the Administrator shall notify the
applicant and schedule a public hearing before the Board on the next available
agenda.
Upon approval of an application and satisfaction by the applicant of any
attached conditions, the applicant may then record the amended plat.
 
10-4-7  E.   Modification Of An Original Parcel Of Land:
1.   Modification By Deed Or And Survey: An owner may modify the boundary of an
"original parcel of land", as defined in section 10-2-1 of this title, by a
new, recorded deed description or and a record of survey with a property
description if an administrative determination has been made that:
a. More than fifty percent (50%) of the land area of each original parcel of
land or at least four (4) acres will be or is and will remain located outside
of the Floodplain Overlay District, Riparian Setback District, Mountain Overlay
District, Wetlands Overlay District or any combination of these districts;
b. Each parcel is completely within the A-20 or A-40 Zoning District or both;
or each parcel is and will remain four (4) acres or larger; and
c. Neither parcel will become any more nonconforming in size to the minimum lot
size set out in the applicable zoning district.
d. Surveys shall include the following note: This survey does not purport to
reflect all of the following, which may be applicable to the subject parcel:
easements, other than those shown or listed hereon, building setback lines,
restrictive covenants, subdivision regulations, zoning or any other Land Use
regulations. This survey does not constitute a subdivision of land or create a
buildable parcel separate from the whole of parcel(s) RP______________, RP
_______________.
 
 
SECTION 25.
CHAPTER 6 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
10-6-10 (G)
G. If applicable, a community housing plan as outlined in section 6.3 of the
Blaine County housing authority guidelines.
 
 
SECTION 26.
CHAPTER 8 ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY
10-8-4: CONDITIONS:
A. Performance Standards For Riparian Areas: When areas of riparian resources
are impacted and a mitigation plan is proposed, a financial guarantee shall be
required to ensure that the following conditions and performance standards are
met and to ensure that the functions, services, and values of the mitigation
plan are achieved:
1. Monitoring Plan: All restored and constructed areas of riparian resource
shall be monitored for a specified period or until the standards of performance
and measures of success are accomplished, whichever occurs first.
2. Riparian Area Management Plan: If after a three (3) year period the period
determined by the Board, a minimum of 3 growing seasons, measures of success
are not accomplished, reasons for failure shall be determined and corrected. If
required, areas will be revegetated by methods and materials described in the
riparian area management plan.
3. Compliance Certification: Every permittee shall submit a signed
certification to the county regarding the completed work and any required
mitigation. The certification shall include:
a. A statement that the authorized work was done in accordance with the permit
and any general or specific conditions.
b. A statement that any required mitigation was completed in accordance with
the permit conditions.
c. The signature of the permittee certifying the completion of the work and
mitigation.
4. Return Of Financial Guarantee: Blaine County shall return the financial
guarantee upon the Administrator’s approval and receipt of the certificate of
compliance.
 
 
 
SECTION 27.
SEVERABILITY CLAUSE
The Board of County Commissioners intends that each separate provision of this
Ordinance be deemed independent of all other provisions herein, and it is
further the intention of said Board that if any of the provisions of this
ordinance be declared to be invalid, then all other provisions thereof shall
remain valid and enforceable.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 28.
EFFECTIVE DATE
This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval and publication.
 
Regularly passed, approved and adopted by the Board of County Commissioners of
Blaine County, Idaho, this 26th day of August 2025.
 
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF BLAINE COUNTY, IDAHO
 
 
 
               
Angenie McCleary, Chair
 
 
 
               
Lindsay Mollineaux, Vice-Chair
 
 
 
               
Muffy Davis, Commissioner
 
 
ATTEST:__________________________________
Stephen F Graham, Clerk    (seal)
 
 
 
 
Published in Idaho Mountain Express on:
 
_________________
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 96-8
BLAINE COUNTY ORDINANCE NO. 96-8
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE COUNTY
   CODE OF BLAINE COUNTY, IDAHO
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY
   COMMISSIONERS OF BLAINE COUNTY, IDAHO:
   Section 1. From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the County
Code of Blaine County, Idaho, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., containing
the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature, together with changes
made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the
County, shall be hereby adopted and shall be accepted in all courts without
question as the official Code and Law of the County as enacted by the Board of
County Commissioners.
   Included by reference are:
Blaine County Ordinance No. 96-6,
An Ordinance of Blaine County, Idaho, Amending Blaine County Subdivision
Ordinance No. 77-6, as Amended, Chapter 7, (Blaine County Code Title 10,
Chapter 4) Procedure for Subdivision Approval and Plat Contents,
   and
Blaine County Ordinance No. 96-7,
The Blaine County Roadside Vending Ordinance.
   Section 2. There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a general and permanent nature
amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions of the Official County Code
is identified by the proper catch line and is inserted in the proper place in
each of the official copies, three (3) copies of which shall be maintained in
the office of the Clerk of the District Court, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3. All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official
County Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision,
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said Official County Code. All
ordinances of a special nature, including without limitation tax levy
ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation
ordinances shall continue in full force and effect unless specifically repealed
or amended by a provision of the County Code. Such ordinances are not intended
to be included in the Official County Code.
   Section 4. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code,
or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with
such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the County to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6. This Ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage, approval and publication in
accordance with law.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7cb48253b0efda9dc27de6445f007dfbaf52ca8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1295.gif]
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL COUNTY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Board of County Commissioners, this County Code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official County Code of
Blaine County. This County Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the
BLAINE COUNTY CODE, and it is hereby published by authority of the Board of
Commissioners and shall be kept up to date as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this County Code by title in any legal document 1
. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. § 31-714 et seq.
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This County Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and
in all administrative tribunals of this State as the ordinances of the County
of general and permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in
Section
1-2-1 of this Code. (1996 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute a
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this County Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of the County Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each copy of the County
Code. (1996 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this County Code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the Board of Commissioners. The County Clerk-Recorder shall see that the
replacement pages are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in
the office of said Clerk. Any person having in their custody an official copy
of this County Code shall make every effort to maintain this Code in an up-to-
date and efficient manner. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of
new or replacement pages when such are delivered to them or made available to
them through the office of the County Clerk-Recorder. Said Code books, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the County and shall be returned to the office of the
Clerk-Recorder when directed so to do by order of the Board of Commissioners.
(1996 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the County passed prior to the adoption of this
County Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this County
Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
County; and all special ordinances. (1996 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be replaced by virtue of the preceding section, excepting as
this County Code may contain provisions for such matters, in which case this
County Code shall be considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in
respect to such provisions only. (1996 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed in violation of such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that proceedings thereafter shall conform to
the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable.
If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under, or by virtue of, any general ordinance of the County herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation or as waiving any right of the
County under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this County Code. (1996 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this County Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Board of
Commissioners hereby declares that it would have passed each section,
subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or person is
referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only, or the
masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females as well as
males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that these
rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this code which
contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the subject
matter or content may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the county has been changed
in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the county's ordinances is not meant to amend the
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1996 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BOARD: Unless otherwise indicated, the board of county commissioners of Blaine
County, Idaho.
CODE: The code of ordinances of Blaine County, and all amendments thereto.
COUNTY: The county of Blaine, state of Idaho.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a county employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
county of Blaine".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the county for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
INFRACTION: A civil public offense, not constituting a crime, punishable only
by a penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) and for which no
incarceration may be imposed 1
.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense not defined as a felony or infraction under state law
2
. Except in cases where a different punishment is prescribed by the Idaho Code
or by this code, a misdemeanor is punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the county; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a county officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the county of
Blaine".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any land trust
beneficiary, part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee
of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Every description of money, goods, chattels, effects,
evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any pecuniary
obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged, transferred,
increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right of interest
therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, this term shall be understood
to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STREET: This term shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, such
terms shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles
or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: These terms may include printing and any other mode of
representing words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is
required by law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it
shall be in the proper handwriting of such person or in case he is unable to
write by his proper mark. (Ord. 2009-02, 5-21-2009; 1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 18-111.
2 2. IC § 18-111.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a misdemeanor violation of any section or provision of
this code, where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished by a fine not
to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by imprisonment not to exceed
six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Any person convicted of an infraction violation of any section or provision of
this code, where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished by a fine not
to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00), and no imprisonment. (Ord. 2009-02, 5-
21-2009)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a
continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor or an infraction, as appropriate. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in
this code.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (1996 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the board of commissioners to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 5
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
1-5-1: County Commissioner Districts
1-5-2: Residency Requirement
1-5-3: Term Of Office
1-5-4: Regular Meetings
1-5-5: Official Agenda
1-5-6: Review Of Claims
1-5-1: COUNTY COMMISSIONER DISTRICTS:
Pursuant to the power and duty conferred and imposed upon all boards of county
commissioners by Idaho Code, section 31-704, the following County Commissioner
Districts are hereby created:
   A.   County Commissioner District One: Beginning at the intersection of
Highway 20 and the westerly boundary of Blaine County (Section 10/13, T1S,
R16E); then east to Rock Creek Road; then north along Rock Creek Road to Cray
Creek Road; northeast along Cray Creek Road to Croecus Creek; then southeast
along Croecus Creek to an intersection with an extension of Colorado Gulch,
then northeast on Colorado Gulch to Broadford Road, south on Broadford Road to
Canal 33, then south on Canal 33 to its intersection with Highway 75, then
north on Highway 75 to the intersection with the city limits of the City of
Hailey (Section 23, T2N, R18E), then north, then west and north along the city
limits to Bullion Road, then northeast on Bullion Road to River Road, then
south on River Road to Cedar Street, east on Cedar Street to Highway 75 and
Third Avenue, continuing in a straight line to the Union Pacific Railroad
right-of-way, then northwest along the right- of-way to Chestnut Street, then
northeast on an extension of Chestnut Street to the City of Hailey city line,
then southeast on said city line to Canal 33, then southeast along Canal 33 to
its intersection with the Bellevue city limits, then east and south on
Slaughterhouse Gulch Road, then northeast on Slaughterhouse Gulch Road to the
ridge separating the Big Wood-Little Wood drainage, continuing north on this
ridge to its intersection with the Blaine-Custer County line (Section 27, T5N,
R20E).
   B.   County Commissioner District Two: County Commissioner District Two is
north of County Commissioner District One and south of the line which at its
westernmost point begins with the confluence of Warm Springs Road and the
western boundary of Blaine County (Section 16, Township 3 North, Range 15 East)
continuing east on Warm Springs Road to the westerly boundaries of the City of
Ketchum; south along the City of Ketchum boundaries to Highway 75; continuing
east, then south along the City of Ketchum boundaries to the south boundary of
the City of Sun Valley; then continuing east along the boundary of Sun Valley
to the intersection with the Sawtooth National Forest; then continuing east on
the Sawtooth National Forest boundary to its intersection with East Fork Road;
then northeast along East Fork Road to where it ends; then continuing northeast
along the East Fork of the Wood River to the northern boundary of Blaine County
(Section 27, Township 5 North, Range 20 East).
   C.   County Commissioner District Three: County Commissioner District Three
is everything north of the north boundary of County Commissioner District Two,
to the north (Section 27, Township 5 North, Range 20 East) and western (Section
16, Township 3 North, Range 15 East) boundaries of Blaine County. (Ord. 84, 1-
10-84; Ord. 82-1, 2-22-82; Res. 78-5, 1-27-78)
1-5-2: RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT:
Each member of the Board of Commissioners must meet the residency requirements
of the County and district which such Commissioner represents as set out in
Idaho Code, section 34-617. (1996 Code)
1-5-3: TERM OF OFFICE:
The term of office of a Commissioner shall be as follows:
At the general election in 1936, two (2) members shall be elected for a term of
two (2) years and one member for a term of four (4) years; at each biennial
election thereafter, one member shall be elected for a term of two (2) years
and one for a term of four (4) years, it being further provided that at the
general election in 1936, the Commissioner from County Commissioner's District
Number One, shall be elected for a term of four (4) years and that the four (4)
year term shall be allowed thereafter in rotation to Districts Number Two,
Three and One. (1996 Code)
1-5-4: REGULAR MEETINGS 1
:
Effective February 22, 2005, the Blaine County board of county commissioners
shall conduct their regular meetings at the county seat of Blaine County,
Hailey, Idaho, on the first four (4) Tuesdays of each month of the year for the
purpose of conducting all business before the Blaine County board of county
commissioners as prescribed by law or provided for by the board. If the
official agenda for the board does not require the board to meet on any
Tuesday, then the board shall recess or adjourn, in which case the board will
meet at its next normally scheduled regular meeting. In the event that a
regular meeting falls on a holiday, the regular meeting day shall fall on the
next business day. (Ord. 2005-02, 1-24-2005; Ord. 93-3, 1-25-1993; Ord. 90-6,
10-9-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 1-6-4 of this title.
1-5-5: OFFICIAL AGENDA:
   A.   Establishment: There is hereby established an official agenda for the
meetings of the board.
   B.   Placement On Agenda: Any person, group or entity (party) of any kind
wishing to have any action taken by the board must make known to the clerk of
the board:
      1.   The action the party wishes the board to take; and
      2.   The name of the representative of the party who will appear before
the board.
   C.   Deadline: Unless greater notice is required by ordinance or statute,
any request to appear before the board at a regular meeting must be received by
the clerk's office no later than five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the Thursday
preceding the regular meeting. Before an item can be placed on the official
agenda of the board, there must be available time on the official agenda. Only
items which must be heard within certain prescribed time limits as set forth by
state law or county ordinance will be guaranteed a time on the official agenda
of the board.
   D.   Publication: The clerk shall publish the official agenda of the board
so that it is available for publication in one issue of a newspaper published
in Blaine County during the week before the scheduled regular meeting. The
clerk shall post the official agenda of the board in a prominent place in the
Blaine County courthouse, Hailey, Idaho, on the Friday preceding the scheduled
regular meeting.
   E.   Suspension Of Rules: By a unanimous vote of the board, these rules may
be suspended for the purpose of hearing and acting upon a request which affects
the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the county. (Ord. 90-15, 10-
9-1990; Res. 79-2, 3-13-1979)
1-5-6: REVIEW OF CLAIMS:
Effective February 22, 2005, claims will be reviewed and approved for payment
on the second and fourth Tuesdays of each month. (Ord. 2005-02, 1-24-2005; Ord.
93-3, 1-25-1993)
CHAPTER 6
COUNTY COMMISSIONER BYLAWS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Authority And Purpose
1-6-2: Definitions
1-6-3: Organization
1-6-4: Meetings, Records And Voting
1-6-5: Expenditures And Staff
1-6-6: Bylaws
1-6-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
The Blaine County Board of County Commissioners (Board) is obligated under
Idaho Code title 31, to perform certain legal and statutory duties. To meet
these responsibilities, the Board adopts these Bylaws. (Bylaws, 1-25-93;
Bylaws, 3-25-91)
1-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section:
BOARD: The three (3) duly elected or appointed persons serving in the office of
the Blaine County Board of County Commissioners.
CHAIRPERSON: The County Commissioner selected by a majority vote of the Board
who will preside at all meetings of the Board as set forth in Idaho Code,
section 31-705, as such now exists or may hereafter be amended.
CLERK OF THE BOARD: The duly elected or appointed Blaine County Auditor.
QUORUM: A majority of the members of the Board present at any regular or
special meeting of the Board.
REGULAR MEETING: As set forth in Section
1-5-4 of this Code, the first four (4) Mondays of each month of the year,
unless the regular meeting date falls on a "holiday" as defined in Idaho Code,
section 73-108, as such now exists or may hereafter be amended, in which case
the regular meeting date shall fall on the next business day. If the official
agenda for the Board does not require the Board to meet on any Monday, then the
Board shall recess or adjourn, in which case the Board will meet at its next
normally scheduled regular meeting.
SPECIAL MEETING: Any meeting of the Board after the adjournment of a regular
meeting and which is ordered by a majority of the Board entered of record with
five (5) days' notice given by the Clerk to each member of the Board not
joining in the Order.
TEMPORARY CHAIRPERSON: The County Commissioner selected by a majority vote of
the Board who will preside at all meetings of the Board in the absence of the
Chairperson or if the Chairperson is not able to act as set forth in Idaho
Code, section 31-706, as such now exists or may hereafter be amended. (Bylaws,
1-25-93; Bylaws, 3-25-91)
1-6-3: ORGANIZATION:
   A. Chairperson And Temporary Chairperson: The Board shall choose its
Chairperson and Temporary Chairperson by a majority vote of the three (3)
members of the Board. This shall be done during the regular meeting of the
Board on the second Monday of January next after the biennial election as set
forth in Idaho Code, sections 31-705 and 31-706, as such now exist or may
hereafter be amended.
   B. Term Of Chairperson: The Chairperson of the Board shall have only a two
(2) year term and cannot serve consecutive terms as the Chairperson of the
Board, unless the otherwise eligible members are both newly elected
commissioners.
   C. Subcommittees: The Board may establish subcommittees, advisory committees
or neighborhood groups to advise and assist the Board in carrying out its legal
and statutory responsibilities. (Bylaws, 1-25-93; Bylaws, 3-25-91)
1-6-4: MEETINGS, RECORDS AND VOTING:
   A. Meetings: The Board shall meet for every regular meeting unless the Board
finally adjourns before a regular meeting and for each special meeting
scheduled during the year. Workshop meetings shall be scheduled as necessary as
a special meeting. All regular and special meetings shall be public and
conducted in a place of public access unless an executive session is authorized
under Idaho Code, section 67-2345, as such now exists or may hereafter be
amended.
   B. Chairperson To Preside: The Chairperson shall preside at all regular and
special meetings of the Board and have the powers generally assigned such
office in conducting the meetings. It shall be the Chairperson's responsibility
to see that the transaction of the Board's business is in accord with law and
with these Bylaws.
   C. Voting By Commissioners: All County Commissioners of the Board shall be
entitled to vote on any matter before the Board, unless the County Commissioner
has a conflict of interest as defined by the Blaine County Personnel Manual. A
quorum must be present during the entire meeting on any agenda item in order to
conduct business.
   D. Voting By Chairperson: The Chairperson may vote on any question and shall
vote in the event of a tie vote.
   E. Duties Of Temporary Chairperson: The Temporary Chairperson shall assume
the duties and powers of the Chairperson in the absence of the Chairperson or
if the Chairperson is unable to act.
   F. Proxy Votes: Proxy votes of members not present are not valid votes.
   G. Agenda: Items on the agenda at any regular meeting shall be placed on the
agenda by the Clerk as set forth in Section
1-5-3 of this Code. By unanimous vote of the Board, the Board may consider
business not on the agenda upon a request which affects the health, safety and
welfare of the residents of the County.
   H. Special Meetings: Only the business specified in the order calling for a
special meeting shall be transacted at the special meeting.
   I. Records And Books: The Board shall cause to be kept the records and books
as set forth in Idaho Code, section 31-709, as such now exists or may hereafter
be amended, and shall assist the Clerk of the Board in these duties.
   J. Robert's Rules Of Order: The publication, Robert's Rules of Order, as
such now exists or may hereafter be amended, shall be used as a reference and
guide by the Board. (Bylaws, 1-25-93; Bylaws, 3-25-91)
1-6-5: EXPENDITURES AND STAFF:
   A. Employment Of Assistants And Staff: Pursuant to Idaho Code, section 31-
818, as such now exists or may hereafter be amended, the Board may employ such
assistants and clerical staff to aid the Board in fulfilling their duties.
   B. Advice Of Prosecuting Attorney: The Board may seek the advice of the duly
elected or appointed Blaine County Prosecuting Attorney or Deputy Prosecuting
Attorneys. (Bylaws, 1-25-93; Bylaws, 3-25-91)
1-6-6: BYLAWS:
   A. Initial Adoption: These Bylaws shall be adopted by a two- thirds (2/3)
majority vote of the Board.
   B. Amendments: These Bylaws can be amended by a two-thirds (2/3) majority
vote of the Board. Amendments to the Bylaws may be proposed by any member of
the Board at a regular meeting. (Bylaws, 1-25-93; Bylaws, 3-25-91)
CHAPTER 7
COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Personnel Policy
1-7-1: PERSONNEL POLICY:
The Blaine County Personnel Handbook, as amended from time to time, is hereby
adopted as the personnel policy of the County, and said Personnel Handbook
hereby referred to and adopted by reference is made a part hereof as if fully
set out within this Chapter.
Three (3) copies of said Personnel Handbook, as amended, shall be and remain on
file in the office of the County Clerk. (Res. 94-2, 2-7-94; Res. 93-3, 2-16-93;
Res. 93-2, 2-8-93; Res. 91-13, 4-14-92; Res. 91-12, 9-9-91; Res. 90-19, 11-13-
90; Ord. 88-3, 8-22-88; Ord. 84-6, 11-26-84; Res. 82-10, 11-8-82; Res. 80-16,
11-24-81; Res., 1-7-75)
CHAPTER 8
CLERK OF THE DISTRICT COURT
SECTION:
1-8-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-8-2: Bonds
1-8-3: Duties As Auditor And Recorder
1-8-4: County Recorder's Office
1-8-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of the Clerk of the District Court who
shall be ex officio Auditor and Recorder and ex officio clerk of the Board of
County Commissioners. The Clerk of the District Court shall be elected by the
qualified voters of the County at the time and in the manner prescribed by law
for the election of members of the legislature 1
and shall hold office for a term of four (4) years 2
. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. § 34-614.
2 2. Idaho Constitution, art. 5, § 16.
1-8-2: BONDS:
   A. Clerk Of The District Court: The Clerk of the District Court shall
execute an official bond in the penal sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00)
with two (2) sufficient sureties, to be approved by the District Judge,
conditioned that the Clerk will faithfully perform the duties of the Clerk's
office and at all times account for and pay over all monies in the Clerk's
hands as Clerk, and the penalty of such bond may, at any time, be increased by
the District Judge. The Clerk may require a bond from any deputy 1
.
   B. County Recorder: The County Recorder shall execute an official bond in
the sum of not less than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) nor more than twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00) to be fixed by the Board of County Commissioners
and to cover the County Recorder's duties and liabilities as Recorder, Auditor
and Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners 2
. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. I.C. § 31-2015.
2 4. I.C. § 31-2015.
1-8-3: DUTIES AS AUDITOR AND RECORDER:
   A. County Auditor: The duties of the County Auditor shall be as set forth in
Idaho Code, section 31-2301 et seq., as amended.
   B. County Recorder: The duties of the County Recorder shall be as set forth
in Idaho Code, section 31-2401 et seq., as amended. (1996 Code)
1-8-4: COUNTY RECORDER'S OFFICE:
   A. Hours: The Blaine County Recorder's Office shall receive and record
documents only between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and four o'clock
(4:00) P.M. on any normal working day.
   B. Recording Of Documents: Documents received for recording after four
o'clock (4:00) P.M. on any normal working day shall be considered as being
received on the next following normal working day and shall be recorded in the
Blaine County Recorder's Office accordingly. (Res. 90-1, 11-27-89)
CHAPTER 9
COUNTY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-9-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-9-2: Bonds
1-9-3: Duties
1-9-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of County Treasurer who shall serve as
ex officio County Tax Collector. The Treasurer shall be elected for a term of
four (4) years as provided by law 1
. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Idaho Constitution, art 18, § 6.
1-9-2: BONDS:
   A. County Treasurer: The County Treasurer shall execute an official bond in
double the probable amount of money that may, at any time, come into
Treasurer's hands as such Treasurer, to be fixed by the Board of County
Commissioners; provided, if surety bond be given as provided in Idaho Code,
section 41-2604, as amended, the bond need not exceed twenty five percent (25%)
of the probable amount that may be at hand at any one time, but in no case to
be less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) 1
.
   B. Tax Collector: The official bond of the Tax Collector shall be not less
than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) nor more than fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) to be fixed by the Board of County Commissioners 2
. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. I.C. § 31-2015.
2 3. I.C. § 31-2015.
1-9-3: DUTIES:
   A. Duties As County Treasurer: The duties of the County Treasurer shall be
as set forth in Idaho Code, section 31-2101 et seq., as amended.
   B. Duties As Tax Collector: The duties of the County Tax Collector in
relation to the collection of revenue are prescribed in Idaho Code, title 63,
as amended. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 10
COUNTY ASSESSOR
SECTION:
1-10-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-10-2: Bond
1-10-3: Duties
1-10-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of County Assessor who shall be elected
for a term of four (4) years as provided by law 1
. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Idaho Constitution, art. 18, § 6.
1-10-2: BOND:
The County Assessor shall execute an official bond in the sum of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) 1
. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. I.C. § 31-2015.
1-10-3: DUTIES:
The County Assessor shall perform the duties prescribed in Idaho Code, title
63, as amended, relating to revenue 1
. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. I.C. § 31-2501.
CHAPTER 11
COUNTY PROSECUTING ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-11-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-11-2: Qualifications
1-11-3: Bond
1-11-4: Powers And Duties
1-11-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of County Prosecuting Attorney who shall
be elected for a term of four (4) years as provided by law 1
. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Idaho Constitution, art. 18, § 6.
1-11-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
No person shall be elected to the office of Prosecuting Attorney, unless such
person has attained the age of twenty one (21) years at the time of their
election, is admitted to the practice of law within this State, is a citizen of
the United States and a qualified elector within the County 1
. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. I.C. § 34-623.
1-11-3: BOND:
The County Prosecuting Attorney shall execute an official bond in the sum of
two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) 1
. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. I.C. § 31-2015.
1-11-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The County Prosecuting Attorney shall have those powers and duties set out in
Idaho Code, title 31, chapter 26, as amended. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 12
COUNTY SHERIFF
SECTION:
1-12-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-12-2: Bond
1-12-3: Powers And Duties
1-12-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of County Sheriff who shall be elected
for a term of four (4) years as provided by law 1
. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Idaho Constitution, art. 18, § 6.
1-12-2: BOND:
The County Sheriff shall execute an official bond in the sum of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) 1
. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. I.C. § 31-2015.
1-12-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The County Sheriff shall have those powers and duties as set out in Idaho Code,
title 31, chapter 22, as amended. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 13
COUNTY CORONER
SECTION:
1-13-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-13-2: Bond
1-13-3: Powers And Duties
1-13-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of County Coroner who shall be elected
for a term of two (2) years as provided by law 1
. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Idaho Constitution, art. 18, § 6.
1-13-2: BOND:
The County Coroner shall execute an official bond in the sum of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) 1
. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. I.C. § 31-2015.
1-13-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The County Coroner shall have those powers and duties as set out in Idaho Code,
section 31-2801 et seq., as amended. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 14
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
SECTION:
1-14-1: State Code Adopted
1-14-1: STATE CODE ADOPTED:
Idaho Code section 31-717, as added by 1977, ch. 145, § 1, p. 321; am. 1993,
ch. 313, § 1, p. 1157; am. 1994, ch. 372, § 1, p. 1197, is hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference. A copy of Idaho Code section 31-717 is attached as
Exhibit A to Ordinance 95-9 on file in the office of the County Clerk. (Ord.
95-9, 10-10-95; Ord. 79-8, 10-10-79)
CHAPTER 15
ELECTION PRECINCTS 1
SECTION:
1-15-1: Creation
 
Notes
1 1. Prior ordinance history: Ord. 82-2, 2-22-1982; Ord. 84-2, 1-20-1984.
1-15-1: CREATION:
Pursuant to the power and duty conferred and imposed upon the board of county
commissioners by Idaho Code, sections 31-803 and 34-301, the following election
precincts are hereby created and described:
01   Northwest Ketchum: Beginning at the northerly intersection of the Blaine/
Custer County line and Highway 75 then southeast on Highway 75 to its
intersection with Warm Springs Road, then west along Warm Springs Road to the
Blaine/Camas County line, then north, then northwest and northeast, along the
county line to the point of beginning.
02   Southwest Ketchum: Beginning at the intersection of Warm Springs Road and
the Union Pacific Railroad right-of-way; thence south on the Union Pacific
right-of-way to the Ketchum City limits; thence northwesterly along those City
Limits to Warm Springs Road; thence east along Warm Springs Road to the point
of beginning.
03   North and East Ketchum: Beginning at the intersection of Highway 75, Warm
Springs Road and 6th Street; thence southwest on 6th Street to the Union
Pacific Railroad right-of-way; thence north on the Union Pacific Railroad
right-of-way to Warm Springs Road; thence southeast along Warm Springs Road to
the point of beginning; and also to include all those lands within incorporated
Ketchum that are east of Highway 75.
04   South Ketchum: Beginning at the intersection of Highway 75, Warm Springs
Road and 6th Street; thence southwest along 6th Street to the Union Pacific
Railroad right-of- way; thence south along the right-of-way to the south
boundary of the Ketchum City limits; thence west along these boundaries to the
southwesterly most point of the City of Ketchum City Limits; thence
northwesterly along the City boundaries to where the City boundary intersects
Warm Springs Road; thence west along Warm Springs Road to the western boundary
of Blaine County; thence south along these boundaries to "Lost Draw" which
feeds into Deer Creek; thence east along Deer Creek and Deer Creek Road to the
Big Wood River; thence north along the Big Wood River to where it crosses
Highway 75 (just south of East Fork); thence north along Highway 75 to the
point of beginning.
05   Northeast Blaine County: Beginning at the intersection of Highway 75 and
the North Boundary of Blaine County, thence southerly along Highway 75 to the
City of Ketchum City Limits; thence east along the Ketchum Limits to the Sun
Valley City Limits, thence North following Sun Valley City Limits, thence east,
continuing south and west along the city boundary to where it intersects with
Ketchum City Limits, thence west along Ketchum boundary to Highway 75; thence
south on Highway 75 to East Fork Road; thence east on East Fork Road to where
it ends; thence continuing east along to the East Fork of the Big Wood River to
the boundary of Blaine County; thence north along the boundary of Blaine County
to the point of beginning.
06   Hailey #1: Beginning at a point where Bullion Street, City of Hailey, and
the Railroad tracks intersect, thence southerly along the Railroad tracks to
the intersection of Canal #33, thence up the Canal to intersection of Broadford
Road, thence North on Broadford Road to Colorado Gulch Road, thence West to the
divide of Croy Creek and Rock Creek, thence southerly down Rock Creek Road to
Highway 20, thence west on Highway 20 to County line, thence northerly on the
County line to the Deer Creek Road, thence down Deer Creek Road to Big Wood
River, thence down Big Wood River to the Junction of Croy Creek Road and
Bullion Street, thence northeasterly on Bullion Street to the point of
beginning.
07   Hailey #2: Beginning at a point where Bullion Street and the railroad
tracks intersect, thence northerly along the railroad tracks to the East Fork
Road, thence to Highway 75, southerly on Highway 75 to the Big Wood River,
thence southerly down Big Wood River to the junction of Croy Creek Road and
Bullion Street, thence northeasterly along Bullion Street to the point of
beginning.
08   Hailey #3: Beginning at railroad right-of-way and Fox Acres Road, City of
Hailey then northeasterly along Fox Acres Road to the southwest corner of
Section 1, 2 North, 18 East, then northeasterly 45° to the northeast corner of
Section 1, to the Quigley Road, then along Quigley Road through Section 31, 32,
29, 28, 27 of 2 North, 19 East to intersection of Slaughterhouse Creek Road
then southeast and southwest along Slaughterhouse Creek Road to City limits of
Bellevue, then along Bellevue City limits northwesterly to railroad right-of-
way, then northwesterly along railroad right-of-way to Fox Acres Road, to point
of beginning.
09   Yale: Beginning at the intersection (Section 10, Township 6 South, Range
26 East), of the Arco-Minidoka gravel road/Blaine-Minidoka County line, thence
northeast on the Arco-Minidoka gravel road to the Blaine/Power County line,
thence south on the county line to the Blaine/Cassia County line (Snake River),
west on the county line to the Blaine/Minidoka County line, thence north to the
point of beginning.
10   Bellevue: Beginning at the intersection of the Glendale Road and Rock
Creek Road (Section 1, Township 1 South, Range 17 East), thence north on Rock
Creek Road to the divide of Croy Creek and Rock Creek then east to Colorado
Gulch Road, then Northeast to the intersection with Broadford Road, then south
on Broadford Road to Canal #33, then southeast on Canal #33 to the Bellevue
City limits, southeast on the city line to Slaughterhouse Gulch Road, then
northeast on Slaughterhouse Gulch Road to the ridge separating the Big Wood-
Little Wood drainages, then south on the divide to the intersection of an
easterly extension of Buehler private road (one mile south of the Bell Mountain
Lookout), then west on the Buehler road extension to Buehler Road, continuing
on Buehler Road to Glendale Road, then west and southwest on Glendale Road to
Rock Creek Road, the point of beginning.
11   Gannett-Picabo: Beginning at the intersection of Highway 20 and the
Blaine-Camas County line (Sections 11 and 14, Township 1 South, Range 17 East),
east to Rock Creek Road, north to Glendale Road, then northeast on Glendale
Road to Buehler Road, then east on the Buehler Road and continuing east to the
Big Wood-Little Wood divide one mile south of the Bell Mountain lookout; thence
south and southeast on said divide, across Highway 20 to the Priest Road, then
south on Priest Road to the Priest-Tikura county gravel road, then continue
south to Highway 20-26, ending at its intersection with the Blaine-Lincoln
County line (Section 36, Township 2 South, Range 20 East).
12   Carey: Beginning at the Blaine-Power County line, at the Arco-Minidoka
gravel road at the northeast corner of Section 1, Township 4 South, Range 27
East, thence southwest on the Arco-Minidoka gravel road to the Blaine- Minidoka
County line (Section 10, Township 6 South, Range 26 East), north and then west
along the county line to the intersection with Highway 20-26 (Section 36,
Township 2 South, Range 20 East), thence north on Highway 20-26 to the Tikura-
Priest county gravel road, north to the Priest Road, west to the ridge
separating the Silver Creek and Little Wood drainages, and north on this divide
to the Blaine-Custer County line, then southeast and then east, south and west,
following the county line to the point of beginning.
13   This precinct consists of the incorporated area of the City of Sun Valley.
14   Hailey #4: Beginning at East Fork Road and Railroad right of way in
Section 7, Township 3 North, Range 18 East, then northeasterly along East Fork
Road to Section 13, Township 4 North, 20 East, then along the East Fork of Big
Wood River to Section 33, Township 5 North, 20 East, then northeasterly through
section 33,28 to the Boundaries of Blaine County, Custer County, then
southeasterly, southwesterly along the ridge separating the East Fork River and
Little Wood River to the northwest corner of Section 31, Township 4 North,
Range 20 East, along Fisher Canyon to the intersection of Towne Creek in
Section 19, 3 North, 20 East and Fox Acres Road, to the railroad right-of-way
then northwesterly along the Railroad right-of-way to East Fork Road.
(Ord. 2006-02, 5-11-2006)
CHAPTER 16
OFFICIAL PUBLICATIONS
SECTION:
1-16-1: Wood River Journal
1-16-2: Idaho Mountain Express
1-16-3: Additional Publications
1-16-4: Publications In Both Newspapers
1-16-1: WOOD RIVER JOURNAL:
In accordance with Idaho Code, section 31-819, the following notices and types
of notices shall be published in the Wood River Journal:
   A. Commissioners' minutes or summaries;
   B. Commissioners' agendas or summaries;
   C. County financial reports;
   D. Annual balance sheet;
   E. Blaine County ordinances; and
   F. Proposed and adopted County budgets. (Ord. 95-23, 5-1-95)
1-16-2: IDAHO MOUNTAIN EXPRESS:
In accordance with Idaho Code, section 60-160, the following notices and types
of notices shall be published in the Idaho Mountain Express:
   A. All notices under the Local Planning Act;
   B. Bid advertisements;
   C. County hospital publications;
   D. Ambulance service publication; and
   E. Resolutions proposing tax or budget increases. (Ord. 95-23, 5-1-95)
1-16-3: ADDITIONAL PUBLICATIONS:
Neither of the lists found in Sections
1-16-1 or
1-16-2 is exhaustive. The County reserves the right to consider matters not
listed above on a case-by-case basis and publish legal notices in conformance
with Idaho law. (Ord. 95-23, 5-1-95)
1-16-4: PUBLICATIONS IN BOTH NEWSPAPERS:
The County reserves the right to publish, at its discretion, especially
important or sensitive notices in both local newspapers. The fact that the
County may publish certain notices in both papers is not an admission that
either publication is the official or designated paper for those purposes.
Currently the County will publish County elections and bond elections in both
publications. (Ord. 95-23, 5-1-95)
CHAPTER 17
SERVICE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
1-17-1: Ambulance Service District
1-17-1: AMBULANCE SERVICE DISTRICT:
   A. Created: An ambulance service district is hereby created and shall be
named Blaine County ambulance service district.
   B. Boundaries: The ambulance service district shall have boundaries
coterminous with the legal boundaries of Blaine County as set forth in Idaho
Code section 31-109.
   C. Requirements: Any entity, organization, or individual providing emergency
medical services within Blaine County must be licensed to provide emergency
medical services by the state of Idaho and must do so under the supervision of
the Blaine County emergency medical services medical director in compliance
with the "Blaine County Emergency Medical Services Medical Control Plan".
   D. Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following terms shall have
the following meanings:
    EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES: The services utilized in responding to a
perceived individual need for immediate care in order to prevent loss of life
or aggravation of physiological or psychological illness or injury.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES MEDICAL CONTROL PLAN: A document that articulates
the medical supervision of emergency medical services within Blaine County
including, but not limited to, standing orders, patient care protocols,
standard operating procedures, medical control during disaster, mutual aid from
agencies not located within Blaine County, and quality improvement.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES MEDICAL DIRECTOR: A licensed physician appointed
by the board who shall supervise the medical activities provided by certified
personnel affiliated with the licensed ambulance or nontransport service
including, but not limited to: establishing standing orders and protocols,
reviewing performance of certified personnel, approving methods for certified
personnel to receive instructions for patient care via radio, telephone, or in
person, and other oversight as provided in the rules of the Idaho Code 56-1012
through 56-1017 and the board of Blaine County commissioners.
   E. Penalties: A violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (Ord. 2009-02, 5-21-2009; Ord. 2006-09, 8-22-2006)
CHAPTER 18
COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-18-1: Position Created
1-18-2: Scope Of Authority
1-18-3: Duties, Powers And Responsibilities
1-18-4: Appointment
1-18-5: Compensation
1-18-6: Resignation
1-18-7: Removal From Office
1-18-1: POSITION CREATED:
There is hereby created, the office of county administrator. The county
administrator shall be, and act as, the chief administrative officer of the
government of Blaine County, under the direction and authority of the board of
commissioners. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-13-2007)
1-18-2: SCOPE OF AUTHORITY:
The county administrator shall assist the board of commissioners in the
performance of their duties and shall do all things required by the board to
assist in the administration of county government. These duties shall include,
but not be limited to, the supervision of county departments which are
exclusively subject to the authority of the board and assist coordination with
all departments to the extent prescribed by county ordinance, resolution or
directives of the board. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-13-2007)
1-18-3: DUTIES, POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The job of the county administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the
following specific duties, powers and responsibilities, in addition to others
provided in this chapter, job description or other directives of the board.
   A. Under the direction and authority of the board of commissioners, the
administrator shall coordinate or supervise (whichever is appropriate) the
functions of the various county departments and serve as a liaison to see that
the requirements of state law, county ordinances and the policies of the board
are carried out. The administrator shall regularly report to the board
concerning the status of all assignments, duties, projects and functions of the
various county departments under the administrator's supervision.
   B. Subject to the approval of the board of commissioners, the
administrator's duties as personnel officer shall include, but not be limited
to, the following: the hiring of and the discharge of county employees, except
employees of an elected official. The administrator may delegate the same
limited power to initiate selection or removal of employees to those department
heads who are exclusively subject to the authority of the board.
   C. The administrator shall assist the county clerk, with preparation and
submission of the annual budget to the board and assist in monitoring budget
performance with both appointed and elected department heads for the purpose of
keeping all county activities within limitations of the annual budget of the
county.
   D. The administrator shall assist in purchasing by the various county
offices, departments, commissions and boards.
   E. The administrator shall act as contract administrator of such county
contracts as may be assigned by the board.
   F. The administrator shall assist the board in conducting the county's
business and assume such other responsibilities as the board may direct or as
may be required by ordinance or resolution.
   G. The administrator shall meet with the board as often as is necessary to
keep them informed of the status of departmental operations and projects.
   H. The administrator shall represent Blaine County at meetings with other
governmental units, agencies, commissions and associations as directed.
   I. The administrator shall be informed about federal, state and private
grants and shall alert county officials of federal, state and private grant
opportunities.
   J. The administrator shall work with the prosecutor's office to help assure
that all activities, policies and directives of the board are kept in
compliance with state law requirements. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-13-2007)
1-18-4: APPOINTMENT:
Appointment of the county administrator shall be by majority vote of the board
of county commissioners, shall be an "at will" appointment without definite
term and shall be subject to the terms and conditions of an employment
contract. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-13-2007)
1-18-5: COMPENSATION:
The salary and benefits of the county administrator shall be set by the board
in the annual budget as further provided in the employment contract. (Ord.
2007-01, 3-13-2007)
1-18-6: RESIGNATION:
In the event that the administrator chooses to voluntarily terminate his/her
position with the county, the administrator shall provide the board with a
written statement of resignation at least thirty (30) days prior to the
effective date of such voluntary termination of employment, or as may be
otherwise provided in the employment contract. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-13-2007)
1-18-7: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
   A. The administrator may be removed by a majority vote of the board at any
time. At least thirty (30) days before the effective date of the
administrator's removal, the county administrator must be furnished with a
formal statement from the board stating the board's intention to remove him/her
and the reasons therefor. Upon furnishing of the statement affirming the
commission's intention to remove the administrator, the board by a similar vote
may suspend him/her from duty, but the administrator's pay shall continue until
such removal becomes effective.
   B. The county administrator may, within thirty (30) days from service of
such notice of termination thereof, reply in writing to the statement affirming
the board's intention to remove him/her. In the event no reply is timely filed,
the statement shall, upon the thirty first day from the date of such service,
constitute the final action removing the administrator and his/her services
shall terminate upon that day. If a reply is timely filed with the board, the
board shall fix a time for a hearing upon the question of the administrator's
removal and a final statement removing the administrator shall not be adopted
until a hearing has been conducted. The action of the board in removing the
administrator shall be final. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-13-2007)
TITLE 2
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
2-1-1: Beer
2-1-2: Wine
2-1-3: Liquor By The Drink
2-1-4: Hours Of Sale
2-1-1: BEER:
   A. Application For License: All persons desiring to obtain a County beer
license from the County shall make application therefor to the Clerk of the
Board of Commissioners on a form supplied by the Clerk along with the required
fee.
   B. Action By Board: The Board of Commissioners shall take action on all
applications submitted pursuant to this Section within a reasonable time. The
Clerk shall provide notice to the applicant of the time, date and place at
which his or her application will be considered by the Board.
   C. Hearing: At the time and date set for consideration of the application
submitted pursuant to this Section, the Board of Commissioners shall provide an
opportunity for all interested persons to make comment upon such application.
In addition, written comments submitted to the Board upon any application shall
be read by the Clerk into the record at such time. Following any hearing held
upon an application submitted pursuant to this Section, the Board of
Commissioners may request such further information from the applicant as shall,
in their opinion, clarify any point of concern upon such application and shall
thereafter make a decision as to whether or not the application will be
approved and a license issued. In any event, the final decision upon any
application submitted hereunder shall be made within thirty (30) days of the
date on which a complete application and license fee is submitted to the Clerk
of the Board.
   D. Transcript Of Proceedings: If it appears to the Clerk of the Board of
Commissioners that written or oral comment upon any application is to be made
by the applicant or other interested parties, arrangement shall be made for
suitable recording equipment to be utilized so that a verbatim transcript of
the proceedings may be prepared.
   E. Denial Of Application: Whenever the Board of Commissioners denies an
application, the Board shall specify in writing:
      1. The statutes, ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application.
      2. The reasons for the denial.
      3. The actions, if any, which the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof. (Ord. 83-3, 11-28-83)
2-1-2: WINE:
   A. License Fee: Each licensee within Blaine County shall pay an annual
license fee to Blaine County prior to the issuance of a wine-by-the-drink
license. (1996 Code; Res., 6-11-73)
   B. Sunday Only License:
      1. License Established: A new and additional type of wine-by-the-drink
license is hereby established for Blaine County which license shall permit the
holder to sell wine-by-the-drink on Sundays only.
      2. Inscription on License: The words "SUNDAY ONLY" shall be clearly
inscribed on the face of the license.
      3. Annual Renewal; Fee: Said license shall be renewable annually and
shall carry an annual fee. (1996 Code; Ord. 75-8, 12-8-75)
2-1-3: LIQUOR BY THE DRINK:
The sale of liquor by the drink shall be allowed upon any licensed premises on
a Sunday, Memorial Day and Thanksgiving. (Ord. 86-3, 5-30-86)
2-1-4: HOURS OF SALE:
The sale of liquor by the drink, beer and wine shall be allowed upon any
licensed premises until two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on the day following any day
allowing the sale of liquor by the drink, beer and wine under this Chapter or
under Idaho Code, sections 23-927, 23-1012 and 23-1332. (Ord. 87-1, 6-22-87;
Ord. 86-3, 5-30-86)
CHAPTER 2
PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES 1
SECTION:
2-2-1: Purpose And Intent
2-2-2: Definitions
2-2-3: License Requirements
2-2-4: Application For License
2-2-5: Conditions For Issuing License
2-2-6: License Issuance
2-2-7: Removal Of Site Alterations And Restoration
2-2-8: Revocation Of License
2-2-9: Violations And Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. Prior ordinance history: Ord. 71-1, 8-9-1971; Ord. 71-8, 11-8-1971; 1996
  Code.
2-2-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose of the County to regulate the assemblage of large numbers of
persons, in excess of those normally needing the health, sanitary, fire,
police, transportation and utility services regularly provided in the County.
The County intends to regulate these activities in order to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of all persons in the County, residents and visitors alike.
It is not the intent of the County to regulate assemblies in enclosed
structures, government sponsored fairs, family celebrations or employee
gatherings, which pose little or no risk to the public health, safety and
welfare or where adequate safety and health measures are already in place.
(Ord. 2000-02, 2-28-2000)
2-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section:
ASSEMBLY: A company of persons gathered together at any location at any single
time for any purpose.
PERSON: Any individual natural human being, partnership, corporation, firm,
company, association, society or group. (Ord. 2000-02, 2-28-2000)
2-2-3: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A. License Required: No person shall permit, maintain, promote, conduct,
advertise, act as an entrepreneur, undertake, organize, manage, sell or give
tickets of free entrance to an actual or reasonably anticipated assembly of
seven hundred fifty (750) or more persons, whether on public or private
property, unless a license to hold the assembly has first been issued by the
Board of Commissioners. Licenses issued under this Chapter are nontransferable
and shall be in effect for a maximum of one 24-hour period. A license shall be
required for assemblies of less than seven hundred fifty (750) persons where
assemblies are held at multiple locations by affiliated persons and the
cumulative total of persons attending the multiple locations is seven hundred
fifty (750) or more.
   B. Number Of Persons: Before issuance of a license, the applicant shall
determine the maximum number of persons which will be assembled or admitted to
the location of the assembly; provided, that the maximum number of persons
shall not exceed three thousand five hundred (3,500); and provided that, where
the assembly is to continue overnight, the maximum number shall not be more
than is allowed to sleep within the boundaries of the location of the assembly
by Federal, State, and/or local laws. If the proposed assembly is held at
multiple locations by affiliated persons, the cumulative total of persons
attending the multiple locations shall not exceed three thousand five hundred
(3,500) persons.
   C. Separate License: A separate license shall be required for each location
in which seven hundred fifty (750) or more persons assemble or can reasonably
be anticipated to assemble.
   D. Fees: The fees for each application and license shall be as set by the
Board of Commissioners.
   E. Ticket Sales: A license shall permit the assembly of only the maximum
number of persons stated in the license. The licensee shall not sell tickets to
nor permit more than the maximum permissible number of persons to assemble at
the licensed location.
   F. Location: No license shall be issued to any anticipated assembly where
the proposed location is within one-fourth (1/4) mile of the mean high-water
mark of any public water body. In no event may such assemblies be located
further than two (2) miles, as measured by vehicular travel, from the city
limits of Hailey, Ketchum, or Sun Valley, or where hazardous, dangerous, or
detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare unless appropriate safety
provisions have been satisfied. The site of the proposed assembly must be
accessed from a paved State or County road.
   G. Exceptions: This Chapter shall not apply to:
      1. Any regularly established, permanent place of worship, stadium,
athletic field, arena, auditorium, coliseum, school or other permanently
established place of assembly, provided approval is obtained from the
appropriate fire official for any number of persons in excess of the
structure's maximum seating capacity.
      2. Government sponsored fairs held on regularly established fairgrounds
or to assemblies required to be licensed by other ordinances and regulations of
the County, or to assemblies within any incorporated municipality within the
County.
      3. Family celebrations including, but not limited to, anniversaries,
weddings, or birthday parties held at a private, existing residence, ranch, or
farm.
      4. Employee gatherings held by local business establishments at a
private, existing residence, ranch, or farm. (Ord. 2000-02, 2-28-2000)
2-2-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A. Filing Period: Application for a license to hold an actual or anticipated
assembly shall be made in writing to the Board of Commissioners at least ninety
(90) days in advance of the proposed assembly.
   B. Sworn Statement Required: The application shall contain a statement made
upon oath or affirmation that the statements contained therein are true and
correct to the best knowledge of the applicant and shall be signed and sworn to
or affirmed by the person making the application.
   C. Contents: The application shall contain and disclose:
      1. The name, age, residence and mailing address of all persons required
to sign the application and, in the case of a corporation, a certified copy of
the articles of incorporation together with the name, age, residence and
mailing address of each person holding ten percent (10%) or more of the stock
of said corporation.
      2. The address and legal description of all property upon which the
assembly is to be held together with the name, residence and mailing address of
the record owner(s) of all such property.
      3. Proof of ownership of all property upon which the assembly is to be
held or a statement made upon oath and affirmation by the record owner(s) of
all such property that the applicant has permission to use the property for the
proposed assembly.
      4. The nature and purpose of the assembly and the name of any performers.
      5. The duration of the assembly as well as the time it will begin and
end.
      6. The maximum number of persons that the applicant will permit to
assemble at any time which will not exceed the maximum number of persons that
can reasonably gather at the location or the maximum number of persons allowed
to sleep within the boundaries of the location of the assembly as determined by
fire codes or zoning ordinances of the County.
      7. The maximum number of tickets to be sold, if any.
      8. The plans of the applicant to limit the maximum number of persons
permitted to assemble.
      9. The plan for supplying and disposing of potable water, including the
source, amount available, and location of outlets.
      10. The plans for providing and maintaining toilet and lavatory
facilities including the source, number, location, type, and the means of
disposing of solid waste.
      11. The plans for holding, collecting, and disposing of solid waste
material.
      12. The plans for medical facilities including the location and
construction of a medical structure, the names, addresses and hours of
availability of all physicians and nurses expected to attend, and provisions
for emergency ambulance service.
      13. The plans, if any, to illuminate the location of the assembly,
including the source and amount of power and the location, type, wattage, and
directional lighting of lamps.
      14. The plans for parking vehicles, including the size and location of
lots, points of highway access, interior roads, routes between highway access
and parking lots, and dust abatement measures.
      15. The plans for telephone service, including the source, number, and
location of telephones.
      16. The plans for camping facilities, if any, including facilities
available and their location.
      17. The plans for security including the number of guards, their names,
address, credentials, and hours of availability.
      18. The plans for fire protection, including the number, type and
location of all protective devices including alarms and extinguishers, and the
number of emergency fire personnel available to operate the equipment.
      19. The plans for food concessions and concessionaires who will be
allowed to operate on the grounds, including the names and addresses of all
concessionaires and their license or permit numbers.
      20. The plans for fencing the assembly, if any, including the type of
fence to be used, its location, and designated entrances and exits.
   D. Application Fee: The application shall include the application fee. (Ord.
2000-02, 2-28-2000)
2-2-5: CONDITIONS FOR ISSUING LICENSE:
   A. Requirements: Before issuance of a license, the applicant shall provide
proof that the following will be in place, at the applicant's expense, before
the assembly commences:
      1. Health Requirements:
         a. Potable water, meeting all Federal and State requirements for
purity, sufficient to provide drinking water for the maximum number of persons
to be assembled at the rate of at least one gallon per person per day and
appropriate measures for the disposal of wastewater.
         b. Enclosed toilets, meeting all State and local specifications,
conveniently located on the grounds, sufficient to provide facilities for the
maximum number of persons to be assembled at the rate of at least one toilet
for every one hundred twenty (120) persons; regular and efficient sanitary
means of disposing of waste matter deposited therein no less than once every
twelve (12) hours, which is in compliance with all State and local laws and
regulations; a lavatory with running water under pressure and a continuous
supply of sanitary items in each toilet; and sufficient maintenance personnel
and equipment to ensure that the toilets are regularly maintained.
         c. A sanitary method of disposing of solid waste, in compliance with
State and local laws and regulations, sufficient to dispose of the solid waste
production of the maximum number of persons to be assembled at the rate of at
least two and one-half (2.5) pounds of solid waste per person per day, together
with a plan for holding and collecting all such waste at least once each day of
the assembly, sufficient trash cans with tight fitting lids, separate and
sufficient recycling bins for glass and tin, and personnel to perform these
tasks.
         d. Physicians, nurses, and emergency medical technicians licensed to
practice in the State for the maximum number of persons to be assembled at the
rate of at least one physician continuously in attendance at the assembly for
every one thousand (1,000) persons and at least one nurse and/or emergency
medical technician continuously in attendance for every six hundred (600)
persons, together with an enclosed, covered structure where treatment may be
rendered, containing separately enclosed treatment rooms for each physician,
and at least one emergency ambulance available for use at all times.
         e. The plans for health requirements shall be submitted to the South
Central Health District for approval at least sixty (60) days prior to the
proposed assembly.
      2. Lighting: If the assembly is to continue during hours of darkness,
illumination sufficient to light the central area of the assembly, to include
the medical and health facilities, at the rate of at least five (5) foot-
candles, but not to shine unreasonably beyond the boundaries of the enclosed
location of the assembly or between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. Lighting for the assembly shall comply with all
applicable County ordinances and adopted codes.
      3. Parking: A free parking area inside the assembly grounds sufficient to
provide parking space for the maximum number of persons to be assembled at the
rate of at least one parking space for every three (3) persons. In the event
that the site and/or access to it cannot accommodate the number of persons
expected to attend the assembly, the Sheriff of Blaine County can require the
applicant to provide parking at other sites as well as transportation between
those additional parking sites and the site of the assembly. Sufficient dust
abatement measures shall also be in place.
      4. Telephones: Telephones sufficient to provide service for the maximum
number of persons to be assembled, at a rate of at least one telephone for each
five hundred (500) persons, placed in accessible locations throughout the
assembly area and at all medical and security facilities.
      5. Camping Facilities: Camping facilities may be provided by the
applicant at the site of the assembly and said facilities shall be in
compliance with all Federal and State requirements sufficient to provide
camping accommodations for the maximum number of persons to be assembled. In
the event that temporary camping facilities are not available at the site of
the proposed assembly, the applicant may provide temporary camping facilities
elsewhere which shall be approved by the Sheriff of Blaine County.
      6. Security: Either regularly employed, duly sworn off-duty peace
officers of the State, or other qualified individuals sufficient to provide
adequate security for the maximum number of persons to be assembled at the rate
of at least one security guard for every two hundred fifty (250) persons as a
minimum shall be provided by the applicant. A list of security guards and their
qualifications shall be presented to the Sheriff of Blaine County for approval
at least thirty (30) days prior to the proposed assembly. In the event the
Sheriff of Blaine County requires extra personnel to provide security for the
proposed assembly, the applicant shall deposit with the Board of Commissioners
a cash bond in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) to pay for
additional security personnel if necessary. A higher bond may be required if
the Board of Commissioners determines that a higher bond is necessary to
protect public health, welfare and safety.
      7. Fire Protection: Fire protection, including alarms, extinguishing
devices, fire lanes and escapes sufficient to meet all Federal, State and local
standards for the location of the assembly and sufficient emergency personnel
to efficiently operate the required equipment. The plan for fire protection and
emergency personnel shall be presented to the Rural Fire Chief for approval at
least sixty (60) days prior to the proposed assembly.
      8. Fencing: If the area to be used for the assembly is outdoors, the area
may be enclosed by a fence of a type approved by the Board of Commissioners,
which shall provide sufficient entrances and exits for those attending the
assembly as well as sufficient entrances and exits for the exclusive use of
emergency vehicles. Additional fencing may be required by the Board of
Commissioners if necessary to protect public health, welfare and safety.
      9. Traffic Control: All traffic control shall be approved by the Sheriff
of Blaine County and the appropriate highway district at least thirty (30) days
prior to the proposed assembly and emergency entrances and exits shall be kept
open at all times for the use of emergency vehicles. The applicant is
responsible for providing traffic-control persons who shall be approved by the
Sheriff of Blaine County at least thirty (30) days prior to the proposed
assembly.
      10. Lawful Compliance: Any actions undertaken pursuant to this Chapter as
part of the proposed assembly shall comply with all other applicable County
ordinances and adopted codes.
   B. Insurance And Bond:
      1. An insurance policy, underwritten by an insurance company licensed to
do business in Idaho in the minimum amount of two million dollars
($2,000,000.00), which shall indemnify and hold harmless Blaine County or any
of its agents, officers, servants and employees from any liability or causes of
action which might arise by reason of granting this license, and from any cost
incurred in cleaning up any waste material produced or left by the assembly at
the site or surrounding areas, shall be filed with the Blaine County Clerk and
Recorder at least thirty (30) days prior to the proposed assembly. The Board of
Commissioners, in its discretion, may require additional insurance to safeguard
the public health, safety and welfare.
      2. A performance bond, in the minimum amount of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), shall be deposited with the Board of Commissioners at least
thirty (30) days prior to the proposed assembly to ensure compliance with all
terms of this Chapter. In addition, a cash bond in the minimum amount of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) may be required to be deposited with the Board of
Commissioners to pay for damage to adjoining or nonadjoining properties within
one thousand feet (1,000') of the site of the proposed assembly or lands used
in conjunction with the proposed assembly. The Board of Commissioners, in its
discretion, may require additional amounts or additional performance bonds to
safeguard the public health, safety and welfare.
   C. Additional Requirements: The Board of Commissioners reserves the right to
increase the minimum requirements set forth herein upon finding that the
potential risks posed by a proposed public assembly require additional measures
to adequately safeguard the public health, safety and welfare. The Board of
Commissioners may approve a permit for a public assembly that exceeds the
requirements of this Chapter upon finding that the applicant has taken
additional steps to mitigate the potential risks posed by the assembly to the
public health, safety, and welfare including, but not limited to, additional
emergency and medical services, traffic control, insurance, and bonding. The
Board of Commissioners may waive any or all of the requirements set forth in
this Chapter upon finding that a proposed assembly, or a portion thereof, poses
little or no risk to the public health, safety, and welfare. (Ord. 2000-02, 2-
28-2000)
2-2-6: LICENSE ISSUANCE:
The application for a license shall be processed and issued after proof of
compliance with this Chapter has been submitted to the Board of Commissioners.
Proof of compliance with this Chapter must be submitted to the Board of
Commissioners at least thirty (30) days prior to the proposed assembly. Prior
to issuance of a license, the applicant shall pay a license fee, which shall be
set by the Board of Commissioners. (Ord. 2000-02, 2-28-2000)
2-2-7: REMOVAL OF SITE ALTERATIONS AND RESTORATION:
At the termination of the assembly, the licensee shall remove all site
alterations from the assembly site and shall, to the extent it is reasonably
practicable, restore the assembly site to its original condition. In the event
this is not accomplished within ten (10) days after the assembly, the Board of
Commissioners is authorized to accomplish the removal and restoration and
charge the costs against the performance bond. (Ord. 2000-02, 2-28-2000)
2-2-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The Board of Commissioners at any time may revoke the license if the conditions
necessary for issuing the license or the conditions contained in the license
are not complied with, or if any condition previously met ceases to be complied
with. (Ord. 2000-02, 2-28-2000)
2-2-9: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A. Public Nuisance: The holding of any assembly in violation of any
provisions or conditions contained in this Chapter shall give cause to the
County to seek injunctive relief for creation of a public nuisance. Said action
shall be brought in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   B. Violations Of Conditions Of License: Any person who wilfully, knowingly,
and intentionally violates any condition upon which that person or associated
party is granted a license is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate
offense.
   C. Right Of Entry: If the Board of Commissioners issues a license to a
licensee, the licensee shall allow the Board of Commissioners, their agents,
County employees, or other persons requested by the Board, entry to enforce the
provisions of this Chapter or license. (Ord. 2000-02, 2-28-2000)
CHAPTER 3
PLANT INVESTMENT TAX EXEMPTION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Tax Exemption Authorized
2-3-2: Notice And Public Hearing
2-3-3: Criteria And Board Consideration
2-3-1: TAX EXEMPTION AUTHORIZED:
Any taxpayer may apply for a Property Tax exemption for new and existing
project sites provided that there is a plant investment that meets the minimum
criteria set forth in Idaho Code section 63-602NN and this chapter for non-
retail commercial or industrial development. Eligible plant investment projects
must be approved by the Board before a full or partial exemption will be
granted. (Ord. 2019-07, 4-9-2019)
2-3-2: NOTICE AND PUBLIC HEARING:
Before considering any exemption request pursuant to this chapter, the Board
shall hold a public hearing. In addition to providing agenda notice, a brief
summary of the exemption request will be prepared, and it will be provided with
notice of the time, date and location of the public meeting to all affected
taxing districts, urban renewal agencies and the Idaho Department of Commerce
at least five (5) calendar days before the meeting. (Ord. 2019-07, 4-9-2019)
2-3-3: CRITERIA AND BOARD CONSIDERATION:
Requests for a Property Tax exemption under this chapter will be considered by
the Board using criteria set by resolution. This criteria will weigh the
economic benefit of the proposed plant investment and the specific attributes
of any affordable housing project.
   A. All Property Tax exemption applications must meet the minimum plant
investment and other requirements set forth in Idaho Code section 63-602NN.
   B. In considering requests under this chapter, the Board will review its
criteria to determine whether granting the tax exemption will lead to
significant economic benefits in the community. The criteria are intended to
give taxpayers guidance on the extent to which the Board is willing to grant
full or partial tax exemption requests pursuant to Idaho Code section 63-602NN.
   C. The Board may require any additional information from the taxpayer that
it deems necessary, and if the information includes trade secrets, as that term
is defined by Idaho law, the Board may review the materials in executive
session.
   D. At the hearing, the Board may grant, partially grant, or deny the tax
exemption request. The Board retains the full discretionary authority to grant
or deny all or part of the exemption request for any reason, and to structure
the duration and extent of the exemption in any way it deems appropriate in
accordance with Idaho Code section 63-602NN. The Board also may require any
additional requirements that it deems necessary as conditions of exemption
approval.
   E. Upon granting a full or partial tax exemption under this chapter, the
taxpayer and County shall enter into a contract as a condition of approval for
the duration of the exemption period. Such contract shall provide the terms and
conditions upon which the exemption is granted and shall give the County the
full authority to unilaterally terminate, modify, or impose additional
conditions upon the tax exemption holder in the event the contract is breached
or if the project no longer qualifies for the tax exemption in the sole
estimation of the Board.
   F. The grant of an exemption pursuant to this chapter shall be valid for up
to a total period of five (5) years for all or a part of the change from the
base value attributable directly to the plant investment. (Ord. 2019-07, 4-9-
2019)
TITLE 3
HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definition Of Terms
3-1-2: Deposit Of Solid Waste
3-1-3: Deposit Of Certain Waste At Regional Landfill Site
3-1-4: Payment Of Fee
3-1-5: Penalty
3-1-1: DEFINITION OF TERMS:
For purposes of this chapter:
BOARD OF DIRECTORS: The duly elected and serving board of directors of the
southern Idaho regional solid waste district.
REGIONAL LANDFILL SITE: The approved landfill site owned by the regional solid
waste district at Milner Butte, Cassia County, Idaho, and any additional
landfill site owned or leased by the regional solid waste district approved by
the Idaho department of environmental quality.
REGIONAL SOLID WASTE DISTRICT: The southern Idaho regional solid waste district
formed and existing under the provisions of Idaho Code section 31.4901 et seq.
SOLID WASTE: Shall have the meaning set forth in Idaho Code section 39-7403(50)
as it now exists or as it may hereafter be amended.
TRANSFER STATION: Any transfer station officially established as such within
the boundaries of Blaine County by action of the board of directors of the
regional solid waste district. (Ord. 2003-02, 12-8-2003)
3-1-2: DEPOSIT OF SOLID WASTE:
All solid waste generated within the boundaries of Blaine County shall be
deposited or collected exclusively at a transfer station located within the
boundaries of the county or at the regional landfill site. (Ord. 2003-02, 12-8-
2003)
3-1-3: DEPOSIT OF CERTAIN WASTE AT REGIONAL LANDFILL SITE:
At the direction of the regional solid waste district, designated types of
solid waste shall be deposited directly at the regional landfill site and not
at a transfer station. Such types of solid waste may include, but not be
limited to, those types of solid waste that have a high degree of potential for
impact on human health or damage to property or which may require sophisticated
inspection or handling prior to final disposition. (Ord. 2003-02, 12-8-2003)
3-1-4: PAYMENT OF FEE:
Every person or entity depositing solid waste at a transfer station or at a
regional landfill shall pay an appropriate fee established by the resolution of
the Blaine County board of commissioners. The fee shall be payable at the time
the solid waste is deposited. (Ord. 2003-02, 12-8-2003)
3-1-5: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each individual act of failing to properly deposit solid
waste or failure to pay the appropriate fee shall constitute a separate offense
under this chapter. (Ord. 2009-02, 5-21-2009)
CHAPTER 2
NOXIOUS WEEDS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Noxious Weed Extermination Area
3-2-2: Noxious Weeds Determined By State
3-2-3: Noxious Weeds Determined By County
3-2-4: Landowner's Responsibility
3-2-5: Noncompliance
3-2-6: Fees
3-2-1: NOXIOUS WEED EXTERMINATION AREA:
Pursuant to Idaho Code title 22, chapter 24, and any amendments thereto, a
noxious weed eradication and control area encompassing the entire county is
hereby created. (Ord. 2016-01, 2-23-2016)
3-2-2: NOXIOUS WEEDS DETERMINED BY STATE:
The following plant species are hereby declared to be noxious weeds for
purposes of this code:
All noxious weed species as determined and listed by the Idaho state department
of agriculture. (Ord. 2016-01, 2-23-2016)
3-2-3: NOXIOUS WEEDS DETERMINED BY COUNTY:
A. The following plant species and their hybrids are hereby declared to be
county noxious weeds for purposes of this code:
Chinese yew (Taxus chinensis)
European or English yew (Taxus baccata)
Japanese yew (Taxus cuspidata)
B. It is unlawful to sell, plant, or possess any plant species listed on the
county noxious weed list. For purposes of this section, "possess" shall mean a
"landowner", as defined in section
3-2-4 of this chapter, with knowledge of the presence of any county noxious
weed on the landowner's property. (Ord. 2016-01, 2-23-2016)
3-2-4: LANDOWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be the duty of all landowners to adhere to the control guidelines as
set forth by Idaho Code title 22, chapter 24, and any amendments thereto.
"Landowner" under Idaho Code section 22-2402 means:
   (a)   The person who holds legal title to the land, except that portion for
which another person has the right to exclude others from possession of the
parcel; or
   (b)   A person with an interest in a parcel of land such that the person has
the right to exclude others from possession of the parcel.
(Ord. 2016-01, 2-23-2016)
3-2-5: NONCOMPLIANCE:
   A. Any landowner failing to comply with this chapter shall be dealt with in
accordance with the provisions of Idaho Code section 22-2409, and any
amendments thereto.
   B. Violations involving the possession, planting, or sale of any plant
species on the county noxious weed list are misdemeanors punishable by the
penalties set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2016-01, 2-23-2016)
3-2-6: FEES:
Under the provisions of Idaho Code and this chapter, if the county is required
to initiate enforcement action, the county shall charge fees for work
performed, and may seek restitution for the costs of enforcement. (Ord. 2016-
01, 2-23-2016)
CHAPTER 3
BURIAL OF INDIGENTS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Requirements For Assistance
3-3-2: Requirements And Restrictions
3-3-3: Approved Services; Merchandise And Payment
3-3-1: REQUIREMENTS FOR ASSISTANCE:
   A. Application: Written application on a form approved by the Board of
County Commissioners must be filed in the County Services office before burial
services are rendered.
   B. Approval: The Board of County Commissioners must approve the application
before a claim for payment is allowed. (Res. 86-4, 6-23-86)
3-3-2: REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A. Burial Expenses: The County will allow payment for the burial expenses of
indigents only.
   B. Burial Benefits: Burial benefits provided by the Veterans Administration,
insurance policies or any other resource available for the payment of burial
expenses must be used to offset County assistance.
   C. Personal Funds: All remaining personal funds belonging to deceased
nursing home residents must be remitted to the County or to the funeral home
providing services to be applied toward the burial cost.
   D. Proceeds From Sale Of Assets: Proceeds from the sale of personal assets
and real property must be used to offset County assistance.
   E. Services And Merchandise Not Included: Services and merchandise not
included in the County burial plan may not be added regardless of the ability
of others to pay for them.
   F. Reimbursement: The County maintains the right to seek reimbursement from
responsible family members and the deceased person's estate if and when the
County determines that there is an ability to reimburse any portion of the
assistance granted.
   G. Burial Outside County: Blaine County will assume no obligation for
burials outside of Blaine County. (Res. 86-4, 6-23-86)
3-3-3: APPROVED SERVICES; MERCHANDISE AND PAYMENT:
   A. Earth Burial:
      1. Obligations Of Funeral Home: It shall be the obligation of the funeral
home to provide at least the following for a County earth burial:
         a. Transfer of the remains to the funeral home.
         b. Minimum services of the staff including a graveside service.
         c. Basic use of the funeral home facilities including visitation of
the deceased.
         d. Embalming if necessary or other preparation of the body.
         e. Provision of casket, cement grave liner, memorial book and
temporary grave marker.
      2. Payment: Blaine County shall allow six hundred ninety nine dollars
($699.00) for the above listed services and goods. Such payment shall be
considered payment in full.
      3. Burial Plot: In addition, the County may provide for a burial plot, if
necessary, and pay the opening and closing charges at the cemetery.
   B. Cremation:
      1. Obligations Of Funeral Home: It shall be the obligation of the funeral
home to provide at least the following services and goods for a cremation:
         a. Transfer of the remains to the funeral home.
         b. Embalming if necessary or other preparation of the body.
         c. Cremation tray.
         d. Basic services of the staff.
         e. Basic use of facilities.
         f. Transport of body to crematory.
         g. Crematory fees.
      2. Blaine County shall allow eight hundred nine dollars ($809.00) for the
above listed merchandise and services. Such payment shall be considered payment
in full. (Res. 86-4, 6-23-86)
CHAPTER 4
SKIER RESPONSIBILITY ACT
SECTION:
3-4-1: Title
3-4-2: Definitions
3-4-3: Duties Of Skiers And Passengers
3-4-4: Penalties
3-4-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the SKIER RESPONSIBILITY ACT OF BLAINE COUNTY.
(Ord. 86-4, 10-14-86)
3-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section:
CLOSED AREA: Any portion of a ski area designated by the ski area operator,
Sheriff or Forest Service as closed with signs having printed thereon in
letters not less than two inches (2") high the words "Closed", "Closed Area",
"Danger" or words of similar import, displayed not more than one hundred fifty
feet (150') apart.
FOREST SERVICE: The United States Forest Service.
INJURY: Any personal injury, death or property damage or loss suffered by a
skier.
PASSENGER: Any person riding or otherwise using a ski lift.
SHERIFF: The Blaine County Sheriff, Sheriff's deputies, agents or employees.
SKI AREA: The property owned or leased and under the control of a ski area
operator within the County of Blaine, State of Idaho.
SKI AREA OPERATOR: Any person, partnership, corporation or other commercial
entity and its agents, officers, employees or representatives, who has
operational responsibility for any ski area or ski lift.
SKI LIFT: Any device operated by a ski area operation to transport passengers
from one point to another within a ski area.
SKI PATROL: That certain group of employees of the ski area operator designated
as the ski patrol and wearing uniforms with a cross on the back.
SKIER: Any person utilizing a ski area for the purpose of skiing, both alpine
and nordic, or any person who is within the boundaries of a ski area for the
purpose of observing any skiing activity. (Ord. 86-4, 10-14-86)
3-4-3: DUTIES OF SKIERS AND PASSENGERS:
   A. Reckless Skiing Prohibited: No skier shall ski in a reckless or negligent
manner so as to endanger the life, limb or property of any person. Each skier
has the additional duty to ski in a safe and reasonable manner and under
sufficient control to be able to stop or avoid other skiers or objects such as
snow grooming equipment, vehicles, lift towers, signs and any other equipment
within the ski area.
   B. Entering Closed Area Prohibited: No skier except a member of the ski
patrol or employee of the Forest Service, Sheriff or ski area operator in the
course of their employment shall enter or go upon any closed area.
   C. Safety Straps Required: Each skier shall have the duty of using retention
or ski safety straps or other reliable devices capable of stopping each ski
should the ski become unattached from the skier.
   D. Duties Of Ski Lift Passengers: No passenger shall enter upon or exit from
a ski lift except at a designated area or by authority of a ski lift operator.
No passenger shall swing, bounce, stand up or ride a ski lift in a reckless or
negligent manner so as to endanger the life, limb or property of any person.
   E. Duties Of Skiers Involved In Collisions: Any skier involved in a
collision with another skier or person in which an injury results shall
immediately do the following:
      1. Stop at the scene of such collision and render to any skier or person
injured in such collision reasonable assistance.
      2. Notify or cause to be notified a member of the ski patrol about the
collision and injury.
      3. Remain at the scene of the collision with the injured skier or person
until a member of the ski patrol arrives.
      4. Give his or her name and current address to a member of the ski patrol
before leaving the scene of the collision.
   F. Removing Or Destroying Closed Area Signs Prohibited: No skier or other
person, except a member of the ski patrol or employee of the ski area operator,
Forest Service or Sheriff, in the course of their employment, shall remove,
tear down, mutilate, deface, damage or destroy any sign erected by the ski
patrol, ski area operator, Sheriff or Forest Service to designate a closed
area. (Ord. 86-4, 10-14-86)
3-4-4: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of Section
3-4-3 of this Chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1996 Code; Ord. 86-4, 10-14-86)
CHAPTER 5
ALTERNATIVE ON SITE SEWAGE SYSTEMS (AOSS)
SECTION:
3-5-1: Design And Construction (Rep. by Ord. 2009-01, 2-17-2009)
3-5-2: Maintenance And Monitoring
3-5-3: Compliance And Enforcement
3-5-4: Liability
3-5-1: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION 1
:
(Rep. by Ord. 2009-01, 2-17-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 7-1-4G of this Code.
3-5-2: MAINTENANCE AND MONITORING:
It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to maintain all AOSS in
good working order. At least once every five (5) years (or other time period
specified by SCPHD, depending on the requirements of the particular system) the
property owner shall cause the AOSS to be inspected by an SCPHD approved
inspector. The property owner shall bear the costs of the inspection, sampling
of effluent (if required), and any repairs or modifications deemed necessary by
SCPHD in order to find said system in good working order. (Ord. 96-11, 10-15-
1996)
3-5-3: COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be a misdemeanor to use a malfunctioning AOSS and/or to fail to cause
the AOSS to be inspected, repaired or modified as required herein. (Ord. 96-11,
10-15-1996)
3-5-4: LIABILITY:
In no case shall Blaine County, the South Central Public Health District, or
any of their officers be held liable for any malfunctioning or period of nonuse
of the AOSS. (Ord. 96-11, 10-15-1996)
CHAPTER 6
EMERGENCY 911 SYSTEM
SECTION:
3-6-1: Short Title
3-6-2: Definitions
3-6-3: Findings
3-6-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the EMERGENCY 911 ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2002-03, 8-
26-2002)
3-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
ADMINISTRATOR: The person, officer or agency designated to operate a
consolidated emergency telephone communications system, and to receive funds
for such an operation.
CONSOLIDATED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM: Facilities, equipment
and dispatching services directly related to establishing, maintaining, or
enhancing a consolidated emergency telephone communications system. The term
"consolidated" refers only to the technological upgrade of the 911 telephone
system and does not refer to the number of, nor location of, the present
communication centers in Blaine County.
ENHANCED 911 SERVICE AREA: The area in which residents have voted to establish
a consolidated emergency telephone communications system. (Ord. 2002-03, 8-26-
2002)
3-6-3: FINDINGS:
The board makes the following findings:
   A. An election must be held on the question of whether to authorize funding
to support implementation of a consolidated emergency telephone communication
system by way of a telephone user fee. The authorization to provide such
funding will be requested of the registered voters of the enhanced 911 service
area at the next general election. A notice for any election shall be published
for twenty (20) days as required by section 60-109, Idaho Code. A sixty percent
(60%) majority of the votes cast in favor of the question shall be necessary to
authorize the telephone line user fee.
   B. The enhanced 911 service area for the proposed consolidated emergency
telephone communication system shall consist of Blaine County, with the
exception of Yale.
   C. The governing board for the proposed enhanced 911 service area shall
consist of the Blaine County board of commissioners. After voter approval, the
governing board shall appoint an agency (user) governing board consisting of
representation from users and the general public.
   D. The administrator of the proposed consolidated emergency telephone
communications system shall be the Blaine County board of commissioners. After
voter approval, the administrator shall be an agent of the board of
commissioners.
   E. The agency designated to service the enhanced 911 calls of the proposed
consolidated emergency telephone communications system shall be the Blaine
County board of commissioners. After voter approval, an agency shall be
designated by the board of county commissioners, who will, in its judgment,
effectively manage and administrate the enhanced 911 system to its full
capability.
   F. The costs of the election ordered by the county shall be a proper charge
against the county current expense fund.
   G. The question shall be submitted to the electors of the enhanced 911
service area in substantially the following form:
      Shall the governing board of Blaine County (Blaine County Commissioners)
be authorized to institute a telephone line user fee in an amount no greater
than one dollar ($1.00) per month to be used to fund an emergency telephone
system, commonly known as enhanced 911 (E-911) service?
(Ord. 2002-03, 8-26-2002)
CHAPTER 7
ONSITE WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
SECTION:
3-7-1: Short Title And Purpose
3-7-2: Definitions
3-7-3: Establishment Of Onsite Wastewater Management Program
3-7-4: Authority Of Board
3-7-5: Exemptions
3-7-6: Required Discharge Permits
3-7-7: Required Disclosures To Prospective Buyers
3-7-8: Inspection And Maintenance Of On Site Wastewater Treatment Systems
3-7-9: Inspection Reports
3-7-10: Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy
3-7-11: Cooperation With Other Departments And Agencies
3-7-12: Use Of Fees
3-7-13: Notice Regarding The Rules
3-7-14: No Liability
3-7-15: Effective Date(s) And Waivers
3-7-16: Appeals
3-7-17: Enforcement
3-7-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
   A. This chapter shall be known as the BLAINE COUNTY ONSITE WASTEWATER
MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.
   B. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety,
and general welfare and to protect from contamination by on site wastewater
treatment systems the surface and ground water resources of Blaine County
including: 1) the Big Wood River ground water management area designated by the
state of Idaho and 2) the sole source aquifer areas and streamflow source areas
of the Eastern Snake River Plain aquifer system as designated by EPA under the
safe drinking water act.
   C. The education, permitting, management, maintenance, inspection, testing,
and reporting requirements and other provisions of this chapter and the rules
are, collectively, the onsite wastewater management program (OWMP). (Ord. 2007-
03, 11-9-2007)
3-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings set forth in this section. Other words and phrases shall have the
meanings set forth in this title, titles 9 and 10, or elsewhere in this code.
ADMINISTRATOR: The person hired by the board to organize the OWMP, create and
administer the rules, create and monitor the OWMP budget, and oversee the
operation of the OWMP, all subject to the approval of the board.
ALTERNATIVE ON SITE SYSTEM (AOSS): Any on site wastewater treatment system
treating less than two thousand five hundred (2,500) gallons of wastewater per
day other than a traditional gravity fed septic system, including systems with
pumps, siphons, compressors, and secondary filtration or biological treatment.
BLACK WASTE: Human body waste, specifically excreta or urine, including toilet
paper and other products used in the practice of personal hygiene.
BLACKWATER: A wastewater the principal pollutant of which is black waste.
CENTRAL WASTEWATER SYSTEM: Any system, other than a public sewer system, that
receives black waste or wastewater in volumes exceeding two thousand five
hundred (2,500) gallons per day or any such system that receives black waste or
wastewater from more than two (2) dwelling units or more than two (2) buildings
under separate ownership (as defined in IDAPA 58.01.03.08 and includes
"community septic systems" as defined by the DEQ in "Community Septic Systems",
February 2000).
EFFECTIVE DATE(S): The date(s) that the board determines that the rules shall
be effective.
EXEMPT SYSTEM: Those systems described in section
3-7-5 of this chapter and any other systems exempted in the rules.
INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER SYSTEM: Any type of on site wastewater treatment system
(including, but not limited to, standard septic systems, engineered septic
systems, mound septic systems, pump septic systems, constructed wetlands septic
systems, aerobic treatment units, and other advanced treatment systems) that is
not a central system.
INSPECTION REPORT: The written report required under the rules with the
detailed results of an on site wastewater treatment system inspection.
NONCOMPLIANT SYSTEM: Any on site wastewater treatment system that fails an on
site wastewater treatment system inspection or any such system that is
otherwise not in compliance with the rules.
ON SITE WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM: Any system, other than a public sewer
system, beginning at the point of entry to the structure, and including
physically connected piping, treatment devices, receptacles, structures, or
areas of land designed, used or dedicated to convey, store, stabilize,
neutralize, treat, dispose of, or discharge black waste or wastewater.
ON SITE WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM DISCHARGE PERMIT: The permit issued by the
administrator and required for every on site wastewater treatment system in the
OWMP other than exempt systems. The discharge permit shall require periodic on
site wastewater treatment system inspection, payment of annual fees, and such
other conditions required by the rules and/or deemed reasonable and necessary
by the administrator. This permit is required prior to the system becoming
operational and receiving wastewater.
ON SITE WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM INSPECTION: The periodic inspection of an
on site wastewater treatment system pursuant to the rules, including an
inspection of any septic or holding tanks, laboratory testing, as deemed
necessary by the administrator, of septic effluent, drain field leachate and
any ground water wells on the same property, evaluation of the condition of the
drain field, pumps, and other system equipment, to ensure compliance with the
rules, SCDH rules and policies, and DEQ/EPA administered laws and policies.
PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM: Any system for the collection and/or treatment of
wastewater that is owned by a county, city, special service district, or other
governmental entity or Indian tribe having the authority to dispose of black
waste or wastewater, including a municipal or county wastewater treatment
facility.
RULES: Those rules established by the administrator and approved by the board,
as modified from time to time, setting forth, among other things, the
inspection, maintenance, and pumping schedules, content of inspections
(including water quality testing), inspection standards, approved on site
wastewater treatment technologies, discharge permit application procedure,
system discharge permit fees (including higher fees for larger and/or more
complex systems), standard system discharge permit conditions, late fees and
penalties, possible loan or grant programs for repair or replacement of
noncompliant systems or installation of more advanced treatment systems, and
related matters.
SCDH WASTEWATER SYSTEM PERMIT: The permit issued by the South Central district
health personnel and required to construct/operate an individual on site
wastewater system or certain central wastewater systems within Blaine County.
This permit is required prior to system installation.
SEPTAGE: Liquid and/or solid material removed from a septic tank, cesspool,
portable toilet, type III marine sanitation device, or similar treatment works
that receives only domestic sewage or wastewater.
SEWAGE: Has the same meaning as wastewater.
WASTEWATER: Any combination of liquid or water and pollutants from activities
and processes occurring in dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial plants,
institutions and other establishments, together with any ground water, surface
water, and storm water that may be present; liquid or water that is chemically,
biologically, physically or rationally identifiable as containing blackwater,
gray water or commercial or industrial pollutants; and sewage. (Ord. 2007-03,
11-9-2007)
3-7-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF ONSITE WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM:
   A. Pursuant to Idaho Code sections 31-877 and 52-101 et seq., there is
hereby established a Blaine County onsite wastewater management program (OWMP)
applicable to all the unincorporated areas in the county.
   B. All properties within the area of the OWMP except those properties
expressly exempted in this chapter are and shall be subject to the provisions
of this chapter and must comply by the effective date(s) set forth herein.
   C. In the OWMP rules as approved by the board, the administrator may
establish subdistricts within the OWMP from time to time. (Ord. 2007-03, 11-9-
2007)
3-7-4: AUTHORITY OF BOARD:
The board shall be the governing body of the OWMP and shall have all of the
powers and authority relating to the OWMP granted to the county by Idaho
constitution article XII, section 2, Idaho Code sections 31-601, 31-877, title
42, chapter 32 1
, including, without limitation, the power and authority to:
   A. Hire employees, consultants, and other agents.
   B. Enter into contracts with persons, businesses and other governmental
agencies.
   C. Delegate certain duties to an administrator.
   D. Delegate certain duties to the South Central district health, Idaho
department of environmental quality, and/or other governmental agencies.
   E. Establish and periodically adjust various rates, charges, and penalties.
   F. Establish due dates for payments.
   G. Establish the effective date(s) for compliance.
   H. Levy and collect fees.
   I. Place and enforce liens for nonpayment.
   J. Adopt and periodically amend the rules. (Ord. 2007-03, 11-9-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 42-3201 et seq.
3-7-5: EXEMPTIONS:
The following entities are exempt from the OWMP:
   A. Residences and businesses connected to a public sewer system (only the
residences and businesses, not the system operator, and only with respect to
the on site wastewater system provisions).
   B. Public sewer systems, central wastewater systems, and public water
systems so long as such systems: 1) have a qualified responsible management
entity, 2) have an operating permit from either the EPA and/or the DEQ, 3) are
in compliance with such permit(s), and 4) satisfactorily demonstrate such
compliance as might be reasonably requested from time to time by the
administrator. (Ord. 2007-03, 11-9-2007)
3-7-6: REQUIRED DISCHARGE PERMITS:
Commencing on the effective date(s), the owner of property in the OWMP with an
existing on site wastewater treatment system, other than exempt systems, shall
be required to obtain an on site wastewater treatment system discharge permit,
comply with the terms of such permit, and keep such permit current by paying
the annual fees in a timely manner. Owners of newly constructed on site
wastewater treatment systems must supply "as built" construction drawings of
the treatment system as specified in the rules as a condition to obtaining a
permit. All newly constructed on site wastewater treatment systems shall
require such a permit prior to becoming operational and receiving wastewater
and shall remain in compliance with the terms of such permit. Owners shall keep
such permit current by paying the annual fees in a timely manner.
Nonexempt central systems shall have special reporting, operating, and other
requirements as determined by the administrator. The county shall require a
valid discharge permit as a condition to the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy. (Ord. 2007-03, 11-9-2007)
3-7-7: REQUIRED DISCLOSURES TO PROSPECTIVE BUYERS:
The county hereby declares that the condition of an on site wastewater
treatment system, the status of any discharge permit, the date of the most
recent on site wastewater treatment system inspection, and the most recent
inspection report are "material matters relating to the physical condition of
the property including, but not limited to ... the nature of the sewer system
serving the property" within the meaning of the Idaho property condition
disclosure act 1
and that sellers of residential real property covered by the OWMP must disclose
such information to prospective buyers in the manner required by the Idaho
property condition disclosure act. (Ord. 2007-03, 11-9-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§ 55-2501 to 55-2518.
3-7-8: INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE OF ON SITE WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEMS:
Commencing on the effective date(s) for existing systems and upon construction
of new systems, it shall be the responsibility of the owner of an on site
wastewater treatment system in the OWMP, other than an exempt system or a
reporting entity, to comply with the terms of the on site wastewater treatment
system discharge permit, to provide access to the administrator or its delegate
upon reasonable notice for purpose of inspections, to keep such permit current
by paying the annual fees in a timely manner, to pay the costs of required on
site wastewater treatment system inspections, to undertake the repairs and pay
the costs associated with compliance with relevant DEQ and SCDH regulations, to
undertake and pay for such other maintenance (periodic tank cleaning/removal of
septage, etc.) as may be directed by the administrator, and, in case of
noncompliance, to reimburse the OWMP for any inspections and/or maintenance
performed by the OWMP after reasonable notice and opportunity for the owner to
perform such inspections and/or maintenance. (Ord. 2007-03, 11-9-2007)
3-7-9: INSPECTION REPORTS:
   A. A copy of an inspection report must be filed with the administrator on or
before the due date established in the system discharge permit or the rules.
   B. Inspection reports shall be available for public inspection subject to
certain privacy limitations, if any, in the rules.
   C. The administrator shall compile and share summary information on water
and effluent quality test results, system failures, and other information in
the inspection reports relevant to the quantity and quality of ground water
with the relevant agencies and community groups. Summary information on
inspection reports prepared by the administrator shall be available for public
inspection. (Ord. 2007-03, 11-9-2007)
3-7-10: BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   A. The county shall issue no building permits for new construction or
remodeling unless the applicant demonstrates compliance with or exemption from
this chapter. The administrator shall establish appropriate cash surety
payments to ensure proper design and installation of alternative on site
systems (AOSS).
   B. The county shall issue no certificate of occupancy for any structure
unless the applicant demonstrates compliance with or exemption from this
chapter. Further, the county may revoke any current or future certificate of
occupancy for failure to comply with this chapter. (Ord. 2007-03, 11-9-2007)
3-7-11: COOPERATION WITH OTHER DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES:
   A. Any county agency that becomes aware of any new construction and/or
remodeling of improvements with on site wastewater treatment systems shall
notify the administrator.
   B. The administrator shall cooperate with the DEQ, EPA, SCDH, and local
agencies and districts with respect to sharing publicly available OWMP records,
permit standards, inspections, and related matters. (Ord. 2007-03, 11-9-2007)
3-7-12: USE OF FEES:
All fees collected by the OWMP shall be used by the county for the OWMP,
including education, permitting, management, maintenance, inspection, testing,
and reporting. (Ord. 2007-03, 11-9-2007)
3-7-13: NOTICE REGARDING THE RULES:
   A. The board may modify the rules from time to time by resolution.
   B. All current and future property owners, builders, and other affected
persons should obtain a current copy of the rules from the administrator, who
will make them freely available to the public.
   C. The rules give the administrator the authority to establish reasonable
operating procedures, forms, and charges for services. (Ord. 2007-03, 11-9-
2007)
3-7-14: NO LIABILITY:
   A. The OWMP and the rules contain minimum on site wastewater standards for
the protection of the general health, safety, and welfare of the public.
Compliance with the OWMP and the rules alone does not guarantee safe drinking
water and effective treatment of on site wastewater.
   B. In no case shall the county, SCDH, and/or any of their employees or
agents be liable for any water and/or wastewater related problems based on
compliance and/or noncompliance with the OWMP or the rules. (Ord. 2007-03, 11-
9-2007)
3-7-15: EFFECTIVE DATE(S) AND WAIVERS:
   A. The board, with the assistance of the administrator, shall establish
effective date(s) for existing and new on site wastewater treatment systems.
Such effective date(s) shall allow time for the adoption of the rules,
education of the public, and related factors. There may be different effective
dates for existing and new systems and/or for each type of system.
   B. The rules, as approved by the board, may provide authority and guidelines
for the administrator to waive and/or modify compliance with the rules for
specific properties based on compelling site specific reasons so long as such
waivers, if any, would not cause: 1) a material adverse impact on the public
health, safety, and general welfare, 2) contamination of public water supplies
and source water areas and/or 3) a material adverse impact to the water
resources of the county. (Ord. 2007-03, 11-9-2007)
3-7-16: APPEALS:
The administrator shall issue all discharge permit denials, discharge permit
violation notices, orders for inspection and/or maintenance, and requests for
reimbursement for inspections and maintenance in writing. Any property owner
that disagrees with any such actions by the administrator on a matter adversely
affecting such property owner may appeal them to the administrator. The appeal
must be filed in writing with the administrator within thirty (30) days of
receipt. The administrator shall have thirty (30) days from receipt of the
appeal to respond in writing to the appellant. (Ord. 2007-03, 11-9-2007)
3-7-17: ENFORCEMENT:
   A. In addition to the other enforcement provisions applicable to this title,
after the effective date(s), it shall be a misdemeanor for any person,
corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association, government
entity or business entity to use an on site wastewater system without the
required discharge permit and/or to operate such system in violation of such
permit, the rules, and/or any of the provisions of this chapter.
   B. With the approval of the board, the administrator shall have the power
and the authority to file an action in district court to compel compliance with
this chapter and the rules, to obtain reimbursement for inspections and/or
maintenance performed by the OWMP, and to enforce liens related to the OWMP.
(Ord. 2007-03, 11-9-2007)
TITLE 4
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE OFFICERS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Police Training
4-1-2: Excessive Force
4-1-3: Blaine County Jail
4-1-1: POLICE TRAINING:
The County will adhere to the standards for employment and training established
by the Idaho Peace Officer Standards and Training Advisory Council. (1996 Code;
Ord. 72-2, 3-13-72)
4-1-2: EXCESSIVE FORCE:
It is the policy of the County that excessive force by local law enforcement
agencies shall not be used against individuals engaged in lawful and nonviolent
civil rights demonstrations within County boundaries. The Board of County
Commissioners directs the Sheriff to implement this Section by amending
applicable police department procedures. (Res. 90-23, 12-10-90)
4-1-3: BLAINE COUNTY JAIL:
   A. Health Regulations: The Sheriff shall have the authority to promulgate
appropriate health regulations for the conduct of the Blaine County Jail
including mandatory haircuts, shaves, showers and appropriate jail uniforms.
(Res., 5-10-71)
   B. Prisoners To Work On Public Works: Pursuant to Idaho Code, section 20-
617, other than those prisoners who are unable to work by reason of a physical
disability, a prisoner in the Blaine County Jail may be required by the Blaine
County Sheriff, or the Sheriff's agents, employees or designee to perform labor
on public works or ways in and for the County subject to the rules and
regulations of the County Sheriff. (1996 Code; Res. 87-6A, 5-26-87)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Discharge Of Firearm
4-2-1: DISCHARGE OF FIREARM:
   A. It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person not a peace officer
of the state of Idaho acting in his/her official capacity to discharge any
firearm within one thousand feet (1,000') of any dwelling or residence situated
on private land without the express consent of the owner or occupant of such
dwelling or residence, and subject to the limitations set forth in Idaho Code.
   B.   Between and including May 1 and October 31 of any given year, it shall
be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person not a peace officer of the state
of Idaho acting in his/her official capacity to discharge a firearm into or
towards any explosive device. For purposes of this subsection, the term
“explosive device” means any item with contents under pressure that will create
an incendiary reaction upon being contacted by a projectile. (Ord. 2021-10, 6-
22-2021; Ord. 2014-01, 3-11-2014)
CHAPTER 3
MINORS 1
SECTION:
4-3-1: Purposes
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Runaways Beyond Parental Control
 
Notes
1 1. Prior ordinance history: Ord. 75-4, 5-27-1975; 1996 Code.
4-3-1: PURPOSES:
The purposes of this chapter are to:
   A. Promote the general welfare and protect the general public within the
county;
   B. Promote the safety and well being of the county's young by allowing for
early intervention and access to resources that are designed to alter behavior
before it manifests itself into the commission of crimes that are punished more
severely in the criminal justice system;
   C. Enact provisions for the status offense of being a runaway and being
beyond the control of a parent. (Ord. 2002-02, 8-26-2002)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
BEYOND THE SUPERVISION AND CONTROL OF THE MINOR'S PARENTS: A minor's wilful and
deliberate refusal to obey a rule and/or command of his or her parents to a
degree that places the safety and/or welfare of the minor or any person in
jeopardy.
JUVENILE CORRECTIONS ACT: Chapter 5, title 20, Idaho Code, as now existing and
as may hereafter be amended.
MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years who is otherwise subject
to the juvenile corrections act.
PARENTS: Persons lawfully charged with the care or custody of a minor. The term
includes, but is not limited to, natural or adoptive parents, lawful guardians,
or foster parents. (Ord. 2002-02, 8-26-2002)
4-3-3: RUNAWAYS BEYOND PARENTAL CONTROL:
   A. Prohibitions: Any minor living or found in Blaine County who runs away
from or is beyond the supervision and control of the minor's parents is guilty
of a status offense.
   B. Penalties: A violation of this section shall subject the minor to the
penalties and other sentencing provisions set forth in the juvenile corrections
act. (Ord. 2002-02, 8-26-2002)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
4-4-1: Purpose
4-4-2: Animals Running At Large
4-4-3: Nuisances
4-4-4: Dangerous Animals
4-4-5: Authority To Impound
4-4-6: Right Of Entry, Police
4-4-7: Female In Heat Prohibited From Running At Large
4-4-8: Rabid Animals Quarantined For Observation
4-4-9: Exotic Wildlife
4-4-10: Dog Licensing
4-4-11: Impoundment And Transport Fees
4-4-12: Cruelty Prohibited
4-4-13: Unlawful To Poison
4-4-14: Duties Of Animal Control Officer And Police Department
4-4-15: Interfering Or Obstructing Animal Control Officer Or Police Department
4-4-16: Penalties
4-4-1: PURPOSE:
This Chapter is passed to promote the health, safety and welfare of the
residents and visitors of Blaine County and to protect the properties of such
persons by establishing a uniform and humane Animal Control Ordinance. (Ord.
88-1, 2-22-1988)
4-4-2: ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A. Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any owner, possessor or person who
keeps any animal to permit the same to run at large upon the private premises
of others or upon the streets, alleys, sidewalks, highways, vacant lots, school
grounds or other public places within the County.
   B. Leash Required: An animal shall be deemed to be running at large when off
or away from the premises of the owner, possessor or keeper thereof and not
under the immediate control of such owner, possessor or keeper, or his or her
agent or servant or a member of his or her immediate family, either by leash,
cord, chain or by verbal control of a person within ten feet (10') of said
animal; provided, however, that any animal on the premises of a city park or
school grounds must be controlled by a leash not exceeding ten feet (10') in
length held in the hand of the person controlling the animal. Procuring a
license and tag shall not authorize the running at large of a dog. This
provision shall not apply to dogs working with livestock or to dogs engaged
with their owner or handler in hunting or performing in field trials.
   C. Violation: Violation of the provisions of this Section is hereby declared
to be a nuisance and a menace to the public health and safety and any animal
which violates the provisions of this Section shall be taken up and impounded
as provided herein. (Ord. 88-1, 2-22-1988; Ord. 82-3, 4-26-1982)
4-4-3: NUISANCES:
   A. Public Nuisance: It shall be unlawful for any owner or other keeper of a
dog or other animal to fail to exercise proper care and control of such animal
to prevent it from becoming a public nuisance. A nuisance includes, but is not
limited to, the following:
      1. Frequent, continuous or untimely barking;
      2. Molesting passersby;
      3. Chasing vehicles;
      4. Attacking other domestic animals;
      5. Trespassing upon public or private property in such a manner as to
damage the property; or
      6. Defecating on public or private property of another when the
defecation is not immediately removed by the keeper of the animal.
   B. Molesting: For the purpose of this Section, "molesting" is defined as
placing a person in fear of imminent physical injury without provocation, said
fear being reasonable under the circumstances or when the animal shows a
propensity to bite people.
   C. Proper Care: It shall be unlawful for any owner or other keeper of an
animal to fail to provide such animal with sufficient and wholesome food and
water, proper shelter and protection to prevent discomfort, veterinary care
when needed to prevent suffering or humane care and treatment.
   D. Restrained In Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any animal to ride or be
parked in any vehicle unless restrained in such a fashion to prevent the animal
from extending beyond the confines of the vehicle or from posing a danger to
pedestrians.
   E. Protection From Falling From Vehicle: It shall be unlawful for any person
to carry an animal on any external part of a vehicle unless the animal is
protected from falling from the vehicle. (Ord. 88-1, 2-22-1988; Ord. 82-3, 4-
26-1982)
4-4-4: DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
   A. Definitions: As used in this Section, the following words and terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    DANGEROUS ANIMAL:
      1.   Any animal which has inflicted fatal or severe injury on a human
being without provocation on public or private property; or
      2.   Any animal which, while off the owner's or keeper's property, has
killed or maimed a domestic animal; or
      3.   Any animal which, on three (3) separate occasions within a twelve
(12) month period, has been running at large as defined in Section
4-4-2 of this Chapter, or has been impounded by a peace officer or an animal
control officer for being unrestrained or uncontrolled off its owner's
premises.
   SEVERE INJURY: Any physical injury that results in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery.
   B. Impoundment: Any dangerous animal shall be immediately seized and
securely impounded in a humane manner at the discretion of the animal control
officer or peace officer either on the premises of the owner or keeper of the
animal or with a licensed veterinarian or at the animal pound by a peace
officer or an animal control officer.
   C. Exemptions: No animal may be declared dangerous if the threat, injury or
damage was sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a wilful
trespass or other act of provocation upon the premises occupied by the owner or
keeper of the animal under circumstances which made the animal's reaction
reasonably foreseeable or was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the
animal or has, in the past, been observed or reported to have teased,
tormented, abused or assaulted the animal or was committing or attempting to
commit a crime.
   D. Prohibiting Dangerous Animals: Except as provided herein, it is unlawful
for any person to own, possess or harbor any animal which committed acts that
describe a dangerous animal.
   E. Hearings:
      1. Determination Hearing: The Magistrate Division shall conduct a
determination hearing whenever there is cause to believe that an animal may be
a "dangerous animal" as defined in subsection A of this Section. Said hearing
shall be conducted within ten (10) days after the Court serves notice of the
date, time and place of the determination hearing to the owner or the owner's
agent by personal service or by certified letter. The ten (10) day notice may
be extended, if necessary, by order of the Court.
      2. Court Determination: The Magistrate Division shall determine whether
to declare the animal to be a "dangerous animal" based upon proof beyond a
reasonable doubt and testimony presented at the time of the hearing.
      3. Findings Of Fact And Conclusions Of Law: The Magistrate Division shall
issue written findings of fact and conclusions of law within five (5) days
after the determination hearing. The Magistrate may find that the animal is
dangerous or not dangerous. If the Magistrate finds the animal is not dangerous
the animal shall be returned to the owner or keeper of the animal. If the
Magistrate finds the animal is dangerous, the Magistrate may order the return
of the animal to the owner or keeper of the animal with or without certain
restrictions or may order that the animal be put to death in a humane manner,
after an appeal has been filed or after the time for an appeal has lapsed.
      4. Appeal: The owner or possessor of the animal found to be dangerous by
this hearing has the right to appeal the decision within three (3) days of
receiving such decision to the District Court.
      5. Animal Confined Pending Determination: Pending the outcome of the
determination hearing, the animal must be securely confined in a humane manner
either on the premises of the owner, with a licensed veterinarian or at the
animal pound.
      6. Prerequisites For Return Of Animal: Regardless of the finding of the
Court, before an animal is returned to the owner or keeper of the animal, any
returned dog must be licensed and any applicable impoundment fee must be paid
in advance. If the Court orders the return of any animal declared to be
dangerous, the Court may order the following:
         a. While on the owner's property, a dangerous animal must be securely
confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure,
suitable to prevent the entry of young children and designed to prevent the
animal from escaping. Such pen or structure for a dog must have minimum
dimensions of five feet by ten feet (5' x 10') and must have secure sides and a
secure top. If it has no bottom secured to the sides the sides must be embedded
into the ground no less than two feet (2'). The enclosure must also provide
protection from the elements for the animal.
         b. The owner or keeper shall display a sign on his or her premises
warning that there is a dangerous animal on the property. This sign shall be
visible and capable of being read from the public highway or thoroughfare. In
addition, the owner shall conspicuously display a sign with a symbol warning
children of the presence of a dangerous animal.
         c. A dangerous dog may be off the owner's premises if it is muzzled
and restrained by a substantial chain or leash not exceeding six feet (6') in
length and under the control of a responsible person. The muzzle must be made
in a manner that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision
or respiration but must prevent it from biting any person or animal.
         d. The owner or keeper of a dangerous animal shall present to the
animal control officer proof that the owner or keeper has procured liability
insurance in the amount of at least one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00),
covering the twelve (12) month period during which licensing is sought. This
policy shall contain a provision requiring Blaine County to be named as an
additional insured for the sole purpose of Blaine County being notified by the
insurance company of any cancellation, termination or expiration of the policy.
         e. The owner or keeper of the dangerous animal shall allow a peace
officer or animal control officer to inspect the premises where the dangerous
animal is located to ensure compliance with this Chapter and any order of the
Court.
         f. The dangerous animal cannot be offered for adoption at any time.
         g. The dangerous animal shall be spayed or neutered, the cost of which
will be borne by the owner or keeper of the dangerous animal.
         h. The owner or keeper shall notify the animal control officer
immediately if a dangerous animal is loose, unconfined, has attacked another
animal, has attacked a human being or has died.
         i. In the event the animal will be sold or given away, the owner or
keeper, before transferring ownership, shall provide the animal control officer
with the name, address and telephone number of the new owner, who must comply
with the requirements of this Chapter.
   F. Imminent Danger: When, in the judgment of a peace officer or an animal
control officer, it is determined that an animal should be destroyed for humane
reasons or to protect the public from imminent danger to persons, such animal
may be destroyed without regard to any time limitations otherwise established
herein, and without Court order. Any action taken pursuant to this Section
shall comply with applicable Federal and State laws including, without
limitation, such laws governing endangered species. (Ord. 2000-6, 5-22-2000;
Ord. 88-1, 2-22-1988)
4-4-5: AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND:
Any peace officer, animal control officer or any other person authorized by the
County may seize and impound all dogs without collars bearing current licenses
as required by this Chapter, or any and all dogs or other animals found running
at large upon the public streets, alleys or other public places or private
premises without the permission of the owner of said premises or any and all
dangerous animals. (Ord. 88-1, 2-22-1988; Ord. 82-3, 4-26-1982)
4-4-6: RIGHT OF ENTRY, POLICE:
Any peace officer or animal control officer is authorized to enter private
property to:
   A. Take possession of and impound any animal whenever the peace officer or
animal control officer is in fresh pursuit of an animal which is in violation
of the provisions of this chapter at the time the animal enters onto private
property; or
   B. Observe, capture, remove or destroy an animal when imminent danger exists
as provided in subsection
4-4-4F of this chapter; provided, however, that reasonable efforts are made to
contact representatives of the Idaho department of fish and game beforehand.
(Ord. 2000-6, 5-22-2000; Ord. 88-1, 2-22-1988; Ord. 82-3, 4-26-1982)
4-4-7: FEMALE IN HEAT PROHIBITED FROM RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A. Penned During Season: The owner of a female dog shall cause such dog,
when in season, to be penned or closed in such manner as to preclude other dogs
from attacking such female dog.
   B. Running At Large: It shall be unlawful for the owner or person having
possession, charge, custody or control of any female dog to cause, permit or
allow the same to stray or run, or in any other manner be at large in or upon
any street or sidewalk while such dog is in copulating season. If a female dog
cannot be controlled by the owner during the copulating season, the female dog
may be impounded by the animal control officer or any peace officer. (Ord. 88-
1, 2-22-1988; Ord. 82-3, 4-26-1982)
4-4-8: RABID ANIMALS QUARANTINED FOR OBSERVATION:
   A. Suspect Animal Quarantined: Any animal which is known to have bitten or
injured any person so as to cause an abrasion of the skin or any suspected
rabid animal shall be placed in confinement under observation and shall not be
killed or released until at least ten (10) days after the onset of symptoms
suggestive of rabies.
   B. Place Of Quarantine: The veterinary hospital or municipal pound shall be
the place for quarantine, unless the animal control officer approves of an
alternative confinement and the animal had a current rabies vaccination as
evidenced by a rabies vaccination certificate issued by a licensed
veterinarian. In the event there is an alternative confinement, the owner or
other keeper of the animal shall prohibit contact between humans or other
animals and the quarantined animal.
   C. Dead Animal: If the animal dies or has been killed, its head shall be
removed and immediately taken to the state health laboratory to be examined for
rabies.
   D. Bite Report: In the event an animal bites or injures any person so as to
cause an abrasion of the skin, the owner or keeper of the animal shall complete
a bite report provided by the animal control officer. A copy of the bite report
shall be distributed to the animal pound, the local health department and the
animal control officers.
   E. Inspection: No person shall fail, refuse or neglect to allow any official
of the county to make an inspection or examination thereof at any time during
said period. No such dog or animal shall be removed from the place of
quarantine without first being examined and released by a licensed
veterinarian.
   F. Release From Quarantine: Before any such animal is released, a licensed
veterinarian must approve the animal's release in writing on a bite report or
similar document. If the animal shall be determined free of rabies, the same
shall be returned to the owner upon payment of a fee for keeping dogs impounded
as herein stated. No other fee shall be charged. If such fee is not paid, the
dog or animal shall be subject to disposal as provided in section
4-4-14 of this chapter. (Ord. 88-1, 2-22-1988; Ord. 82-3, 4-26-1982)
4-4-9: EXOTIC WILDLIFE:
   A. Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    WILDLIFE: Any form of animal life, either native or exotic, which normally
lives in a state of nature, excepting the following domesticated species:
cattle, domestic bison, swine, horses, mules, asses, domestic Cervidae, sheep,
goats, camelids, and ratites.
   B. Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to own, possess or harbor
within the corporate limits of the county any wildlife except as otherwise
provided herein.
   C. Special Permit For Wildlife: Upon application of the owner, the Blaine
County sheriff's office may grant a special permit allowing an individual to
keep a wildlife pet upon owner's premises, provided that:
      1. The pet is not of a species with a propensity to attack or be
dangerous to humans;
      2. The owner, by affidavit, asserts that, to the best of owner's
knowledge, the pet has never attacked or harmed a human or a domestic animal;
      3. The pet is adequately confined to the satisfaction of the Blaine
County sheriff's office, either with or upon the owner's premises and within an
enclosed vehicle when transported.
   D. Wildlife Displays Prohibited: The exhibition or display of wildlife as
part of a circus, animal act, exhibit or other special event is expressly
prohibited subject to the following exceptions:
      1. The use or display of wildlife in an exhibition by a nonmobile,
permanent institution or facility;
      2. The use or display of wildlife as part of an outreach program for
educational or conservation purposes by a nonprofit organization;
      3. Whenever wildlife are displayed in accordance with subsection D1 or D2
of this section, restrained animals shall continue to have general freedom of
bodily movement and access to adequate water and food, restraints and handling
tools shall be designed to avoid causing pain or prolonged discomfort to the
animals and shall be used carefully and humanely to avoid injuring the animals.
The exhibitor shall apply and the board of county commissioners may grant a
special permit for the exhibit or special event upon satisfactory assurance
that public safety will not be jeopardized and that the animals will be treated
humanely.
   E. Removal Of Prohibited Animal: In the event that the owner of any
prohibited animal fails or refuses to remove the animal from Blaine County, the
Blaine County sheriff's office or the animal control officer shall be
authorized to remove the animal from Blaine County, or, if necessary, to
destroy the animal where it poses a threat to human life or safety. (Ord. 2015-
03, 5-26-2015; Ord. 88-1, 2-22-1988)
4-4-10: DOG LICENSING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess or harbor any dog within
the corporate limits of the county without first obtaining and exhibiting a dog
license as provided herein.
   A. License Required: Any person owning, possessing or harboring any dog
shall obtain a license for such animal from an animal control officer or a
person authorized to sell dog licenses after the dog reaches the age of six (6)
months as determined by canine teeth or within ten (10) days of the acquisition
of a dog over six (6) months of age.
   B. License Fee; Rabies Vaccination Certificate: Each application for a dog
license shall be accompanied by the prescribed license fee in an amount
determined from time to time by resolution of the board of county commissioners
and by a current rabies vaccination certificate obtained from a licensed
veterinarian.
   C. Annual Renewal: Dog licenses will be issued annually with each license
being effective between January 1 and December 31 for each calendar year. A dog
license shall be renewed each year and every year thereafter on or before
January 1. Replacements for lost or destroyed tags shall be issued upon payment
in an amount determined from time to time by resolution of the board of county
commissioners to the animal control officer or a person authorized to sell dog
licenses.
   D. Collar And Tag: Any person who owns, possesses or harbors any dog within
the corporate limits of the county is required to secure about the neck of such
dog a durable collar with an attached license tag.
   E. Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to any person
visiting the county for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days, so long as the
person owning, possessing or harboring a dog displays a current valid license
issued by another municipality or other licensing authority and the person can
display proof of current rabies vaccination from either a licensed veterinarian
or an authorized animal control officer.
   F. Five Or More Dogs: Any person or establishment who owns, possesses or
harbors five (5) or more dogs during an entire calendar year shall be charged
an annual license fee plus a fee per dog for each annual license tag issued;
said charges are in lieu of license fees as herein provided.
   G. Nontransferable: Dog license tags are not transferable from one dog to
another dog.
   H. Current Rabies Vaccination Required: Nothing in this section shall be
construed so as to exempt any dog from having a current rabies vaccination.
(1996 Code; Ord. 88-1, 2-22-1988; Ord. 82-3, 4-26-1982)
4-4-11: IMPOUNDMENT AND TRANSPORT FEES:
The fees for redemption of a dog shall be as follows:
   A. Impoundment Fee: Blaine County may set by resolution reasonable
impoundment fees for dogs violating the provisions of this code that are
captured by the animal control officer or citizens within the unincorporated
areas of the county. If such a fee is set by resolution, it shall be in
addition to any other fees charged for the redemption of a dog.
   B. Transport Fee: Blaine County may set by resolution a transport fee for
dogs captured by the animal control officer or citizens within the
unincorporated areas of the county. If such a fee is set by resolution, it
shall be in addition to any other fees charged for the redemption of a dog. All
transport fees collected by the Wood River Valley Animal Shelter shall be
transferred to Blaine County and shall be used to partially defray vehicle
costs associated with locating, picking up and transporting dogs to the Wood
River Valley Animal Shelter. (Ord. 2000-6, 5-22-2000; Ord. 98-2, 3-9-1998)
4-4-12: CRUELTY PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maltreat or torture any animal or,
having the right or authority to kill any animal, to kill such animal in an
inhumane manner. (Ord. 98-2, 3-9-1998; Ord. 88-1, 2-22-1988; Ord. 82-3, 4-26-
1982)
4-4-13: UNLAWFUL TO POISON:
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to administer or cause to be
administered poison of any sort whatsoever to any animal which is the property
of another or poison food where same is accessible to any dog or other animal.
Any person or persons so offending shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 98-2, 3-9-1998; Ord. 88-1, 2-22-1988; Ord. 82-3, 4-26-1982)
4-4-14: DUTIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER AND POLICE DEPARTMENT:
It shall be the duty of the animal control officer and Blaine County sheriff's
department to carry out and enforce all the provisions of this chapter; to
enforce the licensing and the control of dogs in the county as hereinbefore
provided; to file complaints in the magistrate court against any person failing
to license any dog as hereinbefore provided; or who otherwise fails to comply
with any of the provisions of this chapter; and to capture and secure all dogs
found running at large contrary to the provisions of this chapter; to remove
such dogs in a humane manner to the pound; to hold dogs as impounded for a
period of not less than five (5) days in a humane manner. (Ord. 98-2, 3-9-1998;
Ord. 88-1, 2-22-1988; Ord. 82-3, 4-26-1982)
4-4-15: INTERFERING OR OBSTRUCTING ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER OR POLICE DEPARTMENT:
Any person who shall hinder, delay, interfere with or obstruct the animal
control officer or any peace officer engaged in the capturing, securing or
taking to the animal pound any animal liable to be impounded or who shall open
or in any manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the opening of
any animal pound cage, ambulance, wagon or other vehicle used for the
collecting or conveying of animals to the animal pound shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 98-2, 3-9-1998; Ord. 88-1, 2-22-1988; Ord. 82-3, 4-26-
1982)
4-4-16: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition to the penalties set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code and any other fees and costs, a dog found to be in violation
of this code for a second or subsequent offense shall, if it has not already
been done, be spayed or neutered at the owner's expense. (Ord. 2000-6, 5-22-
2000; Ord. 98-2, 3-9-1998; 1996 Code; Ord. 88-1, 2-22-1988; Ord. 82-3, 4-26-
1982)
CHAPTER 5
SOCIAL HOSTING
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Prohibition
4-5-3: Penalties
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as follows:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Any beverage containing alcohol, including liquor, spirits,
beer, and/or wine.
GATHERING: An assembly of five (5) or more persons for a social occasion or
activity.
HOST: The owner or person(s) in charge of, or in control of, the premises; the
person(s) authorizing the use of the premises or the person(s) organizing or
hosting a gathering at the premises; and/or the act of being in charge or
control of, authorizing the use of, and/or hosting a gathering at the premises.
KNOWINGLY: Having knowledge that is sufficient to warrant further inquiry or
inspection.
MINOR: A person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
PREMISES: Any private or public property, structure, or enclosure, including,
but not limited to, a home, apartment, condominium, dwelling unit, meeting
room, hotel room and/or hall, and/or the yard and/or curtilage thereof, whether
such property is owned, rented, leased, or otherwise occupied. (Ord. 2015-01,
2-10-2015)
4-5-2: PROHIBITION:
It shall be unlawful for any host to knowingly permit a gathering on any
premises where a minor is in possession, consumes, or is under the influence of
an alcoholic beverage. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-10-2015)
4-5-3: PENALTIES:
A first violation of this chapter shall be an infraction, which is punishable
by a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00), and for which no period of
incarceration may be imposed. A second violation of this chapter shall be an
infraction, which is punishable by a fine of three hundred dollars ($300.00),
and for which no period of incarceration may be imposed. A third violation of
this chapter shall be a misdemeanor, punishable by such fine and/or
imprisonment as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code.
In addition to such penalty, any person violating this chapter shall be subject
to any and all other applicable, administrative, criminal, and/or civil
penalties applicable under Idaho law. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-10-2015)
TITLE 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Administrative Fee
5-1-2: Speed Limits
5-1-1: ADMINISTRATIVE FEE:
An administrative fee shall be collected in addition to each motor vehicle
registration fee which is to be paid to the county assessor and placed in the
county current expense fund. (1996 Code; Ord. 93-1, 1-12-1993; Res. 88-13, 10-
25-1988; Ord. 85-5, 10-15-1985)
5-1-2: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   Duty To Exercise Due Care: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive
a motor vehicle on a County road at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and potential
hazards then existing. Speed shall be so controlled as may be necessary to
avoid colliding with any person, object, vehicle or other conveyance on or
entering the road. The driver of every vehicle shall drive at an appropriate
reduced speed when approaching and crossing an intersection or railway grade
crossing, when approaching and going around curves, when approaching a hill
crest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special
hazards exist with respect to pedestrians, livestock, or other traffic by
reason of weather or road conditions. The requirements of this paragraph apply
regardless of the speed limit on the road in question.
   B.   Establishment Of Posted Speed Limits: The Board of County Commissioners
may by resolution declare a reasonable and safe posted speed limit for any
County road or portion thereof. The Board may also declare posted speed limits
for the hours of daylight or darkness or such other times as the Board deems
necessary. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a motor vehicle on any
County road above the posted speed limit and the posted speed limit shall have
priority over any other speed limit established herein.
   C.   Speed Zones Established: The following speed zones are hereby
established as being a reasonable and safe speed limit for certain areas that
are not marked with a posted speed limit. The speed zones designated herein
shall have priority over the prima facie speed limit and it shall be unlawful
for any person to drive a motor vehicle above the following speed limits:
      1.   Gannett Road shall have a speed limit of fifty five (55) miles per
hour unless otherwise posted;
      2.   Baseline Road shall have a speed limit of forty five (45) miles per
hour unless otherwise posted;
      3.   Broadford Road shall have a speed limit of twenty five (25) miles
per hour unless otherwise posted;
      4.   East Fork Road shall have a speed limit of thirty five (35) miles
per hour unless otherwise posted;
      5.   Warm Springs Road shall have a speed limit of twenty five (25) miles
per hour unless otherwise posted;
      6.   Quigley Road shall have a speed limit of twenty five (25) miles per
hour unless otherwise posted;
      7.   Buttercup Road shall have a speed limit of thirty five (35) miles
per hour unless otherwise posted;
      8.   Rodeo Drive shall have a speed limit of twenty five (25) miles per
hour unless otherwise posted.
   D.   Prima Facie Speed Limit: On County roads where no posted speed limit
has been established pursuant to paragraph B of this section, and no speed zone
has been established as set forth in paragraph C of this section, the speed of
any vehicle traveling on a County road shall not exceed thirty five (35) miles
per hour.
   E.   Signs: When the Board of County Commissioners establishes a posted
speed limit pursuant to paragraph B of this section, appropriate signage shall
be erected at the entrance to the affected area giving notice of the posted
speed limit. In a speed zone established pursuant to paragraph C of this
section, appropriate signage shall be erected giving notice of the applicable
speed limit. No signage is otherwise necessary, but may be provided at the
Board's discretion or that of the Road and Bridge Department.
   F.   Penalty: It shall be an infraction for any person to do any act
forbidden herein or to fail to perform any act required in this section, and a
violation of this Section is subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2020-06, 11-24-2020; Ord. 2010-01, 1-5-2010)
CHAPTER 2
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Snowmobiles Prohibited
5-2-3: Allowed Use
5-2-4: Required Equipment
5-2-5: Driver's License Required
5-2-6: Towing
5-2-7: Pole And Flag
5-2-8: Regulations
5-2-9: Prohibited Acts
5-2-10: Snowmobile Operation In Closed Areas Prohibited
5-2-11: Warm Springs Closure
5-2-12: Penalty
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section:
PUBLIC ROAD: Any street, County road or other public thoroughfare under the
jurisdiction of Blaine County.
SNOWMOBILE: Any self-propelled recreational vehicle under one thousand (1,000)
pounds unladen weight designed primarily for travel on snow or ice which may be
steered by tracks, skis or runners. (Ord. 72-1, 2-14-72)
5-2-2: SNOWMOBILES PROHIBITED:
No person shall drive or allow to be driven on a public road any snowmobile
except as provided in this Chapter. (Ord. 72-1, 2-14-72)
5-2-3: ALLOWED USE:
A snowmobile may be operated on public roads where such public road is drifted
or covered with snow to such an extent that travel thereon by other motor
vehicles is impeded and may be operated on that portion of the road which is
not maintained or utilized for the operation of conventional motor vehicles.
The Board may authorize other public roads on which snowmobiles may be driven.
(Ord. 72-1, 2-14-72)
5-2-4: REQUIRED EQUIPMENT:
No snowmobile may be operated on a public road unless equipped with at least
one head lamp and one tail lamp which shall be lighted at all times during such
operation and unless equipped with a suitable braking device which may be
operated by either hand or foot. (Ord. 72-1, 2-14-72)
5-2-5: DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED:
No snowmobile may be operated on any public road unless the driver holds a
valid driver's license. (1996 Code; Ord. 72-1, 2-14-72)
5-2-6: TOWING:
No person or sled may be towed by any snowmobile upon any public road;
provided, however, that a sled or trailer which is specifically designed for
towing by a snowmobile may be towed under the provisions of this Chapter if
such sled or trailer contains runners and is solidly attached to the pulling
snowmobile by a steel tongue fastened solidly to the snowmobile and the sled or
trailer; and provided further, that no such sled or trailer may be utilized
unless equipped with sufficient warning lights to give warning of its presence.
(Ord. 72-1, 2-14-72)
5-2-7: POLE AND FLAG:
Every snowmobile when operated upon a public road must have attached to the
body of the vehicle a pole or rod of at least six feet (6') in height on which
pole or rod is attached a colored or fluorescent flag of at least one and one-
half feet by two feet (11/2' x 2') in diameter in order that the snowmobiles
may be seen at a distance and over deep snow, in the interest of public safety.
(Ord. 72-1, 2-14-72)
5-2-8: REGULATIONS:
   A. Every snowmobile must yield right of way at all times to every other
vehicle.
   B. When two (2) or more snowmobiles are traveling together, they shall
proceed in single file.
   C. No person shall operate a snowmobile in any residential area in such a
manner as to create a disturbance or nuisance. (Ord. 72-1, 2-14-72)
5-2-9: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any snowmobile in the
following manner:
   A. Speed: At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all
existing conditions.
   B. Intoxicating Liquor: While under the influence of intoxicating liquor,
narcotics or habit-forming drugs.
   C. Careless Or Reckless: In a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger
the person or property of another or to cause injury or damage to either.
   D. Lights: Without a lighted head and tail light.
   E. Physical Or Mental Disability: Operation of a snowmobile or permitting
such operation by any person who by reason of physical or mental disability is
incapable of operating the snowmobile as required for safety under the
prevailing circumstances.
   F. Muffler: Without an adequate muffler.
   G. Residential Neighborhood: Operation of a snowmobile in a residential
neighborhood in such a manner as to create a disturbance or nuisance.
   H. Hours: Before the hour of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and after ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. (1996 Code; Ord. 72-1, 2-14-72)
5-2-10: SNOWMOBILE OPERATION IN CLOSED AREAS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile upon a road or in
an area either of which has been designated by the United States Forest Service
or other Federal agency having jurisdiction over said land or the Blaine County
Commissioners as closed to snowmobiling. Provided, however, that any person may
operate a snowmobile upon a road or in an area designated by the United States
Forest Service or other Federal agency or the Blaine County Commissioners as
closed to snowmobiling if the snowmobile operator has obtained an access permit
from the United States Forest Service or Blaine County Sheriff. Access permits
will only be issued upon a showing of necessity for protection of property or
persons. All designated roads and areas shall be posted with signs informing
the public of a closure to snowmobiles; and said designation shall take effect
upon the posting of said notices. (Ord. 76-2, 1-30-76)
5-2-11: WARM SPRINGS CLOSURE:
Pursuant to a recommendation from the U.S. Forest Service, the Board of County
Commissioners hereby designates as closed to snowmobile travel and operation
the following described area of Blaine County:
Sawtooth National Forest lands within one-eighth (1/8) mile on either side of
and including the Ketchum-Featherville Forest Development Road No. 70227, known
locally as the Warm Springs Road, within the Warm Springs Elk Winter Range
Area, from Lower Broad's Ranch (H.E.S. No. 293) in the SW1/4 of Section 15,
Township 4 North, Range 17 East, Boise Meridian, west to a point where the road
crosses Placer Creek in Section 6, Township 3 North, Range 16 East, Boise
Meridian.
(Ord. 76-2, 11-30-76)
5-2-12: PENALTY:
Any violation of this Chapter shall be a misdemeanor, and any person found
guilty of a violation of this Chapter shall be subject to penalty as provided
in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1996 Code; Ord. 76-2, 11-30-76)
CHAPTER 3
SECURED LOADS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Purpose
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: Prohibited Acts
5-3-4: Violations And Penalties
5-3-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of the county to require that all persons using highways,
roads, streets, and rights of way within the county secure their vehicle loads
to prevent loose materials from spilling onto the highway in order to safeguard
the health and property of other highway users. (Ord. 2000-08, 10-30-2000)
5-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part is open to the use of the public for vehicular travel,
with jurisdiction extending to the adjacent property line. The terms "street"
and "road" are interchangeable with highway.
MATERIAL: Any matter or thing capable of being transported by vehicle on a
highway including, but not limited to, gravel, sand, soil, fill, stone, rock,
wood products, masonry, building equipment, liquids, and appliances.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 2000-08, 10-30-2000)
5-3-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to operate any vehicle
on a highway without sufficiently securing the load within the vehicle to
prevent loose material from leaving the vehicle by flying, bouncing off,
shifting, drifting, falling out of, or otherwise becoming unattached. (Ord.
2000-08, 10-30-2000)
5-3-4: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person who wilfully or recklessly violates this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Any person who negligently violates this chapter shall be
guilty of an infraction. (Ord. 2009-02, 5-21-2009)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC WATERS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Purpose And Intent
5-4-2: Definitions
5-4-3: Prohibited Acts
5-4-4: Violations And Penalties
5-4-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose of the county to prohibit the use of personal watercraft on
the public waters in Blaine County situated within the Sawtooth national
recreation area (Alturas and Pettit Lakes), and to designate Perkins Lake as a
nonmotorized lake. (Ord. 2003-01, 5-21-2003)
5-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
NONMOTORIZED WATERCRAFT ZONE: An area prohibiting the operation of any
motorized vessel in order to protect and promote the public health, safety and
welfare. Perkins Lake is designated as a nonmotorized watercraft zone.
PERSONAL WATERCRAFT: A vessel which uses an inboard, internal combustion engine
powering a water jet pump or caged impeller as its primary source of
propulsion. The vessel is intended to be operated by a person or persons
sitting, standing or kneeling on the vessel. They are sold under a variety of
trade names and are commonly referred to as jet skis, water bikes, water
scooters, fun craft, thrill craft, or wave runner.
VESSEL: Every description of watercraft, including a seaplane on the water,
used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on water, but does
not include float houses, diver's aids operated and designed primarily to
propel a diver below the surface of the water, and nonmotorized devices not
designed or modified to be used as a means of transportation on the water, such
as inflatable air mattresses, single inner tubes, and beach and water toys.
(Ord. 2003-01, 5-21-2003)
5-4-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a personal watercraft on
Alturas and Pettit Lakes.
   B. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motorized watercraft in
a nonmotorized watercraft zone. (Ord. 2003-01, 5-21-2003)
5-4-4: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person who violates this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2009-02, 5-21-2009)
CHAPTER 5
HANDHELD ELECTRONIC MOBILE DEVICES
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Use Of Handheld Electronic Mobile Device
5-5-3: Exceptions
5-5-4: Penalty
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
ACTUAL PHYSICAL CONTROL: Being in the driver's position of the motor vehicle
with the motor running.
HANDHELD ELECTRONIC MOBILE DEVICE: Any portable electronic equipment capable of
providing wireless or data communication between two (2) or more persons or
providing amusement, including, but not limited to, a cellular phone, text
messaging device, paging device, personal digital assistant, laptop computer,
video or music player or digital photographic device.
HANDS FREE ELECTRONIC MOBILE DEVICE: A handheld electronic mobile device that
has an internal feature or function, or that is equipped with an attachment or
addition, whether or not permanently part of such mobile telephone, by which a
user engages in a conversation or uses the handheld electronic mobile device
without the use of either hand.
USE: Talking, listening, typing, sending or receiving electronic messages,
performing commands or prompts, or any other activity where a handheld
electronic mobile device must be handled. (Ord. 2016-06, 9-19-2016)
5-5-2: USE OF HANDHELD ELECTRONIC MOBILE DEVICE:
The use of a handheld electronic mobile device by a person in actual physical
control of a motor vehicle on any public road, highway, or private road open to
the public within unincorporated areas of the county shall be unlawful except
as otherwise provided in section
5-5-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-06, 9-19-2016)
5-5-3: EXCEPTIONS:
The prohibitions set forth in this chapter shall not be applicable to the
following persons in actual physical control of motor vehicles:
   A. One who uses a hands free electronic mobile device;
   B. A law enforcement officer, a member of a paid or volunteer fire
department, or an operator of an authorized emergency vehicle while in the
actual performance of their official duties;
   C. One who is parked in a designated parking area, or pulled to a stop
completely outside the lane of traffic, or pulled to a stop and not causing a
road obstruction or traffic hazard; and
   D. One who uses a handheld electronic mobile device to report a fire, a
traffic accident, a serious road hazard, or a medical or hazardous materials
emergency. (Ord. 2016-06, 9-19-2016)
5-5-4: PENALTY:
A person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
infraction, punishable by a fixed penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(Ord. 2016-06, 9-19-2016)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
ROADS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Permits
6-1-1-1: Permit Required
6-1-1-2: Fees, Contributions, And Bonds
6-1-1-3: Access And Inspection
6-1-1-4: Appeal
6-1-1-5: Penalties
6-1-2: Temporary Closure Of Public Roads
6-1-3: Parking And Placement Of Material In Public Right-Of-Way Prohibited
6-1-4: Roadside Vending Prohibited
6-1-5: Motorized Vehicles Prohibited On Designated Right-Of-Way Easements
6-1-6: Criminal Penalties; Civil Enforcement; Removal
6-1-1: PERMITS:
6-1-1-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Prior to commencing any activity requiring a permit hereunder, the person
desiring to undertake such activity or the contractor of such a person, as
agent for that person, shall file a Blaine County Road and Bridge Right-of-Way
Approach and Encroachment Permit Application with the County.
All such construction, improvement and activity shall be in conformance with
this chapter and any other standards set forth in the Blaine County Road Right-
of-Way Management Plan, and all other applicable laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations pertaining thereto.
No person shall do, cause to be done, or authorize any of the following without
first obtaining a permit from the County:
   A.   Construct, repair, replace, relocate, improve or alter any public or
private street, road, highway, approach, curb cut, public bicycle path,
equestrian path or other public easement;
   B.   Dig in, excavate, trench or otherwise disturb the surface or subsurface
of any public street, public bicycle path, equestrian path or other public
easement or right-of-way;
   C.   Place or construct any public or private utilities, public
improvements, or vehicular approaches for private streets and/or driveways upon
or under any public street or right-of-way;
   D.   Maintain any public street or right-of-way, including, but not limited
to, grading, graveling or snowplowing of such public street or right-of-way.
(Ord. 2019-01, 1-8-2019)
6-1-1-2: FEES, CONTRIBUTIONS, AND BONDS:
The County shall collect a reasonable fee to cover the cost of reviewing each
permit request, and may seek additional contribution and/or performance bonding
to reimburse the County for work performed or to ensure compliance with
conditions of permit approval. (Ord. 2019-01, 1-8-2019)
6-1-1-3: ACCESS AND INSPECTION:
County officials and their authorized representatives shall at all times have
access to areas where work is proposed or areas where the work for which a
permit has been issued, and the contractor shall provide such personnel proper
facilities for such access and inspection. (Ord. 2019-01, 1-8-2019)
6-1-1-4: APPEAL:
An applicant who is aggrieved by the denial or issuance of a permit may appeal
said decision in writing within fifteen (15) days of the date that the permit
is issued or denied. All appeals shall be heard by the Board of County
Commissioners and shall be limited to the record of the proceedings before the
decision- maker. Following the appeal hearing, the Board may affirm the
decision, affirm with conditions, modify, reverse, or remand the application
for further administrative review. (Ord. 2019-01, 1-8-2019)
6-1-1-5: PENALTIES:
Any person who performs work without, or in violation of, a permit required or
issued under this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 2019-01, 1-8-
2019)
6-1-2: TEMPORARY CLOSURE OF PUBLIC ROADS:
   A.   Conditions For Closure Or Limited Use: The Board of County
Commissioners, any public official authorized by law, or any employee
designated by the Board, may post a notice temporarily closing or reasonably
limiting travel on any public road, street, way, or designated right-of-way
easement within the jurisdiction of the County upon and for the duration of any
of the following conditions or circumstances:
      1.   Periods of danger to persons or property due to avalanches,
flooding, fires, mud slides, ice and similar natural occurrences or disasters.
      2.   Public safety or public health incidents such as hazardous materials
spill, major vehicle accident, oversize load, etc.
      3.   Periods when travel by vehicles will cause damage to the surface of
the road.
      4.   Parades and other public events.
      5.   Road construction, maintenance and repairs.
      6.   Periods when use of the road would adversely affect wildlife in
critical conditions.
   B.   Closure Review: The Board shall periodically review closures made under
this section and shall re-open the affected areas when the reasons for the
closure no longer apply.
   C.   Violating Posted Closure Notice: Any person violating the terms of a
posted closure notice under this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2019-01, 1-8-2019)
6-1-3: PARKING AND PLACEMENT OF MATERIAL IN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY PROHIBITED:
   A.   Interference With Snow Removal, Traffic Flow Or Maintenance: No person,
firm, association, partnership or corporation shall park or allow to be parked
any motor vehicle on the right-of-way of any public street, road, alley or
other public way owned by, or under the jurisdiction of, the County in such a
manner or at such a time as to interfere with snow removal, traffic flow, or
maintenance of such public right-of-way by the County.
   B.   Placement Of Material: No person, firm, association, partnership or
corporation may store, place, allow, or cause to be placed debris, snow, ice,
dirt, gravel, personal property, trees, landscaping, fencing, or any other
material upon any public street, road, alley or other public way owned by, or
under the jurisdiction of, the County.
   C.   Violation: Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   D.   Impoundment Of Vehicle: In addition to the remedies and penalties
provided in this chapter, any motor vehicle parked in violation of this
section, may be towed away and impounded at the request of the Blaine County
Sheriff's Office by any duly licensed automobile wrecking and towing service
operator ("towing operator"), and said vehicle shall be impounded by said
towing operator until such time as the owner of said vehicle shall pay to said
towing operator his standard towing fee plus his standard mileage and storage
fees for such services. An impounded motor vehicle may be held in storage by
said towing operator until all of said reasonable fees are paid.
   E.   Immediate Removal Of Encroachment Or Material: Any encroachment or
material placed in violation of this section that obstructs or prevents
vehicular use within a public right-of-way may be immediately removed by the
Road and Bridge Department at the expense of the person, firm, association,
partnership or corporation responsible for placing the material within the
right-of-way. (Ord. 2019-01, 1-8-2019)
6-1-4: ROADSIDE VENDING PROHIBITED:
   A.   Roadside Vending Defined: For the purposes of this section, "roadside
vending" shall mean the sale, attempted sale, or offering for sale of any
goods, products, produce, or services on or along a State or County road or
highway right-of-way from any location other than a fixed, permanent building
or structure.
   B.   Roadside Vending Prohibited: Roadside vending is hereby prohibited, and
any violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor.
   C.   Vehicles: Vehicles used to facilitate any violation of this section may
be towed away and impounded by the Blaine County Sheriff. Owners will be
responsible for all costs associated with towing, storage and reclaiming of
such vehicles. (Ord. 2019-01, 1-8-2019)
6-1-5: MOTORIZED VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON DESIGNATED RIGHT-OF-WAY EASEMENTS:
   A.   Motorized Vehicle Defined: For the purposes of this section, "motorized
vehicle" shall mean any device in, upon, or by which any person is or may be
transported by engine propelled means, including, but not limited to,
automobiles, tractors, mopeds, motorcycles, go-carts, scooters, and snow
machines. The term "motorized vehicle" does not include devices propelled
exclusively by human power.
   B.   Designated Right-Of-Way Easement Defined: For purposes of this section,
"designated right-of-way easement" shall mean those spaces designated for use
as a paved recreational pathway within Blaine County and any adjacent right-of-
way.
   C.   Operation Of Motorized Vehicles Upon Designated Right-Of-Way Easement
Prohibited: The operation of motorized vehicles upon any designated right-of-
way easement is prohibited and shall be an infraction.
   D.   Exceptions: The prohibition against motorized vehicles on a designated
right of way easement shall not apply to:
      1.   Motorized wheelchairs used to transport disabled persons, and
construction and maintenance equipment authorized by the Blaine County
Recreation District;
      2.   Electric-assisted bicycles (E-bikes) with fully operable pedals and
an electric motor of no more than seven hundred fifty (750) watts, provided the
electric-assisted bicycle is operated at no more than a maximum speed of twenty
(20) miles per hour, unless otherwise posted; and
      3.   Alternative electric motor vehicles such as electric scooters,
electric skateboards, and "one wheels," provided the alternative electric motor
vehicle is no more than seven hundred fifty (750) watts and is operated at no
more than a maximum speed of twenty (20) miles per hour, unless otherwise
posted.
   E.   Penalties: A violation of this section shall be an infraction. (Ord.
2019-01, 1-8-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 10-18-2022)
6-1-6: CRIMINAL PENALTIES; CIVIL ENFORCEMENT; REMOVAL:
   A.   Misdemeanor And Infractions: Any person found guilty of a misdemeanor
or infraction violation of this chapter shall be subject to applicable penalty
provided for in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that an unlawful use continues shall be deemed a
separate violation.
   B.   Other Legal Relief: In addition to the criminal penalties set forth
above, whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, the County may institute a
civil action in the District Court seeking injunctive or other civil relief,
and/or civil penalties of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each day that a
violation occurs.
   C.   Removal By County: Any violation of the provisions of this chapter
which presents an immediate danger to public health, safety, and welfare shall
be deemed a public nuisance and will be removed and abated by the County, and
the responsible party shall pay all reasonable costs incurred by the County
with regard thereto. (Ord. 2019-01, 1-8-2019)
CHAPTER 2
USE OF FEDERAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-2-1: Use Prohibited
6-2-2: Penalty
6-2-1: USE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to use any real property owned
by the government of the United States of America and administered by the
United States Forest Service or the Bureau of Land Management where such use
constitutes a violation of the rules and regulations duly promulgated and
adopted by such administering agency for the use, by the public, of such United
States government lands located within the legal confines of the County. (Ord.
80-1, 5-10-80)
6-2-2: PENALTY:
Violation of this Chapter is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor and subject to
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1996 Code; Ord. 80-1, 5-10-80)
TITLE 7
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
7-1-1: Short Title
7-1-2: Adoption Of Codes
7-1-3: Amendment Of Codes
7-1-4: Additional Requirements
7-1-5: Penalties
7-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the Building Code. (Ord. 2021-1, 1-5-2021)
7-1-2: ADOPTION OF CODES:
Pursuant to Idaho Code 39-4116(2), the following Codes as published by the
International Code Council are hereby adopted by reference:
   A.   2018 International Building Code (IBC) as amended by The Idaho Building
Code Board.
      1.   Including all rules promulgated by the Idaho Building Code Board to
provide equivalency with the provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act
accessibility guidelines and the Federal Fair Housing Act accessibility
guidelines;
   B.   2018 International Residential Code (IRC) including parts I, II, III,
and IX as amended by Idaho Building Code Board;
      1.   Including Appendix F: Radon Control Methods;
   C.   2018 International Energy Conservation Code (IECC), commercial
provisions, as amended by Idaho Building Code Board.
   D.   2018 International Energy Conservation Code, residential provisions, as
amended by the Idaho Building Code Board.
   E.   2018 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code (ISPSC).
   F.   2018 International Existing Building Code as amended by Idaho Building
Code Board. (Ord. 2024-03, 2-13-2024; Ord. 2021-1, 1-5-2021)
7-1-3: AMENDMENT OF CODES:
Pursuant to Idaho Code 39-4116(4), the Codes adopted in Section
7-1-2 are added to, or amended to read as follows:
01: International Building Code, 2018 Edition with the following amendments.
   A.   Title:
      Section 101.1 Title: These regulations shall be known as the Building
Code of Blaine County, hereinafter referred to as "this code."
   B.   Referenced Code:
      Section 101.4.3 Plumbing: The provisions of the Idaho State Plumbing Code
(ISPC) as adopted and incorporated by reference with amendments as prescribed
by the Idaho Plumbing Board shall apply to the installation, alterations,
repairs and replacement of plumbing systems, including equipment, appliances,
fixtures, fittings and appurtenances, and where connected to a water or sewage
system and all aspects of a medical gas system. The number of required plumbing
fixtures shall be determined by using IBC Table 2902.1 and as per the
International Plumbing Code as referenced in the table.
      Section 101.4.8 Electrical: The provisions of the National Electrical
Code (NEC), 2017 edition as adopted by the state of Idaho shall apply to the
installation of electrical systems, including alterations, repairs,
replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances
thereto.
   C.   Required Permits: Required building permit applications shall be made
on forms furnished by Blaine County and approval shall be in accordance with
Sections
9-3-5  and
9-3-6  of Blaine County Code, Title 9 (Zoning Regulations); and in accordance
with Section 105, Permits, of 2018 IBC, and as amended by the following
additional Sections:
      Section 105.1.3 Moved Structures: Permit applications for moved
structures shall be specific to the proposed new location within unincorporated
Blaine County. Moved structures shall meet the requirements set forth in the
2018 International Existing Building Code.
      Section 105.1.4 Manufactured Homes: Permits are required for manufactured
homes being placed both within and outside of mobile home parks in
unincorporated Blaine County, pursuant to I.C. 44-2202 and this code.
      Section 105.1.5 Demolition Permits: Permit applications for demolitions
shall be specific to the location from which a structure is being
deconstructed, moved, or destroyed. Demolition shall include moving a structure
from one site to another and destruction/demolition of a structure for
disposal. Permit applications shall include owner, address, property
descriptions, phone number, description of the scope of the demolition and a
timeframe. Written acknowledgement that the utility companies serving the
property, the Blaine County Assessor's office and the jurisdiction's Building
Official, if other than Blaine County, have been notified. Permits shall be
valid for 90 days.
      Section 105.1.6 Re-roofing Permits: Permit applications for re-roofs
shall include identification of the existing structural roof system, e.g. roof
rafters, size, spacing, and span, or truss system as constructed. Older,
existing residential structures that have not been built to current County snow
load standards shall be required to maintain, at the minimum, the existing
structural integrity of the roof system. This exception to the snow load
standards contained in this code shall be limited to one- and two-family
dwellings and shall not apply to new residential construction or any commercial
structures. Owners of pre-existing residential structures exempted from the
snow load requirements under this provision shall be responsible for
maintaining the roof, e.g. shoveling snow therefrom.
      Section 105.1.7 Agricultural Building Setback Permits: Pursuant to Idaho
Code 39-4116(5), agricultural buildings as defined in 7-1-3 (I), and located
within the zoning districts set forth in 9-3-5(B) of this code, shall qualify
for an agricultural setback permit. To protect the public health, safety, and
welfare, applications for setback permits shall include approval by the
applicable fire district for, but not limited to, required fire protection,
water supply, and access.
      Section 105.1.8 Excavation or Grading: Natural grade shall be documented
and preserved to establish overall building height prior to excavation. Natural
grade shall be site specific and be expressed in feet above mean sea level.
Excavation or grading for residential or commercial buildings shall constitute
start of construction. Construction shall not commence prior to obtaining
approvals from Blaine County Land Use and Building Services. Applicants shall
provide architectural elevation and topographic contours, state ownership, and
site description. Approvals for excavating and grading shall be granted on
forms provided by Blaine County.
   D.   Permit Expiration:
      Section 105.5 Expiration: All issued Building Permits shall expire after
30 months from the date of payment of permit fees. Building permits may be
extended one time for 6 months upon written request for extension to the
Building Department. If the project is not completed within the above timeframe
including the one-time 6 month extension (36 months total), the Building Permit
shall expire. Expired Building Permits shall be renewed by paying 10% of the
original permit fee line item only of the original Building Permit application.
Renewed Building Permits shall be valid for the above stated timeline including
the opportunity for an additional one time 6 month extension. Failure to renew
a required Building Permit within 30 days of expiration may be considered
abandonment, and the building official or director may record with the County
Recorder a written notice of non-compliance. Every permit issued shall become
invalid unless the work on the site authorized by such permit is commenced
within 180 days after its issuance, or if the work authorized on the site by
such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of 180 days after the time
the work is commenced.
   E.   Submittal documents:
      Section 107.1 Submittal documents: Construction documents, special
inspection and structural observation programs, geotechnical reports and other
data as required by Blaine County submittal checklists shall be submitted in
two (2) or more sets with each application for a permit. These plans and
specifications shall be prepared, signed and sealed by an architect licensed by
the State of Idaho under Section 54-309, Idaho Code.
      For buildings or structures, not principally architectural, the design of
which involves principally engineering considerations, the plans and
specifications may be prepared, signed and sealed by a professional engineer
licensed by the State of Idaho and qualified in the engineering specialty
involved.
      Exception: The building official is authorized to waive the submission of
construction documents and other data not required to be prepared by a
registered design professional if it is found that the nature of the work
applied for is such that review of construction documents is not necessary to
obtain compliance with this code.
   F.   Fees:
      Section 109.4 Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance: Any person who
commences any work on a building including excavation or grading, structure,
electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system before obtaining the necessary
permits shall be subject to a fee that shall be in addition to the required
permit fees which shall be charged as an investigation fee. Investigation fees
shall be charged on an hourly basis pursuant to the Blaine County Building
Permit Fees Table adopted by resolution of the Board and specified as "Other
Inspection and fees". Exception: Structural investigation to determine
structural integrity as required by the design professional in charge.
      Section 109.6 Refunds: Refund requests shall be considered on a case by
case basis by the Land Use and Building Services Director, with approval from
the Board of County Commissioners, upon written request by the applicant
stating their case. Refunds shall not exceed 80% of the total of Building
Permit fees paid. All refundable deposits will be returned to the payee. Fire
District and South Central Public Health District fees are excluded from any
refund request to Blaine County. Those refund requests must be directed to
their respective agencies accordingly. Refund requests must be received within
180 days from the Building Permit payment date.
      Section 109.7 Fees and Deposits: Pursuant to Idaho Code, 2018 IBC, and
Blaine County Code, for buildings, structures and other improvements requiring
a building or other permit under this chapter, fees and deposits shall be paid
to Blaine County as specified herein. Fees shall be charged utilizing the
Blaine County Building Permit Fees Table 1 as adopted by resolution of the
Board. In addition, 65% of the building permit fee shall be paid as a plan
check fee and 40% of the plan check fee shall be paid for the fire district
plan check fee.
      Section 109.7.1 Building Permits: For projects with valuations in excess
of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00) a partial payment of fifteen
hundred dollars ($1,500.00) shall be made at the time the building permit
application is submitted to Blaine County. Said partial payment shall be
credited to the total amount of the building permit fee, but shall be subject
to a 20% cancellation of the total amount of the building permit if the
building permit is not obtained by the applicant within 180 days of permit
approval.
      Section 109.7.2 Moved Structures: Fees shall be based on 50% of the
assessed value of the structure plus the value of on-site additions and
remodels utilizing Building Permit Fee Table 1 as adopted by resolution of the
Board.
      Section 109.7.3 Manufactured Homes: Fees shall be based on the value of
the on-site elements constructed, not the home itself.
      Section 109.7.4 Demolition:  Fee shall be $ 50.00 and shall be due at the
time the application is submitted to Blaine County.
      Section 109.7.5 Re-Roof:  Fee shall be calculated using Blaine County
Building Permit Fee Table 1. Valuation shall be based on scope of the work and
materials.
      Section 109.7.6 Agricultural Building Setback Permit:  Fee shall be
$25.00 and shall be due at the time the application is submitted to Blaine
County.
      Section 109.7.7 Refundable Deposit for Final Inspection:  In addition to
building permit fees above, a deposit shall be collected to ensure final
inspection. Deposit for final inspections shall be a minimum of $1500 or 10% of
the total of the permit fees whichever is greater and shall be made at the time
of the building permit application is submitted. Deposit for final inspection
shall be released to the depositor upon a successful final inspection and the
issuance of Certificate of Occupancy or if the project is withdrawn.
      Section 109.7.8 Cancellation Fee: Building permit applications that are
withdrawn after approval by the County or that are not obtained within 180 days
of approval by the County shall be subject to a cancellation fee of 20% of the
total amount of the building permit fee including all plan check fees. If a
partial payment of $1,500.00 has been paid pursuant to Section 109.7.1, said
partial payment shall be credited toward the cancellation fee.
   G.   Required Inspections:
      Section 110.3.9.1 Manufactured Homes:  Inspections are required for
manufactured homes placed in Blaine County, pursuant to I.C. 44-2202 and this
Code.
   H.   Building Code Board of Appeals:
      Section 113.3.1 Board Membership: The Board of County Commissioners will
appoint a three (3) person Board to stand as the Building Code Board of
Appeals, as needed, with membership to be selected from but not limited to the
following list of professionals in the various fields of expertise in the
building industry:
      ∙    The City of Ketchum, Idaho Building Official;
      ∙    The City of Sun Valley, Idaho Building Official;
      ∙    The City of Hailey, Idaho Building Official;
      ∙    The Ketchum Rural Fire District Fire Chief or Assistant Chief;
      ∙    The Wood River Rural Fire District Fire Chief or Assistant Chief;
      ∙    General Contractor associated with the Building Contractors
Association of the Wood River Valley;
      ∙    A licensed Idaho Architect; and,
      ∙    A licensed Idaho Engineer.
      Section 113.4 Appeals To The Building Code Board Of Appeals:
      A.   Application for appeal: Any applicant for a permit, whose
application has been rejected by the Building Official, or any person who has
been ordered by the Building Official to modify, alter, remove or install any
building code provisions as required by Blaine County Code may within ten (10)
calendar days thereafter, appeal by filing notice in writing with the Building
Official. The Building Official shall deliver such notice, to the Board of
County Commissioners, at the next available date the Board of County
Commissioners shall appoint the Building Code Board of Appeals and a date will
be set for the appeal hearing. At the hearing the Building Code Board of
Appeals may, by a majority vote, affirm, reverse or modify the action of the
County. If the actions of the County are modified or reversed, a permit shall
be issued in accordance with the determination of the Building Code Board of
Appeals.
      B.   Appeal fee: Any person appealing a decision of the County shall
include payment of an appeal fee in the amount of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00). In the event the appeal is granted, the appeal fee shall be returned
to the appellant.
      Section 113.5 Appeal procedure: The Building Code Board of Appeals may
receive all evidence on appeal, in accordance with the following procedure:
      A.   The Building Official or designee shall present background
information on the project in question, including relevant code sections and
their interpretation. The Building Code Board of Appeals may ask questions
during or after each presentation.
      B.   Applicant shall present any information or applicable code sections
to support a reversal of the Building Official's decision. The applicant shall
have up to twenty (20) minutes to present such evidence.
      C.   The Chair shall open the hearing to receive aggrieved parties
testimony, if any. Each aggrieved party wishing to provide public testimony
shall be given up to five (5) minutes to do so.
      D.   Following the close of aggrieved parties testimony, the Building
Official or designee shall be allowed up to ten (10) minutes for response.
      E.   The Applicant then shall have up to ten (10) minutes for rebuttal
and any final comments.
      F.   The Chairman of the Building Code Board of Appeals may allocate
equivalent additional time to the applicant and the Building Official or his
designee if the clarity of the issue at hand can be enhanced by receiving
additional testimony.
      G.   Following the hearing, the Building Code Board of Appeals may:
deliberate and render a decision, request more information before a decision is
made, or take the matter under advisement and reconvene at a reasonable time
not to exceed fifteen (15) calendar days to make their decision. Following a
vote, a final written decision shall be prepared, approved, and a copy provided
to the Applicant and any parties of record.
      Section 113.6 Appeal to Board of County Commissioners: Any order,
decision or ruling of the Building Code Board of Appeals may be appealed, by
filing notice in writing to the Board of County Commissioners within fourteen
(14) calendar days of such order, decision or ruling. Appeals to the Board of
County Commissioners shall be in accordance with, section
9-32-4  of this Code.
   I.   Definitions:
      Section 202 Agricultural Building:  A structure designed and constructed
to house farm implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock, or other
      horticultural products. This structure shall not be a place of human
habitation or a place of employment where agricultural products are processed,
treated, or packaged, nor shall it be a place used by the public.
      Section 202 Building Height: The vertical distance measured from the
highest point of the roof directly to natural grade. Parapet walls required by
code shall not be included in the measurement of height. This provision does
not apply to accessory fixtures such as flag poles, lightning rods, weather
vanes, antennas (not including satellite dishes), chimneys, air conditioners,
or solar collectors. Buildings located in the floodplain shall be measured from
the Intermediate Regional Flood elevation, where base flood elevations are
available. (see also Title 9, Chapter 2)
      Section 202 BuildSmart: 2012 International Energy Code (IECC) Amendments:
These above-code energy amendments pertaining to residential construction,
Chapter 4 of the 2012 IECC, are set out in Title 7, Chapter 6.
      Section 202 Yurt: A yurt is a semi-permanent tent system built on a
platform foundation incorporating structural elements to resist snow loads and
wind loading which must be insulated as per the manufacturer's specifications.
Yurts shall be permitted only as an accessory use (U-1) to an existing single
family residence (R-3), accessory to a commercial lodging use or as part of
another conditional use permit per Title 9 of Blaine County Code. Yurts shall
not exceed 452 sq. feet excluding an entry vestibule of 30 sq. feet. No kitchen
or plumbing is permitted. Minimum snow load design shall be site specific,
shall be anchored to a foundation system to meet 90 mph wind speed, exposure B.
Yurts shall be reviewed and approved on a case by case basis for location and
Life Safety issues and for compliance with Title 9, Zoning Regulations of the
Blaine County Code.
   J.   Vertical Openings:
      Section 712.1.8 Masonry chimney: Approved vertical openings for masonry
chimneys shall be permitted where the annular space is fire-blocked at each
floor level in accordance with Section 718.2.5. All chimneys shall have
approved spark arrestors installed at the point of termination.
      Section 712.1.17 Factory-built solid fuel burning appliance chimney
chase: If a factory-built solid fuel burning appliance is enclosed within a
shaft or chase, it shall be protected on the interior (flue) side as required
for one-hour fire-resistive construction. All factory-built chimneys shall have
approved spark arrestors installed at the point of termination.
   K.   Seismic Dead Load Calculations:
      Section 1605.3.1 Basic load combinations: Exception 2. Flat roof snow
loads of 30 psf or less and roof live loads of 30 psf or less need not be
combined with seismic loads. Where flat roof snow loads exceed 30 psf, 35%
shall be combined with seismic loads. Stamped engineering design calculations
may be requested by the Building Official. Refer to section P. of this code for
site specific roof live snow loads.
   L.   Live Load Requirements for Balconies and Decks 30" or greater above
grade:
      Table 1607.1, Occupancy or Use Item 5, Exterior Balconies and Decks:
Uniform Load (psf) shall be equal to the roof live snow load when exposed to
snow loading or table 1607.1 whichever is greater.
   M.   Roof Live Snow Load Requirements:
      Section 1608.2.1 Special roof loads. Roof live snow load requirements for
all structures, including newly sited manufactured homes, in unincorporated
areas of Blaine County are site specific and shall not be reduced without
approval from the Building Official and shall be as follows:
      ∙    North Fork to Smiley Creek: 150 pounds roof live load per square
foot
      ∙    North of Ketchum to North Fork: 125 pounds roof live load per square
foot
      ∙    West of Ketchum to western end of platted Board's Lower Ranch: 110
pounds roof live load per square foot.
      ∙    West of western end of platted Lower Board Ranch: 125 pounds roof
live load per square foot.
      ∙    East of Triumph: 125 pounds roof live load per square foot.
      ∙    North of Bellevue to south of Ketchum: 100 pounds roof live load per
square foot.
      ∙    Picabo to south of Bellevue: 65 pounds roof live load per square
foot.
      ∙    Carey Valley including south and East of Carey: 50 pounds roof live
load per square foot.
      Exception #1: A manufactured home or mobile home need not meet the roof
snow load requirement if supplied with an approved, engineered Ramada roof
which conforms to the required roof live snow load. New manufactured homes in
an established mobile home park must meet minimum 80 pound per square foot roof
live snow load. Used manufactured homes newly placed within an established
mobile home park which do not meet the snow load requirement must present a
signed and notarized lease agreement between the park owner and the tenant
which provides for continuous snow removal from the roof structure.
   N.   Snow Hooks:
      Section 1608.4 Snow hooks:  Snow hooks are structural elements that are
required on roof structures to protect pedestrians at all exit and similar
areas and to protect glazed roof structures from snow and ice sliding from a
roof overhead.
   O.   Foundations:
      Section 1809.5 Frost protection. Except where otherwise protected from
frost, foundations and other permanent supports of buildings and structures
shall be protected from frost by one or more of the following methods:
      1.   Extending below the frost line of 32" below finished grade.
      Exception: Plans stamped with a seal by an Idaho licensed engineer may
differ from this provided all other Blaine County design specifications have
been met.
      2.   Constructing in accordance with ASCE 32.
      3.   Erecting on solid rock.
      Exception: Free-standing buildings meeting all of the following
conditions shall not be required to be protected:
      1.   Assigned to Risk Category I.
      2.   Area of 600 square feet (56 m2) or less for light-frame construction
or 400 square feet (37 m2) or less for other than light-frame construction.
      3.   Eave height of 10 feet (3048 mm) or less.
      Shallow foundations shall not bear on frozen soil unless such frozen
condition is of a permanent character.
02: International Residential Code, 2018 Edition with the following amendments.
 
   A.   Title:
      Section R101.1 Title: These provisions shall be known as the Residential
Code for One- and Two-family Dwellings of Blaine County, and shall be cited as
such and will be referred to herein as "this code."
   B.   Required Permits:  Required building permit applications shall be made
on forms furnished by Blaine County and approval shall be in accordance with
Sections
9-3-5  and
9-3-6  of Blaine County Code, Title 9 (Zoning Regulations); and in accordance
with Section 105, Permits, of 2018 IRC, and as amended by the following
additional Sections:
      Section R105.1.1 Moved Structures: Permit applications for moved
structures shall be specific to the proposed new location within unincorporated
Blaine County. Moved structures shall meet the requirements set forth in the
2018 International Existing Building Code.
      Section R105.1.2 Manufactured Homes: Permits are required for
manufactured homes being placed both within and outside of mobile home parks in
unincorporated Blaine County, pursuant to I.C. 44-2202 and this code.
      Section R105.1.3 Demolition Permits: Permit applications for demolitions
shall be specific to the location from which a structure is being
deconstructed, moved, or destroyed. Demolition shall include moving a structure
from one site to another and destruction/demolition of a structure for
disposal. Permit applications shall include owner, address, property
descriptions, phone number, description of the scope of the demolition and a
timeframe. Written acknowledgement that the utility companies serving the
property, the Blaine County Assessor's office and the jurisdiction's Building
Official, if other than Blaine County, have been notified. Permits shall be
valid for 90 days.
      Section R105.1.4 Re-roofing Permits: Permit applications for re-roofs
shall include identification of the existing structural roof system, e.g. roof
rafters, size, spacing, and span, or truss system as constructed. Older,
existing residential structures that have not been built to current County snow
load standards shall be required to maintain, at the minimum, the existing
structural integrity of the roof system. This exception to the snow load
standards contained in this code shall be limited to one- and two-family
dwellings and shall not apply to new residential construction or any commercial
structures. Owners of pre-existing residential structures exempted from the
snow load requirements under this provision shall be responsible for
maintaining the roof, e.g. shoveling snow therefrom.
      Section R105.1.5 Agricultural Building Setback Permits: Pursuant to Idaho
Code 39-4116(5), agricultural buildings as defined in 7-1-3 (I), and located
within the zoning districts set forth in 9-3-5(B) of this code, shall
      qualify for an agricultural setback permit. To protect the public health,
safety, and welfare, applications for setback permits shall include approval by
the applicable fire district for, but not limited to, required fire protection,
water supply, and access.
      Section R105.1.6 Excavation or Grading: Natural grade shall be documented
and preserved to establish overall building height prior to excavation. Natural
grade shall be site specific and be expressed in feet above mean sea level.
Excavation or grading for residential or commercial buildings shall constitute
start of construction. Construction shall not commence prior to obtaining
approvals from Blaine County Land Use and Building Services. Applicants shall
provide architectural elevation and topo-graphic contours, state ownership, and
site description. Approvals for excavating and grading shall be granted on
forms provided by Blaine County.
   C.   Work exempt from permit:
      Section R105.2 Work exempt from permit: Exemption from permit
requirements of this code shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any
work to be done in any manner in violation of the provisions of this code or
any other laws or ordinances of permits shall not be required for the
following:
      Building:
      1.   One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage
sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided that the floor area does not
exceed 120 square feet (18.58 m2).
      2.   Fences not over 7 feet (2134 mm) high.
      3.   Retaining walls that are not over 4 feet (1219 mm) in height
measured from the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless
supporting a surcharge.
      4.   Water tanks supported directly upon grade if the capacity does not
exceed 5,000 gallons (18 927 L) and the ratio of height to diameter or width
does not exceed 2 to 1.
      5.   Sidewalks and driveways.
      6.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops and
similar finish work.
      7.   Prefabricated swimming pools that are less than 48 inches (610 mm)
deep.
      8.   Swings and other playground equipment.
      9.   Decks not exceeding 200 square feet (18.58 m2) in area, that are not
more than 30 inches (762 mm) above grade at any point, are not attached to a
dwelling and do not serve the exit door required by Section R311.4.
      10.   Flag Poles
   D.   Permit Expiration:
      Section R105.5 Expiration: All issued Building Permits shall expire after
30 months from the date of payment of permit fees. Building permits may be
extended one time for 6 months upon written request for extension to the
Building Department. If the project is not completed within the above timeframe
including the one-time 6 month extension (36 months total), the Building Permit
shall expire. Expired Building Permits shall be renewed by paying 10% of the
original permit fee line item only of the original Building Permit application.
Renewed Building Permits shall be valid for the above stated timeline including
the opportunity for an additional one time 6 month extension. Failure to renew
a required Building Permit within 30 days of expiration may be considered
abandonment, and the building official or director may record with the County
Recorder a written notice of non-compliance. Every permit issued shall become
invalid unless the work on the site authorized by such permit is commenced
within 180 days after its issuance, or if the work authorized on the site by
such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of 180 days after the time
the work is commenced.
   E.   Submittal documents
      R106.1 Submittal documents: Construction documents, special inspection
and structural observation programs, and other data as required by Blaine
County submittal checklists shall be submitted with each application for a
permit. These plans and specifications shall be prepared, signed and sealed by
an architect licensed by the State of Idaho under Section 54-309, Idaho Code,
as amended.
      For buildings or structures, not principally architectural, the design of
which involves principally engineering considerations, the plans and
specifications may be prepared, signed and sealed by a professional engineer
licensed by the State of Idaho and qualified in the engineering specialty
involved.
      Exception: The building official is authorized to waive the submission of
construction documents and other data not required to be prepared by a
registered design professional if it is found that the nature of the work
applied for is such that review of construction documents is not necessary to
obtain compliance with this code.
   F.   Fees:
      Section R108.5 Refunds:  Refund requests shall be considered on a case by
case basis by the Land Use and Building Services Director, with approval from
the Board of County Commissioners, upon written request by the applicant
stating their case. Refunds shall not exceed 80% of the total of Building
Permit fees paid. All refundable deposits will be returned to the payee. Fire
District and South Central Public Health District fees are excluded from any
refund request to Blaine County. Those refund requests must be directed to
their respective agencies accordingly. Refund requests must be received within
180 days from the Building Permit payment date.
      Section R108.6 Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance: Any person who
commences any work on a building including excavation or grading, structure,
electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system before obtaining the necessary
permits shall be subject to a fee that shall be in addition to the required
permit fees which shall be charged as an investigation fee. Investigation fees
shall be charged on an hourly basis pursuant to the Blaine County Building
Permit Fees Table adopted by resolution of the Board and specified as "Other
Inspection and fees". Exception: Structural investigation to determine
structural integrity as required by the design professional in charge.
      Section R108.7 Fees, And Deposits: Pursuant to Idaho Code, 2018 IRC, and
Blaine County Code, for buildings, structures and other improvements requiring
a building or other permit under this chapter, fees and deposits shall be paid
to Blaine County as specified herein. Fees shall be charged utilizing the
Blaine County Building Permit Fees Table 1 as adopted by resolution of the
Board. In addition, 65% of the building permit fee shall be paid as a plan
check fee and 40% of the plan check fee shall be paid for the fire district
plan check fee.
      Section R108.7.1 Building Permits:  For projects with valuations in
excess of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00) a partial payment of
fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500.00) shall be made at the time the building
permit application is submitted to Blaine County. Said partial payment shall be
credited to the total amount of the building permit fee, but shall be subject
to a 20% cancellation of the total amount of the building permit if the
building permit is not obtained by the applicant within 180 days of permit
approval.
      Section R108.7.2 Moved Structures: Fees shall be based on 50% of the
assessed value of the structure plus the value of on-site additions and
remodels utilizing Building Permit Fee Table 1 as adopted by resolution of the
Board.
      Section R108.7.3 Manufactured Homes: Fees shall be based on the value of
the on-site elements constructed, not the home itself.
      Section R108.7.4 Demolition: Fee shall be $50.00 and shall be due at the
time the application is submitted to Blaine County.
      Section R108.7.5 Re-Roof: Fee shall be calculated using Blaine County
Building Permit Fee Table 1. Valuation shall be based on scope of the work and
materials.
      Section R108.7.6 Agricultural Building Setback Permit: Fee shall be
$25.00 and shall be due at the time the application is submitted to Blaine
County.
      Section R108.7.7 Refundable Deposit for Final Inspection: In addition to
building permit fees above, a deposit shall be collected to ensure final
inspection. Deposit for final inspections shall be a minimum of $1500 or 10% of
the total of the permit fees whichever is greater and shall be made at the time
of the building permit application is submitted. Deposit for final inspection
shall be released to the depositor upon a successful final inspection and the
issuance of Certificate of Occupancy or if the project is withdrawn.
      Section R108.7.8 Cancellation Fee:  Building permit applications that are
withdrawn after approval by the County or that are not obtained within 180 days
of approval by the County shall be subject to a cancellation fee of 20% of the
total amount of the building permit fee including all plan check fees. If a
partial payment of $1,500.00 has been paid pursuant to Section 108.7.1, said
partial payment shall be credited toward the cancellation fee.
   G.   Required Inspections:
      Section R109.1.7 Manufactured Homes: Inspections are required for
manufactured homes placed in Blaine County, pursuant to I.C. 44-2202 and this
Code.
   H.   Building Code Board of Appeals:
      Section R112.3.1 Board Membership: The Board of County Commissioners will
appoint a three (3) person Board to stand as the Building Code Board of
Appeals, as needed, with membership to be selected from but not limited to the
following list professionals in the various fields of expertise in the building
industry:
      ∙    The City of Ketchum, Idaho Building Official;
      ∙    The City of Sun Valley, Idaho Building Official;
      ∙    The City of Hailey, Idaho Building Official;
      ∙    The Ketchum Rural Fire District Fire Chief or Assistant Chief;
      ∙    The Wood River Rural Fire District Fire Chief or Assistant Chief;
      ∙    General Contractor associated with the Building Contractors
Association of the Wood River Valley;
      ∙    A licensed Idaho Architect; and,
      ∙    A licensed Idaho Engineer.
      Section R113.5 Appeals To The Building Code Board Of Appeals:
      A.   Application for appeal: Any applicant for a permit, whose
application has been rejected by the Building Official, or any person who has
been ordered by the Building Official to modify, alter, remove or install any
building code provisions as required by Blaine County Code may within ten (10)
calendar days thereafter, appeal by filing notice in writing with the Building
Official. The Building Official shall deliver such notice, to the Board of
County Commissioners, at the next available date the Board of County
Commissioners shall appoint the Building Code Board of Appeals and a date will
be set for the appeal hearing. At the hearing the Building Code Board of
Appeals may, by a majority vote, affirm, reverse or modify the action of the
County. If the actions of the County are modified or reversed, a permit shall
be issued in accordance with the determination of the Building Code Board of
Appeals.
      B.   Appeal fee: Any person appealing a decision of the County shall
include payment of an appeal fee in the amount of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00). In the event the appeal is granted, the appeal fee shall be returned
to the appellant.
      Section R113.6 Appeal procedure: The Building Code Board of Appeals may
receive all evidence on appeal, in accordance with the following procedure:
      A.   The Building Official or designee shall present background
information on the project in question, including relevant code sections and
their interpretation. The Building Code Board of Appeals may ask questions
during or after each presentation.
      B.   Applicant shall present any information or applicable code sections
to support a reversal of the Building Official's decision. The applicant shall
have up to twenty (20) minutes to present such evidence.
      C.   The Chair shall open the hearing to receive aggrieved parties
testimony, if any. Each aggrieved party wishing to provide public testimony
shall be given up to five (5) minutes to do so.
      D.   Following the close of aggrieved parties testimony, the Building
Official or designee shall be allowed up to ten (10) minutes for response.
      E.   The Applicant then shall have up to ten (10) minutes for rebuttal
and any final comments.
      F.   The Chairman of the Building Code Board of Appeals may allocate
equivalent additional time to the applicant and the Building Official or his
designee if the clarity of the issue at hand can be enhanced by receiving
additional testimony.
      G.   Following the hearing, the Building Code Board of Appeals may:
deliberate and render a decision, request more information before a decision is
made, or take the matter under advisement and reconvene at a reasonable time
not to exceed fifteen (15) calendar days to make their decision. Following a
vote, a final written decision shall be prepared, approved, and a copy provided
to the Applicant and any parties of record.
      Section R113.7 Appeal to Board of County Commissioners: Any order,
decision or ruling of the Building Code Board of Appeals may be appealed, by
filing notice in writing to the Board of County Commissioners within fourteen
(14) calendar days of such order, decision or ruling. Appeals to the Board of
County Commissioners shall be in accordance with, section
9-32-4  of this Code.
   I.   Definitions:
      Section 202 Agricultural Building: A structure designed and constructed
to house farm implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock, or other
horticultural products. This structure shall not be a place of human habitation
or a place of employment where agricultural products are processed, treated, or
packaged, nor shall it be a place used by the public.
      Section 202 Building Height: The vertical distance measured from the
highest point of the roof directly to natural grade. Parapet walls required by
code shall not be included in the measurement of height. This provision does
not apply to accessory fixtures such as flag poles, lightning rods, weather
vanes, antennas (not including satellite dishes), chimneys, air conditioners,
or solar collectors. Buildings located in the floodplain shall be measured from
the Intermediate Regional Flood elevation, where base flood elevations are
available. (see also Title 9, Chapter 2)
      Section 202 BuildSmart: 2012 International Energy Code (IECC) Amendments:
These above-code energy amendments pertaining to residential construction
Chapter 4 of the 2012 IECC, are set forth in Title 7, Chapter 6 of Blaine
County Code.
      Section 202 Yurt: A yurt is a semi-permanent tent system built on a
platform foundation incorporating structural elements to resist snow loads and
wind loading which must be insulated as per the manufacturer's specifications.
Yurts shall be permitted only as an accessory use (U-1) to an existing single
family residence (R-3), accessory to a commercial lodging use or as part of
another conditional use permit per Title 9 of Blaine County Code. Yurts shall
not exceed 452 sq. feet excluding an entry vestibule of 30 sq. feet. No kitchen
or plumbing is permitted. Minimum snow load design shall be site specific,
shall be anchored to a foundation system to meet 90 mph wind speed, exposure B.
Yurts shall be reviewed and approved on a case by case basis for location and
Life Safety issues related to Chapter 3, Section R314 Smoke Detectors, and R315
CO Detectors of the 2018 International Residential Code and for compliance with
Title 9, Zoning Regulations of the Blaine County Code.
   J.   Table R301.2 (1) Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria
 
TABLE R301.2(1)
CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA
            WIND DESIGN
GROUND SNOW                                                     SUBJECT TO
LOADO                                                           DAMAGE FROM
Site        Speedd Topographic Special              SEISMIC
Specific    (mph)  Effectsk    wind    Windbourne   DESIGN
Refer to 7-                  regionl debris zonem CATEGORYF D Weatheriga
1-3,(0 1),M 90 MPH No          No      No           or per IBC  Severe
Section                                             Chapter 16
1608.2.1 of
this code
 
 
TABLE R301.2(1)
CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA
SUBJECT TO DAMAGE
FROM                        ICE BARRIER  FLOOD
                            UNDERLAYMENT HAZARDSg
                     WINTER REQUIREDh    (a) 05/14/ AIR FREEZING MEAN ANNUAL
Frost line Termitec  DESIGN Yes, 24"     197 1      INDEXi       TEMPi
depthb     Slight to TEMPe  inside of    (b) 11/26/ 2000         40° F
32"        Moderate  -20    warm side of 201 0
                            exterior     (c) 11/26/
                            wall line    201 0
 
 
   MANUAL J DESIGN CRITERIAn
Elevation           Latitude              Winter Heating Summer Cooling
4780'-9000'         44°N                 70°F          75°F
Cooling temperature Wind velocity heating Wind velocity  Coincident wet bulb
difference          15 mph                7.5 mph        61
25°F
 
 
   MANUAL J DESIGN CRITERIAn
Altitude correction Indoor design   Design temperature Heating temperature
factor              temperature     cooling            difference
0.92                72°F           75°F              90°F
Daily range         Winter humidity Summer humidity
H                   30%             30%
 
   K.   Chimney clearances.
      Section R1005.3.1, Factory-built solid fuel burning appliance chimney
chase:  If a factory-built solid fuel burning appliance is enclosed within a
shaft or chase, it shall be protected on the interior (flue) side as required
for one-hour fire-resistive construction. All factory-built chimneys shall have
approved spark arrestors installed at the point of termination.
03: International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 Edition, commercial
provisions, with the following amendments.
   A.   Title: Section C101.1 Title: This code shall be known as the
International Energy Conservation Code of Blaine County, and shall be cited as
such. It is referred to herein as "this code."
04: International Energy Conservation Code, 2012 Edition, residential
provisions, with the following amendments.
   A.   Title: Section R101.1 Title: This code shall be known as the
International Energy Conservation Code of Blaine County, and shall be cited as
such. It is referred to herein as "this code."
   B.   Buildsmart:
      Section R102.1.1.1 BuildSmart: 2012 International Energy Conservation
Code (IECC) Amendments: These above-code amendments pertaining to residential
construction, Chapter 4 of the 2012 IECC, are set forth in Title 7, Chapter 6
of this Code.
05: International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2018 Edition with the following
amendments.
   A.   Title: Section 101.1 Title: These regulations shall be known as the
Swimming Pool and Spa Code of Blaine County hereinafter referred as "this
code".
06: International Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition with the following
amendments.
   A.   Title: Section 101.1 Title: These regulations shall be known as the
Existing Building Code of Blaine County, hereinafter referred to as "this
code." (Ord. 2021-1, 1-5-2021)
7-1-4: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
The following regulations shall apply in addition to those contained in the
Codes adopted in section
7-1-2.
   A.   Manufactured Homes: Blaine County hereby adopts by reference the "Idaho
Manufactured Home Installation Standard" as published by the State Of Idaho,
January 1, 2004, compiled jointly with the Manufactured Housing Industry and as
may be amended or updated from time to time. Said "Standard" shall be known as
the "Manufactured Housing Code for Blaine County".
   B.   Special Natural Hazards: Understanding that certain natural hazards
exist in unincorporated Blaine County including, but not limited to avalanche
areas, debris flows, earthquake, floodplain, snow loads, wildfires, and soil
qualities, site specific surveys and related engineering may be required as
deemed appropriate by the authority of the jurisdiction at the expense of the
applicant.
   C.   Salvaged Building Materials: The use of salvaged building materials may
be approved by the Building Official upon receipt of a complete list of those
materials accompanied with written approval of such materials by an Idaho
Licensed Engineer. Said materials shall be capable of meeting design criteria
for the proposed project.
   D.   Hours Of Construction: Construction under a valid Blaine County
building permit shall be limited to 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Monday through
Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 7 p.m. Saturday, and 9:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Sunday, except
in the productive zoning districts (A-20 and A-40) and rural remote and rural
residential zoning districts (R-10 and RR-40) as defined in Title 9, Zoning
Regulation, of this code, or as may be specified in conditions attached to a
conditional use permit granted pursuant to Title 9 zoning regulations or to
subdivision approval granted pursuant to Title 10 "Subdivision Regulations" of
this code.
   E.   Wellhead Protection Area: The building official may require that the
applicant solicit and document the request for written agency comment from
Idaho Department of Environmental Quality (IDEQ), or other appropriate
agencies, including, but not limited to, owners of public water systems for
projects located in the Commercial Zoning District, Light Industrial Zoning
District, and Heavy Industrial Zoning District prior to issuing a building
permit for projects located within a wellhead protection area that may involve
potential contaminant sources or potential contaminants listed in Appendix A of
this title adopted by the Board of County Commissioners by resolution.
Construction and operation of uses within a wellhead protection area shall
conform to best management practices for those potential contaminant source
activities. The building official may attach conditions to the issuance of a
building permit that ensures the recommendations from IDEQ will be adhered to.
   F.   Residential Fire Separation: Providing for the construction of fire
walls or fire barriers when approved by the authority having jurisdiction and
protected openings in accordance with Chapter 7 of the most currently adopted
version of the International Building Code. Fire separation to be a minimum two
hour rated assembly as a means to reduce and limit the spread of fire in
residential one and two family dwellings greater than four thousand (4,000)
square feet or as approved by the fire code official of the district. There
shall be no prohibition of voluntary installation of an approved residential
fire sprinkler system. See the Blaine County Fire Code
7-7-5, for fire district requirements based on square footage, fire district
capabilities, and approved water supplies as approved by the fire code
official.
   G.   Design And Construction Of AOSS: Authorization for the construction of
an alternative onsite sewage system (AOSS) shall be obtained from the Idaho
department of environmental quality through the South Central public health
district (hereinafter referred to as "SCPHD"). The design and construction of
such systems shall conform to such regulations, specifications, or guidelines
as may be adopted and amended from time to time in the Idaho department of
environmental quality "Technical Guidance Manual for Individual and Subsurface
Sewage Disposal". To assure compliance with approved design and construction
methods, a surety of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) shall be paid by the lot
owner or authorized agent to the county building department at the time of
building permit application. The surety shall be refunded by the county to the
owner or authorized agent after written notification of inspection and approval
by the SCPHD. In the event the system for which the surety was posted does not
receive inspection approval from SCPHD prior to issuance of the certificate of
occupancy, the county shall give notice to the owner or authorized agent that
unless an inspection is completed by SCPHD within ninety (90) days of receipt
of said notice that said surety shall be forfeited to the county and shall
thereafter be nonrefundable. A surety shall not be required to be paid by lot
owners for repair or replacement of existing onsite sewage disposal systems.
(Ord. 2016-05, 6-28-2016; amd. Ord. 2021-1, 1-5-2021)
7-1-5: PENALTIES:
   A.   A violation of any provision of the Building Code may be prosecuted as
a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in Blaine County Code Section 1-4-1. Each
day that such a violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate
criminal offense.
   B.   Withholding of Permits: The Building Official may withhold permits,
including building permits and certificates of occupancy, on lots or parcels of
land where a violation of any provision of Title 7, 9, or 10 of this Code
exists, unless the permit being requested is to resolve the violation(s). (Ord.
2024-05, 2-13-2024; Ord. 2021-1, 1-5-2021)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
7-2-1: Short Title
7-2-2: Adoption Of Code
7-2-3: Copy On File
7-2-4: Penalties
7-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the ELECTRICAL CODE. (Ord. 2019-05, 4-2-2019)
7-2-2: ADOPTION OF CODE:
The latest edition of the National Electrical Code as approved by the Standards
Council, as amended, and approved by the Idaho Electrical Board is hereby
adopted as the official Electrical Code of the County. (Ord. 2019-05, 4-2-2019)
7-2-3: COPY ON FILE:
One copy of the code adopted in section
7-2-2 of this chapter shall be kept on file at the office of the building
official, at 219 1st Avenue South, Suite 208, Hailey, Idaho. (Ord. 2019-05, 4-
2-2019)
7-2-4: PENALTIES:
A violation of any provision of the Electrical Code may be prosecuted as a
misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that such a violation occurs or continues, shall
constitute a separate criminal offense. (Ord. 2019-05, 4-2-2019)
CHAPTER 3
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
7-3-1: Short Title
7-3-2: Adoption Of Code
7-3-3: Copy On File
7-3-4: Penalties
7-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the PLUMBING CODE. (Ord. 2019-05, 4-2-2019)
7-3-2: ADOPTION OF CODE:
The latest edition of the Uniform Plumbing Code published by the International
Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, as amended, approved, and
adopted by the Idaho Plumbing Board and known as the Idaho State Plumbing Code
(ISPC) is hereby adopted as the official Plumbing Code of the County. (Ord.
2019-05, 4-2-2019)
7-3-3: COPY ON FILE:
One copy of the code adopted in section
7-3-2 of this chapter shall be kept on file at the office of the building
official, at 219 1st Avenue South, Suite 208, Hailey, Idaho. (Ord. 2019-05, 4-
2-2019)
7-3-4: PENALTIES:
A violation of any provision of the Plumbing Code may be prosecuted as a
misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that such a violation occurs or continues, shall
constitute a separate criminal offense. (Ord. 2019-05, 4-2-2019)
CHAPTER 4
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
7-4-1: Short Title
7-4-2: Adoption Of Codes
7-4-3: Copies On File
7-4-4: Penalties
7-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the MECHANICAL CODE. (Ord. 2019-05, 4-2-2019)
7-4-2: ADOPTION OF CODES:
The latest edition of the International Mechanical Code and International Fuel
Gas Code published by the International Code Council, as amended, approved and
adopted by the Idaho Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning Board is hereby
adopted as the official Mechanical Code of the County. (Ord. 2019-05, 4-2-2019)
7-4-3: COPIES ON FILE:
One copy of the codes adopted in section
7-4-2 of this chapter shall be kept on file at the office of the building
official, at 219 1st Avenue South, Suite 208, Hailey, Idaho. (Ord. 2019-05, 4-
2-2019)
7-4-4: PENALTIES:
A violation of any provision of the Mechanical Code may be prosecuted as a
misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that such a violation occurs or continues, shall
constitute a separate criminal offense. (Ord. 2019-05, 4-2-2019)
CHAPTER 5
RESERVED
(Ord. 2019-05, 4-2-2019)
CHAPTER 6
BUILDSMART AMENDMENTS
[Reserved by Ord. 2024-03, 2-12-2024]
CHAPTER 7
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
7-7-1: Short Title
7-7-2: Definitions
7-7-3: Findings
7-7-4: Duties Of Building Official
7-7-5: Modifications To The International Fire Code
7-7-6: Review, Approval, Inspection, And Fees
7-7-7: Appeals
7-7-8: Penalties
7-7-9: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
7-7-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the FIRE PROTECTION CODE. (Ord. 2021-06, 4-6-
2021; Ord. 2019-08, 4-16-2019)
7-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
                         A structure designed and constructed to house farm
                         implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock, or other
AGRICULTURAL BUILDING:   horticultural products. This structure shall not be a
                         place of human habitation or a place of employment
                         where agricultural products are processed, treated, or
                         packaged, nor shall it be a place used by the public.
BOARD:                   The Blaine County Board of County Commissioners.
                         An elevated structure carrying a pathway or roadway
                         over a depression or obstacle (such as a river). A
BRIDGE:                  bridge structure with spans of sixty inches (60") and
                         greater shall be classified as a bridge. A culvert
                         structure with a span less than sixty inches (60")
                         shall be classified as a culvert.
BUILDING OFFICIAL:       The Blaine County building official.
                         The minimum roof covering in Blaine County shall be
                         Class A rated. The proposed roofing must meet industry
CLASS A ROOF:            standards for Class A in reference to ASTM E 108, ASTM
                         D 2898, UL 790 or the most current NFPA 256 and
                         chapter 15 of the most currently adopted edition of
                         the International Building Code.
COMMISSION:              The Blaine County, Planning and Zoning Commission.
                         A study dated November 15, 2004 identifying a
COMMUNITIES AT RISK:     Countywide fire mitigation plan involving mapping,
                         fuel hazards, ranking, and fire wise practices.
COUNTY:                  The unincorporated portion of the County of Blaine, a
                         political subdivision of the State of Idaho.
                         A minimum thirty foot (30') area surrounding any
                         occupancy consisting of vegetation approved, by the
DEFENSIBLE SPACE:        authorized jurisdiction that reduces a means of
                         transmitting fire from vegetation to structures or
                         from transmitting fire from structures to vegetation.
                         The North Blaine County Fire District, the Wood River
                         Fire Protection District, the Carey Rural Fire
                         Protection District, the Smiley Creek Fire District,
DISTRICT:                or the portion of the West Magic Fire District located
                         within Blaine County, political subdivisions of the
                         State of Idaho, which is also referred to as "Fire
                         Departments" under the most currently adopted edition
                         of the International Fire Code.
                         A vehicular ingress and egress route that serves no
DRIVEWAY:                more than two (2) single family dwellings, not
                         including accessory structures.
                         The Fire Chief or other designated authority charged
                         with the administration and enforcement of the code,
FIRE CODE OFFICIAL:      or a duly authorized representative. In those portions
                         of the County that are not in a Fire District, the
                         County building official shall retain the authority of
                         Fire Code official.
                         The latest edition of the 2018 International Fire Code
                         with appendices B-Fire-Flow Requirements for
                         Buildings, C-Fire Hydrant Locations and Distribution,
                         D-Fire Apparatus Access Roads, E- Hazard Categories,
                         F-Hazard Ranking, and I-Fire Protections Systems-
INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE: Noncompliant Conditions thereto, published by the
                         International Code Council, and adopted by the Idaho
                         State Fire Marshal, setting forth the minimum
                         standards for the protection of life and property from
                         fire and explosions in the State of Idaho, as adopted
                         by Idaho Code section 41-253 and IDAPA 18.08.01. (Ord.
                         2021-06, 4-6-2021; Ord. 2019-08, 4-16-2019)
 
7-7-3: FINDINGS:
The Board makes the following findings:
   A.   The latest editions of the 2018 International Fire Code and the 2018
International Building Code have been adopted by State law. The 2018
International Fire Code and 2018 International Building Code promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare.
   B.   The unincorporated area of Blaine County is generally rural in
character and water supplies within the unincorporated areas of Blaine County
are often limited.
   C.   The districts provide adequate fire protection personnel and equipment
to their constituents to enable a modification of the requirements of appendix
B of the 2018 International Fire Code, based on the present level of service
(i.e., water supply carrying capacity and personnel) of each district.
   D.   Because the districts can provide a sufficient level of service and
because the districts are generally rural in character, the full fire-flow
requirements of an urban community are not normally required within the
districts. If the level of service of the districts increases or decreases in
the future, total floor area may be increased or decreased by amendment of this
chapter without requiring greater water supply on-site.
   E.   Additional requirements, review, and inspection promote the purposes of
the 2018 International Fire Code, the 2018 International Building Code and
promote compliance with the requirements therein and with the Blaine County,
Fire Protection Ordinance. (Ord. 2021-06, 4-6-2021; Ord. 2019-08, 4-16-2019)
7-7-4: DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL:
In addition to their other duties, the building official, or a duly authorized
representative is charged and empowered with the administration and enforcement
of the most currently adopted edition of the International Fire Code within the
County but outside of the districts. (Ord. 2021-06, 4-6-2021; Ord. 2019-08, 4-
16-2019)
7-7-5: MODIFICATIONS TO THE INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE:
   A.   Water Supply Or Sprinkler System For Any Building Or Structure:
      *Where, in specific cases, conflicts between this section and the
International Fire Code arise, the most restrictive shall govern.
      1.   Floor Area Requirements By Jurisdiction:
      North Blaine County Fire District, Wood River Fire Protection District,
Smiley Creek Fire District, and Carey Rural Fire Protection District: The
construction of new square footage or an addition to an existing building or
structure, excluding agricultural buildings, including a remodel, which creates
a total floor area of four thousand (4,000) square feet or greater, shall
install an approved fire protection water supply as set forth in appendix B, of
the most currently adopted edition of the International Fire Code, or may
install an approved fire sprinkler system as set forth in the most current NFPA
Standards 13, 13D, and 13R. The construction of any building or structure,
excluding agricultural buildings, on new or existing buildings, including a
remodel, which creates a total floor area of eight thousand (8,000) square feet
or greater, shall install a fire sprinkler system set forth in the most current
NFPA Standards 13, 13D, 13R, and provide an approved water supply as determined
by the Fire Code official.
      West Magic Fire District: The construction of new square footage or an
addition to an existing building or structure, excluding agricultural
buildings, including a remodel, which creates a total floor area of two
thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet or greater, shall install an approved
fire protection water supply or a sprinkler system as set forth in NFPA
Standards 13, 13D, and 13R. The construction of any building or structure,
excluding agricultural buildings, on a new or existing building, including a
remodel, which creates a total floor area of five thousand (5,000) square feet
or greater, shall install a sprinkler system as set forth in the most current
NFPA Standards 13, 13D and 13R and an approved fire protection water supply.
      For the purpose of calculating square footage for any building or
structure on the same lot or parcel, each building or portion of a building
separated by one or more fire walls, or fire barriers when approved by the
authority having jurisdiction, may be considered a separate building or fire
area. Fire Walls and Fire Barriers shall be constructed in accordance with the
applicable sections of the most currently adopted edition of the International
Building Code.
      If there is construction on any building or structure within the County
on a new or existing building, including a remodel located within thirty (30)
feet of another building or structure on the same lot or parcel, the square
footage of all buildings or structures located within thirty (30) feet of the
proposed construction, shall be calculated as one building, unless each
building or portion of a building is separated by fire walls, or fire barriers
when approved by the Authority Having Jurisdiction. If the total square footage
of the buildings or structures exceeds 4,000 square feet in the North Blaine
County Fire District, Wood River Fire Protection District, Smiley Creek Fire
District or Carey Rural Fire Protection District; 2,500 square feet in the West
Magic Fire Protection District, then the new construction shall comply with the
requirements set forth in this section.
      2.   Water Supply And Sprinkler System Requirements:
      The building permittee is granted the option of selecting a minimum ten
thousand (10,000) gallon water supply, which shall consist of a cistern,
constructed of approved materials other than steel or concrete, or other fire
protection water supply that has been approved by the applicable Fire Chief,
Fire Code official, or building official. The construction of ponds or the
connecting of any draft appliance to an open water source for the purpose of
fire department use is not an approved water supply for fire suppression. The
water supply and related requirements shall be; a) capable at a minimum of
delivering five hundred (500) gallons of water per minute for twenty (20)
minutes with an approved fire apparatus connection; b) located within one
thousand feet (1,000'), measured on an approved access roadway, of the nearest
point of the structure; and c) approved by the applicable Fire Chief, Fire Code
official or building official. Sprinkler systems shall; a) comply with the most
current NFPA Standards 13, 13D, or 13R; (b) be connected to a water flow alarm;
(c) be provided with a Fire Department connection; (d) be approved by the
applicable Fire Chief, Fire Code official, or building official. Any approved
water flow alarm shall be supervised by a remote signaling station, approved by
the applicable Fire Chief, Fire Code official, or building official.
      Exception: An approved existing drafting appliance shall be allowed to
remain in place providing it meets the performance standards set forth in this
code section.
   B.   Application Of Appendix B For Buildings Or Structures On Separate Lots
Or Parcels: Except for those buildable lots or parcels existing on the date of
the adoption of the 1993 Fire Protection Ordinance, Appendix B, of the most
currently adopted edition of the International Fire Code, shall apply to those
buildings or structures within the County where the fire separation distance
between any buildings or structures on separate lots or parcels is less than
thirty (30) feet.
   C.   Sprinkler System For Assembly Occupancies: Assembly occupancies in the
County and in the districts, with an occupant load of one hundred (100) or more
shall install an approved NFPA Standard 13 fire sprinkler system throughout the
building or structure.
   D.   Water Supply For Subdivisions And Re-Plats: The construction of a new
subdivision or a re-plat of an existing subdivision that creates five (5) or
more new lots or parcels shall provide an approved fire protection system and
water supply capable of producing a sustained fire flow as determined by the
Fire Code Official. Fire hydrant locations, pumper connections and distribution
required for subdivisions shall be determined by the Fire Code Official. In
addition to the minimum fire flow requirements of fire protection systems,
floor area requirements by jurisdiction set forth in section 7-7-5(A)(1) shall
be complied with.
   E.   Fire Department Connections: Fire Department connections (FDC) for
automatic sprinkler systems shall be two and one-half inch (21/2"), female
national hose thread (NHT) connection. The location of the Fire Department
connection shall be prescribed by the Fire Code official prior to construction
of the fire sprinkler system.
   F.   Hydrostatic Testing Of New Fire Sprinkler Systems: All new sprinkler
systems shall be hydrostatically tested to two hundred (200) psi for two (2)
hours prior to having any portion of the fire sprinkler piping covered. An
additional hydrostatic test of two hundred (200) psi for two (2) hours shall be
conducted on the final building inspection prior to approval of the system.
   G.   Fire Apparatus Access Roads And Driveways: Approved fire apparatus
access roads or driveways shall be provided for every facility, building or
portion of a building hereafter constructed or moved into or within Blaine
County Fire Districts and areas of unincorporated Blaine County not within an
established Fire District. Approved fire apparatus access roads and driveways
shall comply with the requirements of section 503, including exceptions when
applicable, and appendix D of the most currently adopted edition of the
International Fire Code.
      Exception: Existing bridges that need to be replaced or repaired due to
structural failure, failure to meet fire code load requirements, or other
safety reasons shall be allowed to meet the following requirements and
restrictions.
      *These exceptions only apply to existing residential structures and their
existing bridges. No additional square footage or living space may be added to
the existing structure(s) serviced by a replaced or repaired bridge using these
exceptions.
      1.   No more than two (2) single family dwellings and their associated
accessory buildings are serviced by the replaced, repaired or modified bridge.
      2.   Replaced re repaired bridges may be allowed a minimum width of
sixteen (16) feet provided the bridge supports an imposed load of at least
seventy five thousand (75,000) pounds across the entire width.
      3.   The replaced or repaired bridge shall have an overhead clearance
across the entire width of thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches.
      4.   To prevent the stopping of emergency vehicles on bridge surfaces,
gates or other obstructions shall not be allowed within thirty (30) feet of
either end of the bridge.
      5.   Driveway grades on both sides of bridges shall not exceed ten (10)
percent.
      6.   No turns in the driveway are allowed within thirty (30) feet of
either end of the bridge.
      7.   Access driveway on both entrances of any bridge shall have a minimum
inside turning radius of twenty eight (28) feet.
      8.   Bridge surfaces shall be level both laterally and longitudinally.
      9.   Driveways on either side of a replaced or repaired bridge are still
required to meet all other Blaine County Fire Code requirements.
      10.   A Blaine County, Building Permit is required for any bridge
replacement, repair or modification. Two sets of construction plans stamped by
a structural engineer as meeting AASHTO HB-17 shall be submitted to the
appropriate Fire District or authority having jurisdiction for approval prior
to any work on the site.
   H.   Defensible Space: Construction for a new or existing building or
structure, including remodels, within the County shall provide a minimum
defensible space of thirty feet (30') surrounding the building or structure.
Approved vegetation shall be maintained annually by the property owner to
minimize fire fuel loads within this defensible space.
   I.   Class A Roof Assemblies Required:
      1.   Roof Requirements By Jurisdiction:
         a.   North Blaine County Fire District, Wood River Fire Protection
District, and Smiley Creek Fire District; Class-A roofing required: Class-
A roof coverings or assemblies with no wood products in the roof covering are
required on all new buildings and reroofs. Class-A or the highest rated
covering that matches existing covering is required when less than ten percent
(10%) of the roof area is being repaired and additional areas are not
subsequently repaired within five (5) years. Additions to buildings over one
thousand (1,000) square feet of roof area require that the roof of the entire
building be upgraded to a Class-A roof with no wood products in the roof
covering.
         b.   Carey Rural Fire Protection District, West Magic Fire District:
Class-A roof assemblies are required on all new buildings. Class-A roof
assemblies are required for all re-roofs over one thousand (1,000) square feet
of roof area. Class-A is not required when less than ten percent (10%) of the
roof area is being repaired and additional areas are not subsequently repaired
within five (5) years. Additions to buildings over one thousand (1,000) square
feet of roof area require that the roof of the entire building be upgraded to a
Class-A roof assembly.
      For the purpose of this Code, roof area shall be measured on a horizontal
plane projection of all levels including overhangs and overlaps. When
appropriate mitigation measures are proposed, the applicable Fire Chief, Fire
Code official or building official may, at their discretion, waive this
requirement.
   J.   Address Numbers: All residences shall exhibit approved legible address
numbers in locations that are plainly visible from the highway, road, or street
fronting the property. Address numbers shall be a minimum of four inches (4")
in height and shall contrast with their background. Address numbers shall be
posted a minimum of forty eight inches (48") above final grade and shall be
maintained unobstructed and visible at all times.
   K.   Elevator Emergency Communication: All new buildings including
residential structures containing an elevator in which a building attendant
(building employee, watchman, etc.) is not continuously available to take
action when the required emergency signal is operated, the elevator shall be
provided with a means within the car for communicating with or signaling to a
continuously monitored service which is capable of taking appropriate action
when a building attendant is not available in accordance with the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) A17.1.
   L.   Fire Protection Equipment: All required fire protection systems and
equipment, including standpipe systems, shall be installed by an approved
licensed contractor for the type of equipment being installed. Licensed
contractors shall provide certification and licensure documentation to the
applicable Fire Chief, Fire Code official, or building official upon request.
Submittal of construction documents, meeting the requirements of the most
currently adopted edition of the International Fire Code, section 105, for
approval by the applicable Fire Chief, Fire Code official, or building official
is required before commencing installation of any required fire protection
system or equipment including standpipe systems.
   M.   Fireworks: The use of fireworks, 1.4G (formerly known as Class C,
common fireworks) other than non-aerial common fireworks as defined by Idaho
Code title 39 chapter 26 is prohibited. The use of special fireworks as defined
by Idaho Code title 39 chapter 26 or fireworks 1.3G (formerly known as Class B,
special fireworks) requires a permit from the authority having jurisdiction.
The sale or distribution of any fireworks in the unincorporated areas of Blaine
County is prohibited. The manufacture of any type of fireworks within Blaine
County is prohibited.
   Fireworks, 1.3G for display fireworks, as defined by section 5601.2.4.2 of
the most currently adopted edition of the International Fire Code.
      1.   Definitions: The following definitions are added to section 202, of
the most currently adopted edition of the International Fire Code: Non-aerial
common fireworks means any fireworks such as ground spinners, fountains,
sparklers, smoke devices or snakes designed to remain on or near the ground and
not to travel outside a fifteen foot (15') diameter circle or emit sparks or
other burning material which land outside a twenty foot (20') diameter circle
or above a height of twenty feet (20'). Non-aerial common fireworks do not
include bottle rockets, firecrackers, jumping jacks, or similar products.
      2.   Application For Fireworks Display Permit: Any person desiring to
engage in a public or private display or other events using fireworks shall
first make a written application, including fees as set by resolution of the
authority having jurisdiction, Fire Department, to the Fire Chief, Fire Code
official or an appointee for a "fireworks display permit".
      3.   Authority: The authority having jurisdiction, Fire Department, Fire
Chief, Fire Code Official or an appointee shall have the power to grant or deny
any application, subject to such reasonable conditions, if any, as it shall
prescribe so long as the denial of the application or any conditions imposed on
the granting of the application are reasonably necessary for protection of
public health and safety, subject to review by the Board of Appeals as set
forth in section
7-7-7 of this chapter.
      4.   Term Of Permit: A "fireworks display permit", if issued, shall be
nontransferable, shall list the specific date or dates upon which the display
or event shall occur and the types of fireworks and uses that will be allowed.
      5.   Insurance Required: Each applicant for a "fireworks display permit"
shall have filed with the Fire Code official prior to the issuance and validity
of any permit, a policy or certified true copy thereof, of public liability
insurance, including both "accident" and "occurrence" coverage. The insurance
coverage limits for both public liability and for products liability coverage
shall be at least one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per person per occurrence
bodily injury; one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence aggregate
bodily; and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence aggregate
property damage. Each policy of insurance shall be in the form and substance
acceptable to the County, and shall name as insured parties under the terms of
the policy the County, all officials, elected and appointed, of the County in
performance of official functions regarding all operations under or pertaining
to said permit, any licensee or licensor of the applicant, and all vendors of
fireworks covered by thepermit to be issued to the applicant. Said policy of
insurance shall be so written that it cannot be canceled without at least ten
(10) days' prior written notice to the County from the underwriting insurance
company. The policy of insurance shall be underwritten through or by a
qualified and duly licensed insurance company or companies doing or authorized
to do insurance business in Idaho, and a copy of said policy shall be filed
with the Fire Code official prior to the issuance of the permit.
      6.   General Prohibitions: It shall be unlawful for any person, except in
compliance with this chapter, to:
         a.   Alter any fireworks;
         b.   Throw any fireworks from, into, or at a moving vehicle or at any
person;
         c.   Use fireworks in any area that constitutes a severe fire threat
based on the vegetative conditions during the current fire season as determined
by the authority having jurisdiction.
      7.   Exceptions: The provisions of this chapter do not apply to and shall
not prohibit:
         a.   The use of explosives, flares, noisemakers or signals designed
and used for the purpose of protecting the public.
         b.   The use of blank cartridges.
         c.   The use of flares or noisemakers designed and labeled
specifically for pest control purposes and approved by the Idaho Department of
Fish and Game.
      8.   Liability Of Parents Or Guardians: The parents, guardians or other
persons having custody or control of a minor shall be liable for damage caused
by the use of fireworks by the minor.
      9.   Compliance With Idaho State Fireworks Act: It shall be the duty of
every person to comply with all the provisions of chapter 26, title 39, Idaho
Code, Idaho State Fireworks Act and of this chapter. Violation of the Act or
any provisions of this chapter by the permittee, or by any of their agents,
employees, or officers shall constitute a cause, in and of itself, to deny any
subsequent application for a permit. (Ord. 2021-06, 4-6-2021; Ord. 2019-08, 4-
16-2019)
7-7-6: REVIEW, APPROVAL, INSPECTION, AND FEES:
   A.   Review Of Building Permits: Prior to building permit issuance the
applicable Fire Chief, Fire Code official or building official shall review the
building permit application and supporting construction documents, and
determine whether the proposed construction is designed to comply with the most
currently adopted edition of the International Fire Code and this chapter.
Prior to building permit issuance, the applicable Fire Chief, Fire Code
official or building official shall certify on the building permit application
that the proposed construction is designed to comply with the most currently
adopted edition of the International Fire Code and this chapter.
   B.   Applications; Review Of Subdivision: Before any preliminary or short
plat for property is considered pursuant to title 10, of this Code, the
applicable Fire Chief, Fire Code official, or building official shall review
the subdivision application, along with copies of all plans and specifications,
to determine whether the proposed subdivision will comply with the most
currently adopted edition of the International Fire Code and this chapter.
Before any preliminary or short plat is approved pursuant to title 10 of this
Code, the applicable Fire Chief, Fire Code official, or building official shall
forward to the commission, for a preliminary plat, or to the Board, for a short
plat, their recommendations, including suggested conditions for their
consideration. If there are considerations indicating an unusual susceptibility
to group fires or conflagrations, the applicable Fire Chief, Fire Code
official, or building official may require a fire-flow greater than that
required by the most currently adopted edition of the International Fire Code
and this chapter.
   C.   Approval Of Building Permits And Subdivision Applications: Compliance
with the most currently adopted edition of the International Fire Code and this
chapter shall be established to the satisfaction of the applicable Fire Chief,
Fire Code official or building official before the building official will issue
a building permit, or before a preliminary or short plat is approved.
   D.   Inspection:
      1.   Fire Safety Equipment: The applicable Fire Chief, Fire Code official
or building official is empowered to inspect fire safety equipment or materials
as part of the approval of a building permit issued for the construction of any
building. Any such fire safety equipment or materials shall not be concealed or
covered during the course of the construction, repair or remodeling authorized
by the building permit until the same has been inspected and approved by the
applicable Fire Chief, Fire Code official, or building official. Any such fire
safety equipment shall be inspected and approved by the applicable Fire Chief,
Fire Code official, or building official before a framing inspection is
approved by the building official. As a condition of a building permit, such
fire safety equipment shall be inspected and approved by the applicable Fire
Chief, Fire Code official, or building official before a final building
inspection is approved by the building official.
      2.   Water Supply Or Sprinkler System: As a condition of a building
permit, a water supply shall be inspected and approved by the applicable Fire
Chief, Fire Code official or building official before combustible construction
is initiated. The permittee has the burden and obligation to submit written
proof to the building official that the water supply has been inspected and
approved. As a condition of a building permit, sprinkler system plans shall be
inspected and approved by the applicable Fire Chief, Fire Code official or
building official before a framing inspection is approved by the building
official. As a condition of a building permit, a sprinkler system shall be
inspected and approved by the applicable Fire Chief, Fire Code official or
building official before a final building inspection is approved by the
building official. The permittee has the burden and obligation to submit
written proof to the building official that the sprinkler system has been
inspected and approved.
      3.   Fire Protection Maintenance: All fire protection water supplies,
fire protection equipment, access to occupancies and equipment, whether
required or voluntarily installed, that would require a response by the Fire
Districts or be used by the Fire Districts shall be maintained in operating
condition at all times. Operating condition includes unobstructed access,
maintenance, testing, and inspections as required by the applicable Fire Chief,
Fire Code official, or building official.
   E.   Fees: Each Fire District may by resolution, adopt a fee schedule for
reviewing building permit, subdivision, plat and conditional use permit
applications. The fee for any application requiring Fire District comment shall
be in addition to the fees collected by the Land Use and Building Services
Department. (Ord. 2021-06, 4-6-2021; Ord. 2019-08, 4-16-2019)
7-7-7: APPEALS:
   A.   Appeals: When the applicable Fire Chief, Fire Code official or building
official disapproves of an application or refuses to grant a permit, or when
there is a question as to the suitability of alternate materials and types of
construction, or when there is a question of interpretation of the most
currently adopted version of the International Fire Code or this chapter, the
applicant or aggrieved party may appeal the decision of the applicable Fire
Chief, Fire Code official or building official to a Board of Appeals, as
required by the most currently adopted edition of the International Fire Code.
   B.   Appeal Procedure: A written notice of appeal, detailing all basis for
appeal including the particulars regarding any claimed error or abuse of
discretion, shall be filed with the applicable district or in those portions of
the County that are not in a district, the County Building Department, before
five o'clock (5:00) P.M. of the fifteenth calendar day after the decision of
the applicable Fire Chief, Fire Code official, or building official has been
made. The failure to physically file a notice of appeal with the applicable
district or Building Department within the time limits prescribed by this
section shall cause automatic dismissal of such appeal.
   C.   Board Of Appeals: The Board of Appeals consists of three (3) members
who are qualified by experience and training to pass upon pertinent matters.
The three (3) members are appointed by the district having jurisdiction or in
those portions of the County that are not in a Fire District, the Board of
Appeals shall be appointed by the Board of County Commissioners and hold office
at the Board of Commissioners' pleasure. The applicable Fire Chief, Fire Code
official or building official shall be an ex officio member and shall act as
Secretary of the Board of Appeals or shall have the power to appoint a
Secretary.
   D.   Conduct Of Hearings: The Board of Appeals shall conduct a hearing for
the appeal within thirty (30) days of the filing of the appeal. The Board of
Appeals shall adopt reasonable rules and regulations for conducting its
investigations and shall render decisions and findings in writing to the
applicable Fire Chief, Fire Code official, or building official, with a
duplicate copy to the appellant within thirty (30) days after the hearing of
appeal.
   E.   Idaho State Department Of Insurance: Pursuant to Idaho Code section 41-
260, the Idaho State Fire Marshal's Office may hear appeals from aggrieved
parties in reference to this Idaho State Statute after following the appeals
procedure under subsections A, B, C, and D of this section. (Ord. 2021-06, 4-6-
2021; Ord. 2019-08, 4-16-2019)
7-7-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation of a provision of this chapter or the most currently adopted
edition of the International Fire Code shall be a misdemeanor, punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that such a violation occurs or continues shall
constitute a separate criminal offense. Any violation of any provision of this
chapter may also result in the filing of a civil complaint for civil damages,
if applicable, imposed upon any person violating the most currently adopted
edition of the International Fire Code or the Fire Protection Ordinance.
Whenever it appears that any person has engaged in any act or practice
constituting a violation of the most currently adopted edition of the
International Fire Code or this chapter, the building official, applicable Fire
Chief, or Fire Code official may issue a stop work order and the Board may
bring an action to enjoin any such acts or practices and to enforce compliance
of the most currently adopted edition of the International Fire Code or this
chapter. Any civil action for injunctive relief or civil damages shall be in
addition to the criminal penalties set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 2021-06, 4-
6-2021; Ord. 2019-08, 4-16-2019)
7-7-9: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of fire protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on nationally accepted fire protection
standards. This chapter does not imply that persons or property will be fully
or even partially protected from fire or damage. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the Board, Blaine County, or its employees, officers
or agents, or the districts or their employees, officers or agents for any
damage to persons or property following the adoption of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision made hereunder. (Ord. 2021-06, 4-6-2021; Ord. 2019-08, 4-16-2019)
TITLE 8
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN; AREAS OF IMPACT; AND LOCAL PUBLIC INTEREST WATER POLICY
CHAPTER 1
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN 1
SECTION:
8-1-1: Adoption Of Plan
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 67-6501 et seq.
8-1-1: ADOPTION OF PLAN:
The comprehensive plan dated November 7, 1994, as amended, together with the
land use map, dated November 1995, as amended, are hereby adopted to be used as
a general guide for the orderly development of Blaine County. (Res. 2021-19, 6-
22-2021; Res. 2020-56, 11-10-2020; Res. 2020-38, 9-8-2020; Res. 2020-07, 2-18-
2020; Res. 2019-59, 10-8-2019; Res. 2016-49, 11-29-2016; Res. 2016-14, 5-23-
2016; Res. 2015-55, 11-24-2015; Res. 2015-26, 7-7-2015; Res. 2015-20, 5-12-
2015; Res. 2015-15, 5-12-2015; Res. 2009-25, 5-12-2009; Res. 2001-25, 7-2-2001;
Res. 99-14, 6-21-1999; Res. 98-25, 9-21-1998; Res. 95-47, 12-4-1995; Res. 95-
24, 6-5-1995; Res. 94-29, 11-7-1994; Ord. 84-4, 3-13-1984; Ord. 81-2, 8-24-
1981; Res., 12-22-1975)
CHAPTER 2
AREAS OF IMPACT
SECTION:
8-2-1: Areas Of City Impact
8-2-1: AREAS OF CITY IMPACT:
   The following ordinances set out provisions governing the establishment and
administration of areas of city impact for certain cities in Blaine County:
(1996 Code)
   A.   Ketchum: Ordinances 94-7 and 94-8, both dated August 14, 1994;
   B.   Sun Valley: Ordinances 94-9 and 94-10, both dated October 24, 1994 and
ordinances 2012-08 and 2012-09, both dated October 29, 2012; and
   C.   Hailey: Ordinances 94-11 and 94-12, both dated October 24, 1994 and
ordinance 2021-04 and 2021-05, both dated March 2, 2021, and ordinance 2023-04,
dated June 22, 2023, and ordinance 2025-02, dated March 11, 2025.
   D.   Bellevue: Ordinances 2021-02 and 2021-03, both dated March 2, 2021 and
ordinance 2023-03, dated June 22, 2023, and ordinance 2025-04, dated April 15,
2025.
CHAPTER 3
LOCAL PUBLIC INTEREST WATER POLICY
SECTION:
8-3-1: Purpose
8-3-2: Policy
8-3-1: PURPOSE:
   A. Idaho Code section 42-203A(5)(e) provides that in considering any
application to appropriate or transfer waters of the State of Idaho, the Idaho
Department of Water Resources (IDWR) shall determine whether the application
"conflicts with the local public interest as defined in section 42-202B, Idaho
Code", which in turn defines the local public interest as "the interests that
the people in the area directly affected by a proposed water use have in the
effects of such use on the public water resource".
   B. This chapter defines the local public interest in Blaine County as it
pertains to various applications brought before IDWR requesting the
appropriation, transfer, or management of water resources. (Ord. 2018-06, 11-
13-2018)
8-3-2: POLICY:
   A. A local public interest exists in the conservation and protection of all
surface and ground water resources in Blaine County.
   B. In assessing the effects of a proposed water use on public water
resources in the County, the local public interest shall be served by:
      1. Preventing injury to existing uses of water;
      2. Promoting the efficient use of water;
      3. Eliminating or avoiding wasteful uses of water;
      4. Measuring the use of water;
      5. Enforcing Federal, State, and local laws, as well as approved permit
terms and conditions in Federal, State, and local permits affecting valid water
rights;
      6. Promoting the sustainable use of aquifers and preventing their long-
term net depletion;
      7. Promoting and protecting minimum stream flow water rights, in- stream
flows, a functional stream system, and a healthy fishery and riverine
ecosystem;
      8. Maintaining and protecting historical local standards of high water
quality;
      9. Monitoring water quality and the enforcement of water quality
standards by appropriate local, State and Federal agencies; and
      10. Supporting ongoing studies assessing the overall state and condition
of water resources, in terms both of quantity and quality.
   C. Individual, immediate impacts, as well as broader, cumulative impacts on
existing uses of water shall be considered when evaluating whether a proposed
use or application conflicts with the local public interest. (Ord. 2018-06, 11-
13-2018)
TITLE 9
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE, INTERPRETATION AND ENACTMENT
SECTION:
9-1-1: Title
9-1-2: Authority And Purpose
9-1-3: Provisions Declared To Be Minimum Requirements
9-1-4: Preservation Of Private Property Rights
9-1-5: Prohibited Uses
9-1-6: Separability Clause
9-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited to as the BLAINE COUNTY ZONING
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-1-2: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
This title is adopted pursuant to authority granted to Idaho Code, section 67-
6501 et seq., and article 12, section 2 of the Idaho Constitution. It is
enacted for the purpose of promoting public health, safety, morals, comfort and
general welfare; to conserve and protect property and property values; to
secure the most appropriate use of lands; to control the density of population;
to prevent undue traffic congestion, to preserve the scenic and aesthetic
values of Blaine County, to assure the economical provision of adequate public
improvements, and to implement the policies set forth in the Blaine County
Comprehensive Plan. The encouragement of planned unit developments through use
of density incentives is fundamental to this title. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff.
4-7-1977)
9-1-3: PROVISIONS DECLARED TO BE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
held to be minimum requirements. Except where explicitly provided, whenever the
requirements of this title conflict with the requirements of any other lawfully
adopted rules, regulations, ordinances, or resolutions, the most restrictive
rules or those imposing the higher standards shall govern. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-13-
2018)
9-1-4: PRESERVATION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY RIGHTS:
This title shall be interpreted to equally protect each citizen from the undue
encroachment on such citizen's private property by his or her neighbors' use of
his or her own private property. Each citizen shall have a reasonable use of
his or her property, as guaranteed by the United States Constitution, without
placing undue burden upon his or her neighbor. Every citizen of Blaine County
shall at all times have the right to appear in person or by his or her agent
before the commission or Board to freely petition for the relief of an alleged
burden created by this title, and to appeal any decision of the Administrator
or commission pursuant to the procedure stated herein. The enforcement of this
title shall apply equally to each person and property in the similar
circumstances. (Ord. 2006-15, 10-26-2006; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-1-5: PROHIBITED USES:
All uses not permitted under the terms of this title are prohibited. (Ord. 77-
5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-1-6: SEPARABILITY CLAUSE:
Should any chapter, section or provision of this title be declared by a court
of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision
shall not affect the validity of this title as a whole or any part thereof
other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord. 77-5,
3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definitions Of Words And Terms
9-2-1: DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND TERMS:
Certain terms and words are hereby defined for the purpose of this title. When
consistent with the context, the present tense includes the past or future
tense, the singular includes the plural and the plural includes the singular.
The word "shall" is mandatory, "may" is permissive and "should" means the
preferred action. The following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ACCESSORY USE/ STRUCTURE: A use or structure subordinate to the principal use
on the same lot or premises, and serving a purpose customarily incidental to
the use of the principal building. The gross floor area of an accessory
structure shall not exceed seventy five percent (75%) of the gross floor area
of the primary building containing the permitted use on the lot. Exceptions:
The size limitation shall not apply to agricultural buildings, indoor riding
arenas, or accessory dwelling units that are detached from any other building
containing an accessory use. An accessory use is a use that is commonly,
habitually and by long practice established or associated in Blaine County with
such primary use.
AFFECTED PERSON: One having an interest in real property which may be affected
by the issuance or denial of a permit authorizing development.
AGRICULTURAL BUILDING: A building as defined in Title 7 of this code, Section
7-1-3  (I) Definitions.
AGRICULTURAL BUSINESSES: An agricultural business shall be a commercial use
where activities occurring on the site are compatible with the surrounding
agricultural lands. It shall occupy and use to the extent possible existing on
site agricultural facilities, buildings and other structures. Such agricultural
businesses shall include, and not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Commercial pet care, breeding and boarding.
   B.   Storage, fabrication and sales of irrigation systems.
   C.   Alcohol plants such as winery, brewery or distillery.
   D.   Greenhouses and commercial nurseries with an on site retail facility.
   E.   Landscape contractor with more than two (2) employees.
   F.   Stables and riding schools.
   G.   Guest ranches.
   H.   Processing of milk products.
   I.   Storage, mixing, blending for the purpose of sales of fertilizers or
compost not to include restaurant waste.
   J.   Transportation services for hauling agricultural products.
   K.   Post and pole fabrication.
AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES AND AGRICULTURAL USES: Refers to the growing of timber,
crops, or livestock including grazing, horticulture, floriculture, nurseries,
and the necessary accessory uses such as processing, packing, treating,
storing, or selling products limited to those grown on the premises or as part
of an integrated agricultural operation under common management with no on site
retail facility. The operation of any such accessory use shall be secondary to
that of normal crop, livestock or timber growing, and shall not include
feedlots, slaughterhouses, rendering plants, or sawmills.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: A place used for the care, grooming, diagnosis, and treatment
of sick or injured animals, and for the care of those who are in need of
medical or surgical attention, including overnight accommodations for
recuperation and observation purposes.
ANIMAL SHELTER: A facility that is owned, operated, or maintained by a public
body or nonprofit organization devoted to the welfare, shelter, protection and
humane treatment of animals. An animal shelter facility may also provide: a)
shelter for homeless pets and impounded animals; b) services and programs
related, but not limited to, the shelter, care, boarding, adoption, health, and
medical treatment of animals; and c) community services including, but not
limited to, education, spay/neuter services, pet surrender, pet crematory,
contract for services with local jurisdictions, and dog license sales and
tracking.
APPRECIABLE DEGRADATION: Any dust, odor, fumes, detectable pollution, noise or
flashing light which is perceptible without instruments more than two hundred
feet (200') from the boundaries of the property from which it emanates, except
for warning devices, construction or maintenance work.
ASPHALT BATCH PLANT: A facility which manufactures asphalt.
AUTO WRECKING YARD: Any use of premises whereon currently nonlicensed motor
vehicles not in operating condition are standing more than sixty (60) days, or
on which such used motor vehicles or parts thereof are dismantled or stored.
BANK: The ordinary high water level of the stream, river, lake or impoundment,
which in the absence of evidence to the contrary shall be presumed to be the
edge of the vegetation growing along the shore.
BENCH: A level step created by the former flood deposits of a river.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES: State of the art technology as applied to a specific
problem and including a schedule of activities, prohibited practices and
maintenance procedures. The BMP presents physical, institutional, or strategic
approaches to environmental problems, particularly with respect to nonpoint
source pollution control.
BOARD: The Board of County Commissioners.
BUILDABLE SITE: A dwelling construction site which will not require diking or
riprap for protection against flooding, nor increase the possibility of
contamination of ground or surface water from septic tanks and drain fields,
nor require that the proposed site be excavated so as to oversteepen a slope or
toe of a slope.
BUILDING: Any structure used or designed to be used for supporting or
sheltering any use or occupancy.
BUILDING, AGRICULTURAL: A structure designed and constructed to house farm
implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock or horticultural products, but not
for the purposes of human habitation or processing of agricultural products.
BUILDING ENVELOPE (PLATTED): Refer to title 10, chapter 2, "Definitions", of
this Code.
BUILDING, EXISTING: A building erected prior to the effective date hereof, or
one for which a valid building permit has been issued prior to the effective
date hereof.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the highest point of the
roof directly to natural grade. Parapet walls required by code shall not be
included in the measurement of height. This provision does not apply to
accessory fixtures such as flagpoles, lightning rods, weather vanes, antennas
(not including satellite dishes), chimneys or air conditioners. Buildings
located in the floodplain shall be measured from the intermediate regional
flood elevation, where base flood elevations are available.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which is conducted the main or principal use
of the lot on which the building is located.
CAMPGROUND: An area or tract of land and associated facilities that accommodate
structures such as cabins, yurts or tents, or recreational vehicles for
overnight stays or short periods of time, for recreation, camping or vacation
purposes.
CEMETERY: Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the human dead,
including crematories, mausoleums, and mortuaries if operated in connection
with and within the boundaries of such cemetery.
CERTIFICATION: The act whereby the Administrator verifies that an application
is complete and complies with relevant ordinance requirements.
CHURCH: A building for public worship. A body or organization of religious
believers.
CITY: Any incorporated municipality within the County.
CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT (CD): A type of subdivision for limited residential use
within the A-20 or A-40 Productive Agricultural Districts, the R-10 Rural
Residential District, and the RR-40 Rural Remote District. Each cluster
development consists of: a) the cluster tract occupying not more than twenty
percent (20%) of the land area of the parent tract, and b) the conservation
tract occupying not less than eighty percent (80%) of the land area of the
parent tract. In a designated TDR receiving area, as defined by title 10,
chapter 10 of this Code, the cluster tract shall not occupy more than fifty
percent (50%) of the land area of the parent tract, with the conservation tract
occupying not less than fifty percent (50%) of the land area of the parent
tract.
CLUSTER TRACT: A designated location within a cluster development upon which
residential development may occur. The cluster tract shall not occupy more than
twenty percent (20%) of the parent tract.
COMMERCIAL USE: The purchase, sale, or other transaction involving the handling
or disposition of any article, service, substance, or commodity for livelihood
or profit, or the ownership or management of office buildings, offices,
recreation or amusement enterprises, or the maintenance and use of offices by
professionals and tradespeople rendering services.
COMMISSION: The Blaine County Planning and Zoning Commission.
COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM: Refer to IDAPA 58-Department of Environmental Quality;
58.01.08 - Idaho Rules for Public Drinking Water Systems - DEFINITIONS.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The Blaine County Comprehensive Plan, dated November 7,
1994.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use permitted only upon issuance of a conditional use
permit.
CONSERVATION TRACT: That part of a cluster development that remains dedicated
to agriculture, open space, and/or natural resource protection and is devoid of
any structures other than those for the benefit of agricultural uses
(including, but not limited to, barns, well houses, irrigation structures, hay
sheds) or conservation purposes, but may include a primary residential dwelling
unit (and any accessory employee housing as allowed). The conservation tract(s)
shall not occupy less than eighty percent (80%) of the land area of the parent
tract, except in a cluster development in a TDR receiving area, where the
minimum area shall be fifty percent (50%).
CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT COMMUNITY (CCRC): Senior housing community that
provides different levels of housing and care based on the needs of their
residents, including, but not limited to, independent living, assisted living,
memory support and skilled nursing. The skilled nursing component of a CCRC is
not age restricted. The CCRC may include housing for staff of the facility. The
developable density of dwelling units contained within a CCRC shall not be
based on the underlying zoning district(s) but shall be determined through the
conditional use permit process and be subject to compliance with regulatory
requirements for the provision of potable water and sewage disposal. CCRCs are
public facilities as defined herein.
CONTRACTOR: A person or business that furnishes materials or performs services
at a specified price, especially for construction. The term contractor shall
include, but not be limited to, building, landscaping, electrical, plumbing,
heating, or air conditioning contractors.
CONTRACTOR'S YARD: An area of land used by a contractor for storage,
maintenance, processing, employee parking, or other activity associated with
the business of building, hauling, excavation, demolition, or similar activity
and including any area of land used for the incidental repair of machinery used
for any of the above listed activities.
DENSITY: A unit of measurement, the number of dwelling units per acre of land.
DENSITY, BASE: The unit of measurement used to determine the number of possible
dwelling units on a parcel of property, provided all applicable standards of
this Code and the comprehensive plan are met. If more than one zoning district
is involved, base density for that development is the sum total of multiplying
the number of acres within each zoning district by the developable density
specified for each individual district.
DENSITY, GROSS: The total area of a development, including public and private
rights-of-way, divided by the total number of dwelling units.
DENSITY, NET: The number of dwelling units allowed per acre in a subdivision
after subtracting the land occupied by public or private rights-of-way.
DENSITY, TOTAL DEVELOPABLE: The base density, plus any density bonus awarded
specifically for utilizing the PUD option, plus any density bonus accumulated
from transferring density from contiguous overlay districts or hazardous areas
within the same ownership.
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS: Bulk and setback regulations.
DISCRETE DRAINAGE: Any area of land that acts as a watershed for a creek,
stream or river, identified on the national hydrography data set, dated
February 2000.
DUPLEX: A building which contains two (2) dwelling units and two (2) separate
kitchens.
DWELLING, ACCESSORY: A separate building or portion thereof or portion of a
residential building excluding mobile homes and Tiny Home on Wheels which may,
but is not required to, provide complete, independent living facilities for a
household including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, cooking, eating,
and sanitation. The primary factors which cumulatively may result in a building
or portion of a building being classified as an accessory dwelling unit are
that:
   A.   The area is not functionally integrated with the floor plan of the
primary residence it does not share a common hallway, it has a separate
entrance and it can be locked off and used independently from the primary
residence.
   B.   There is a kitchen area consisting of a sink, counters, cabinets,
refrigerator and cooking appliance; or electrical outlets and plumbing that
would support kitchen facilities.
   C.   There is a bathroom consisting of a toilet, sink and shower or bathtub
or both.
Said accessory dwelling shall be clearly subordinate to the principal
residential use on the lot and shall serve a purpose customarily incidental to
the use of the principal residential use. Said unit shall meet criteria set
forth in section
9-3-11 of this title. Exception: A building or portion of building that does
not exceed five hundred (500) square feet and does not have a kitchen (i.e.,
sink, counters, cabinets, refrigerator and cooking appliance; or electrical
outlets and plumbing that would support kitchen facilities) and has no more
than a half bath (i.e., sink and toilet) may be considered an accessory
building and not an accessory dwelling unit.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A structure or portion thereof designed for and used as
the living quarters for three (3) or more families or housekeeping groups.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A structure designed for and used as the living
quarters for a single-family or housekeeping group. A manufactured home that is
placed on a foundation and meets the Building Code shall be considered a
single-family dwelling; however, a mobile home shall not be considered a
single-family dwelling except as otherwise provided in this title.
DWELLING UNIT: A single building or part thereof providing complete independent
living facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for
living, sleeping, cooking, eating, and sanitation.
EASEMENT: A nonpossessory interest in real property which gives the holder of
such interest the right to use some part, or all, of the real property of
another.
EXCAVATION: The movement of earth material.
EXTENDED CARE FACILITY: A medical facility providing short or long term
subacute care, or a facility or distinct part of a facility licensed or
approved as a nursing home; or a governmental medical institution.
EXTRACTION: Removal and processing of any mineral. Mining, quarrying,
separating, or cleaning mineral resources.
   A.   Surface mining: The process of removing the top layer of soil and rock,
to access minerals and rock that are located close to the surface.
   B.   Subsurface mining: The process of extracting minerals located below the
surface deep underground either through tunnels or shafts.
FEEDLOT: An open area where domesticated livestock which have been purchased
from other ranches are grouped together for intensive feeding purposes prior to
their sale for slaughter.
FILL: A deposit of material.
FIREBREAK: A barrier of cleared or plowed land intended to check a forest or
grass fire.
FLOOD OF 100-YEAR FREQUENCY: A flood, the magnitude of which has a one percent
(1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year, as determined by
probability analysis of historical hydrological data.
GARAGE, RESIDENTIAL: A building or portion of a building that is primarily used
for the parking and storage of passenger vehicles owned and operated by the
residents thereof. A garage may contain other accessory uses related to the
residential use of the property such as storage of household goods and property
maintenance equipment, laundry facilities, work area, etc. A garage may contain
a half bath consisting of a sink and toilet, but no shower or bathtub.
GRAVEL OR SHALE PIT: Any point where stone, sand, gravel, or other mineral
resources are removed, extracted, crushed, or stockpiled.
HAZARDOUS AREA OR DISTRICT: A parcel of land that is determined to be
susceptible to physical hazards such as flooding, avalanche, geologic
instability, steep slopes, or low flying aircraft.
HEAVY INDUSTRIAL USE: Any manufacture, processing, or testing of goods and
materials, including the production of power, where the byproducts of such use
include noise, smoke, odor, glare, gas, vibration, dust, light, or traffic
which may have a detrimental effect on neighboring property.
HIGH WATER MARK: See definition of bank.
HILLSIDE: A part of a hill between and including the summit and the foot and
includes, but is not limited to, such landforms as ridges, saddles, and knolls.
   Foot: The lowest part of a hillside where the grade of slope increases from
horizontal or near horizontal; the bottom or base of a hillside.
   Knoll: A small round hill or mound.
   Ridge: A sharp, elongated crest or a linear series of crests.
   Saddle: A ridge connecting two (2) higher elevations.
   Summit: The highest part, top or peak of a hillside.
HILLSIDE ROAD: Any existing or proposed public or private road, street, alley,
driveway or other vehicular access to property located or proposed to be
located on any property, or portion thereof, within the Mountain Overlay
District.
HOME OCCUPATION: Employment by the inhabitant(s) of a dwelling which is clearly
incidental and secondary to the primary use(s) on a property. Tier 1 and tier 2
home occupations are described in section
9-3-1 of this title.
HOSPITAL: A healthcare service facility, comprised of one or more structures,
licensed as a hospital by the State of Idaho, providing primary health services
and medical or surgical care to persons suffering from illness, disease,
injury, deformity, infirmity or other abnormal physical or mental conditions
and including, as an integral part of the facility, related facilities such as
laboratories, diagnostic services, outpatient facilities (such as
rehabilitation, medical imaging and community education), medical offices and
staff residences which are owned by and under the direct control of the primary
medical provider.
HOUSEKEEPING GROUP: A group of unrelated persons living together.
INHOLDINGS, PRIVATE: Parcel(s) of land in private ownership that are wholly
located within the exterior boundaries of Federal or State public lands.
INTERMEDIATE REGIONAL FLOOD (IRF): Same as 100-year flood.
JUNKYARD: An outdoor space where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, dismantled, stored or hauled.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which four (4) or more domesticated animals are
housed, groomed, bred, boarded, trained in return for compensation, or sold,
and which may offer incidental medical treatment.
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL USES: Warehousing, manufacturing, and/or processing of goods
and materials which do not emit offensive odor, dust, smoke, glare, gas, light,
noise, or vibration which cannot be confined to the site itself. Wholesaling
will be allowed as a light industrial use only if the items are manufactured on
site and are not for sale as retail merchandise to the general public.
LOT: A parcel, plot, tract, other contiguous land area, or "original parcel of
land" as defined by title 10 of this code.
LOT AREA: The area of any lot exclusive of street and road easements.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office of
the county recorder; or a lot or parcel created pursuant to subsection
10-1-4B of this code, exceptions to the subdivision regulations; or an
"original parcel of land", pursuant to section
10-2-1, "Definitions Of Words And Terms", of this code. Lots of record that are
nonconforming in size are subject to section
9-27-9 of this title.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, constructed after June 15, 1976, in accordance
with the HUD manufactured home construction and safety standards and as defined
by Idaho Code section 39-4105. For clarification, this definition excludes
mobile homes, recreational vehicles and park trailers.
MATERIAL CHANGE: Any change or modification in any application or proposed
amendment to this title which, in the opinion of the commission or board, is of
such importance that the public interests will be better served by additional
notice and public hearing.
MAXIMUM EXTENT FEASIBLE: All possible efforts to comply with the regulation or
to minimize potential harm or adverse impacts have been undertaken. Economic
considerations may be taken into account but shall not be the overriding factor
in determining "maximum extent feasible".
MOBILE HOME: A factory assembled structure or structures generally constructed
prior to June 15, 1976, and equipped with the necessary service connections and
made so as to be readily movable as a unit or units on their own running gear
and designed to be used as a dwelling unit or units with or without a permanent
foundation, as defined by Idaho Code section 39-4105.
MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME PUD: A residential planned unit development designed
for siting mobile or manufactured homes on individual spaces that are rented or
leased or on individual lots.
MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: A residential development designed for siting
mobile or manufactured homes on individual spaces that are rented or leased.
MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed for mobile home or
manufactured home residential use on individual lots under individual
ownership.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING: Any building existing at the effective date hereof, or
amendment thereto, which does not conform to dimensional standards of this
title for the district in which such building is located. Existing improvements
on lots that do not conform to present district densities shall not be
considered nonconforming buildings as long as the use of the building is
allowed in that district.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any use existing at the effective date hereof, or any
amendment thereto, which does not conform to the use regulations of this title.
NURSERY: A farm and/or greenhouse growing trees, shrubs, and plants with no on
site retail facility, whose commercial use is limited to the sale of those
above mentioned products actually grown on the premises or as part of an
integrated agricultural operation under common management.
NURSERY, COMMERCIAL: A combination of land, buildings, and structures for the
sale of live trees, plants, shrubs, or gardening products, or landscaping
services.
NURSERY, FOR CHILDREN: Facility charging a fee to provide care for preschool
age children; includes daycare centers.
NURSING HOME: Facility for the care and treatment of more than three (3)
elderly patients; includes rest homes and retirement homes.
OFF STREET LOADING AREA: An open, hard surfaced tract of land other than a
street or public way, the principal use of which is for standing, loading, and
unloading of motor vehicles.
OFF STREET PARKING: An open area, other than street or public way, for the
temporary location of motor vehicles.
100-YEAR FLOODPLAIN: The lowland near the channel of a river, stream, or other
body of water which has been or may be covered by water of a flood of one
hundred (100) year frequency, as established by the engineering practices of
the army corps of engineers.
OPEN SPACE, PRIVATE: A land or water area devoid of buildings, streets, parking
or other physical structures except fences and irrigation structures.
OPEN SPACE, PUBLIC: An open space area managed or owned by the public is any
section of land left undeveloped for scenic, wildlife, vegetative, recreation,
visual relief or other related public purposes. Some examples include
wilderness areas, natural areas, buffer zones, scenic corridors, and botanical
gardens. Permitted management activities are limited to fences, signs, parking,
irrigation systems, and public access trails. The site design is to protect
natural features of the open space while allowing public access.
OPEN SPACE RECREATIONAL USE: Recreational uses not requiring a building,
structure or pond greater in size than one acre.
OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL FACILITY: Facilities such as golf courses, marinas,
shooting ranges, rod and gun clubs, and dude ranches whose use is primarily
outdoor rather than indoor recreation, for which buildings are incidental and
accessory.
OWNER: The individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation,
or other entity having proprietary interest in the land to be subdivided. A
leasehold interest is excluded from such proprietary interest.
PUD DENSITY BONUS: A percentage of the base density for any parcel of land
which may be awarded to provide incentive for utilization of the PUD option.
PARENT TRACT: A lot or lots of record situated within an A-20, A-40, R-10, or
RR-40 zoning district proposed to be developed either as a straight lot
subdivision and/or as a cluster development and used for calculating the
density allowance for said subdivisions. A parent tract shall be a minimum
twenty (20) acres in size to qualify for an R-10 cluster development, forty
(40) acres in size to qualify for an A-20 cluster development, and eighty (80)
acres for an RR-40 or A-40 cluster development.
PARK MODEL RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle as defined in Idaho Code section 49-
117.
PERMITTED USE: An authorized use in a particular zoning district which is
subject to the regulations particular to that district.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): An area of land developed primarily for
residential use in which restriction of lot sizes, setbacks, densities, and
land uses may be adjusted in return for conformity with an approved plan for
the entire parcel.
POTABLE WATER SOURCE: Private water system, such as wells and springs, or
public water systems.
POTENTIAL CONTAMINANT SOURCES: A list of potential contaminant sources and
potential contaminants associated with commercial, industrial, agricultural,
rural, residential, municipal and miscellaneous sources as adapted from 1993
EPA guidelines and published in Idaho Department of Environmental Quality
(IDEQ) manual "Protecting Drinking Water Sources in Idaho", published August
2000, or as updated by IDEQ. Said list shall be adopted by resolution by the
Blaine County Board of Commissioners and set forth in appendix A of this title
on file in the County and title 7 of this Code.
PUBLIC FACILITY: Structure for the use and benefit of the community, limited to
a school, hospital, extended care facility, continuing care retirement
communities or cultural building.
PUBLIC UTILITY AND PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITIES: Structures essential to
furnishing the public with electric power two hundred thirty (230) kilovolts or
less, gas, water supply, water treatment, and public services, including power
plants or substations, water treatment plants or pumping stations, fire
stations, police stations or snow storage locations.
PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM: A system that provides the public with piped water for
human consumption, if such system has at least fifteen (15) service connections
or regularly serves an average of at least twenty five (25) individuals daily
at least sixty (60) days out of the year. Such term includes:
   A.   Any collection, treatment, storage, and distribution facilities under
control of the operator of such system and used primarily in connection with
such system; and
   B.   Any collection or pretreatment storage facilities not under such
control that are used primarily in connection with such system.
PUBLIC WORKS ASPHALT PLANT: A facility which manufactures or produces cold and/
or hot asphalt and which is operated by a public agency including the United
States government, the State of Idaho or any political subdivision of the State
of Idaho. To constitute a public works asphalt plant, the applicant must be a
public agency, the project must be operated by the public agency or by a
private contractor under contract with the public agency, and the final product
produced at the plant must be used solely for a public purpose.
PUBLIC WORKS GRAVEL OR SHALE PIT: Any point where stone, sand, gravel or other
mineral resources are removed, extracted, crushed or stockpiled by a public
agency including the United States government, the State of Idaho or any
political subdivision of the State of Idaho. To constitute a public works
gravel or shale pit, the applicant must be a public agency or a private
contractor under contract with a public agency, the project must be operated by
the public agency or by a private contractor under contract with the public
agency, and the final product produced at the pit must be used solely for a
public works project, including, without limitation, public highway projects.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, which either has its
own motive power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle (includes: travel
trailer, camping trailer, truck camper, fifth wheel trailer, park model
recreational vehicle and motor home), as defined by Idaho Code section 39-4201.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: Any tract of land - and appurtenant roadways,
buildings, structures or enclosures used or intended for use as part of the
park facilities - having as their primary purpose the renting of space and
related facilities for a charge or fee for parking two (2) or more self-
contained recreational vehicles, and park trailers and Tiny Home on Wheels as
defined by Idaho Code section 39-4201 and Tiny Home on Wheels as defined
herein.
REFERENCE ROAD: Any Federal, state or city public road, or County road
designated as a graded and drained or higher improvement designation on the
official county highway map.
RETAIL FACILITY: A structure or portion thereof that is used primarily for
display and sales to the general public.
RETREAT: Facilities, including living accommodations, which provide for group
withdrawal for prayer, meditation, study and instruction under a director.
Accommodations cannot be used for general tourist trade, e.g., quasi-motel or
resort.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: A strip of land dedicated or acquired for use as a public
thoroughfare, which normally includes streets, sidewalks, and other public
utilities or service areas.
ROADS, ARTERIAL: Highways 20, 26, 75 and 93, Gannett Road and Trail Creek Road.
SNRA: Sawtooth National Recreation Area.
SCENIC CORRIDOR: An area of significant scenic importance to Blaine County as a
representation of the rural character and general attractive beauty of the
County. Scenic corridor 1 (SC1) includes the area on both sides of State
Highway 75 north of the east to west Glendale Road intersection that is visible
from said State Highway 75. The designated scenic travelway contained within
SC1 is State Highway 75, carrying the largest volume of commuter, recreational,
and tourism traffic in Blaine County.
SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITIES: A structure containing separate individual,
and private storage spaces of varying sizes, owned or leased/rented on
individual leases for varying periods of time. The following uses are
prohibited: residential, commercial, wholesale or retail sales, or garage
sales; the servicing, repairing or fabrication of motor vehicles, boats,
trailers, lawn mowers, appliances or other similar equipment; the operation of
power tools, spray- painting equipment, table saws, lathes, compressors,
welding equipment, kilns or other similar equipment; the establishment of a
transfer and storage business; and any use that is noxious or offensive because
of odors, dust, noise, fumes or vibrations.
SIGN: Any structure or natural object, or part thereof, or device attached
thereto or painted or represented thereon, which shall be used to attract
attention to any product, place, activity, person, institution, organization or
business, or which displays or includes any letter, word, model, banner flag,
pennant, insignia, device or representation used as, or which is in the nature
of, an announcement, direction or advertisement.
   Sign, Directional: Includes only the title of an enterprise and the distance
to it.
   Sign, Freestanding: Any sign separate from a building, being supported by
itself or on legs.
   Sign, Informational: Includes descriptive phrases intended for advertisement
purposes.
   Sign, Off-Site: A sign that advertises or indicates a use that does not
occur on contiguous property under the same ownership.
   Sign, On-Site: A sign that advertises or indicates a use that occurs on
contiguous property under the same ownership.
   Sign, Projecting: A sign which projects out from the exterior of a building.
SIGN, SURFACE AREA: The entire area of a sign, including all the copy,
background, and borders, excluding frames and structural members.
SITE ALTERATION: The erection, construction, establishment, movement, removal,
modification, conversion or demolition of any building, other structure
including hillside roads and driveways, soil or vegetation, and also includes,
but is not limited to, the excavation or grading of any property and/or any
fill activity.
SKYLINED: An outline of a structure against the background of the sky as viewed
from Federal roads, State roads and/or Blaine County reference roads.
SLAUGHTERHOUSE: A building used for the killing, butchering, or processing of
animals for human consumption.
SLOPE: An inclined ground surface, the inclination of which is expressed as a
ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance. Percent slope is calculated
by multiplying this ratio (rise/run) by one hundred (100). Slope is measured
from the base of the hill.
SPECIAL EVENTS FACILITY: Facilities, including structures, improvements, and
grounds designed for uses like, but not limited to, weddings and award
banquets.
STREET: A right-of-way which provides access to adjacent properties, and that
has been officially accepted. Street shall include the terms highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard, land and place.
STRUCTURE: An edifice, building, or any piece of work artificially built up or
composed of parts jointed together in some definite manner, including a gas or
liquid storage tank.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land into two (2) or
more parts for the purpose of sale, lease, or building development, whether
immediate or future.
TERRACE: A level, alluvial or narrow plain with a steep front found at the
mouth of side canyons or in the alluvium deposits of valley floors.
TINY HOME on WHEELS: A recreational vehicle unit that is between one hundred
fifty (150) and four hundred (400) square feet in size and that provides
independent living facilities for one or more persons, which includes temporary
provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation and has been
certified to meet American National Standards Institute (ANSI) A119.5 Standards
1 , National Organization of Alternative Housing (NOAH) ANSI+ Standards 2 , and
9-3-11: Section D of this code.
TOWNHOUSE DEVELOPMENT: A planned project of two (2) or more townhouse units
where a duplex is permitted either as part of previous development approvals or
in this title that may be constructed as single building(s) containing two (2)
or more townhouse units, each unit being separated from the adjoining unit or
units by a one hour fire resistant party wall or walls extending from the
basement floor to the roof along the dividing townhouse sublot line, each unit
having its own access to the outside, and no unit located over another unit in
part or in whole. All townhouse development(s) shall be platted under the
procedures contained in title 10 of this Code.
TOWNHOUSE SUBLOT: The lot(s) resulting from platting a townhouse development.
Townhouse sublots shall have a minimum area equal to that of the perimeter of
each individual townhouse unit measured at the foundation. Said sublots shall
not be buildable for structures other than a "townhouse unit" as defined
herein. Platting of sublots shall follow the procedures set forth in title 10
of this Code and other applicable codes in effect. Detached garages, accessory
dwelling units, and all other detached and/or accessory buildings shall be
contained within the perimeter of the townhouse sublot. Townhouse sublots shall
not be considered nonconforming as defined herein. Townhouse sublots shall be
considered independently of each other for the purpose of lot size as it
relates to accessory dwelling units as regulated herein and other uses or
buildings limited by the size of the parcel.
TOWNHOUSE UNIT: One or more rooms, including a minimum of one bathroom and a
single kitchen, designed for or occupied as a unit by one family for living and
cooking purposes, located in a townhouse development on a platted townhouse
sublot.
TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES: Roads, parking areas, turnarounds, bike paths, horse
trails, ski or scenic lifts, or any other thoroughfare associated with moving
people or materials.
UNDUE HARDSHIP: Special conditions depriving the applicant of rights commonly
enjoyed by other property owners in the same district under the terms of this
title, but not merely a matter of convenience and profit.
USE: The specific purposes for which land or a building is being used and shall
include, but not be limited to, parking lots, roads, and driveways. Use is also
defined under the property zoning classification.
USE, EXISTING: Any use legally existing at the time of adoption hereof.
UTILITIES: Installations for conducting water, sewage, gas, electricity,
television, stormwater, and similar facilities providing service to and used by
the public.
VISIBILITY AND VISIBLE: For lands within the Mountain Overlay District, the
quality, state, or fact of being seen or exposed to view, or capable of being
seen or exposed to view without aid of binoculars or other vision enhancing
devices, to the occupants of an automobile traveling upon a reference road.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA: Land in Blaine County that is located within a ten
(10) year time of travel zone of a public water system as determined by Idaho
Department of Environmental Quality (IDEQ), or land within three hundred feet
(300') of a potable water source. Wellhead protection area shall include any
new and/or modified public water system and any new potable water source
without need to amend this definition.
YARD SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between a specified lot line
(front, side, rear), measured at a right angle to such lot line, and the
nearest point of the exterior wall of a building or the nearest point of a deck
more than thirty inches (30") above grade. Roof eaves may encroach three feet
(3') into the yard setback.
ZONE DISTRICT: A portion of the unincorporated territory of Blaine County
defined by this title and designated on zoning maps, to which the provisions of
this title apply.
(Ord. 2025-03, 2-12-2025; Ord. 2023-01, 1-3-2023; Ord. 2022-03, 6-15-2022: Ord.
2021-09, 6-15-2021; Ord. 2019-03, 1-8-2019; Ord. 2018-03, 2-13-2018; Ord. 2018-
02, 1-23-2018; Ord. 2017-04, 6-27-2017; Ord. 2014-06, 12-2-2014; Ord. 2012-06,
7-10-2012; Ord. 2012-05, 6-5-2012; Ord. 2010-13, 1-18-2011; Ord. 2010-10, 12-7-
2010; Ord. 2010-03, 1-19-2010; Ord. 2009-07, 9-8-2009; Ord. 2008-18, 12-2-2008;
Ord. 2008-14, 10-21-2008; Ord. 2008-13, 10-7-2008; Ord. 2006-13, 10-26-2006;
Ord. 2006-05, 6-29-2006; Ord. 2004-04, 6-7-2004; Ord. 2001-02, 3-19-2001; Ord.
2000-10, 11-6-2000; Ord. 98-6, 7-7-1998; Ord. 98-1, 1-7-1998; Ord. 96-12, 10-
15-1996; Ord. 96-10, 9-16-1996; 1996 Code; Ord. 95-5, 4-3-1995; Ord. 95-1, 1-9-
1995; Ord. 94-14, 11-14-1994; Ord. 94-5, 6-16-1994; Ord. 93-1, 1-11-1993; Ord.
92-6, 9-28-1992; Ord. 92-5, 9-14-1992; Ord. 92-3, 5-11-1992; Ord. 91-15, 11-25-
1991; Ord. 90-4, 6-11-1990; Ord. 81-3, 8-24-1981; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-
7-1977)
 
Notes
1 1. American National Standards Institute ANSI 119.5 Standards: https://
  webstore.ansi.org/
2 2. NOAH ANSI 119.5 + Standards: http://noahcertified.org/
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Home Occupations
9-3-2: Objectionable Uses Prohibited
9-3-3: Slope Clause
9-3-4: Conversion Of Accessory Building Prohibited
9-3-5: Lot Of Record And Permit Requirements
9-3-6: Certificate Of Occupancy Required
9-3-7: Sewage Treatment Approval
9-3-8: Density Transfer
9-3-9: Schedule Of Fees
9-3-10: Structure Setback On Highway 75
9-3-11: Accessory Dwelling Unit(s) And Tiny Home On Wheels
9-3-12: Setback For New Commercial And Light Industrial Structures
9-3-13: Planned Unit Developments (PUDs)
9-3-14: Daycare Facilities
9-3-15: Road And Driveway Access Standards For Emergency Vehicles
9-3-16: Wireless Communication Facilities
9-3-16-1: Purpose And Intent
9-3-16-2: Definitions
9-3-16-3: Zoning District Regulations
9-3-16-4: Requirements For Existing WCFs
9-3-16-5: WCFs Located Within The Mountain Overlay District (MOD)
9-3-16-6: Permits Required
9-3-16-7: Categorical Exclusions
9-3-16-8: Conditional Use Permit Procedure
9-3-16-9: Administrative Review Of Application
9-3-16-10: Public Hearing And Notice Requirements
9-3-16-11: Commission Or Hearing Examiner Review And Action
9-3-16-12: Standards Of Evaluation
9-3-16-13: Conditions
9-3-1: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A. Tier 1 home occupations, allowed as accessory uses in all zoning
districts except Resource Conservation District (RC-160) and Heavy Industrial
District (HI), shall meet all the following criteria:
      1. Shall be conducted by the inhabitant(s) of the dwelling only, with no
non-resident    employees.
      2. Shall use less than one-fourth (1/4) the gross floor area of the
dwelling unit.
      3. Shall have no outdoor display or storage associated with the home
occupation.
      4. Shall not emit noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat or glare
which is noticeable at or beyond its own property lines.
      5. Shall not generate traffic exceeding that of regular traffic patterns
for local streets (as identified in the current ITE Trip Generation Manual).
   B. Tier 2 home occupations are those that do not meet all of the criteria of
subsections A1 through A5 of this section. Tier 2 home occupations requiring a
conditional use permit are subject to the specific conditions set forth in
subsection
9-25-5E of this title. (Ord. 2019-03, 1-8-2019)
9-3-2: OBJECTIONABLE USES PROHIBITED:
Any use which constitutes a public nuisance, as defined in Idaho Code sections
52-101 and 52-102, is prohibited. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-3-3: SLOPE CLAUSE:
No site alteration or structural use may occur on any hillside land whose slope
exceeds twenty five percent (25%), or fifteen percent (15%) in the scenic
corridor 1, except as authorized in chapter 21 of this title. (Ord. 98-1, 1-7-
1998; Ord. 91-15, 11-25-1991; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-3-4: CONVERSION OF ACCESSORY BUILDING PROHIBITED:
No accessory building on the same lot as an existing principal residential
dwelling unit shall be converted to residential use except in conformance with
section
9-3-11 of this chapter. (Ord. 95-5, 4-3-1995; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-
1977)
9-3-5: LOT OF RECORD AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A. Lot Of Record: A single lot of record is entitled to one permitted
single-family dwelling subject to titles 7, "Building Regulations", 9, "Zoning
Regulations", and 10, "Subdivision Regulations", of this Code.
   B. Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to commence construction on any
building without having first obtained a valid written building or setback
permit. All habitable buildings shall be required to obtain a building permit.
Agricultural buildings as defined in §7-1-3 (I) are required to obtain an
agricultural building setback permit.
   C. Building Envelopes (Platted) (Refer To Title 10, Chapter 2,
"Definitions"): Proposed construction shall comply with platted building
envelopes. In subdivisions where historically development has occurred with a
portion of buildings or structures outside the platted building envelope, the
Administrator may determine exceptions.
   D. Application Review; Notice; Appeal: The Administrator, in consultation
with the County Engineer or his/her designated representative, shall review all
applications for building or other permits and all applications for development
proposals filed with the County, including those filed pursuant to this title
and title 10 of this Code, and determine whether: 1) the application is
complete, and 2) the use or activity contemplated by the application is subject
to provisions of this Code relating to a special use overlay district or
requires an additional special use, conditional use or other permit. If the
Administrator determines that a permit or application is incomplete or requires
application for an additional permit, the Administrator shall so notify the
applicant in writing. Any person aggrieved by such written notice from the
Administrator may appeal the Administrator's decision to the Board according to
the procedures and time requirements of section
9-32-3 of this title. If no appeal is taken, the applicant shall have sixty
(60) days from the date of the Administrator's written notice to submit the
requested additional information or file the requested application for
additional permit. For good cause shown, one extension of sixty (60) days may
be granted by the Administrator upon written request. If the applicant does not
timely submit the requested additional information or file the requested
application for additional permit, the application for permit or development
proposal shall be deemed withdrawn by the Administrator.
   E. Permitted And Accessory Uses Located Within A Wellhead Protection Area:
The Administrator or building official may require that the applicant solicit
and document the request for written agency comment from Idaho Department of
Environmental Quality, or other appropriate agency, including, but not limited
to, the owner of public water systems for projects located in the General
Commercial Zoning District, Light Industrial Zoning District, and Heavy
Industrial Zoning District that may involve potential contaminant sources or
potential contaminants as set forth in appendix A on file in the County, prior
to administrative review of building and other permits for zoning compliance
and prior to issuance of a building permit. The Administrator or building
official may consult with the County Engineer or his/her designated
representative or Idaho Department of Environmental Quality (IDEQ) or both at
the expense, if any, of the applicant. Construction and operation of uses
within a wellhead protection area shall conform to Best Management Practices
for those potential contaminant source activities. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-13-2018;
Ord. 2008-05, 3-11-2008; Ord. 2006-13, 10-26-2006; Ord. 2006-08, 6-29-2006;
Ord. 98-1, 1-7-1998; Ord. 95-1, 1-9-1995; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977;
Ord. 2023-01, 1-3-2023)
9-3-6: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED:
No building or structure for which valid permits have been issued shall be used
or occupied, and no change in the existing occupancy classification of a
building or structure or portion thereof shall be made until applicable
conditions of the permits have been met and the building official has issued a
certificate of occupancy. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-13-2018)
9-3-7: SEWAGE TREATMENT APPROVAL:
Sewage disposal facilities for all residential dwelling units must be approved
either by the South Central Idaho Health District or by the Idaho Department of
Health and Welfare, Division of Environment. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-
1977)
9-3-8: DENSITY TRANSFER:
Developable density transfers shall occur only through the planned unit
development process, cluster developments, or the Voluntary Transfer of
Development Rights Program, in accordance with title 10 of this Code. (Ord.
2018-03, 2-13-2018)
9-3-9: SCHEDULE OF FEES:
   A. Filing Fees: Those applications referred to in this title may have a fee
established for the processing of the application. The fees shall be paid to
the County and deposited with the Administrator. No action shall be taken on an
application until all applicable fees have been paid in full.
   B. Adoption Of Schedule: Fees shall be established by resolution passed and
adopted by the board of commissioners and shall take effect on the date of
adoption. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-3-10: STRUCTURE SETBACK ON HIGHWAY 75:
All structures along Highway 75 shall be set back a minimum of one hundred feet
(100') from the edge of the right of way. Utilities and driveways are exempt.
Signs within this setback are regulated in chapter 29 of this title. Fences,
walls, earthen structures and landscape are regulated in chapter 21A of this
title. Address markers are regulated in section
7-7-5 of this code. (Ord. 2009-09, 12-22-2009)
9-3-11: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT(S) AND TINY HOME ON WHEELS:
The purpose of the accessory dwelling unit and Tiny Home on Wheels regulations
is to define an accessory dwelling unit and Tiny Home on Wheels; address under
what circumstances it is appropriate to allow increased density on a lot; and
address the impacts an accessory dwelling unit or Tiny Home on Wheels may have
on the surrounding area such as sanitation, increased traffic and compatibility
with the neighborhood.
A conditional use permit obtained from the commission or hearing examiner may
be required for an accessory dwelling unit or Tiny Home on Wheels as required
below in sections 9-3-11A1, A2 and A4. Notice and hearing procedures contained
in chapter 25 of this title shall be followed. The application shall be subject
to the provisions contained herein and the standards of evaluation contained in
subsections
9-25-3A3 and A4 of this title.
Tiny Home on Wheels shall be regulated in the same way as Accessory Dwelling
Units and are subject to the standards herein except where specifically noted.
   A.   Standards: The following standards shall be met prior to issuance of a
building permit for an accessory dwelling unit or a zoning review for a Tiny
Home on Wheels:
      1.   On lots of less than one acre in size and on an Idaho Department of
Environmental Quality regulated community water system or municipal water
system, where allowed by South Central Public Health District (a variance from
South Central Public Health District may be required) and with a will-serve
letter from the Certified Water Operator for the system, one accessory dwelling
unit or one Tiny Home on Wheels may be allowed under a conditional use permit.
      2.   On lots of one acre to less than two (2) acres in size, where
allowed by South Central Public Health District (a variance from South Central
Public Health District may be required), one accessory dwelling unit or one
Tiny Home on Wheels may be allowed under a conditional use permit.
      3.   On lots of two (2) acres to less than five (5) acres in size, one
accessory dwelling unit or one Tiny Home on Wheels shall be a permitted use.
      4.   On lots of five (5) acres or greater in size:
         a.   One accessory dwelling unit or one Tiny Home on Wheels shall be a
permitted use.
         b.   A second accessory dwelling unit or second Tiny Home on Wheels
may be allowed under a conditional use permit.
   B.   Restrictions: All accessory dwelling unit(s):
      1.   Shall be limited to a maximum one thousand two hundred (1,200)
square foot floor area. Said floor area shall be the total of all floor areas
as measured from the exterior face of the exterior walls. ADU garage space up
to an additional one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet is allowed. ADU’s
that have floor area of four hundred (400) square feet or less shall use
requirements in International Residential Code, Appendix Q - Tiny Houses.
         a.   The area encompassing the mechanical system shall be included in
the square footage calculation. If the mechanical equipment is located in the
crawl space or the ADU garage, it shall be exempt from the square footage
calculation.
         b.   Stairs shall be excluded from the square footage calculation.
         c.   When an attic roof truss system creates an unusable and
inaccessible attic space between the interior and exterior wall, the floor area
measurement shall be taken from the outside of the interior wall;
      2.   Shall be allowed in the A-20, A-40, R-10, RR-40, R-5, R-21/2, R-2,
R-1, R-.4, R-1/4, and RD zoning districts and shall not be allowed in any
designated overlay district; except where an accessory dwelling unit is
proposed in the floodplain overlay district (see subsection B3 of this section)
or on property located within the CH overlay district that is not part of a CH-
PUD; or within the MOD and within a platted building envelope or categorically
excluded pursuant to section
9-21-4 of this title;
      3.   May be allowed in the floodplain overlay district as a residential
use only upon approval by the commission or the hearing examiner of a
conditional use permit pursuant to chapter 17 of this title and these
provisions;
      4.   Shall meet setbacks for the zoning district in which it is located;
      5.   Shall require a building permit;
      6.   Shall be located on the same lot as the principal residential
dwelling unit;
      7.   Shall provide for one parking space in addition to the minimum
required for the principal residential dwelling unit;
      8.   All parking for an ADU must be contained on-site. No parking is
allowed on the street.
      9.   Shall be prohibited on any lot less than one acre in size,
regardless of the applicable zoning district, unless on an Idaho Department of
Environmental Quality regulated community water system or municipal water
system, has approval from South Central Public Health District and obtains a
conditional use permit;
      10.   May be part of an accessory building containing other accessory
uses, as allowed in the zoning district provided that: a) the gross floor area
of the non-ADU portion of the accessory building does not exceed seventy five
percent (75%) of the gross floor area of the primary residence; b) the
accessory dwelling unit portion of the building satisfies all applicable
regulations; c) the floor area of the accessory dwelling unit and garage
associated therewith is separate and distinct from other accessory uses
contained within the same building.
   C.   Restrictions: All Tiny Homes on Wheels:
      1.   The proposed moveable Tiny Home on Wheels is licensed and registered
with the Idaho Transportation Department Division of Motor Vehicles.
      2.   The proposed moveable Tiny Home on Wheels has been certified by a
third-party inspection agency ie: NOAH or other agency approved by
Administrator as meeting ANSI A119.5 Standards 1 , NOAH ANSI+ Standards 2  and
standards in Section D.
      3.   The Tiny Home on Wheels shall be connected to the water and
wastewater system serving the primary residence, as inspected by the South
Central Public Health District (wastewater) and the State of Idaho Plumbing
Program (potable water connection).
      4.   Wheels may not be removed from the Tiny Home. Applicant/owner of the
Tiny Home on Wheels shall be responsible for placement of the Tiny Home on
Wheels per manufacturers specifications.
      5.   No exterior additions such as porches, lean-tos or sheds are
permitted, with the exception of factory-fabricated porches and decks lower
than eighteen inches (18") in height.
      6.   Tiny Homes on Wheels shall comply with 9-3-11.B.2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8 and
9, and 9-3-11C.1-6 to ensure standards are met. Zoning approval shall terminate
in five (5) years and may be renewed if the zoning standards at that time are
met. If Tiny Homes on Wheels are removed from Blaine County Code as an
allowable use, no structure shall be considered legally non-conforming.
   D.   ANSI + Standards: All Tiny Homes on Wheels: All Tiny Homes on Wheels
are required to meet the ANSI A119.5 Standards 3 , NOAH ANSI+ Standards 4  and
the following standards listed specific to Blaine County's climatic conditions.
      1.   Inspection Stages 1-5 of the most recent NOAH ANSI+ Standard
Inspection Guides 5  shall be certified complete and approved by NOAH and
submitted to the Blaine County Zoning Department.
      2.   Additional requirements based on Blaine County's climatic
conditions:
         a.   Minimum insulation R-values: Walls R-19, floors R-20 and roof /
ceiling R-28. Vapor retarders shall be in accordance with the International
Residential Code.
         b.   Windows and doors: Shall have a maximum .30 U-factor.
         c.   Roof Snow Load: Shall meet the site specific requirements set
forth in
7-1-3,(01), (M).
         d.   Skirting - Insulated skirting is required.
   E.   Sunset Provision: All references to Tiny Home on Wheels within
9-3-11 and
9-2-1 including all of Sections 9-3-11.C and 9-3-11.D. shall be effective from
5/17/2022 until 5/17/2027. It shall be null and void as of that date unless re-
adopted by ordinance. (Ord. 2022-03, 6-15-2022; Ord. 2021-09, 6-15-2021; Ord.
2011-01, 1-18-2011; Ord. 2007-02, 3-20-2007; Ord. 2006-11, 8-22-2006; Ord.
2006-08, 6-29-2006; Ord. 2004-04, 6-7-2004; Ord. 2001-08, 9-10-2001; Ord. 95-5,
4-3-1995; Ord. 2023-01, 1-3-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. American National Standards Institute ANSI 119.5 Standards: https://
  webstore.ansi.org/
2 2. NOAH ANSI 119.5 + Standards: http://noahcertified.org/
3 1. American National Standards Institute ANSI 119.5 Standards: https://
  webstore.ansi.org/
4 2. NOAH ANSI 119.5 + Standards: http://noahcertified.org/
5 2. NOAH ANSI 119.5 + Standards: http://noahcertified.org/
9-3-12: SETBACK FOR NEW COMMERCIAL AND LIGHT INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURES:
New commercial and light industrial structures or uses along Highway 75 shall
be set back a minimum of one hundred feet (100') from the property line. (Ord.
77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-3-13: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS (PUDs):
Planned unit developments may be allowed only in the following districts: R-10,
R-5, R-21/2, R-2, R-1, R-.4, R-1/4, RD, commercial, light industrial and heavy
industrial. Planned unit developments may be allowed in the A-20 district, but
only under the following circumstances:
   A. In a designated A-20 transferable development rights receiving area if,
as part of the PUD, development rights are being transferred to the site from a
TDR sending area to increase the maximum allowable density in the receiving
area (see sections
9-5-7 to
9-5-9 of this title), or
   B. When land zoned A-20 is contiguous to land in the same ownership that is
zoned R-5 or R-10, the base density of the A-20 parcel may be transferred to
the contiguous R-5 or R-10 land if development restrictions are placed on the
A-20 parcel to restrict all future residential and nonresidential development,
except that associated with agricultural purposes. (Ord. 2006-07, 6-29-2006;
Ord. 95-1, 1-9-1995)
9-3-14: DAYCARE FACILITIES:
   A. Intent: Blaine County recognizes that the need to establish reasonably
priced and closely located childcare facilities is a nationwide concern and is
being addressed throughout the country. In order for working parents to
continue working or because only a two (2) income family can maintain a
reasonable standard of living, parent(s) must be able to find affordable local
care for their children. This is not always available in the commercial area of
the cities where higher costs and less attractive physical facilities are
centered. In an effort to achieve an equitable balance between the private
property rights of neighbors and the community needs for childcare facilities,
this title is amended to provide a separate section to establish the county's
desire to accommodate such facilities. Blaine County recognizes that the impact
of initial and subsequent daycare facilities in a neighborhood may differ and
that subsequent daycare facilities in a neighborhood may create excessive noise
and traffic in residential areas requiring the denial of an application of a
conditional use permit for a daycare facility. By approving the concept of
childcare facilities in residential areas with appropriate limits, the county
is adding its recognition of the importance of childcare to the concerns being
expressed throughout the United States and sending a message of support for
this service within Blaine County.
   B. Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   DAYCARE CENTER: A home providing daycare for thirteen (13) or more children
under twelve (12) years of age.
   DAYCARE FACILITY: Means and includes a group daycare facility and a daycare
center.
   GROUP DAY CARE FACILITY: A home providing day care for five (5) to twelve
(12) children under twelve (12) years of age.
The number of children allowed in a group day care facility does not include
the care givers' own children and refers to the number of children during any
given time.
   C. Conditional Use:
      1. Prohibited In Light Or Heavy Industrial Districts: Any group day care
facility or day care center shall obtain a conditional use permit pursuant to
Chapter 25 of this Title. No day care facility may be established in either a
Light Industrial or Heavy Industrial District. Day care centers will be allowed
in only a General Commercial District.
      2. Standards Of Evaluation: The standards of evaluation set forth in
subsection
9-25-3A of this Title shall be evaluated before the issuance of any conditional
use permit for a day care facility except evidence of traffic generated by
vehicles dropping off and picking up children staying at a day care facility
will not be the controlling factor in the approval or denial of a conditional
use permit for a day care facility located in a residential or agricultural
district. Evidence of sounds made by children at a day care facility will not
be deemed "excessive noise" unless the noise on an effected landowner's
property is greater than sixty (60) dba. The point on a complaining neighbor's
property for measurement of noise will be the nearest side of the complaining
neighbor's house to the child care facility. Furthermore, the provisions set
forth in Section
9-3-1 of this Chapter shall not be considered in an application for a
conditional use permit for a day care facility. The occasional care of a
neighbor's, relative's or friend's child or children by a person not ordinarily
in the business of child care shall not be considered a conditional use and
will not require a conditional use permit.
      3. Procedures: The procedures for a conditional use permit set forth in
Sections
9-25-2,
9-25-4,
9-25-5,
9-25-6,
9-25-7 and
9-25-9 of this Title shall apply in any application for a conditional use
permit for any child care facility.
      4. Requirements And Standards To Be Continued: Any approved day care
facility shall continue to meet the requirements and standards of a conditional
use permit for a day care facility and failure to continue to meet the
requirements and standards shall result in the revocation of a conditional use
permit for a day care facility. Existing day care facilities which are sold or
otherwise transferred to another individual or entity shall obtain a new
conditional use permit and licenses.
      5. Expiration: Each conditional use permit for a day care facility shall
expire after two (2) years unless the Commission has previously granted a
lesser expiration period. Thirty (30) days before any expiration period, the
applicant shall notify the Administrator who will review the conditional use
permit for compliance with this Title and with any previously imposed
conditions. If deemed necessary by the Administrator, the Commission shall hear
public comment and review the conditional use permit pursuant to the standards
of this Title. No fee is required for renewal of a conditional use permit.
   D. Mandatory Requirements:
      1. State Basic Day Care License: Any approved day care facility shall
comply with the provisions of Idaho Code, chapter 11, title 39, and any
approved day care facility shall obtain and maintain a current basic day care
license from the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare pursuant to Idaho Code,
chapter 11, title 39. A basic day care license shall be renewed every two (2)
years and proof of renewal shall be furnished to the Blaine County Planning and
Zoning Office.
      2. Radon Test: Any approved day care facility shall submit to a radon
test and show proof indicating radon levels for the facility below four (4)
pico curies per liter. A radon test will be conducted at the lowest level of
the facility at which the children will normally be in attendance. A new radon
test showing compliance with the standards stated herein will be required
before renewal of a conditional use permit.
      3. Hours Of Operation In Residential And Agricultural Zones: Any approved
group day care facility in residential and agricultural zones shall operate
only on Monday through Friday between the hours of six thirty o'clock (6:30)
A.M. and six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M. The maximum number of children in any
group day care facility on weekdays shall not exceed twelve (12) children at
any one time nor more than eighteen (18) children between six thirty o'clock
(6:30) A.M. and six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M. Group day care facilities in
residential and agricultural zones may provide day care for no more than four
(4) children during any one day on weekends or on Federal and state holidays
and for no more than four (4) children on weekdays between six thirty o'clock
(6:30) P.M. and six thirty o'clock (6:30) A.M. All children in group daycare
facilities on weekends or federal and state holidays shall remain indoors until
ten o'clock (10:00) A.M.
      4. Weekends And Holidays: Except as provided herein, any approved daycare
facility shall not operate on a Saturday, Sunday and federal or state holidays.
      5. Exterior Play Areas: Any approved daycare facility with exterior play
areas for children shall be fenced if the facility is near major roads or water
hazards, or if deemed necessary for the safety of the children.
      6. Parking Facilities: Any approved daycare facility shall provide
adequate and safe parking facilities for pick up and drop off of children and
shall not create any traffic hazards. If deemed necessary, the conditions for
parking and prevention of traffic hazards may include, but are not limited to,
paving, lighting, snow removal and installing reflectors and safety signs.
      7. Signs: Any approved daycare facility shall not post any sign for
advertisement purposes.
      8. Inspections: Any approved daycare facility must consent to unannounced
inspections by the staff of the Blaine County planning and zoning department to
determine whether the facility is complying with the conditions of any
conditional use permit for a daycare facility.
      9. Health District Approval: Any approved daycare facility must obtain a
letter of approval from the South Central health district.
      10. Actions By Commission: The conditions set forth in section
9-25-5 of this title may be attached to any conditional use permit for a
daycare facility.
      11. CPR On Premises: Any approved daycare facility shall ensure that
there is at least one person on the premises who has attended and completed a
basic cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) course and has received a current
certificate of completion for the CPR course.
      12. Smoking: Any approved daycare facility shall not allow smoking on the
premises when children are in attendance.
      13. List Of Children And Pertinent Information: Any approved daycare
facility shall post in a conspicuous place a current list with the child's
name, age, home address and parent's or custodian's home and work phone
numbers.
Failure to maintain any of the conditions set forth in this subsection may be
reviewed by the commission and may result in the revocation of a conditional
use permit for a daycare facility.
   E. Enforcement: Operation of a daycare facility without a conditional use
permit or in violation of an issued conditional use permit is a misdemeanor and
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that such a violation continues shall constitute a
separate criminal offense. Any landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder, public
official or other person who commits, participates in, assists in or maintains
such violation may be found guilty of a misdemeanor.
   F. Disclaimer: The issuance of a conditional use permit for any daycare
facility shall not constitute a representation or affirmance to any person that
the facility is free from risk with regard to the standards under state law,
county ordinance or as a condition of a conditional use permit. The county, its
political subdivisions and its employees or agents shall not be liable for nor
shall a cause of action exist for any loss or damage based upon the failure of
any person or daycare facility to meet the standards under state law, county
ordinance or as a condition of a conditional use permit. (Ord. 88-5, 1-12-1989;
Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-3-15: ROAD AND DRIVEWAY ACCESS STANDARDS FOR EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A. All new driveways or roads, public or private, which are located on the
applicant's property, shall be provided and maintained in accordance with the
provisions of the international fire code fire apparatus access road standards,
as may be amended and adopted by the state of Idaho or the county of Blaine.
Aggrieved parties may appeal the decision of the applicable fire chief, fire
code official or building official to the appointed board of appeals as set
forth in the applicable Blaine County fire protection ordinance.
   B. All new driveways or roads, public or private, across hillside slopes
that exceed twenty five percent (25%) shall be constructed in accordance with
the standards set forth in chapter 21, "Mountain Overlay District (M)", of this
title.
   C. Fire apparatus access roads standards in the fire code is amended to
provide the exception as follows: When fire apparatus access roadways cannot be
installed due to topography, waterways, nonnegotiable grades or other similar
conditions, one single-family structure under one thousand two hundred (1,200)
square feet may be allowed, provided spark arresters, clearance from
surrounding vegetation, noncombustible roof materials and required fire control
equipment are used, and further provided, that all other requirements contained
in this title and title 10 of this code have been met. (Ord. 2006-15, 10-26-
2006; Ord. 91-15, 11-25-1991)
9-3-16: WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES:
9-3-16-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose and intent of this section
9-3-16 is to provide for an appropriate method of review, evaluation and
decision upon conditional use permit applications for wireless communication
facilities, provide for the timely processing of applications, and preserve
community values expressed in the comprehensive plan. These regulations seek to
preserve the natural beauty as exhibited by the mountainous terrain that is the
cornerstone of Blaine County's recreation industry, and ensures a quality of
life that is important to the county's residents. Blaine County derives many of
its community values and environmental quality from the way it appears to
residents, visitors and those passing through. These regulations recognize that
the location, siting and design of wireless communication facilities is first
and foremost a land use issue, which considers the impact of wireless
communication facilities on the surrounding natural and manmade environments.
The goals of this section
9-3-16 are to: a) allow for various types of wireless communications facilities
subject to location, siting and design standards; b) require wireless
communication facilities to be sited in a manner that eliminates to the
greatest extent possible, the visual impact of wireless communication
facilities; c) promote wireless communications facilities that are compatible
with surrounding land uses; d) protect the beauty of the natural environment by
eliminating the potential visual blight of wireless communication facilities to
the greatest extent possible; and e) safeguard the health, safety, general
welfare, and property values of the community.
These wireless communication facility regulations are consistent with the
limitations of section 704 of the telecommunications act, as adopted by the
U.S. congress, that defines personal wireless services and personal wireless
service facilities and preserves local zoning authority over decisions
regarding the placement, construction, and modification of personal wireless
service facilities except for five (5) limitations. The first limitation is
that a local government shall not unreasonably discriminate among providers of
functionally equivalent services. The second limitation is that a local
government shall not prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the provision
of personal wireless services. The third limitation is that a local government
shall act on any request for authorization to place, construct, or modify
personal wireless service facilities within a reasonable period of time after
the request is filed. The fourth limitation is that a local government shall
put any decision to deny a personal wireless service facility into writing and
support such decision by substantial evidence contained in a written record.
The fifth limitation is that a local government shall not regulate personal
wireless service facilities on the basis of the environmental effects of radio
frequency emission to the extent that such facilities comply with the federal
communication guidelines. Section 704 of the telecommunications act does not
pertain to radio and broadcast facilities, which are subject to local zoning
regulations. It is the intent of Blaine County that these regulations apply
uniformly to wireless communication facilities and broadcast service facilities
as they have similar visual impacts on the surrounding area. (Ord. 2001-09, 10-
1-2001)
9-3-16-2: DEFINITIONS:
ANTENNA: A whip (omnidirectional antenna), panel (directional antenna), disc
(parabolic antenna) or similar device used for transmission and/or reception of
radio frequency signals.
ANTENNA ARRAY: One or more whips, panels, discs, or similar devices used for
the transmission or reception of radio frequency signals, which may include
omnidirectional antennas (whips), directional antennas (panels), and parabolic
antennas (discs). The antenna array does not include the "mount" as defined
herein.
APPLICANT: The applicant for a WCF shall include the property owner, all
personal wireless or broadcast service providers that will locate on the WCF,
and the owner of the mount if different than the service providers or property
owner.
BROADCAST SERVICE FACILITIES: A facility that transmits and/or receives
broadcast signals for television and/or radio. Broadcast service facilities
include antennas, microwave dishes, parabolic antennas, directional antennas
and other types of equipment for the transmission or receipt of broadcast
signals; towers or other structures supporting the equipment; equipment
buildings, shelters, cabinets; parking area, and other accessory development.
CAMOUFLAGE: To disguise, mask or alter the appearance of a WCF so as to obscure
the identity or true nature of the facility.
CARRIER: A company licensed by the federal communications commission (FCC) that
provides wireless services. A tower builder is not a carrier.
CELLULAR: A form of personal wireless services operating in the 800 MHz
spectrum, or its successor technology.
COLLOCATION: The use of a common mount or common site by two (2) or more
wireless license holders or by one wireless license holder for more than one
type of communications technology as well as placement of two (2) or more WCFs
on adjacent properties.
COMMERCIAL MOBILE RADIO SERVICES (CMRS): Pursuant to section 704 of the
telecommunications act of 1996, any of several technologies using radio signals
at various frequencies to send and receive voice, data and video; a form of
personal wireless services. According to the FCC, these services are
"functionally equivalent services". Section 704 of the telecommunications act
prohibits unreasonable discrimination among functionally equivalent services.
CONCEAL: To enclose a WCF within a natural or manmade feature resulting in the
facility being either invisible or made part of the feature enclosing it.
DISGUISE: See definition of Camouflage.
ELEVATION: The measurement of height above mean sea level.
ENHANCED SPECIALIZED MOBILE RADIO (ESMR): Private land mobile radio with
telephone services.
EQUIPMENT CABINET/EQUIPMENT SHELTER: An enclosed structure at the base of the
mount within which are housed the equipment for the WCF such as batteries and
electrical equipment.
FALL ZONE: The area within a prescribed radius from the base of a WCF. The fall
zone is the area within which there might be a potential hazard from falling
debris or a collapsing mount.
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC): An independent federal agency charged
with licensing and regulating wireless communications at the national level.
FUNCTIONALLY EQUIVALENT SERVICES: Forms of personal wireless services including
cellular, PCS, enhanced specialized mobile radio, specialized mobile radio and
paging. Section 704 of the telecommunications act prohibits unreasonable
discrimination among functionally equivalent services.
HEIGHT: The distance measured from above ground level to the highest point of a
WCF, including the antenna array. For purposes of measuring height, all
antennas or other attachments mounted on a structure shall be included in the
measurements to determine overall combined height.
LICENSED CARRIER: Any party authorized by the FCC to operate in an assigned
frequency.
MONOPOLE: The shape of mount that is self supporting with a single shaft of
wood, steel or concrete.
MOUNT: The structure or surface upon which antennas are mounted, e.g.:
   A.Roof Mounted: Mounted on the roof of a building;
   B.Side Mounted: Mounted on the side of a building;
   C.Ground Mounted: Mounted on a monopole, mast, pole or tower;
   D.Structure Mounted: Mounted on a structure other than a building.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITY: Facility for the provision of personal
wireless services, as defined by section 704 of the telecommunications act of
1996. A personal wireless service facility is any unstaffed facility for the
transmission and/or reception of personal wireless services, usually consisting
of an antenna array, transmission cables, equipment shelter and a mount.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES: Any personal wireless service defined in the
federal telecommunications act which includes federal communications commission
(FCC) licensed commercial wireless telecommunications services including, but
not limited to, cellular, personal communications services (PCS), specialized
mobile radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobile radio (ESMR), paging as well as
unlicensed wireless services, and common carrier wireless exchange access
services.
PUBLIC EMERGENCY SERVICE AGENCY: Any public agency directly responsible for
providing police, fire, safety, ambulance, or emergency medical care services
to the public.
RADIO FREQUENCY (RF) ENGINEER: A professionally trained, licensed electrical or
microwave engineer who specializes in the study of radio frequencies.
RADIO FREQUENCY (RF) SIGNAL: The actual beam or radio waves sent and received
by a WCF. A signal contains RF emissions.
RADIO FREQUENCY RADIATION (RFR): The emissions from a WCF that can, in
excessive amounts, be harmful to humans. RF emissions are part of the RF
signal.
REFERENCE ROAD: Any federal public road, state highway or road, or county road
designated as graded and drained, or higher improvement designation, on the
official county highway map, located within Blaine County.
SECURITY BARRIER: A locked, impenetrable wall, fence or berm that completely
seals an area from unauthorized entry or trespass.
SPECIALIZED MOBILE RADIO (SMR): A form of dispatch or two-way communication
used by companies that rent space or time from an SMR carrier, a form of
personal wireless service. Used primarily for data, delivery vans, truckers or
taxis within a small, definable geographic area.
TOWER: A generic term used to describe a mount used for the attachment of
antenna, microwave communication equipment, parabolic antennas, directional
antennas and other types of equipment for the transmission or receipt of RF
signals.
UNLICENSED WIRELESS SERVICES: Commercial mobile services, a form of personal
wireless services, that can operate on public domain frequencies and therefore
need no FCC license for their sites.
UTILITY POLE: A telephone pole, utility distribution pole, streetlight or
traffic signal stanchion, that is commonly used in Blaine County to provide
telephone service, cable television, electricity or light. A monopole is not a
utility pole.
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY (WCF): A facility that transmits and/or
receives electromagnetic signals for voice, data, image, graphic and other
information, including antennas, microwave dishes, parabolic antennas,
directional antennas and other types of equipment for the transmission or
receipt of such signals; towers or other structures supporting the equipment;
equipment buildings, shelters, cabinets; parking area, and other accessory
development. WCFs include, but are not limited to, personal wireless services
and facilities as defined by section 704 of the telecommunications act of 1996,
and broadcast service facilities. (Ord. 2001-09, 10-1-2001)
9-3-16-3: ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
The placement, use or modification of a WCF as allowed by law within
unincorporated Blaine County, is subject to the provisions of this title. A WCF
shall be a conditional use in each residential, agricultural, recreational,
commercial and industrial zone in the county, unless a written categorical
exclusion from the conditional use permit process has been granted by the
administrator as provided in section
9-3-16-7 of this chapter. A WCF located within a designated overlay district is
also subject to the requirements of said overlay district as set forth in this
title. (Ord. 2001-09, 10-1-2001; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-3-2023)
9-3-16-4: REQUIREMENTS FOR EXISTING WCFs:
   A. An existing WCF that is constructed and is being operated in compliance
with a conditional use permit issued by the county on or before October 10,
2001, the effective date of Blaine County ordinance 2001-09, shall constitute a
lawful nonconforming structure and use to the extent said WCF does not conform
to the requirements of this section
9-3-16. Said WCF shall be governed by the terms of said permit and chapter 27,
"Nonconforming Uses And Buildings", of this title.
   B. Any expansion, addition, alteration, modification and/or change to a
county approved WCF, including collocation by another carrier, requires a
conditional use permit unless categorically excluded and is subject to the
requirements of this section
9-3-16.
   C. Any existing WCF improvements that are not in compliance with a valid
conditional use permit or categorical exclusion, or WCFs that have been
constructed without a valid conditional use permit or categorical exclusion,
are subject to the enforcement measures as set forth in section
9-32-5 of this title, and may be removed by the county at the expense of the
owner of the mount, service provider, and/or property owner.
   D. A WCF that has been damaged or destroyed by natural causes may be
restored as set forth in chapter 27 of this title, except when the surrounding
screening vegetation or other aspects of the site that were the basis of the
approval of the conditional use permit or categorical exclusion are so damaged
that the site cannot be reasonably restored to its previous condition. In which
case, no grandfathered rights run with the WCF, and any new WCF shall comply
with this section
9-3-16.
   E. Any personal wireless or broadcast service provider with an existing WCF
(s) in Blaine County, including within the incorporated cities, or on state or
federally administered lands, may be required to demonstrate that they have
obtained necessary permits from the governing jurisdiction, by providing an
accounting of said facilities and permits issued, before any conditional use
permit application or categorical exclusion request for an additional WCF for
that carrier is certified as complete by Blaine County. As part of the
application process, agency comment from the governing jurisdiction in which
the existing WCF is located may be sought. If the jurisdiction does not respond
within thirty (30) days of said request, the application for the new WCF may be
certified as complete, provided all other submittal requirements have been
satisfied. (Ord. 2014-05, 10-27-2014)
9-3-16-5: WCFs LOCATED WITHIN THE MOUNTAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT ("MOD"):
In addition to satisfying the requirements set forth in chapter 21 of this
title, WCFs located within the mountain overlay district ("MOD") shall also be
subject to the following requirements:
   A. New WCF sites in the MOD shall be served by existing roads to the
greatest extent possible.
   B. When it is not possible to access a new WCF site in the MOD from an
existing road, the applicant may be required to construct and maintain the site
without the benefit of a new road when the site can safely be reached by either
all wheel drive vehicles that do not produce visual scarring, or by helicopter,
and approval from the applicable fire authority is obtained. (Ord. 2001-09, 10-
1-2001)
9-3-16-6: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A. Conditional Use Permit: It shall be unlawful to construct, install, site
or operate a new WCF, or modify, add onto, or alter an existing WCF, or
collocate a new antenna, support structure(s) or WCF at an existing site,
unless the applicants have either obtained a conditional use permit in
accordance with this section, or the Administrator has determined in writing
pursuant to section
9-3-16-7 of this chapter that the proposed construction, installation,
placement, addition and/or modification of the WCF falls within a categorical
exclusion as provided herein. A conditional use permit or a written categorical
exclusion is required prior to issuance of a building permit. If a licensed
carrier or service provider is seeking to locate WCFs on more than one site, a
conditional use permit application or categorical exclusion request for each
site is required. The Administrator may, at his/her discretion, require
applications by the same carrier for multiple sites, or application(s) for
multiple carriers at the same site, to be heard simultaneously by the
commission or hearing examiner. The standards of evaluation contained in
section
9-25-3 of this title shall not apply to WCFs.
   B. Building Permit: It shall be unlawful to commence construction on any new
WCF, or modify, alter or add an antenna to an existing WCF, without having
first obtained a valid written building permit as may be required under the
Building Code as adopted by Blaine County.
   C. Exclusion From Permit Requirements: This section
9-3-16 shall not govern:
      1. The installation of television satellite dish antennas for personal
use when attached to a residential or commercial structure.
      2. The installation of amateur radio facilities that are owned and
operated by a Federally licensed amateur radio station operator, or are used
exclusively for noncommercial, receive only antennas. Any WCF which is attached
to an amateur radio facility antenna apparatus is subject to the requirements
of this section
9-3-16.
      3. Routine maintenance of a WCF, but not the replacement of any support
structure apparatus, antennas or any exterior alteration of the WCF or any
component thereof. (Ord. 2014-05, 10-27-2014; Ord. 2001-09, 10-1-2001)
9-3-16-7: CATEGORICAL EXCLUSIONS:
   A. Exclusions: The conditional use permit application requirements of this
section
9-3-16 shall not apply to the following, provided the applicant and coapplicant
(s), prior to construction, placement or modification of a WCF, first obtain a
written decision from the Administrator, in consultation with the County
Engineer, or other qualified person designated by the County, that the proposed
action falls within and meets one of the following categorical exclusions. The
processing fee established by resolution of the Board shall accompany each
written request for a categorical exclusion. Fees resulting from the technical
review by the County Engineer, or other qualified person designated by the
County, are the responsibility of the applicant, and shall be paid prior to the
Administrator rendering a decision as provided herein. Proposals that qualify
for a categorical exclusion shall demonstrate compliance to the mandatory
siting and design standards as set forth in this section
9-3-16.
      1. Replacement or upgrade of equipment by a valid conditional use permit
holder at an existing WCF, provided the existing equipment is replaced with
equipment of equal or greater technical capacity and is equal to or reduced in
size so as to minimize the visual impact.
      2. Addition of antenna(s) and support structure(s) onto an existing
County approved mount that is fully concealed within a structure or building,
provided that the additional equipment will not result in any visible change to
the exterior of the structure or building, and the structure or building is
engineered to accommodate the additional antennas.
      3. The temporary testing and placement of a WCF for the purpose of
determining the feasibility of a site, provided the testing and placement of
the WCF does not exceed thirty (30) days from the date testing commences, and
the site is restored to its previous conditions.
      4. The Administrator may, after consultation with the Governing Board,
waive all or parts of the requirements of this section
9-3-16 for an application for a WCF made by a public emergency service agency
for temporary structures needed on an emergency basis, upon a demonstration by
the Public Service Agency that communications needed to ensure the prompt and
efficient response to public health, safety and welfare cannot be accomplished
without such a waiver.
      5. For a WCF located in the Mountain Overlay District:
         a. Addition or replacement of antenna(s) and fixtures accessory
thereto, such as cables, ice shields and similar fixtures, onto an existing
mount if the antenna and accessory fixtures do not exceed the mount height and
do not extend more than ten feet (10') beyond the footprint of the mount.
(Additional mounts or extensions of mounts shall not be categorically
excluded.)
         b. One equipment shelter serving each tower which does not exceed six
hundred twenty five (625) square feet in floor area, and a maximum height of
fifteen feet (15').
   B. Administrator's Review Of Categorical Exclusions: The Administrator, in
consultation with the County Engineer, or other qualified person as designated
by the County, shall review all written requests for determinations of
categorical exclusions under this section, and promulgate appropriate forms to
be used for such requests. The applicant shall have the burden of demonstrating
that the proposed development proposal falls within and meets the requirements
of a categorical exclusion. The Administrator shall issue a written decision
within thirty one (31) days of receipt of an application for determination of
categorical exclusion. The Administrator, prior to issuance of his/her
decision, may request additional information from the applicant, including,
without limitation, technical review from the County Engineer or other
qualified person designated by the County. Said technical review shall be at
the applicant's expense. Failure to provide such requested information within
sixty (60) days of request shall be grounds for denial of the request for
determination of categorical exclusion. The thirty one (31) day time period for
issuance of the Administrator's decision shall begin to run anew following the
date of the Administrator's receipt of additional information from the
applicant. Such period also shall be tolled during any periods that the
Administrator does not have reasonably safe access to the site of the proposed
development. Any person aggrieved by the written decision of the Administrator
as to a categorical exclusion may appeal the Administrator's decision to the
Board, according to the procedures and time requirements of section
9-32-3 of this title. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-13-2018; Ord. 2014-05, 10-27-2014; Ord.
2001-09, 10-1-2001)
9-3-16-8: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT PROCEDURE:
Application for a conditional use permit shall be made on a form furnished by
the Administrator and shall be filed by the applicant and coapplicant(s),
consisting of the property owner, all personal wireless or broadcast service
provider(s) that will locate on the WCF, and the owner of the mount if
different than the service providers or property owner. The application fee
established by resolution of the Board shall accompany each application. Fees
resulting from the technical review by the County Engineer or other qualified
person as designated by the County are the responsibility of the applicant, and
shall be paid prior to public hearing. No application shall be certified as
complete unless it includes the following minimum information in sufficient
detail for the commission or hearing examiner to determine compliance with the
standards of evaluation as set forth in section
9-3-16-12 of this chapter. Based upon site specific circumstances, and upon
appropriate findings, the commission or hearing examiner may require additional
information in order to render a decision on an application. Further, the
Administrator may waive certain submittal requirements based upon site specific
conditions and appropriate findings.
   A. Application: The application shall include at a minimum:
      1. Name, address and telephone number of applicant and all coapplicants
as well as any agents for the applicant or coapplicants. When the application
involves the placement of a WCF on a utility pole or mount, and the utility
pole or mount is situated on privately owned property, the property owner shall
be a coapplicant. If the utility pole or mount is situated within an easement,
written approval of the easement holder is required.
      2. Signatures for the applicant and all coapplicants applying for the
conditional use permit to verify the application is true and correct. If the
applicant and/or coapplicant is represented by an agent, signature authorizing
the agent to represent the applicant and/or coapplicant is required.
      3. A complete legal description of the land on which the WCF will be
sited, by lot, block, tract or metes and bounds description, and street
address, or similar description that will readily identify and definitively
locate the proposed site. A vicinity map shall be included.
      4. Zoning designation of subject property including any overlay
districts.
      5. Reserved.
      6. Written input from the applicable Rural Fire District, or the County
Fire Marshal if the parcel is located outside an established fire district,
addressing compliance with fire protection requirements.
      7. A parcel map drawn to scale showing the subject property, and all
properties within one thousand feet (1,000') of the project location, and the
approximate location and approximate height of all buildings, including
accessory structures, within one thousand feet (1,000') of the project
location. Map shall include owners' names.
      8. A list of the names and addresses of all property owners and residents
within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being
considered. Names and addresses shall also be provided on mailing labels.
      9. Map showing access to the proposed site from a public road, including
the names and addresses of intervening private and public landowners.
      10. Map indicating existing locations and service areas of other WCF
sites operated by the applicant and area to be served by the proposed WCF both
within and outside of Blaine County.
      11. Sufficient information to accurately identify and locate the proposed
site, provided in digital format compatible with the county geographic
information system.
      12. Applications for a collocation mount shall provide at least two (2)
letters of intent from carriers to collocate on the mount, and said carriers
shall be coapplicants.
      13. A copy of the FCC construction permit;
   B. Site Plan: Site plan drawn to scale of no less than one inch equals
twenty feet (1"=20'), specifying the following:
      1. Dimensions: Property lines with dimensions, existing structures, land
uses and zoning on the subject property;
      2. Adjacent Land: Land uses, structures and zoning on all land adjacent
to the subject property;
      3. Representations: Representations, dimensioned and to scale, of the
proposed mount, antenna and support structure(s), equipment shelters, cable
runs, utilities, parking areas and any other construction or development
pertinent to the WCF;
      4. Circulation: Adjacent roadways, ingress and egress from said roadways
and parking including temporary or permanent roads and driveways;
      5. Fences, Signs, Lighting And Drainage: Fences, signs, exterior lighting
and storm drainage;
      6. Security Barrier: Proposed security barrier, indicating type and
extent, as well as point of controlled entry;
      7. Use Restrictions: Existing watercourses, utility lines, easements,
deed restrictions and other built or natural features restricting the use of
the subject property;
      8. Distances: Distances, at grade, from the proposed WCF to each building
on the site plan;
      9. Topographic Study: A topographic study by a licensed surveyor may be
required based upon site specific conditions;
      10. Scale And Legend: North arrow, scale and legend;
   C. Landscape Plan: Landscape plan drawn to scale of no less than one inch
equals twenty feet (1"=20'), specifying the following: (Note: The landscape
plan may be waived when the WCF is to be attached to a building or utility pole
and the equipment is located either within the building or underground.):
      1. Existing and proposed landscaping, indicating size, location, quantity
and species of vegetation;
      2. Indication of existing vegetation to be removed, retained or
disturbed;
      3. Grade changes, or cuts and fills, to be shown as original grade and
new grade line, with two foot (2') contours;
      4. Photographs of the proposed site taken from various vantage points
such as neighboring properties, nearest reference roads, Wood River trail
system and State Highway 75, sufficient to demonstrate compliance with
subsection
9-3-16-12B1 of this chapter;
   D. Design Information:
      1. Equipment brochures for the proposed WCF such as manufacturer's
specifications or trade journal reprints. Information shall be provided for the
antenna and support structure(s), mounts, equipment shelters, cables as well as
cable runs, and security barrier, if any.
      2. Materials for the proposed WCF specified by generic type and specific
treatment (e.g., anodized aluminum, stained wood, galvanized steel, painted
fiberglass, etc.). Information shall be provided for the antenna and support
structure(s), mounts, equipment shelters, cables as well as cable runs, and
security barrier, if any.
      3. Colors of the proposed WCF represented by a color board showing actual
colors proposed. Colors shall be provided for the antenna and support structure
(s), mounts, equipment shelters, cables as well as cable runs, and security
barrier, if any.
      4. Dimensions of the WCF specified for all three (3) directions: height,
width and breadth. These shall be provided for the antenna and support
structure(s), mounts, equipment shelters and security barrier, if any.
      5. Appearance shown by at least two (2) photo simulations and elevation
drawings of the WCF within the subject property. The photo simulations shall
include the antenna and support structure(s), mounts, equipment shelters,
cables as well as cable runs, and security barrier, if any, for the total
height, width and breadth of the site.
      6. Photo simulations of the proposed WCF from reference roads, Wood River
trail system, and State Highway 75 as it passes through the municipalities.
      7. When locating a new antenna array on an existing mount, sufficient
information depicting the total visual impact of the entire mount shall be
provided.
   E. Additional Information Required:
      1. Other Existing Facilities: If the proposed facility involves an
applicant who has other existing facilities within Blaine County, an accounting
of said facilities, and copies of permits issued by governing jurisdictions,
may be required, as determined appropriate by the administrator.
      2. Provide Master Plan If Part Of Networked System: When the proposed WCF
is part of a networked system, the applicants shall provide a master plan that
describes all major components of the network (location and general description
of antennas and support structures, and switching hub) that are located either
in Blaine County, or within one mile of the exterior county boundary, and
indicate:
         a. What components are existing;
         b. Whether the components are owned by the applicant or are used by
agreement with other service providers;
         c. How the proposed WCF fits within the carrier's network design;
         d. When proposed components will be completed and/or operational;
         e. The potential expansion of their system within Blaine County over
the next five (5) years including the general location of future facilities,
and a description of the type of facilities contemplated.
      3. Alternative Analysis Required: A narrative and graphic representation
of two (2) less visually obtrusive alternative proposals for the WCF facility
in terms of location, siting, height, and/or design each of which complies with
the provisions of this section
9-3-16 is required. Such alternatives shall be substantially different from the
primary proposal. The application shall not be certified as complete unless the
alternative analysis comparison has been provided to the county. WCFs that are
determined by the administrator to qualify as categorical exclusions under
section
9-3-16-7 of this chapter are exempt from the analysis and comparison
requirement.
      4. Narrative: If the application involves the development of a single
user mount and/or site, the applicant shall provide a narrative explaining why
the proposed WCF cannot be located on an existing mount for which a conditional
use permit has been issued by the county.
      5. Written Agency Comment: Written agency comment from appropriate
agencies as determined necessary by the administrator including, but not
limited to, the federal aviation administration, Idaho transportation
department aeronautical division, Blaine County recreation district and Idaho
transportation department. (Ord. 2014-05, 10-27-2014; Ord. 2001-09, 10-1-2001)
9-3-16-9: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW OF APPLICATION:
Upon receipt of the application, the administrator shall review the application
submittal for compliance to the submittal requirements set forth herein. Once
it has been determined by the administrator that the submittal requirements
have been satisfied, the administrator shall certify the application as
complete and place the application on the agenda of the next available regular
meeting of the commission or hearing examiner wherein legal notice requirements
can be satisfied. No application shall be certified as complete unless it
includes information in sufficient detail for the commission or hearing
examiner to determine compliance with the standards of evaluation as set forth
in section
9-3-16-12 of this chapter. In the event the application is not complete, the
administrator shall advise the applicant of the corrective action needed. In
the event the data required for the administrator to certify the application as
complete is not filed within one hundred eighty (180) days from the date the
application was filed with Blaine County planning office, the application shall
be null and void. One time only, the administrator, at his/her discretion, may
approve one extension of time within which materials may be submitted upon
receipt of a written request by the applicant giving in detail the reason
additional time is required to file said data. When the administrator approves
an extension to submit materials under this section, said approval shall be in
writing and for a specific period of time not to exceed forty five (45) days.
(Ord. 2001-09, 10-1-2001)
9-3-16-10: PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Notice requirements for a conditional use permit application for a WCF shall be
satisfied as set forth in section
9-25-4 of this title. (Ord. 2001-09, 10-1-2001)
9-3-16-11: COMMISSION OR HEARING EXAMINER REVIEW AND ACTION:
Decisions shall be based on the standards of evaluation as set forth in section
9-3-16-12 of this chapter. The standards of evaluation contained in section
9-25-3 of this title are not applicable to WCFs. Review of the application and
receipt of public input shall be conducted at a duly noticed public hearing as
set forth in section
9-25-4 of this title. The commission or hearing examiner may order the hearing
to be continued up to thirty one (31) days at the same place, in which case no
further published notice shall be required, other than that requested by the
commission or hearing examiner. Continuation beyond thirty one (31) days shall
require further published notice, according to section
9-25-4 of this title. The commission or hearing examiner shall approve, approve
with conditions, or deny said application, making appropriate findings to
support the decision. The commission or hearing examiner shall enter an order
or adopt its written findings of fact and decision within thirty one (31) days
after the action is taken by the commission or hearing examiner. The granting
of the conditional use permit shall not be considered as establishing a binding
precedent to grant other conditional use permits. A conditional use permit is
not transferable from one parcel of land to another. (Ord. 2001-09, 10-1-2001)
9-3-16-12: STANDARDS OF EVALUATION:
The applicant has the burden of demonstrating compliance with each of the
following standards of evaluation as set forth in this section. The commission
or hearing examiner shall review the application and determine if there is
substantial evidence in the record to make a finding that either the proposal
complies with each of the following standards of evaluation, or the specific
standard is not applicable to the application:
   A. Threshold Standards:
      1. Applicant Review: The commission or hearing examiner may consider
whether existing WCFs operated by the applicant in Blaine County, including
within the incorporated cities, or on state or federally administered lands by
a permittee, have obtained necessary permits from the governing jurisdiction,
before any new permit for the applicant is granted. If the applicant has not
obtained the required permits from the appropriate jurisdiction, the commission
or hearing examiner may require the applicant to obtain other required permits
as a condition of approval for any new permit issued by the county.
      2. Alternative Sites: Alternative site and/or design studies provided by
the applicant shall demonstrate that reasonable consideration has been given to
such alternative sites and/or designs, and the proposal is the preferred
alternative when considered in light of the purposes and intent of this
chapter.
      3. Conditional Use Permit: If the applicant or landowner with respect to
an application for a conditional use permit under this section is the state of
Idaho, or any agency, board, department, institution, or district thereof, the
commission or the board, in addition to all other applicable standards and
criteria hereunder, shall take into account the plans and needs of the state,
or any agency, board, department, institution or district thereof, as required
by Idaho Code 67-6528.
      4. Height Limitations:
         a. In the R-1/4 (high density residential district), R-.4 (medium
density residential district), R-1 (low density residential district), R-2
(planned residential development district), R-21/2 (rural residential
district), R-5 (residential/agricultural district), RD (recreation development
district), FP (floodplain overlay district), C (general commercial district),
and LI (light industrial district) zoning districts, the WCF, including all
attachments thereto, shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') as measured from
ground level to the highest point of the structure, including all attachments
thereto, except:
            (1) When roof mounted on a nonresidential building, the WCF may
exceed the thirty five foot (35') height limitation by a maximum of ten feet
(10');
            (2) When attached to a utility pole the WCF may exceed the height
of the utility pole by no more than ten feet (10'); (see also subsection C of
this section);
            (3) In the LI, C and RD zoning districts, the WCF may exceed the
thirty five foot (35') height limitation when it is located within a dense
growth of trees of similar height;
         b. In the HI (heavy industrial district), the WCF shall not exceed
forty five feet (45') as measured from ground level to the highest point of the
structure including all attachments thereto, except:
            (1) When roof mounted on a nonresidential building, the WCF may
exceed the forty five foot (45') height limitation by a maximum of ten feet
(10');
            (2) When attached to a utility pole the WCF may exceed the height
of the utility pole by no more than ten feet (10'); (see also subsection C of
this section);
            (3) When it is located within a dense growth of trees of similar
height;
         c. In the A-20 and A-40 (productive agricultural zoning districts) and
R-10 (rural residential district) and RR-40 (rural remote district), WCFs shall
not exceed forty feet (40') in height as measured from ground level to the
highest point of the structure, including all attachments thereto, except:
            (1) When roof mounted on a nonresidential building, the WCF may
exceed the forty foot (40') height limitation by a maximum of ten feet (10');
            (2) When attached to a utility pole the WCF may exceed the height
of the utility pole by no more than ten feet (10'); (see also subsection C of
this section);
            (3) When attached to an existing agriculturally related building
which exceeds forty feet (40'), provided the WCF does not exceed the height of
the structure;
            (4) When it is located within a dense growth of trees of similar
height;
         d. WCFs located in the mountain overlay district shall not exceed the
height of any existing WCF at the site, as measured from ground level to the
highest point of the WCF, including all attachments thereto.
      5. Setback Requirements:
         a. Freestanding WCFs, including mounts and equipment shelters, shall
be set back a minimum of fifty feet (50') from:
            (1) The nearest residence on the same property as the WCF;
            (2) The residential building envelope on adjacent undeveloped lots;
or
            (3) Property lines if adjacent lots are either undeveloped or do
not contain a platted residential building envelope.
         b. More restrictive setbacks may be established through the
conditional use permit process as deemed necessary to protect the public
health, safety and welfare.
         c. On parcels with a principal building housing a permitted use, all
components of the WCF may be required to be located behind the main building
line nearest the street or public pathway.
         d. WCFs shall satisfy the fall zone requirements set forth in
subsection A7 of this section.
      6. Facade Mounted Antennas: Facade mounted antenna arrays associated with
a WCF shall:
         a. Meet or exceed the building setback requirements established for
the zoning district in which the WCF is located;
         b. Extend no more than twenty inches (20") horizontally from the
attachment structure at the point of attachment;
         c. Not exceed the maximum allowed building height for the zoning
district in which the WCF is located;
         d. Be located no closer than thirty feet (30') to an opening of a
habitable structure.
      7. Fall Zone Requirements:
         a. Freestanding WCFs, excluding those that are concealed in a building
or structure, shall contain a fall zone of at least two (2) times the height of
the WCF, as measured from the WCF to any habitable structure or outdoor area
where people congregate (such as schools, churches, parks, recreational areas,
public buildings, etc.). This requirement does not apply to utility pole
mounted WCFs.
         b. Freestanding WCFs, excluding those that are concealed in a building
or structure, shall contain at a minimum a fall zone of a radius equal to the
height of the WCF, as measured from the WCF to an adjacent property line. This
requirement does not apply to utility pole mounted WCFs.
      8. Parking Requirements: Adequate off street parking to accommodate
maintenance and construction workers may be required.
      9. Access Requirements:
         a. The applicant shall demonstrate in writing that they have authority
to access the WCF site for construction and maintenance purposes from a public
right of way, across privately and publicly owned lands. Said written authority
shall include the right of county officials to cross said lands for legitimate
public purposes.
            b. The applicant shall demonstrate that the site can be safely
accessed by county officials and fire protection personnel.
      10. Facility Upgrade: At the time of modification or upgrade of
facilities, existing equipment shall be replaced with equipment that does not
increase the facility's overall visual impact.
   B. Design And Siting Standards:
      1. Visibility: The WCF shall be designed to eliminate, to the greatest
extent possible, the visibility of the proposed facility as viewed from a
reference road, Wood River trail system, or State Highway 75 as it passes
through a municipality by means of concealment, camouflage, disguise and
placement. While complete elimination of any visual impact cannot be
accomplished in every case, the applicants shall make every available effort to
ensure that the visibility of the proposed WCF is slight. Techniques that can
be used to potentially eliminate the visual impact include, but are not limited
to, the following:
         a. Selection And Use: Selection and use of antennas, support
structures and configurations which result in the least bulk, profile and
height possible;
         b. Concealment: Concealment of the WCF within or on a structure,
building, or edifice when said structure, building or edifice is compatible and
in scale with the surrounding land uses and structures. Examples are:
            (1) Church steeples, flagpoles, weather vanes and cupolas, etc.;
            (2) Buildings and structures designed to look like typical
agricultural buildings or structures such as windmills, silos, or barns,
provided the building or structure housing the WCF is accessory to a permitted
use on the same parcel;
            (3) Buildings and structures designed to look like typical
residential accessory structures such as garages and storage buildings,
provided the building or structure housing the WCF is accessory to a permitted
use on the same parcel; or
            (4) Artificial features (such as synthetic rock) which is made to
appear as a naturally occurring form in the environment;
         c. Camouflage Or Disguise:
            (1) Colors and materials for the WCF chosen to minimize visibility
of the WCF;
            (2) A WCF located on a building, wall or roof, designed to blend
with the existing building's architecture by painting or shielding with
material which is consistent with the design features and materials of the
building;
         d. Placement:
            (1) Locating the WCF, where it is backdropped by existing structure
(s) or geographical feature(s) such as a hillside or building, sufficient that
the profile of the WCF as viewed from a reference road, Wood River trail system
or State Highway 75 as it passes through a municipality is eliminated to the
greatest extent possible;
            (2) Locating the WCF within an dense growth of trees of similar
height;
            (3) Roof mounted on a nonresidential building;
            (4) Attached to the facade of a nonresidential building or
structure;
            (5) Attached to a utility pole (see subsection
9-3-16-13E of this chapter).
      2. Scale: The WCF shall be designed and constructed to be in scale with
the surrounding land uses and structures as exhibited by relative height, mass
and proportion.
      3. Lighting:
         a. A WCF shall not be artificially lighted, except as needed for
routine maintenance of the facility. Exterior lighting shall utilize:
            (1) Minimum wattage necessary for the proposed use,
            (2) Full cut off lighting fixture whereby light is downcast, and
does not extend horizontally beyond the base of the fixture, and
            (3) Timing device.
         b. WCFs which are required to be illuminated by a local, state or
federal agency shall be reduced in height and/or otherwise modified or located
so as to not require lighting. No lighting other than for routine maintenance
of the facility is permitted.
      4. Security Barriers: A security barrier may be required by the building
official, commission or hearing examiner to be erected no closer than twenty
five feet (25') around the perimeter of ground mounted WCFs. In the case of a
roof mounted WCF, a security barrier may be required around the antenna and
support structure(s) or antenna array. Security barriers shall be maintained by
the operator of the WCF or mount for the life of the installation. Security
barriers shall be constructed of nonreflective material.
      5. Equipment Vaults, Sheds And Structures: Equipment vaults, sheds and
structures shall satisfy at least one of the following requirements:
         a. Placed underground; or
         b. Disguised, camouflaged, painted, fenced or screened with vegetation
so that visibility of the equipment vault, shed or structure as viewed from a
reference road, Wood River trail system or State Highway 75 as it passes
through a municipality is mitigated as required under subsection B1 of this
section.
      6. Noise Emissions:
         a. Aboveground equipment for WCFs exclusive of roof and facade
attached WCFs shall not generate noise in excess of 50 decibels (db) at the
property line.
         b. Roof or facade attached equipment for WCFs shall not generate noise
in excess of 50 db at ground level at the base of the structure closest to the
antenna and support structure(s).
   C. Design Standards For Utility Pole Mounted WCFs: In addition to complying
with the standards of evaluation as set forth in this section, utility pole
mounted WCFs shall satisfy the following design standards:
      1. One Permitted: Only one WCF shall be permitted on any one utility
pole.
      2. Concealed Or Camouflaged: The antenna and mounting bracket shall be
either fully concealed within the street pole or camouflaged to appear to be an
integrated part of the utility pole.
      3. Mounting Brackets: The antenna and mounting bracket shall:
         a. Utilize the thinnest silhouette that technology allows;
         b. Be constructed of nonreflective material.
      4. Height: A WCF may exceed the height of the utility pole by no more
than ten feet (10').
   5. Pole Replacement: Existing utility poles may only be replaced with a new
pole of the same height, dimension and appearance as the existing pole. (Ord.
2011-01, 1-18-2011; Ord. 2006-08, 6-29-2006; Ord. 2001-09, 10-1-2001; Ord.
2023-01, 1-3-2023)
9-3-16-13: CONDITIONS:
Conditional uses are subject to the conditions specified prior to issuance of
their permits. Pursuant to Idaho Code 67-6512, conditions which may be attached
include, but are not limited to, those which will:
   A. Minimize adverse impact on other development:
      1. The licensed carrier or service provider shall provide the
administrator a certification by a licensed radio frequency engineer that the
as built WCF complies with the FCC guidelines for radio frequency radiation,
prior to issuance of the certificate of occupancy.
      2. The applicant shall provide the administrator written evidence that
the WCF has been registered as a hazardous facility, as may be required by the
Idaho department of environmental quality, if petroleum products are used to
fuel power supplies, or any toxins are contained in equipment cabinets or
shelters or alternative power sources.
      3. Prior to issuance of the certificate of occupancy, the applicant(s)
shall provide the administrator an as built certification by a licensed
acoustical engineer that the noise generated by the WCF does not exceed fifty
(50) dB as required in subsection
9-3-16-12B6 of this chapter.
      4. No equipment shall be operated at a WCF so as to produce noise in
excess of fifty (50) dB, except for emergency situations requiring the use of a
backup generator, where the noise standards may be exceeded up to a maximum of
thirty six (36) hours or until such emergency has passed.
      5. No hazardous waste shall be discharged on the site of any WCF. If any
hazardous materials are to be used on site, there shall be provisions for full
containment of such materials as required by the uniform building code and/or
uniform fire code.
      6. When a WCF is mounted on a utility pole located in a publicly owned
right of way, the applicant shall obtain necessary permits from the applicable
entity such as the Blaine County board of commissioners, Idaho transportation
department or local governing jurisdiction.
   B. Control the sequence and timing of development:
      1. Construction or activation of a WCF shall commence within one year of
approval of the permit or the permit shall be null and void. An additional
ninety (90) day extension may be granted by the administrator in writing due to
weather conditions or other extenuating circumstances beyond the control of the
applicant. Requests for an extension shall be made in writing by the permit
holder(s) and be filed prior to expiration of the permit.
   C. Control the duration of development:
      1. The applicant(s) shall demonstrate compliance to the conditional use
permit, and obtain a certificate of occupancy from the building official as may
be required under the uniform building code as adopted by the county, prior to
activation of the site.
      2. Conditional use permits issued for WCFs are subject to administrative
review to determine ongoing compliance to the terms of the permit. Such permits
may be subject to suspension or revocation by the board if it is determined
that the WCF does not comply with the terms and/or conditions of the permit. If
the permittee fails to take necessary corrective action to bring the permit
into compliance, the board shall hold a public hearing, and public notice shall
be provided as set forth in section
9-25-4 of this title. The board may modify, revoke or suspend the permit, based
upon the evidence in the record, and negative findings on one or more of the
standards of evaluation as set forth in section
9-3-16-12 of this chapter.
   D. Assure that development is maintained properly:
      1. Weatherproofed identification plaque at the site which is readily
visible to persons approaching the WCF shall include:
         a. The name and telephone number of a representative of the carrier
and mount owner to be contacted in the event of any emergency WCF site. The
contact representative is to be available on a twenty four (24) hour a day,
seven (7) day a week basis. The information shall be kept current at all times.
         b. A list of toxic/hazardous materials at WCF site, including in the
equipment shelter.
         c. Instructions for emergency personnel on the approach action to be
taken in case of an emergency involving any toxic/hazardous substances.
         d. The identification plaque shall be kept current at all times.
      2. Each permittee shall maintain its WCF in a good and safe condition,
preserving the original appearance and concealment, disguise or screening
elements incorporated into the design at the time of approval and in a manner
which complies with all applicable federal, state and local requirements. Such
maintenance shall include, but not be limited to, such items as painting,
repair of equipment, and maintenance of landscaping.
      3. At such time that a licensed carrier or service provider plans to
abandon or discontinue operation of a WCF, such carrier shall notify the county
by certified U.S. mail of the proposed date of abandonment or discontinuation
of operations. Such notice shall be given no less than thirty (30) days prior
to abandonment or discontinuation of operations. In the event that a licensed
carrier or service provider fails to give such notice, the WCF shall be
considered abandoned upon such discontinuation of operations.
      4. Upon abandonment or discontinuation of use, the carrier, property
owner or owner of the mount shall physically remove the WCF, or the abandoned
portion thereof, within a specified period of time, not to exceed one year from
the date of abandonment or discontinuation of use. If good cause for delay in
removing the abandoned equipment is shown, the administrator may once only
extend the period for removal for a period not exceeding six (6) months,
provided application is made for an extension before the end of the one year
period. "Physically remove" shall include, but not be limited to:
         a. Removal of antennas, support structures, equipment enclosures and
security barriers from the subject property;
         b. Proper disposal of the waste materials from the site in accordance
with local and state solid waste disposal regulations;
         c. Restoring the location of the WCF to its natural condition, except
that any landscaping and grading shall remain in the after conditions. Minor
modification for integration with other landscaping or site design will be
permitted and approved by staff.
      5. If a carrier, property owner or owner of the mount fails to remove the
abandoned portion of the WCF in accordance with this section, the county may
cause the abandoned portion of the facility to be removed, and all expenses of
removal shall be paid by the owner of land where the facility is located. In
the event of nonpayment, the county may place a lien on the property in the
amount of one hundred twenty percent (120%) of all costs associated with
removal and disposal of the WCF, or portion thereof.
      6. In the event more than one provider is using the mount, the mount
shall not be considered abandoned until all such users cease using the mount as
provided in this section
9-3-16.
      7. Provide financial guarantee for removal of unused or abandoned
equipment and/or mount, and reclamation of the site to its previous condition
prior to the installation of the WCF.
      8. The access road and site shall be available for inspection by county
officials and fire protection personnel.
   E. Designating the exact location and nature of development:
      1. Existing natural vegetation shall be undisturbed to the greatest
extent possible.
      2. Applicants may be required by the county to allow collocation of
additional antennas by other carriers on the mount as a condition of obtaining
a conditional use permit.
      3. Applicants may be required by the county to provide space at no cost
for the placement of emergency service equipment on the mount, and within the
building or structure housing the equipment, as a condition of obtaining a
conditional use permit.
      4. Prior to obtaining a building permit for a collocated WCF, the
applicants shall provide signed lease agreements between the property owner,
owner of the mount and at least two (2) service providers. The lease agreements
shall contain the following provisions:
         a. Facility owner can, with county and landowner's approval, enter
into leases with other carriers for collocation.
         b. Landowner is responsible for the removal of the WCF in the event
the tenant fails to remove it upon abandonment.
   F. Require specific on site or off site public facilities or services.
   G. Require more restrictive standards than those generally required in this
title:
      1. Prior to the issuance of a building permit, and once a year every year
thereafter, the applicant(s) shall provide a registry of the WCF that includes
at least the following information:
         a. Name, mailing address and phone numbers of the property owner,
owner of the mount, licensed and unlicensed service provider(s), and agents.
         b. Location by latitude and longitude, addresses and parcel numbers.
         c. Collocation status and capability (including if a former
collocation has been removed).
         d. Last date at which site was modified and the nature of the
modification.
         e. A list of toxic/hazardous materials at the WCF (including in the
equipment shelter).
         f. Instructions for emergency personnel on the approach action to be
taken in case of an emergency involving any toxic/hazardous substances.
         g. The name and telephone number of a representative of the carrier to
be contacted in the event of any emergency at the WCF site. The contact
representative is to be available on a twenty four (24) hour a day, seven (7)
day a week basis.
         h. A site monitoring schedule indicating how often the site is
inspected and monitored by the carrier.
         i. A ground maintenance schedule indicating how often the grounds are
maintained and the name and telephone number of a representative of the carrier
to be contacted in the event the grounds require service before the next
scheduled maintenance.
      2. The permit holder(s) shall promptly notify the administrator of any
change in ownership of the subject property, the mount or the licensed carrier
or service provider.
      3. WCFs shall meet all applicable regulations including, but not limited
to, compliance to the uniform building and fire codes as adopted by the county.
      4. The owner or operator of the WCF shall provide for and conduct an
inspection of mounts by a licensed structural engineer at least once every five
(5) years. The written results of said inspection shall be provided to the
administrator verifying structural integrity, equipment and tenants on the
mounts.
      5. The applicant(s) shall provide the administrator a copy of form 600 on
file with the FCC or the FCC license (radio authorization form).
   H. Require mitigation of effects of the proposed development upon service
delivery by any political subdivision, including school districts, providing
services within the planning jurisdiction. (Ord. 2001-09, 10-1-2001)
CHAPTER 3A
UTILITIES FACILITIES
SECTION:
9-3A-1: Purpose And Intent
9-3A-2: Definitions
9-3A-3: Zoning Regulations
9-3A-4: Permitted Uses
9-3A-5: Categorical Exclusion
9-3A-6: Conditional Use Permit Procedure
9-3A-7: Standards Of Evaluation
9-3A-8: Administrative Review Of Application
9-3A-9: Public Hearing And Notice Requirements
9-3A-10: Commission Or Hearing Examiner Review And Action
9-3A-11: Abandonment
9-3A-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to promote safe, effective use of
residential wind energy facilities installed to reduce the on site consumption
of utility supplied electricity and to provide a regulatory scheme for the
construction and operation of wind energy facilities in the county, subject to
reasonable restrictions, which will preserve scenic assets and protect the
public health, safety, and welfare. (Ord. 2010-02, 1-19-2010)
9-3A-2: DEFINITIONS:
ROOFTOP WIND ENERGY FACILITY: A wind energy facility mounted to the top of a
structure to which it is an accessory. Overall height is measured from grade to
highest point on the WEF.
WIND ENERGY FACILITY (WEF): A wind energy conversion system consisting of a
turbine or generator and typically blades and a tower and associated control or
conversion electronics which provides electrical power intended for residential
or farm and associated outbuildings and on site uses.
WIND ENERGY FACILITY HUB HEIGHT: The height above grade to the centerline of
the turbine rotor on a horizontal axis wind turbine.
WIND ENERGY FACILITY TIP HEIGHT: The height above grade of the fixed portion of
the tower plus the blade radius at its highest point. (Ord. 2010-02, 1-19-2010)
9-3A-3: ZONING REGULATIONS:
The placement, use or modification of a WEF as allowed by law within
unincorporated Blaine County by a permittee, is subject to the provisions of
this title.
   A.   Rooftop Wind Energy Facilities:
      1.   One or more rooftop WEF up to an overall height of forty feet (40')
is a conditional use on less than five (5) acres subject to section
9-3A-6, "Conditional Use Permit Procedure", of this chapter in all zones.
      2.   A rooftop WEF up to an overall height of forty feet (40') on five
(5) acres or more is subject to section
9-3A-5, "Categorical Exclusion", of this chapter in all zones. Multiple rooftop
WEF may be requested through section
9-3A-6, "Conditional Use Permit Procedure", of this chapter.
      3.   No rooftop WEF shall be permitted within the mountain overlay
district or the scenic corridor.
   B.   Freestanding Wind Energy Facilities:
      1.   A freestanding WEF up to forty foot (40') tip height is a
conditional use subject to section
9-3A-6, "Conditional Use Permit Procedure", of this chapter in the following
zoning districts: SCR-.4, R-.4, R-1, R-2, and R-21/2 on a minimum of two and a
half (2.5) acres; and R-5 on a minimum of five (5) acres.
      2.   A freestanding WEF up to forty foot (40') hub height is subject to
section
9-3A-5, "Categorical Exclusion", of this chapter in the following zoning
districts: R-10, A-20, A-40, and RR-40 on a minimum of ten (10) acres. On
parcels of five (5) acres up to ten (10) acres in these zones, a freestanding
WEF up to forty foot (40') hub height is a conditional use subject to section
9-3A-6, "Conditional Use Permit Procedure", of this chapter.
      3.   A freestanding WEF with a hub height no taller than eighty feet
(80') is a conditional use on a minimum of ten (10) acres subject to section
9-3A-6, "Conditional Use Permit Procedure", of this chapter in the R-10 zoning
district.
      4.   A freestanding WEF with a hub height no taller than one hundred
twenty feet (120') is subject to section
9-3A-5, "Categorical Exclusion", of this chapter in the following zoning
districts: A-20, A-40, RR-40 on a minimum of twenty (20) acres.
      5.   No freestanding WEF shall be permitted within the mountain overlay
district or the scenic corridor. (Ord. 2010-02, 1-19-2010)
9-3A-4: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Installation of an anemometer, or related devices, for not less than
twelve (12) months for the purpose of determining feasibility of a wind energy
generating site. The anemometer may not be installed at a WEF height greater
than permissible for that zoning district.
   B.   General repair, maintenance, replacement or upgrade of equipment of an
existing WEF provided that any equipment replaced does not violate the
conditions of administrative or conditional use permit approval. (Ord. 2010-02,
1-19-2010)
9-3A-5: CATEGORICAL EXCLUSION:
Unless the intent is to circumvent the purposes of this chapter, a landowner or
his/her authorized agent may be categorically excluded from the CUP
requirements of this chapter if before commencing construction of a single WEF,
the landowner or agent first obtains a written decision from the administrator,
in consultation with the county engineer or his/her designated representative,
that the WEF construction falls within and meets the following criteria:
   A.   Rooftop WEF is an accessory fixture to the residence or agricultural
building upon which it is mounted.
   B.   Rooftop WEF does not exceed a five foot (5') diameter.
   C.   Rooftop WEF noise emission does not exceed thirty five (35) decibels as
measured from the nearest property line.
   D.   Complies with all administrative standards in subsection
9-3A-7A of this chapter. (Ord. 2010-02, 1-19-2010)
9-3A-6: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application Form And Fees: Application for a conditional use permit
shall be made on a form furnished by the administrator and shall be filed by
the applicant(s). The application fee established by the resolution board shall
accompany each application. Fees resulting from the technical review by the
county engineer or other qualified person as designated by the county are the
responsibility of the applicant, and shall be paid prior to public hearing. No
application shall be certified as complete unless it includes the following
minimum information in sufficient detail for the commission or hearing examiner
to determine compliance with the standards of evaluation as set forth in
section
9-3A-7 of this chapter. Based upon site specific circumstances, and upon
appropriate findings, the commission or hearing examiner may require additional
information in order to render a decision on an application. Further, the
administrator may waive certain submittal requirements based upon site specific
condition and appropriate findings.
   B.   Application: The application shall include at a minimum:
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant as well as any
agents for the applicant.
      2.   Original signature for the applicant applying for the conditional
use permit. If the applicant is represented by an agent, original signature
authorizing the agent to represent the applicant is required.
      3.   A complete legal description of the subject property. A vicinity map
shall be included.
      4.   Zoning designation of subject property including any overlay
districts.
      5.   Comment from Idaho department of fish and game and the applicable
fire district.
      6.   A parcel map drawn to scale showing the subject property, and all
properties within one thousand feet (1,000') of the external boundaries of the
land being considered.
      7.   A list of the names and addresses of all property owners and
residents within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the
land being considered. Names and addresses shall also be provided on mailing
labels.
      8.   Wind resource data collected continuously by an anemometer on site
for no less than one year for a freestanding WEF.
   C.   Site Plan: Site plan drawn to scale of no less than one inch equals
twenty feet (1"=20'), specify the following:
      1.   Standard drawings of the WEF structure, including design and
dimensions of tower, base, footings, and guywire anchors. Overall height from
natural grade to tip of extended blade, location of substation(s), electrical
cabling from WEF to the substation(s), ancillary equipment, buildings, and
structures shall be included.
      2.   Depiction and explanation of land use on subject property and
adjacent property including location and height of surrounding structures,
power transmission lines, and trees. (Ord. 2010-02, 1-19-2010)
9-3A-7: STANDARDS OF EVALUATION:
The applicant has the burden of demonstrating compliance with each of the
standards of evaluation as set forth in this section. The commission or hearing
examiner shall review the application and determine if there is substantial
evidence in the record to make a finding that either the proposal complies with
each of the following standards of evaluation, or the specific standard is not
applicable to the application:
   A.   Administrative Standards:
      1.   Compliance With International Building Code: WEF applications shall
be accompanied by standard drawings of the wind turbine structure, including
the tower, base, footings, and guywire anchors. An engineering analysis of the
tower showing compliance with the international building code, certified by a
licensed professional engineer and wet stamp shall also be submitted. This
analysis is frequently supplied by the manufacturer.
      2.   Compliance With National Electric Code: Applications for WEF shall
be accompanied by a line drawing of the electrical components in sufficient
detail to allow for a determination that the manner of installation conforms to
the national electrical code.
      3.   Utility Notification: No wind energy system shall be installed until
evidence has been given that the utility company has been informed of the
customer's intent to install an interconnected customer owned generator. Off
grid systems shall be exempt from this requirement.
      4.   Approved Wind Energy Facilities: WEF equipment must be approved
under an emerging technology program such as the California energy commission,
international electrotechnical commission or any other small wind certification
program recognized by the American Wind Energy Association (AWEA) or the U.S.
department of energy.
      5.   Federal Aviation Administration (FAA): WEF must comply with
applicable FAA regulations and shall not be permitted within the airport
vicinity overlay.
      6.   Siting Requirements: All parts of a WEF, including guywire anchors,
are subject to zoning setbacks. Freestanding WEF shall be located a minimum of
1.1 times the overall height of the WEF from all inhabited structures on
subject property, property lines, and roads. No WEF shall be sited closer to a
neighboring residence or neighboring building envelope than it is to the
subject property's residence. Wind energy facility blades shall be higher than
twenty feet (20') above the ground. No blades may extend over parking areas,
playgrounds, driveways or sidewalks.
      7.   Noise Requirements: Noise emitted from the WEF shall not exceed
sixty (60) decibels as measured from the nearest adjacent property line.
   B.   Design Standards:
      1.   Wind energy facilities shall be a nonobtrusive color.
      2.   Wind energy facilities shall not be artificially lit.
      3.   On site transmission and power lines between WEFs shall, to the
maximum extent practicable, be placed underground.
      4.   A clearly visible warning sign concerning voltage shall be placed at
the base of all pad mounted transformers and substations.
      5.   Wind energy facilities shall not be used for displaying advertising.
      6.   Wind energy facility conditional use permit applications are subject
to applicable standards of evaluation in subsection
9-25-3A of this title.
      7.   If the applicant or landowner with respect to an application for a
conditional use permit under this section is the state of Idaho, or any agency,
board, department, institution, or district thereof, the commission or the
board, in addition to all other applicable standards and criteria hereunder,
shall take into account the plans and needs of the state, or any agency, board,
department, institution or district thereof, as required by Idaho Code 67-6528.
(Ord. 2010-02, 1-19-2010)
9-3A-8: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW OF APPLICATION:
The administrator shall review the application submittal for compliance to the
submittal requirements set forth herein. Once it has been determined by the
administrator that the submittal requirements have been satisfied, the
administrator shall certify the application as complete and place the
application on the agenda of the next available regular meeting of the
commission or hearing examiner wherein legal notice requirements can be
satisfied. No application shall be certified as complete unless it includes
information in sufficient detail for the commission or hearing examiner to
determine compliance with the standards of evaluation as set forth in section
9-3A-7 of this chapter. In the event the application is not complete, the
administrator shall advise the applicant of the corrective action needed. In
the event the data required for the administrator to certify the application as
complete is not filed within one hundred eighty (180) days from the date the
application as complete is not filed with the Blaine County planning office,
the application shall be null and void. One time only, the administrator, at
his/her discretion, may approve one extension of time within which materials
may be submitted upon receipt of a written request by the applicant giving in
detail the reason additional time is required to file said materials under this
section, said approval shall be in writing and for a specific period of time
not to exceed forty five (45) days. (Ord. 2010-02, 1-19-2010)
9-3A-9: PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Notice requirements for a conditional use permit application for a WEF shall be
satisfied as set forth in section
9-25-4 of this title. (Ord. 2010-02, 1-19-2010)
9-3A-10: COMMISSION OR HEARING EXAMINER REVIEW AND ACTION:
Decisions shall be based on the standards of evaluation as set forth in section
9-3A-7 of this chapter. The standards of evaluation contained in section
9-25-3 of this title are applicable to WEFs. Review of the application and
receipt of public input shall be conducted at a duly noticed public hearing as
set forth in section
9-25-4 of this title. The commission or hearing examiner may order the hearing
to be continued up to thirty one (31) days at the same place, in which case no
further published notice shall be required, other than that requested by the
commission or hearing examiner. Continuation beyond thirty one (31) days shall
require further published notice, according to section
9-25-4 of this title. The commission or hearing examiner shall approve, approve
with conditions, or deny said application, making appropriate findings to
support the decision. The commission or hearing examiner shall enter an order
or adopt its written findings of fact and decision within thirty one (31) days
after the action is taken by the commission or hearing examiner. The granting
of the conditional use permit shall not be considered as establishing a binding
precedent to grant other conditional use permits. A conditional use permit is
not transferable from one parcel of land to another. (Ord. 2010-02, 1-19-2010)
9-3A-11: ABANDONMENT:
   A.   A WEF that is out of service for a continuous one year period will be
deemed to have been abandoned. The administrator may issue a notice of
abandonment to the owner of a WEF that is deemed to have been abandoned. The
owner shall have the right to respond in writing to the notice of abandonment
setting forth the reasons for operational difficulty and providing a timetable
for corrective action, within thirty (30) days from the date of the notice. The
administrator shall withdraw the notice of abandonment and notify the owner
that the notice has been withdrawn if the owner provides information that
demonstrates the wind energy system has not been abandoned.
   B.   If the WEF is determined to be abandoned, the owner shall remove the
WEF at the owner's sole expense within three (3) months of the date of the
notice of abandonment. If the owner fails to remove the WEF, the administrator
may pursue a legal action to have the wind generator removed at the owner's
expense. (Ord. 2010-02, 1-19-2010)
CHAPTER 3B
UTILITIES FACILITIES; SOLAR
SECTION:
9-3B-1: Purpose And Intent
9-3B-2: Definitions
9-3B-3: Zoning Regulations
9-3B-4: Overlay Districts Standards
9-3B-5: Exception To Lot Line Setback Requirements For Ground Or Pole Mounted
Solar Energy Collecting Systems
9-3B-6: Administrative Review Application
9-3B-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is Blaine County's intent to encourage the use of active solar systems for
heating air and water and producing electricity in homes and businesses, as
long as disruption to the site specific natural topography, riparian areas,
wetlands, and hazard areas are mitigated or avoided and these areas are
preserved. (Ord. 2010-11, 12-7-2010)
9-3B-2: DEFINITIONS:
CERTIFIED ENERGY AUDITOR: Residential energy auditor accredited by the Building
Performance Institute (BPI) or the Residential Energy Services Network
(RESNET).
ENERGY AUDIT: An evaluation of the energy efficiency of a residential structure
by a certified energy auditor using professional testing including, but not
limited to, a blower door and duct leakage test. The audit shall include at
minimum the following: a) an assessment of the various characteristics of the
building envelope including, but not limited to, the walls, ceilings, floors,
doors, windows, and skylights b) lighting analysis c) appliance analysis d)
prioritized list of energy improvements with estimated simple paybacks.
RESIDENTIAL SOLAR COLLECTOR SYSTEM: A net metered solar collector system, as
defined in this chapter, that produces no more than twenty five (25) kW.
SOLAR COLLECTOR MOUNTS: Mounting arrangements that hold various devices for the
absorption of solar radiation for the heating of water or buildings or the
production of electricity.
Building Integrated Photovoltaics (BIPV) Mount: A solar collector system that
is integrated into the structure of a building. Common BIPV applications
include carports, awnings, and curtain walls.
Ground Mount: A solar collector system where an array is mounted onto the
ground. The most common type of ground mount is a wedge structure constructed
from steel supports anchored in concrete footings. The remainder of the
structure is built from aluminum or galvanized steel.
Pole Mount: A solar collector system that consists of an array that is mounted
on top of a single steel pole, which is ground mounted. This type of
installation can be manually adjustable, so that the pitch of the array at
different times of the year can be changed.
Roof Mount: A solar collector system with an array of solar panels located on
the roof of a structure. In most cases this array will be attached directly to
the structural members of the building.
SOLAR COLLECTOR SYSTEM: A system that is comprised of photovoltaic collectors
designed to convert solar energy into electric energy or plate type collectors
designed to use solar energy to heat air, water, or other fluids for use in hot
water or space heating or other applications. A solar collector system's
primary purpose shall be limited to supplying or offsetting energy needs of
residences and businesses and shall not exceed the residential peak production
capabilities as defined by Idaho Power. (Ord. 2010-11, 12-7-2010)
9-3B-3: ZONING REGULATIONS:
The placement, use or modification of a solar collector system shall be an
allowed use in all zoning districts, provided the system meets zoning standards
set out in subsections A through H of this section and section
9-3B-4 of this chapter. To lawfully install a solar collector system a solar
permit shall be required. Repair, maintenance, replacement or upgrade of
equipment to an existing solar collecting system installed prior to adoption of
this chapter shall not be required to obtain a solar collector permit. The
following shall be found to be true prior to issuance of a solar collector
permit:
   A.   Photovoltaic solar collector panels are certified by the Solar
Collector And Certification Corporation (SRCC);
   B.   Collector system panels and mounts are installed per manufacturer's
specifications;
   C.   Solar panels mount systems located on roofs are installed to meet the
international building code standards for wind loads. If panels do not contain
wind load specification or circumstances require a modification to installation
per the manufacturer's specifications an engineer shall review and certify that
the modifications meet wind load standards as outlined in international
building code and as amended Blaine County building code;
   D.   The building official has reviewed mounting plans to ensure the roof's
structural integrity is maintained;
   E.   BIPV and roof collector mounted panels do not exceed five feet (5')
from the top of a residential structure or forty feet (40') from natural grade;
   F.   Barn roof mounted systems meet the height standards outlined in the A-
20 and A-40 zoning districts;
   G.   Ground and pole mounted solar collectors are firmly anchored and:
      1.   Do not exceed fifteen feet (15') above grade 1 ; or
      2.   Collector panels located on isolated slopes, not within the MOD, do
not exceed twenty feet (20') above grade;
   H.   Solar collector system is located in a building envelope or solar
collector system is located outside the building envelope and is not located
within an overlay district, or has been found to comply with the standards set
out in section
9-3B-4 of this chapter;
   I.   Collector systems located in the MOD have been categorically excluded
or have received a site alteration permit. (Ord. 2010-11, 12-7-2010)
 
Notes
  1. Pole mounts need 4 feet of snow clearance. Panels are on average 5 feet x
1 3 feet; sometimes they will stack 2 panels on 1 pole mount. Jon Riley of
  Whole Energy Solar indicates the majority of pole mounted systems will not
  need to be more than 15 feet high, as measured from the top of the panel.
9-3B-4: OVERLAY DISTRICTS STANDARDS:
Solar permit applications located in an overlay district have the burden of
demonstrating compliance with each of the standards of evaluation as set forth
in this section.
   A.   Mountain Overlay District: Solar collector systems visible from a
reference road shall be required to receive a site alteration permit per the
standards, notice, and hearing requirements set out in chapter 21 of this
title. The following standards, as outlined below, shall also be incorporated
into site alteration review of solar collector systems which are visible from a
reference road:
      1.   No location with solar potential equal to the proposed MOD location
exists on the lot outside of the MOD for a solar system.
      2.   A reflection analysis from a qualified professional shall
demonstrate the angle of the collector panels do not create line of sight
reflection as viewed from a reference road.
      3.   Solar thermal collector panel glazing shall be tempered, low or no
iron glass with transmittance greater than ninety percent (90%) or of an
equivalent measure and outcome.
      4.   Solar thermal collector panel absorber coating shall have
absorptivity greater than ninety five percent (95%) and emissivity less than
ten percent (10%) or of an equivalent measure and outcome.
   B.   Scenic Highway Overlay District:
      1.   Collector systems located within one hundred feet (100') of Idaho
State Highway 75 right of way, excluding lands within the jurisdiction of an
incorporated city, are subject to the scenic highway overlay district (SHO)
standards, notice, and hearing requirements as set out in chapter 21A of this
title.
   C.   FEMA Mapped Floodplain And Floodway: The placement of the collector
systems within the floodplain or riparian overlay district may be permitted if
the collector system does not cause increased flood heights or velocities and
the following are found to be true:
      1.   No location with solar potential equal to the proposed FEMA floodway
or floodplain location exists on the lot outside of the mapped FEMA floodway or
floodplain for a solar system.
      2.   Collector systems panels located in the designated floodplain are
two feet (2') above base flood elevation.
      3.   Collector systems located in the designated floodplain are securely
anchored and will stay in place during a 100-year flood event.
      4.   Placement of the collector system will result in no net loss or
destruction of established native riparian vegetation located within the
riparian setback.
   D.   Wetland And Riparian Overlay Districts: Placement of solar panels in a
wetland may be permitted if the collector system does not impede wetlands
function and the following are found to be true:
      1.   No location with solar potential equal to the proposed wetland or
riparian location exists on the lot outside of wetlands or riparian setback for
a solar system.
      2.   Placement of the collector system will result in no net loss or
destruction of established native riparian vegetation.
      3.   No fill or excavation is required to install the collector system
other than the minimum fill for pole or ground solar collector mounted systems'
footings. (Ord. 2010-11, 12-7-2010)
9-3B-5: EXCEPTION TO LOT LINE SETBACK REQUIREMENTS FOR GROUND OR POLE MOUNTED
SOLAR ENERGY COLLECTING SYSTEMS:
Exceptions to the minimum front, side and rear yard setbacks for single-family
detached residences, duplexes, and manufactured homes may be allowed when the
following is found to be true:
   A.   Pole and ground mounted systems shall be located at minimum 1.1 times
the distance of vertical height of the solar collector system from property
lines, residential structures and roads on subject property.
   B.   Landowners directly adjacent to the requested setback waiver are
notified of the issuance of a solar permit within five (5) business days of its
issuance. (Ord. 2010-11, 12-7-2010)
9-3B-6: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW APPLICATION:
The administrator shall review the solar permit application submittal for
compliance to the submittal requirements set forth herein. Once it has been
determined by the administrator that the submittal requirements have been
satisfied, the administrator shall certify the application as complete and have
twelve (12) business days to issue the administrative determination.
   A.   Application Process: Application for a solar collector permit shall be
made on a form furnished by the administrator and shall be filed by the
applicant(s). The application fee, established by a resolution of Blaine
County, shall accompany each application. Additional fees resulting from the
technical review by the county engineer or other qualified person as designated
by the county are the responsibility of the applicant, and shall be paid prior
to permit issuance. No application shall be certified as complete unless it
includes the following minimum information in sufficient detail for the
administrator to determine compliance with the standards of evaluation as set
forth in this chapter. Based upon site specific circumstances, and upon
appropriate findings, the administrator may require additional information in
order to render a decision on an application. Further, the administrator may
waive certain submittal requirements based upon site specific conditions and
appropriate findings.
   B.   Application Requirements: The application for solar collector system
shall include at a minimum the following items:
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant as well as any
agents for the applicant.
      2.   Original signature for the applicant applying for the solar permit.
If the applicant is represented by an agent, original signature authorizing the
agent to represent the applicant is required.
      3.   A complete legal description of the subject property. A vicinity map
shall be included.
      4.   Zoning designation of subject property including any overlay
districts.
      5.   Standard drawings of the solar collector system, including design
and dimensions of panels, base, mounting poles, footings, anchors that display
the overall height from natural grade to tip of upmost panel and the square
footage of the solar panels.
      6.   Projected amount of energy created or offset by solar collector
system.
      7.   If applicable base flood elevations for project site.
      8.   If the system is located in an overlay zone or in a front, rear, or
side yard setback an "energy audit", as defined in this chapter, conducted by a
RESNET or BPI certified energy auditor.
      9.   Provide manufacturer's specification sheets on all components
including, but not limited to, inverters and panels, which include the make,
model, listing, size, weight, snow and wind loads if available.
      10.   A reflection analysis from a qualified professional when a
collector system is located in the MOD and is visible from a reference road.
      11.   If applicable a jurisdictional wetlands determination from army
corps of engineers.
   C.   Site Plan: The application for a solar collector system shall include
at a minimum a plan drawn to scale of no less than one inch equals twenty feet
(1"= 20'), specifying the following:
      1.   A scaled layout of the solar collector systems as proposed on the
property or building. Site plans for ground or pole mounted systems should
include building envelope, base flood elevations (if applicable), overlay
district boundaries and the location and footprints of structures, adjacent
roads, and property lines.
      2.   The location(s) of the panel installations, the main service
location, and the locations of all equipment and disconnects (i.e., located on
exterior face of west wall of house and clarify any interior locations of
equipment). (Ord. 2010-11, 12-7-2010)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS AND THEIR BASE DENSITIES, OVERLAY DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES
SECTION:
9-4-1: Intent
9-4-2: Zoning Districts And Their Base Densities
9-4-3: Zone Boundaries
9-4-4: Interpretation Of Boundaries
9-4-5: Classification Of Vacated Streets Or Alleys
9-4-6: Overlay Districts
9-4-7: Zoning Maps
9-4-1: INTENT:
The following zoning districts are hereby established. These designations have
been made to realize the general purposes stated in the Blaine County
comprehensive plan. The specific purposes of each zoning district are stated in
the chapters which follow. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-4-2: ZONING DISTRICTS AND THEIR BASE DENSITIES:
The following districts are created, and their base densities indicated where
appropriate:
A. Agricultural and rural districts:
   
  (A-20)   Productive agricultural, one unit per twenty (20) acres.
   
  (A-40)   Productive agricultural, one unit per forty (40) acres.
   
  (R-10)   Rural residential, one unit per ten (10) acres.
   
  (RR-40)  Rural remote, one unit per forty (40) acres.
   
  (RC-160) Resource conservation.
 
B. Residential districts:
   
  (R-5)    Residential/agricultural, one unit per five (5) acres.
   
  (R-21/2) Rural residential, one unit per two and one-half (21/2) acres.
   
  (R-2)    Planned residential development district, one unit per two (2)
            acres.
   
  (R-1)    Low density residential, one unit per one acre.
   
  (R-.4)   Medium density, one unit per four-tenths (0.4) of an acre.
   
  (R-1/4)  High density, one unit per one-fourth (1/4) of an acre.
   
  (SCR-.4) Sawtooth City medium density residential.
   
C. (RD)     Recreation development district.
   
D. (C)      Commercial district.
   
E. (SCC)    Sawtooth City commercial.
   
F. (LI)     Light industrial use district, no residential density.
   
G. (HI)     Heavy industrial use district, no residential density.
   
H. (R)      Riparian setback district.
   
I. Special use overlay districts:
   
  (FP)     Floodplain.
  (AV)     Airport vicinity.
  (WE)     Wetlands.
  (W)      Wildlife.
  (M)      Mountain.
  (SHO)    Scenic highway overlay.
  (A)      Avalanche.
  (SU)     Seasonal Use.
  (CH)     Community Housing.
 
(Ord. 2013-01, 3-19-2013; Ord. 2011-01, 1-18-2011; Ord. 2009-08, 11-3-2009;
Ord. 2006-17, 11-2-2006; Ord. 2006-08, 6-29-2006; Ord. 2004-01, 5-3-2004; Ord.
99-5, 10-12-1999; 1996 Code; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-4-3: ZONE BOUNDARIES:
   A.   Unless otherwise defined on the zoning maps, district boundaries shall
be lot lines, the centerlines of streets and alleys, highway right-of-way
lines, the centerline between the two (2) main tracks of any railroad line,
extended quarter section, half section or section lines, contour lines,
Municipal corporate boundaries, centerlines or banks of streambeds or other
bodies of water or noticeable points of change in natural landforms.
   B.   Where district boundaries appear approximately parallel to the
centerlines or street lines of streets, or parallel to the centerlines or
rights-of-way of highways, such lines shall in fact constitute the boundaries
on the official zoning map. If no distance is indicated, the boundary shall be
determined by the use of the scale shown on the official zoning map.
   C.   Where district boundaries appear to follow lot lines, such lot lines
shall constitute boundaries.
   D.   The boundary determination for the Floodplain Overlay District is
explained in chapter 17 of this title. The determination of that zoning
district shall be made by the Administrator, pursuant to section
9-4-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 2011-01, 1-18-2011; Ord. 2000-3, 3-20-2000; Ord.
77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-4-4: INTERPRETATION OF BOUNDARIES:
The Administrator, in consultation with the County Engineer or his/her
designated representative, shall have the authority to interpret zoning and
overlay district boundaries in accordance with this title. Interpretation by
the Administrator may be appealed to the Board according to the procedures and
time requirements of section
9-32-3 of this title. (Ord. 98-1, 1-7-1998; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-
1977)
9-4-5: CLASSIFICATION OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS:
Whenever a street is vacated and that street has not been given a zone
classification, the land of the vacated street shall have the same zone
classification as the land adjacent or abutting land owned or on the same side
of the centerline of former street to whom such land reverts or in whom said
land becomes vested by operation of law. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-4-6: OVERLAY DISTRICTS:
   A.   The overlay districts described in this title are superimposed over the
underlying districts.
   B.   Within the area thereby defined, the provisions of each particular
overlay district shall prevail over those pertaining to the underlying
district. Unless otherwise stated, the uses permitted within each overlay
district are identical to those specified for the underlying district. Unless
otherwise stated, the base density and the possible planned unit development
bonus established for the underlying district shall apply also within each
overlay district. (Ord. 2012-04, 4-30-2012; Ord. 2010-12, 12-7-2010; Ord. 2006-
15, 10-26-2006; Ord. 98-1, 1-7-1998; 1996 Code; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-
1977)
9-4-7: ZONING MAPS:
   A.   Official Zoning Maps: The boundaries of the zoning districts described
in this chapter are hereby established as shown on the official zoning maps of
the unincorporated territory of Blaine County, Idaho. These official zoning
maps, approximately twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36") in
size, are located in the Administrator's Office in the Blaine County
Courthouse, Hailey, Idaho, and are hereby adopted by reference thereto. (Ord.
2022-04, 8-24-2022; Ord. 2019-04, 2-26-2019; Ord. 2017-03, 6-27-2017; Ord.
2017-02, 6-13-2017; Ord. 2012-10, 11-27-2012; Ord. 2012-02, 4-3-2012; Ord.
2011-01, 1-18-2011; Ord. 2010-08, 11-16-2010; Ord. 2010-07, 8-3-2010; Ord.
2008-12, 10-7-2008; Ord. 2008-11, 10-7-2008; Ord. 2006-05, 6-29-2006; Ord.
2006-04, 6-29-2006; Ord. 2001-07, 8-13-2001; Ord. 2001-05, 7-2-2001; Ord. 2000-
3, 3-20-2000; Ord. 99-3, 7-19-1999; Ord. 98-7, 9-21-1998; Ord. 97-2, 3-3-1997;
Ord. 96-13, 12-9-1996; 1996 Code; Ord. 77-5 as amended; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977,
eff. 4-7-1977)
CHAPTER 5
PRODUCTIVE AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (A-20)
SECTION:
9-5-1: Purpose
9-5-2: Location/Applicability
9-5-3: Developable Density And Lot Area
9-5-4: Permitted Uses
9-5-5: Accessory Uses
9-5-6: Conditional Uses
9-5-7: Dimensional Standards
9-5-8: Transferable Development Right (TDR) Sending Area
9-5-9: Transferable Development Right (TDR) Receiving Area
9-5-10: Planned Unit Developments And Cluster Developments
9-5-1: PURPOSE:
The A-20 district is established to: a) preserve those lands either presently
in agricultural use or having potential for agricultural use. Criteria for
determining agricultural potential include soil characteristics, topography,
microclimate, the availability of water, the cost of applying adequate water
for irrigation and distance from incorporated cities; b) encourage agricultural
activities, thereby helping to ensure that commercial agriculture will continue
as a long term land use and a viable economic activity within the county; c)
preserve natural features and the rural landscape, while allowing low density,
clustered residential development; and d) respect existing features of the
rural landscape.
The preferred land use in the A-20 district is agriculture. The district is
intended to permit a range of uses related to agriculture, to encourage the
preservation of large blocks of farmland, and to permanently protect from
development the tracts of land which remain after permitted residential
development has occurred. Residential development shall be permitted only when
it is located and designed to minimize its impact on agricultural land, farming
operations, and sensitive environmental features and when it is found that the
cumulative effect of residential development in the vicinity does not change
the character of agriculturally used lands. (Ord. 96-10, 9-16-1996; Ord. 77-5,
3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-5-2: LOCATION/APPLICABILITY:
This A-20 district shall only apply to lands in the A-20 district effective
prior to July 5, 2006, and that meet the following criteria:
   A.   Location within an urban influence boundary, as defined by the
following criteria:
      1.   Within three (3) miles from the incorporated boundaries of Ketchum,
Hailey, or Bellevue; or
      2.   Within one mile from the incorporated boundaries of Carey or Sun
Valley; or
      3.   Within three-fourths (3/4) of a mile from the boundary of the
platted townsites of Picabo or Gannett; or
   B.   Location within one-half (1/2) mile from the R-5 zoning district; or
   C.   Location within township one north and ranges 18 and 19 (excluding
section 35) east, Boise meridian. (Ord. 2006-05, 6-29-2006)
9-5-3: DEVELOPABLE DENSITY AND LOT AREA:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area in a subdivision shall be twenty
(20) acres, except:
      1.   Within an A-20 cluster development when authorized pursuant to
Blaine County ordinance 77-6, as amended (subdivision ordinance).
      2.   Within an A-20 TDR receiving area where the minimum lot area shall
be one acre.
   B.   PUDs: For the purposes of a PUD that includes land zoned A-20, the base
density may be transferred within contiguous parcels of land under the same
ownership from the A-20 district to the R-5 or R-10 district.
   C.   Maximum Base Density: The maximum base density shall be one dwelling
unit per twenty (20) acres.
   D.   Density Bonus In A CD: One primary residential dwelling unit (and any
accessory employee housing as otherwise permitted) shall be allowed within any
parent tract of an A-20 CD in addition to the base density. (Ord. 2008-10, 7-8-
2008; Ord. 2006-05, 6-29-2006; Ord. 96-10, 9-16-1996; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977,
eff. 4-7-1977)
9-5-4: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses for this A-20 District are limited to the following:
   A.   Use of land for agricultural purposes.
   B.   Open space recreation uses.
   C.   Wildlife reserves.
   D.   Single-family residences. (Ord. 2006-05, 6-29-2006; Ord. 96-10, 9-16-
1996; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-5-5: ACCESSORY USES:
The accessory uses for this A-20 District are limited to the following:
   A.   Living quarters for persons employed on the premises; provided,
however, that mobile homes shall be set back at least fifty feet (50') from any
property line (100 feet from Highway 75). Living quarters for employees shall
be limited to parcels in the A-20 District twenty (20) acres or greater in
size, up to two (2) units per twenty (20) acres.
   B.   Recreation facilities for private use.
   C.   Accessory dwelling unit (see section
9-3-11 of this title).
   D.   Agricultural related structures and buildings.
   E.   Temporary roadside stands for the sale of agricultural products grown
on the premises or as part of an integrated agricultural operation under common
management with administrative approval.
   F.   Keeping of riding horses for private use; provided, that at least one-
third (1/3) acre of permeable land area is available for each horse.
   G.   Tier 1 home occupations. (Ord. 2019-03, 1-8-2019; Ord. 2018-03, 2-13-
2018; Ord. 2012-06, 7-10-2012; Ord. 2012-05, 6-5-2012; Ord. 2006-05, 6-29-2006;
Ord. 96-10, 9-16-1996; Ord. 95-5, 4-3-1995; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-
1977)
9-5-6: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses for this A-20 District are limited to the following:
   A.   Public or private airfields.
   B.   Animal hospitals.
   C.   Feedlots.
   D.   Public utility installations, not including business offices, repair or
storage facilities.
   E.   Temporary use of a mobile home during construction of a permanent
dwelling for a period not to exceed one year. If construction is clearly
underway within this first year, this period may be extended for a second year.
   F.   Public campgrounds, when screened or hidden from view from public
highways.
   G.   Tier 2 home occupations.
   H.   Permanent use of a mobile home as a primary residence on a parcel of
land at least forty (40) acres lying within the district; provided, that the
mobile home be certified by the builder to meet current building standards in
effect for the County.
   I.   Agricultural businesses. In determining whether to grant the
conditional use and in deciding whether to limit aspects of operation
including, but not limited to, hours of operation, size, number of employees,
size of sign and other limits as allowed in chapter 25 of this title,
agricultural businesses are to be evaluated in terms of their relevance to and
need by local agricultural operations; impacts on adjacent agricultural lands
in terms of traffic flow, visual and noise pollution, odors and other effects;
availability of nearby land already zoned for the proposed business as a
permitted use; and other factors listed in chapter 25 of this title.
   J.   Accessory dwelling unit (see section
9-3-11 of this title).
   K.   Group daycare facilities.
   L.   Public works gravel or shale pits and public works asphalt plants.
   M.   Wireless communication facilities (see section
9-3-16 of this title). (Ord. 2019-03, 1-8-2019; Ord. 2012-06, 7-10-2012; Ord.
2012-05, 6-5-2012; Ord. 2006-05, 6-29-2006; Ord. 2001-10, 10-1-2001; Ord. 96-
10, 9-16-1996; Ord. 95-5, 4-3-1995; Ord. 92-5, 9-14-1992; Ord. 90-4, 6-11-1990;
Ord. 88-5, 1-12-1989; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-5-7: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
Dimensional standards for this district are the following, except that
dimensional standards may be modified in a CD as authorized pursuant to
subdivision ordinance 77-6, as amended:
   A.   Maximum Building Height: Thirty five feet (35'), except agricultural
buildings, and windmills.
   B.   Minimum Front Yard Setback: One hundred feet (100') on State Highway
75, fifty feet (50') for other major roads and twenty five feet (25') for minor
roads.
   C.   Minimum Side And Rear Yard Setback: Twenty five feet (25').
   D.   Minimum Lot Width: Four hundred feet (400').
   E.   Minimum Setback From Wetlands: Within the A-20 District, the minimum
setback from all "wetlands" as defined in chapter 19 of this title shall be one
hundred feet (100'). There shall be no disturbance within such setback area
except for agricultural purposes (see definition). Buildings existing as of
July 5, 2006, that do not comply with the wetlands setback may be allowed to
expand if they do not extend farther into the wetlands than the existing
structure. Any other disturbance to wetlands or within the wetlands setback,
including driveway crossing or installation of utilities leading to a building
site, shall comply with the requirements of chapter 19 of this title and all
other County, State and Federal requirements. (Ord. 2006-05, 6-29-2006; Ord.
96-10, 9-16-1996; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977; Ord. 2023-01, 1-3-2023)
9-5-8: TRANSFERABLE DEVELOPMENT RIGHT (TDR) SENDING AREA:
   A.   Voluntary Development Rights Transfer: If a property is located within
the TDR sending area or other designated A-20 TDR sending area, the property
owner shall have the option to voluntarily transfer all or a portion of the
maximum permissible density to a designated TDR receiving area pursuant to the
provisions of title 10, chapter 10 of this Code.
   B.   Minimum Area: The minimum area of a parcel that may be designated for
transfer of development rights shall be one hundred sixty (160) acres except
for smaller legal parcels in existence on July 5, 2006, for which the minimum
size for a transferring parcel shall be forty (40) acres.
   C.   Maximum Base Density Prior To Transfer: The base density within the TDR
sending area shall be one dwelling unit per twenty (20) acres for purposes of
calculating the maximum number of development rights to be transferred. The
area of all delineated wetlands and wetland setback areas within a sending
parcel may be included in calculating maximum base density for purposes of a
TDR transfer.
   D.   Site Density After TDR Transfer: After transfer of development rights,
the remaining maximum allowable density on the sending parcel shall be one
dwelling unit per one hundred sixty (160) acres or fraction thereof. (All
fractions below 1/2 shall be rounded down for purposes of calculating maximum
number of allowable units on the sending parcel.) For sending parcels less than
one hundred sixty (160) acres, the maximum allowable density after transfer
shall be one unit, regardless of the size of the parcel. An existing dwelling
unit on a sending parcel shall be counted against this maximum allowable
density. (Ord. 2006-05, 6-29-2006)
9-5-9: TRANSFERABLE DEVELOPMENT RIGHT (TDR) RECEIVING AREA:
   A.   Eligibility: The minimum contiguous land area within a designated TDR
receiving area to be eligible for the purposes of this section shall be ten
(10) acres.
   B.   Maximum Density: If a parcel is located within a designated A-20 TDR
receiving area, the maximum base density may be increased from one dwelling
unit per twenty (20) acres to one dwelling unit per two and one-half (2.5)
acres as set forth below through the voluntary purchase or transfer of
development rights from a parcel in a designated TDR sending area.
   C.   Base Density Increase Calculation: For each development right purchased
or transferred, the density in an A-20 receiving area may be increased
according to the following schedule:
 
Number Of Development Rights       Maximum Density On 20 Acre Parcel
1                                  2 units on 20 acres
2                                  3 units on 20 acres
3                                  4 units on 20 acres
6                                  8 units on 20 acres
Every development right thereafter An additional unit for each additional 2.5
                                   acres
 
   D.   Minimum Lot Area: One acre.
   E.   Minimum Open Space Within A TDR Receiving Area Cluster: At least fifty
percent (50%) of the receiving parcel shall be set aside as public or private
open space.
   F.   Minimum Setback From Heavy Industrial District: The minimum setback
from the HI District for a building envelope in a receiving parcel shall be one
thousand two hundred feet (1,200'). (Ord. 2006-05, 6-29-2006; amd. Ord. 2021-
15, 9-21-2021)
9-5-10: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS AND CLUSTER DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   Planned Unit Developments (PUDs): PUDs shall not be allowed in the A-20
District, except:
      1.   In a designated A-20 TDR receiving area if, as part of a PUD,
development rights are being transferred to the site from a TDR sending area to
increase the maximum allowable density in the TDR receiving area, or
      2.   When land zoned A-20 is contiguous to land in the same ownership
that is zoned R-5 or R-10. The base density of the A-20 parcel may be
transferred to the contiguous R-5 or R-10 zoned land.
   B.   Cluster Developments:
      1.   Cluster developments (CDs) shall be allowed in the A-20 District if
the parent tract is located within one mile of a paved State, Federal, or
County road or a paved road constructed to County standards in existence as of
July 5, 2006, and if they meet the criteria set forth in section
10-9-6, "Density, Lot, And Development Standards", of this Code.
      2.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area in an A-20 CD shall be two
and one-half (21/2) acres except in a TDR receiving area where the minimum lot
area shall be one acre.
      3.   Maximum Number Of Lots In A Cluster Tract: The maximum number of
lots in an A-20 CD cluster tract shall be five (5) except if the standards set
forth in subsection
10-9-6D4 of this Code are met. (Ord. 2006-05, 6-29-2006)
CHAPTER 5A
PRODUCTIVE AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (A-40)
SECTION:
9-5A-1: Purpose
9-5A-2: Location/Applicability
9-5A-3: Developable Density And Lot Area
9-5A-4: Permitted Uses
9-5A-5: Accessory Uses
9-5A-6: Conditional Uses
9-5A-7: Dimensional Standards
9-5A-8: Transferable Development Right (TDR) Sending Area
9-5A-9: Cluster Developments
9-5A-1: PURPOSE:
The A-40 district is established to: a) preserve those lands either presently
in agricultural use or having potential for agricultural use (based on soil
characteristics, topography, microclimate, the availability of water, the cost
of applying adequate water for irrigation and distance from incorporated
cities); b) encourage agricultural activities, thereby helping to ensure that
commercial agriculture will continue as a long term land use and a viable
economic activity within the county; c) preserve natural features and the rural
landscape, while allowing very low density, clustered residential development;
and d) respect existing features of the rural landscape.
The preferred land use in the A-40 district is agriculture. The district is
intended to permit a range of uses related to agriculture, to encourage the
preservation of large blocks of farmland, and to permanently conserve tracts of
land which remain after permitted residential development has occurred.
Residential development shall be permitted only when it is located and designed
to minimize its impact on agricultural land, farming operations, and sensitive
environmental features and when it is found that the cumulative effect of
residential development in the vicinity does not change the character of
agriculturally used lands. (Ord. 2006-05, 6-29-2006)
9-5A-2: LOCATION/APPLICABILITY:
This A-40 district shall only apply to lands designated A-20 prior to July 5,
2006, and that are outside of the urban influence boundaries, as defined in
section
9-5-2 of this title, and that are outside of township one north and ranges 18
and 19 (including section 35) east, Boise meridian. (Ord. 2006-05, 6-29-2006)
9-5A-3: DEVELOPABLE DENSITY AND LOT AREA:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area in a subdivision shall be forty
(40) acres, except within an A-40 cluster development when authorized pursuant
to Blaine County ordinance 77-6, as amended (subdivision ordinance). The
minimum lot area in an A-40 cluster development shall be two and one-half (21/
2) acres.
   B.   Maximum Base Density: The maximum base density shall be one dwelling
unit per forty (40) acres.
   C.   On A Lot Of Record Between Forty And One Hundred Sixty Acres In Size:
      1.   An additional lot and unit of base density may be permitted in a
subdivision.
      2.   The minimum area of any lot shall be twenty (20) acres except as
allowed within an A-40 cluster development when authorized pursuant to title
10, chapter 9 of this code.
      3.   The maximum base density shall be one dwelling unit per twenty (20)
acres. (Ord. 2006-14, 11-21-2006; Ord. 2006-05, 6-29-2006)
9-5A-4: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses for this A-40 district are limited to the following:
   A.   Use of land for agricultural purposes.
   B.   Open space recreation uses.
   C.   Wildlife reserves.
   D.   Single-family residences. (Ord. 2006-05, 6-29-2006)
9-5A-5: ACCESSORY USES:
The accessory uses for this A-40 District are limited to the following:
   A.   Living quarters for persons employed on the premises; provided,
however, that mobile homes shall be set back at least fifty feet (50') from any
property line (100 feet from Highway 75). Living quarters for employees shall
be limited to parcels in the A-40 District forty (40) acres or greater in size,
up to two (2) units per twenty (20) acres.
   B.   Recreation facilities for private use.
   C.   Accessory dwelling unit (see section
9-3-11 of this title).
   D.   Agricultural related structures and buildings.
   E.   Temporary roadside stands for the sale of agricultural products grown
on the premises or as part of an integrated agricultural operation under common
management with administrative approval.
   F.   Keeping of riding horses for private use; provided, that at least one-
third (1/3) acre of permeable land area is available for each horse.
   G.   Tier 1 home occupations. (Ord. 2019-03, 1-8-2019; Ord. 2018-03, 2-13-
2018; Ord. 2012-06, 7-10-2012; Ord. 2012-05, 6-5-2012; Ord. 2006-05, 6-29-2006)
9-5A-6: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses for this A-40 District are limited to the following:
   A.   Public or private airfields.
   B.   Animal hospitals.
   C.   Feedlots.
   D.   Public utility installations, not including business offices, repair or
storage facilities.
   E.   Temporary use of a mobile home during construction of a permanent
dwelling for a period not to exceed one year. If construction is clearly
underway within this first year, this period may be extended for a second year.
   F.   Public campgrounds, when screened or hidden from view from public
highways.
   G.   Tier 2 home occupations.
   H.   Permanent use of a mobile home as a primary residence on a parcel of
land at least forty (40) acres lying within the district; provided, that the
mobile home be certified by the builder to meet current building standards in
effect for the County.
   I.   Agricultural businesses. In determining whether to grant the
conditional use and in deciding whether to limit aspects of operation
including, but not limited to, hours of operation, size, number of employees,
size of sign and other limits as allowed in chapter 25 of this title,
agricultural businesses are to be evaluated in terms of their relevance to and
need by local agricultural operations; impacts on adjacent agricultural lands
in terms of traffic flow, visual and noise pollution, odors and other effects;
availability of nearby land already zoned for the proposed business as a
permitted use; and other factors listed in chapter 25 of this title.
   J.   Accessory dwelling unit (see section
9-3-11 of this title).
   K.   Group daycare facilities.
   L.   Public works gravel or shale pits and public works asphalt plants.
   M.   Wireless communication facilities (see section
9-3-16 of this title).
   N.   Outdoor recreational facilities. (Ord. 2019-03, 1-8-2019; Ord. 2012-06,
7-10-2012; Ord. 2012-05, 6-5-2012; Ord. 2012-01, 4-17-2012; Ord. 2006-05, 6-29-
2006)
9-5A-7: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
Dimensional standards for this A-40 District are the following, except that
dimensional standards may be modified in a CD as authorized pursuant to
subdivision ordinance 77-6, as amended:
   A.   Maximum Building Height: Thirty five feet (35'), except agricultural
buildings, and windmills.
   B.   Minimum Front Yard Setback: One hundred feet (100') on State Highway
75, fifty feet (50') for other major roads and twenty five feet (25') for minor
roads.
   C.   Minimum Side And Rear Yard Setback: Twenty five feet (25').
   D.   Minimum Lot Width: Four hundred feet (400').
   E.   Minimum Setback From Wetlands: Within the A-40 District, the minimum
setback from all "wetlands" as defined in chapter 19 of this title shall be one
hundred feet (100'). There shall be no disturbance within such setback area
except for agricultural purposes (see definition). Buildings existing as of
July 5, 2006, that do not comply with the wetlands setback may be allowed to
expand if they do not extend farther into the wetlands setback than the
existing structure. Any other disturbance to wetlands or within the wetlands
setback, including driveway crossing or installation of utilities leading to a
building site, shall comply with the requirements of chapter 19 of this title
and all other County, State and Federal requirements. (Ord. 2006-05, 6-29-2006;
amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-3-2023)
9-5A-8: TRANSFERABLE DEVELOPMENT RIGHT (TDR) SENDING AREA:
   A.   Voluntary Development Rights Transfer: If a property is located within
the TDR sending area or other designated A-40 TDR sending area, the property
owner shall have the option to voluntarily transfer all or a portion of the
maximum permissible density to a designated TDR receiving area pursuant to the
provisions of title 10, chapter 10 of this Code.
   B.   Minimum Area: The minimum area of a parcel that may be designated for
transfer of development rights shall be one hundred sixty (160) acres except
for smaller legal parcels in existence on July 5, 2006, for which the minimum
size for a transferring parcel shall be forty (40) acres.
   C.   Maximum Base Density Prior To Transfer: The base density within the TDR
sending area shall be one dwelling unit per twenty (20) acres for purposes of
calculating the maximum number of development rights to be transferred. The
area of all delineated wetlands and wetland setback areas within a sending
parcel may be included in calculating maximum base density for purposes of a
TDR transfer.
   D.   Site Density After TDR Transfer: After transfer of development rights,
the remaining maximum allowable density on the sending parcel shall be one
dwelling unit per one hundred sixty (160) acres or fraction thereof. (All
fractions below 1/2 shall be rounded down for purposes of calculating maximum
number of allowable units on the sending parcel.) For sending parcels less than
one hundred sixty (160) acres, the maximum allowable density after transfer
shall be one unit regardless of the size of the parcel. An existing dwelling
unit on a sending parcel shall be counted against this maximum allowable
density. TDR rights shall be retained in order to develop on a sending parcel
to match the underlying zoning (For example: 2 TDRS shall be retained to
develop one dwelling unit and associated accessory uses in the A-40. 1 TDR
shall be retained if developing one dwelling unit and associated accessory uses
in the A-20 zoning district). (Ord. 2006-05, 6-29-2006; amd. Ord. 2021-15, 9-
21-2021)
9-5A-9: CLUSTER DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   Criteria: Cluster developments (CDs) shall be allowed in the A-40
District if the parent tract is located within one mile of a paved State,
Federal, or County road or a paved road constructed to County standards in
existence as of July 5, 2006; and if they meet the criteria set forth in
section
10-9-6, "Density, Lot, And Development Standards", of this Code.
   B.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area in an A-40 CD shall be two and
one-half (21/2) acres.
   C.   Maximum Number Of Lots In A Cluster Tract: The maximum number of lots
in an A-40 CD cluster tract shall be five (5) except if the standards set forth
in subsection
10-9-6D4 of this Code are met.
   D.   Density Bonus In A CD: One primary residential dwelling unit (and any
accessory employee housing as otherwise permitted) shall be allowed within any
parent tract of an A-40 CD in addition to the base density. (Ord. 2006-05, 6-
29-2006)
CHAPTER 6
RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-10) 1
SECTION:
9-6-1: Purpose
9-6-2: Location/Applicability
9-6-3: Developable Density And Lot Size
9-6-4: Permitted Uses
9-6-5: Accessory Uses
9-6-6: Conditional Uses
9-6-7: Dimensional Standards
9-6-8: Cluster Developments
 
Notes
  1. Prior ordinance history: Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977; Ord. 88-5,
1 1-12-1989; Ord. 90-4, 6-11-1990; Ord. 92-5, 9-14-1992; Ord. 94-5, 6-16-1994;
  Ord. 94-14, 11-14-1994; Ord. 95-5, 4-3-1995; Ord. 2001-10, 10-1-2001.
   
9-6-1: PURPOSE:
This district permits limited development of those lands that are not well
suited for long term intensive agricultural production due to such factors as
soil characteristics, topography, water availability, the cost of applying
water and microclimate, and which, in addition, are not well suited for
residential use except for very low density due to such factors as access
problems, slope, soil characteristics and presence of sensitive natural
resources. (Ord. 2006-04, 6-29-2006)
9-6-2: LOCATION/APPLICABILITY:
This R-10 district shall only apply to lands designated A-10 prior to July 5,
2006, and that meet the following criteria:
   A.   Location within an urban influence boundary, as defined by the
following criteria:
      1.   Within three (3) miles from the incorporated boundaries of Ketchum,
Hailey, or Bellevue; or
      2.   Within one mile from the incorporated boundaries of Carey or Sun
Valley, or
      3.   Within three-fourths (3/4) of a mile from the boundary of the
platted townsites of Picabo or Gannett; or
   B.   Location within one-half (1/2) mile from the R-5 zoning district. (Ord.
2006-04, 6-29-2006)
9-6-3: DEVELOPABLE DENSITY AND LOT SIZE:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area in a subdivision shall be ten
(10) acres, except:
      1.   Within an R-10 cluster development when authorized pursuant to
Blaine County ordinance 77-6, as amended (subdivision ordinance).
      2.   Within a TDR receiving area.
   B.   Base Density: The base density for PUDs shall be one unit per ten (10)
acres. (Ord. 2006-04, 6-29-2006)
9-6-4: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses for this district are limited to the following:
   A.   Timber production, grazing and other agricultural purposes, except as
provided in subsection
9-6-6M of this chapter.
   B.   Open space recreational use.
   C.   Wildlife reserves.
   D.   Single-family residential use.
(Ord. 2025-03, 2-12-2025; Ord. 2006-04, 6-29-2006)
9-6-5: ACCESSORY USES:
The accessory uses for this R-10 District are limited to the following:
   A.   Living quarters for persons employed on the premises; provided,
however, that mobile homes shall be set back at least fifty feet (50') from any
property line (100 feet from Highway 75). Living quarters for employees shall
be limited to parcels in the R-10 District twenty (20) acres or greater in
size, up to two (2) units per twenty (20) acres.
   B.   Recreation facilities for private use.
   C.   Accessory dwelling unit (see section
9-3-11 of this title).
   D.   Agricultural related structures and buildings.
   E.   Temporary roadside stands for the sale of agricultural products grown
on the premises or as part of an integrated agricultural operation under common
management with administrative approval.
   F.   Keeping of riding horses for private use; provided, that at least one-
third (1/3) acre of permeable land area is available for each horse.
   G.   Tier 1 home occupations. (Ord. 2006-04, 6-29-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-01,
1-3-2023)
9-6-6: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses for this district are limited to the following:
   A.   Public outdoor recreational facilities.
   B.   Sanitary landfills.
   C.   Public or private airfields.
   D.   Public utility installations, not including business offices, repair or
storage facilities.
   E.   Temporary use of a mobile home during construction of a permanent
dwelling for a period not to exceed one year.
   F.   Mills for refining mining ore.
   G.   Public campgrounds when screened or hidden from view from public
highways.
   H.   Gravel or shale pits, and asphalt batch plants.
   I.   Retreats.
   J.   Mobile homes and trailers on patented mining or mill site claims.
Mobile homes or trailers will be allowed for purposes of a shop, office or for
housing for a caretaker or watchman. The number of mobile homes and trailers to
be allowed shall be determined by those considerations which include, but are
not limited to:
      1.   The size of the mining operation.
      2.   The number of employees required by the mining operation.
      3.   The need for twenty four (24) hour protection or monitoring of the
mining operation.
A conditional use permit will be issued on a year to year basis, renewable if
the mining or mill site claim on which the structures are located is still
under development or extraction is occurring. All South Central Health
Department requirements must be met.
Upon expiration of the conditional use permit, all mobile homes and trailers
allowed under this provision must be removed. Their removal and any required
reclamation will be guaranteed through posting a performance bond, cash
deposit, certified check, negotiable bond or other acceptable financial
guarantee with the Board of County Commissioners.
   K.   Group daycare facilities.
   L.   Public works gravel or shale pits and public works asphalt plants.
   M.   Mining activity on private property within the Mountain Overlay
District is subject to a Mountain Overlay District (
chapter 21 of this title) site alteration permit.
   N.   Accessory dwelling unit (see section
9-3-11 of this title).
   O.   Wireless communication facilities (see section
9-3-16 of this title).
   P.   Animal shelter.
   Q.   Special events facility, when located within one mile of incorporated
cities.
   R.   Tier 2 home occupations.
   S.   Extraction.
(Ord. 2019-03, 1-8-2019; Ord. 2018-02, 1-23-2018; Ord. 2009-07, 9-8-2009; Ord.
2006-04, 6-29-2006; Ord. 2025-03, 2-12-2025)
9-6-7: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
Dimensional standards for this district are the following, except that
dimensional standards may be modified in a CD as authorized pursuant to
subdivision ordinance 77-6, as amended:
   A.   Maximum Building Height: Thirty five feet (35'), except agricultural
buildings and windmills.
   B.   Minimum Front Yard Setback: One hundred feet (100') on State Highway
75, fifty feet (50') for other major roads and twenty five feet (25') for minor
roads.
   C.   Minimum Side And Rear Yard Setback: Twenty five feet (25').
   D.   Minimum Lot Width: Four hundred feet (400'). (Ord. 2006-04, 6-29-2006;
amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-3-2023)
9-6-8: CLUSTER DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   Criteria: Cluster developments (CDs) shall be allowed in the R-10
District if the parent tract is located within one mile of a paved State,
Federal, or County road or a paved road constructed to County standards in
existence as of July 5, 2006; and if they meet the criteria set forth in
section
10-9-6, "Density, Lot, And Development Standards", of this Code.
   B.   Minimum Lot Size: The minimum lot size for a CD shall be two and one-
half (21/2) acres except in a TDR receiving area.
   C.   Maximum Number Of Lots In Cluster Tract: The maximum number of lots in
a CD cluster tract shall be five (5) except if the standards set forth in
subsection
10-9-6D4 of this Code are met. (Ord. 2006-04, 6-29-2006)
CHAPTER 6A
RURAL REMOTE DISTRICT (RR-40)
SECTION:
9-6A-1: Purpose
9-6A-2: Location/Applicability
9-6A-3: Developable Density And Lot Size
9-6A-4: Permitted Uses
9-6A-5: Accessory Uses
9-6A-6: Conditional Uses
9-6A-7: Dimensional Standards
9-6A-8: Cluster Developments
9-6A-1: PURPOSE:
This district permits limited development of those lands which are not well
suited for long term intensive agricultural production due to such factors as
soil characteristics, topography, water availability, the cost of applying
water and microclimate, and which, in addition, are not well suited for
residential use except for very low density due to such factors as access
problems, slope, soil characteristics, distance from and ability to provide
services at reasonable cost, and presence of sensitive natural resources. (Ord.
2006-04, 6-29-2006)
9-6A-2: LOCATION/APPLICABILITY:
This RR-40 district shall only apply to lands designated as A-10 prior to July
5, 2006, and that are outside of the urban influence boundary and beyond one-
half (1/2) mile from the R-5 zoning district, as defined in subsections 9-6-2A
and B of this title. (Ord. 2006-04, 6-29-2006)
9-6A-3: DEVELOPABLE DENSITY AND LOT SIZE:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area in a subdivision shall be forty
(40) acres, except within an RR-40 cluster development when authorized pursuant
to Blaine County ordinance 77-6, as amended (subdivision ordinance). (Ord.
2006-04, 6-29-2006)
9-6A-4: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses for this district are limited to the following:
   A.   Timber production, grazing and other agricultural purposes, except as
provided in subsection 9-6A-6M of this chapter.
   B.   Open space recreational use.
   C.   Wildlife reserves.
   D.   Single-family residential use.
(Ord. 2025-03, 2-12-2025; Ord. 2006-04, 6-29-2006)
9-6A-5: ACCESSORY USES:
The accessory uses for this RR-40 District are limited to the following:
    A.   Living quarters for persons employed on the premises; provided,
however, that mobile homes shall be set back at least fifty feet (50') from any
property line (100 feet from Highway 75). Living quarters for employees shall
be limited to parcels in the RR-40 District forty (40) acres or greater in
size, up to two (2) units per twenty (20) acres.
   B.   Recreation facilities for private use.
   C.   Accessory dwelling unit (see section
9-3-11 of this title).
   D.   Agricultural related structures and buildings.
   E.   Temporary roadside stands for the sale of agricultural products grown
on the premises or as part of an integrated agricultural operation under common
management with administrative approval.
   F.   Keeping of riding horses for private use; provided, that at least one-
third (1/3) acre of permeable land area is available for each horse.
   G.   Tier 1 home occupations. (Ord. 2012-05, 6-5-2012; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-
3-2023)
9-6A-6: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses for this district are limited to the following:
   A.   Public outdoor recreational facilities.
   B.   Sanitary landfills.
   C.   Public or private airfields.
   D.   Public utility installations, not including business offices, repair or
storage facilities.
   E.   Temporary use of a mobile home during construction of a permanent
dwelling for a period not to exceed one year.
   F.   Mills for refining mining ore.
   G.   Public campgrounds when screened or hidden from view from public
highways.
   H.   Gravel or shale pits, and asphalt batch plants.
   I.   Retreats.
   J.   Mobile homes and trailers on patented mining or mill site claims.
Mobile homes or trailers will be allowed for purposes of a shop, office, or for
housing for a caretaker or watchman. The number of mobile homes and trailers to
be allowed shall be determined by those considerations which include, but are
not limited to:
      1.   The size of the mining operation.
      2.   The number of employees required by the mining operation.
      3.   The need for twenty four (24) hour protection or monitoring of the
mining operation.
A conditional use permit will be issued on a year to year basis, renewable if
the mining or mill site claim on which the structures are located is still
under development or extraction is occurring. All South Central Health
Department requirements must be met.
Upon expiration of the conditional use permit, all mobile homes and trailers
allowed under this provision must be removed. Their removal and any required
reclamation will be guaranteed through posting a performance bond, cash
deposit, certified check, negotiable bond or other acceptable financial
guarantee with the Board of County Commissioners.
   K.   Group daycare facilities.
   L.   Public works gravel or shale pits and public works asphalt plants.
   M.   Mining activity on private property within the Mountain Overlay
District is subject to a Mountain Overlay District (
chapter 21 of this title) site alteration permit.
   N.   Accessory dwelling unit. (See section
9-3-11 of this title.)
   O.   Wireless communication facilities. (See section
9-3-16 of this title.)
   P.   Tier 2 home occupations.
   Q.   Extraction.
(Ord. 2025-03, 2-12-2025; Ord. 2019-03, 1-8-2019; Ord. 2006-04, 6-29-2006)
9-6A-7: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
Dimensional standards for this district are the following, except that
dimensional standards may be modified in a CD as authorized pursuant to
subdivision ordinance 77-6, as amended:
   A.   Maximum Building Height: Thirty five feet (35'), except agricultural
buildings and windmills.
   B.   Minimum Front Yard Setback: One hundred feet (100') on State Highway
75, fifty feet (50') for other major roads and twenty five feet (25') for minor
roads.
   C.   Minimum Side And Rear Yard Setback: Twenty five feet (25').
   D.   Minimum Lot Width: Five hundred feet (500').
   E.   Minimum Setback From Wetlands: The minimum setback from all "wetlands"
as defined in chapter 19 of this title shall be one hundred feet (100'). There
shall be no disturbance within such setback area except for agricultural
purposes (see definition). Buildings existing as of July 5, 2006, that do not
comply with the wetlands setback may be allowed to expand if they do not extend
farther into the wetlands than the existing structure. Any other disturbance to
wetlands or within the wetlands setback, including driveway crossing or
installation of utilities leading to a building site, shall comply with the
requirements of chapter 19 of this title and all other County, State and
Federal requirements. (Ord. 2006-04, 6-29-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-3-2023)
9-6A-8: CLUSTER DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   Criteria: Cluster developments (CDs) shall be allowed in RR-40 District
if the parent tract is located within one mile of a paved State, Federal, or
County road or a paved road constructed to County standards in existence as of
July 5, 2006; and if they meet the criteria set forth in section
10-9-6, "Density, Lot, And Development Standards", of this Code.
   B.   Minimum Lot Size: The minimum lot size shall be two and one- half (21/
2) acres.
   C.   Maximum Number Of Lots In Cluster Tract: The maximum number of lots in
a CD cluster tract shall be five (5) except if the standards set forth in
subsection
10-9-6D4 of this Code are met. (Ord. 2006-04, 6-29-2006)
CHAPTER 6B
RESOURCE CONSERVATION DISTRICT (RC-160)
SECTION:
9-6B-1: Purpose
9-6B-2: Developable Density And Lot Size
9-6B-3: Permitted And Accessory Uses
9-6B-4: Conditional Uses
9-6B-5: Dimensional Standards
9-6B-6: State Needs
9-6B-1: PURPOSE:
The resource conservation district (RC district) is established to: a) maintain
the present and future use of lands currently owned by the federal, state, or
local governments and currently used for nondevelopment purposes; b) avoid
inappropriate development of such lands in the event they are sold, exchanged,
or otherwise made available (i.e., by long term lease) for use by an entity
other than the federal, state, or local government excepting state of Idaho
school endowment lands; and c) protect resources such as wildlife habitat. The
RC district is intended to allow governmental uses and government permitted or
approved activities while in federal, state, or local government ownership and
direct control. It is further intended to allow only very low intensity
resource related uses on such lands.
The resource conservation district (RC district) is intended to protect the
valuable resources such as wildlife habitat, watersheds and recreational lands
of Blaine County. Much of Blaine County's precious resources are currently
owned by public entities and in some cases located far from existing services,
thus the RC district is established to control the future use of lands
currently owned by public entities in the R-10, RR-40, A-20 and A-40 zoning
districts, in the event such lands are sold, exchanged or otherwise made
available (i.e., by long term lease) for use by a private entity after November
8, 2006, as exhibited in attachment A, the resource conservation district map
(November 8, 2006), attached to the ordinance codified herein. (Ord. 2006-17,
11-2-2006)
9-6B-2: DEVELOPABLE DENSITY AND LOT SIZE:
   A.   Minimum lot area for federal and state properties excepting state of
Idaho school endowment lands: The minimum lot area for residential development
shall be one hundred sixty (160) acres. (Ord. 2006-17, 11-2-2006)
9-6B-3: PERMITTED AND ACCESSORY USES:
Permitted and accessory uses for the RC district are limited to the following:
   A.   Federal, state, or local government approved uses, services and
facilities, including residential, and forestry grazing, public utilities, and
other necessary uses, services and facilities related to a valid government
permit or activity.
   B.   Use of land for very low intensity resource conservation purposes.
   C.   Open space recreational use.
   D.   Wildlife reserves.
(Ord. 2025-03, 2-12-2025; Ord. 2006-17, 11-2-2006)
9-6B-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses for the RC district are limited to the following:
   A.   Outdoor recreation facilities.
   B.   Campgrounds, when screened or hidden from view from public roads.
   C.   Wireless communication facilities. (See section
9-3-16 of this title.)
   D.   Extraction.
(Ord. 2025-03, 2-12-2025; Ord. 2006-17, 11-2-2006)
9-6B-5: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
Dimensional standards for this district are the following, except that
dimensional standards may be modified in a CD as authorized pursuant to
subdivision ordinance 77-6, as amended:
   A.   Maximum Building Height: Thirty five feet (35'), except agricultural
buildings and windmills.
   B.   Minimum Front Yard Setback: One hundred feet (100') on State Highway
75, fifty feet (50') for other major roads and twenty five feet (25') for minor
roads.
   C.   Minimum Side And Rear Yard Setback: Twenty five feet (25').
   D.   Minimum Lot Width: One thousand feet (1,000').
   E.   Minimum Setback From Wetlands: The minimum setback from all "wetlands"
as defined in chapter 19 of this title shall be one hundred feet (100'). There
shall be no disturbance within such setback area except for agricultural
purposes (see definition). Buildings existing as of July 5, 2006, that do not
comply with the wetlands setback may be allowed to expand if they do not extend
farther into the wetlands than the existing structure. Any other disturbance to
wetlands or within the wetlands setback, including driveway crossing or
installation of utilities leading to a building site, shall comply with the
requirements of chapter 19 of this title and all other County, State and
Federal requirements. (Ord. 2006-17, 11-2-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-3-2023)
9-6B-6: STATE NEEDS:
If the applicant or landowner with respect to an application under this chapter
is the state of Idaho, or any agency, board, department, institution, or
district thereof, the commission or the board, in addition to all other
applicable standards and criteria hereunder, shall take into account the plans
and needs of the state, or any agency, board, department, institution or
district thereof, as required by Idaho Code section 67-6528. (Ord. 2006-17, 11-
2-2006)
CHAPTER 7
RESIDENTIAL/AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (R-5)
SECTION:
9-7-1: Purpose
9-7-2: Developable Density
9-7-3: Permitted Uses
9-7-4: Accessory Uses
9-7-5: Conditional Uses
9-7-6: Dimensional Standards
9-7-1: PURPOSE:
It is recognized that limited residential use has begun, or is anticipated to
begin, on lands primarily in agricultural use due to their proximity to
incorporated areas, the availability of services and prior zoning. The purpose
of this district is to ensure that residential uses are located in an optimally
compatible manner with respect to agricultural uses, to preserve the County's
rural character and to protect the scenic value of open space. The use of PUDs
to achieve these goals is encouraged. (Ord. 2014-06, 12-2-2014)
9-7-2: DEVELOPABLE DENSITY:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area in a subdivision shall be five
(5) acres.
   B.   Base Density: The base density for PUDs shall be one unit per five (5)
acres.
   C.   Maximum PUD Density Bonuses: Maximum PUD density bonuses shall be
thirty percent (30%). (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-7-3: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in this district are limited to the following:
   A.   Agricultural uses.
   B.   Single-family residential use.
   C.   Duplexes on double lots. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-7-4: ACCESSORY USES:
The accessory uses for this R-5 District include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Storage of boats, campers and travel trailers by residents.
   B.   Farm and garden buildings.
   C.   Keeping of riding horses for private use; provided, that at least one-
third (1/3) acre of permeable land area is available for each horse.
   D.   Livestock enclosures (animal runs, barns, pens for fowl), no closer
than fifty feet (50') to any neighboring residence, and in compliance with
Health Department regulations.
   E.   Accessory dwelling unit (see section
9-3-11 of this title).
   F.   Tier 1 home occupations. (Ord. 2019-03, 1-8-2019; Ord. 2018-03, 2-13-
2018; Ord. 95-5, 4-3-1995; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-7-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses for this district are limited to the following:
   A.   Temporary use of a mobile home during construction of a dwelling, for a
period not to exceed twelve (12) months.
   B.   Outdoor recreational facilities.
   C.   Public utility or public service facilities, not including business
offices, repair, or vehicle or structural storage facilities.
   D.   Tier 2 home occupations.
   E.   Commercial riding stables when set back at least one hundred feet
(100') from all property lines.
   F.   Public campgrounds when screened or hidden from view from public
highways.
   G.   Public facilities.
   H.   Accessory dwelling unit (see section
9-3-11 of this title).
   I.   Retreat (in the R-5 District only).
   J.   Group daycare facilities.
   K.   Public works gravel or shale pits and public works asphalt plants.
   L.   Wireless communication facilities (see section
9-3-16 of this title).
   M.   Animal shelter. (Ord. 2019-03, 1-8-2019; Ord. 2014-06, 12-2-2014; Ord.
2009-07, 9-8-2009; Ord. 2001-10, 10-1-2001; Ord. 95-5, 4-3-1995; Ord. 92-5, 9-
14-1992; Ord. 90-4, 6-11-1990; Ord. 88-5, 1-12-1989; Ord. 79-4, 9-11-1979; Ord.
77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-7-6: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
Dimensional standards for this district are the following, except that
dimensional standards may be modified in a CD as authorized pursuant to
subdivision ordinance 77-6, as amended:
   A.   Maximum Building Height: Thirty five feet (35'), except agricultural
buildings and windmills.
   B.   Minimum Front Yard Setback: One hundred feet (100') on State Highway
75, fifty feet (50') for other major roads and twenty five feet (25') for minor
roads.
   C.   Minimum Side And Rear Yard Setback: Twenty five feet (25').
   D.   Minimum Lot Width: Four hundred feet (400'). (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977,
eff. 4-7-1977; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-3-2023)
CHAPTER 8
RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-2 1/2)
SECTION:
9-8-1: Purpose
9-8-2: Developable Density
9-8-3: Permitted Uses
9-8-4: Accessory Uses
9-8-5: Conditional Uses
9-8-6: Dimensional Standards
9-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this district is to provide for residential development at a low
density while preserving the rural character of the land. The minimum lot areas
under ordinance 77-5 are maintained in order to achieve this goal. (Ord. 77-5,
3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-8-2: DEVELOPABLE DENSITY:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area in a subdivision shall be two
and one-half (21/2) acres.
   B.   Base Density: The base density for PUDs shall be one unit per two and
one-half (21/2) acres.
   C.   Maximum PUD Density Bonus: The maximum PUD density bonus shall be
twenty percent (20%). (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-8-3: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in this district are limited to the following:
   A.   Agricultural uses.
   B.   Single-family residential use.
   C.   Duplexes on double lots. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-8-4: ACCESSORY USES:
The accessory uses for this R-2 1/2 District include, but are not limited to,
the following:
   A.   Storage of boats, campers and travel trailers by residents.
   B.   Farm and garden buildings.
   C.   Keeping of riding horses for private use; provided, that at least one-
third (1/3) acre of permeable land area is available for each horse.
   D.   Livestock enclosures (animal runs, barns, pens for fowl), no closer
than fifty feet (50') to any neighboring residence, and in compliance with
Health Department regulations.
   E.   Accessory dwelling unit (see section 9-3-11 of this title).
   F.   Tier 1 home occupations. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977; amd.
Ord. 2023-01, 1-3-2023)
9-8-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses for this district are limited to the following:
   A.   Temporary use of a mobile home during construction of a dwelling, for a
period not to exceed twelve (12) months.
   B.   Outdoor recreational facilities.
   C.   Public utility or public service facilities, not including business
offices, repair, or vehicle or structural storage facilities.
   D.   Tier 2 home occupations.
   E.   Commercial riding stables when set back at least one hundred feet
(100') from all property lines.
   F.   Public campgrounds when screened or hidden from view from public
highways.
   G.   Public facilities.
   H.   Accessory dwelling unit (see section
9-3-11 of this title).
   I.   Group daycare facilities.
   J.   Public works gravel or shale pits and public works asphalt plants.
   K.   Wireless communication facilities (see section
9-3-16 of this title).
   L.   Animal shelter.
   M.   Public facilities. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977; amd. Ord.
2023-01, 1-3-2023)
9-8-6: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
Dimensional standards for this district are the following:
   A.   Side and rear yard setback: Twenty five feet (25').
   B.   Minimum front yard setback: One hundred feet (100') on U.S. Highway 75,
fifty feet (50') for other major roads, twenty five feet (25') for minor roads.
   C.   Maximum building height: Thirty five feet (35').
   D.   Minimum lot width: One hundred fifty feet (150'). (Ord. 2018-03, 2-13-
2018; Ord. 2009-09, 12-22-2009; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
CHAPTER 9
PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT (R-2)
SECTION:
9-9-1: Purpose
9-9-2: Developable Density
9-9-3: Permitted Uses
9-9-4: Accessory Uses
9-9-5: Conditional Uses
9-9-6: Dimensional Standards
9-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the R-2 District is to permit residential development which will
at the same time preserve the scenic, aesthetic and environmental values of
open space and agricultural uses. The use of PUDs to achieve these goals is
encouraged. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-77, eff. 4-7-77)
9-9-2: DEVELOPABLE DENSITY:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area in a subdivision shall be two
(2) acres.
   B.   Base Density:The base density for PUDs shall be one unit per two (2)
acres.
   C.   Maximum PUD Density Bonus: Maximum PUD density bonus shall be fifty
percent (50%). (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-77, eff. 4-7-77)
9-9-3: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses for this District are limited to the following:
   A.   Agricultural uses.
   B.   Single-family residential use.
   C.   Duplexes on double lots. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-77, eff. 4-7-77)
9-9-4: ACCESSORY USES:
The accessory uses for this R-2 District include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Storage of boats, campers and travel trailers by residents.
   B.   Farm and garden buildings.
   C.   Keeping of riding horses for private use; provided, that at least one-
third (1/3) acre of permeable land area is available for each horse.
   D.   Livestock enclosures (animal runs, barns, pens for fowl), no closer
than fifty feet (50') to any neighboring residence, and in compliance with
Health Department regulations.
   E.   Accessory dwelling unit (see section 9-3-11 of this title).
   F.   Tier 1 home occupations. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-77, eff. 4-7-77; amd. Ord.
2023-1, 1-3-2023)
9-9-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses for this district are limited to the following:
   A.   Temporary use of a mobile home during construction of a dwelling, for a
period not to exceed twelve (12) months.
   B.   Outdoor recreational facilities.
   C.   Public utility or public service facilities, not including business
offices, repair, or vehicle or structural storage facilities.
   D.   Tier 2 home occupations.
   E.   Commercial riding stables when set back at least one hundred feet
(100') from all property lines.
   F.   Public campgrounds when screened or hidden from view from public
highways.
   G.   Public facilities.
   H.   Accessory dwelling unit (see section
9-3-11  of this title).
   I.   Group daycare facilities.
   J.   Public works gravel or shale pits and public works asphalt plants.
   K.   Wireless communication facilities (see section
9-3-16  of this title).
   L.   Animal shelter.
   M.   Public facilities.
   N.   Churches: The building density of a church shall correspond with the
allowable density of residential uses. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-77, eff. 4-7-77; amd.
Ord. 2023-1, 1-3-2023)
9-9-6: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
Dimensional standards for this district are the following:
   A.   Side and rear yard setback: Twenty five feet (25').
   B.   Minimum front yard setback: One hundred feet (100') on U.S. Highway 75,
fifty feet (50') for other major roads, twenty five feet (25') for minor roads.
   C.   Maximum building height: Thirty five feet (35').
   D.   Minimum lot width: One hundred fifty feet (150'). (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-77,
eff. 4-7-77; amd. Ord. 2023-1, 1-3-2023)
CHAPTER 10
LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-1)
SECTION:
9-10-1: Purpose
9-10-2: Developable Density
9-10-3: Permitted Uses
9-10-4: Accessory Uses
9-10-5: Conditional Uses
9-10-6: Dimensional Standards
9-10-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this district is to permit residential development at a medium
low density. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-10-2: DEVELOPABLE DENSITY:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area in a subdivision shall be one
acre.
   B.   Base Density: The base density for PUDs shall be one unit per one acre.
   C.   Maximum PUD Density Bonus: Maximum PUD density bonus shall be twenty
percent (20%). (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-10-3: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses for this district are limited to the following:
   A.   Agricultural uses.
   B.   Single-family residential use.
   C.   Duplexes on double lots. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-10-4: ACCESSORY USES:
The accessory uses for the R-1 District include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Storage of boats, campers or travel trailers by resident owners.
   B.   Farm and garden buildings.
   C.   Riding horses for private use of the residents; provided, that at least
one-third (1/3) acre of permeable land area is available for each horse.
   D.   Accessory dwelling unit (see section
9-3-11 of this title).
   E.   Tier 1 home occupations. (Ord. 2019-03, 1-8-2019; Ord. 2018-03, 2-13-
2018; Ord. 95-5, 4-3-1995; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-10-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses for this R-1 District are limited to the following:
   A.   Public facilities.
   B.   Tier 2 home occupations.
   C.   Outdoor recreational facilities, except public campgrounds.
   D.   Temporary use of a mobile home during construction of a dwelling for a
period not to exceed twelve (12) months.
   E.   Public utility installation, not including business offices, repair or
storage facilities.
   F.   Group daycare facilities.
   G.   Mobile/manufactured home subdivisions, mobile/manufactured home parks,
and mobile/manufactured home PUDs.
   H.   Accessory dwelling unit (see section
9-3-11 of this title).
   I.   Churches; the building density of a church shall correspond with the
allowable density of residential uses.
   J.   Wireless communication facilities (see section
9-3-16 of this title). (Ord. 2019-03, 1-8-2019; Ord. 2012-05, 6-5-2012; Ord.
2001-10, 10-1-2001; Ord. 95-5, 4-3-1995; Ord. 88-5, 1-12-1989; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-
1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-10-6: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
Dimensional standards for this district are the following:
   A.   Minimum lot width: One hundred feet (100').
   B.   Side and rear yard setback: Ten feet (10') for the first ten feet (10')
of building height and one foot (1') for each additional two feet (2') of
building height.
   C.   Minimum front yard setbacks: One hundred feet (100') on U.S. Highway
75, fifty feet (50') for other major roads and twenty five feet (25') for minor
roads.
   D.   Maximum building height: Thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 2009-09, 12-22-
2009; Ord. 94-4, 3-20-1995; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
CHAPTER 11
MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-.4)
SECTION:
9-11-1: Purpose
9-11-2: Developable Density
9-11-3: Permitted Uses
9-11-4: Accessory Uses
9-11-5: Conditional Uses
9-11-6: Dimensional Standards
9-11-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this district is to provide residential tracts close to the
urban areas with lot sizes sufficient for individual sewage disposal. This
district is hereby declared to be inactive. It shall continue to apply to
property zoned R-.4 as of the date hereof, but after November 8, 2006, it shall
be unavailable for any zoning or reclassification pursuant to chapter 26 of
this title. (Ord. 2006-15, 10-26-2006; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-11-2: DEVELOPABLE DENSITY:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area in a subdivision shall be four-
tenths (0.4) of an acre.
   B.   Base Density: The base density for PUDs shall be one unit per four-
tenths (0.4) of an acre.
   C.   Maximum PUD Density Bonus: Maximum PUD density bonus shall be twenty
percent (20%). (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-11-3: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in this district are limited to the following:
   A.   Agricultural uses.
   B.   Single-family residential use.
   C.   Duplexes on double lots. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-11-4: ACCESSORY USES:
The accessory uses for the R-.4 District include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Storage of boats, campers and travel trailers by resident owners.
   B.   Farm and garden buildings.
   C.   Accessory dwelling unit (see section
9-3-11 of this title).
   D.   Keeping of riding horses for private use; provided, that at least one-
third (1/3) acre of permeable land area is available for each horse.
   E.   Tier 1 home occupations. (Ord. 2019-03, 1-8-2019; Ord. 2018-03, 2-13-
2018; Ord. 95-5, 4-3-1995; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-11-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses in this R-.4 District are limited to the following:
   A.   Single permanent mobile homes, when placed on a suitable foundation of
concrete or block, skirted and screened from adjacent area by acceptable
fences, walls and/or planted areas.
   B.   Public facilities.
   C.   Tier 2 home occupations.
   D.   Public utility installations, not including business offices, repair or
storage facilities.
   E.   Temporary use of a mobile home during construction of a dwelling, for a
period not to exceed twelve (12) months.
   F.   Group daycare facilities.
   G.   Mobile/manufactured home subdivisions, mobile/manufactured home parks,
and mobile/manufactured home PUDs.
   H.   Multi-family dwellings at one unit per four-tenths (0.4) acre.
   I.   Outdoor recreational facilities, except public campgrounds.
   J.   Accessory dwelling unit (see section
9-3-11 of this title).
   K.   Wireless communication facilities (see section
9-3-16 of this title).
   L.   Recreational vehicle parks on parcels of two (2) acres or more in size.
(Ord. 2019-03, 1-8-2019; Ord. 2017-04, 6-27-2017; Ord. 2012-05, 6-5-2012; Ord.
2001-10, 10-1-2001; Ord. 95-5, 4-3-1995; Ord. 88-5, 1-2-1989; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-
1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-11-6: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
Dimensional standards for this district are the following:
   A.   Side And Rear Yard Setback: One foot (1') per two feet (2') of a
building height or minimum ten feet (10').
   B.   Minimum Lot Width: Seventy five feet (75').
   C.   Maximum Building Height: Thirty five feet (35').
   D.   Front Yard Setback: One hundred feet (100') on State Highway 75, fifty
feet (50') for other major roads, twenty five feet (25') for minor roads.
   E.   Corner Lot Setback: Fifty feet (50') from corner.
   F.   Churches: The building density of a church shall correspond with the
allowable density of residential uses. (Ord. 77-5 as amended)
CHAPTER 12
HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-1/4)
SECTION:
9-12-1: Purpose
9-12-2: Developable Density
9-12-3: Permitted Uses
9-12-4: Accessory Uses
9-12-5: Conditional Uses
9-12-6: Dimensional Standards
9-12-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this district is to allow higher residential densities when
central water and public sewer become available adjacent to incorporated
cities. This district is hereby declared to be inactive. It shall continue to
apply to property zoned R-1/4 as of the date hereof, but after November 8,
2006, it shall be unavailable for any zoning or reclassification pursuant to
chapter 26 of this title. (Ord. 2006-15, 10-26-2006; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff.
4-7-1977)
9-12-2: DEVELOPABLE DENSITY:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area in a subdivision shall be one-
fourth (1/4) acre.
   B.   Base Density: The base density shall be four (4) dwelling units per
acre for a PUD.
   C.   Maximum PUD Density Bonus: The maximum PUD density bonus shall be
twenty percent (20%). (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-12-3: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in this district are limited to the following:
   A.   Agricultural uses.
   B.   Single-family residential use.
   C.   Duplexes on double lots. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977; amd.
Ord. 2023-1, 1-3-2023)
9-12-4: ACCESSORY USES:
The accessory uses for the R-1/4 District include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Storage of boats, campers and travel trailers by resident owners.
   B.   Farm and garden buildings.
   C.   Accessory dwelling unit (see section
9-3-11 of this title).
   D.   Keeping of riding horses for private use; provided, that at least one-
third (1/3) acre of permeable land area is available for each horse.
   E.   Tier 1 home occupations. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977; amd.
Ord. 2023-1, 1-3-2023)
9-12-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses in this R-1/4 District are limited to the following:
   A.   Single permanent mobile homes, when placed on a suitable foundation of
concrete or block, skirted and screened from adjacent area by acceptable
fences, walls and/or planted areas.
   B.   Public facilities.
   C.   Tier 2 home occupations.
   D.   Public utility installations, not including business offices, repair or
storage facilities.
   E.   Temporary use of a mobile home during construction of a dwelling, for a
period not to exceed twelve (12) months.
   F.   Group daycare facilities.
   G.   Mobile/manufactured home subdivisions, mobile/manufactured home parks,
and mobile/manufactured home PUDs.
   H.   Multi-family dwellings at one unit per four-tenths (0.4) acre.
   I.   Outdoor recreational facilities, except public campgrounds.
   J.   Accessory dwelling unit (see section
9-3-11 of this title).
   K.   Wireless communication facilities (see section
9-3-16 of this title).
   L.   Recreational vehicle parks on parcels of two (2) acres or more in size.
(Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977; amd. Ord. 2023-1, 1-3-2023)
9-12-6: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
Dimensional standards for this district are the following:
   A.   Side And Rear Yard Setback: One foot (1') per two feet (2') of a
building height or minimum ten feet (10').
   B.   Minimum Lot Width: Seventy five feet (75').
   C.   Maximum Building Height: Thirty five feet (35').
   D.   Front Yard Setback: One hundred feet (100') on State Highway 75, fifty
feet (50') for other major roads, twenty five feet (25') for minor roads.
   E.   Corner Lot Setback: Fifty feet (50') from corner.
   F.   Churches: The building density of a church shall correspond with the
allowable density of residential uses. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977;
amd. Ord. 2023-1, 1-3-2023)
CHAPTER 13
RECREATION DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT (RD)
SECTION:
9-13-1: Purpose
9-13-2: Definitions
9-13-3: Developable Density
9-13-4: Submission And Contents Of A Plan
9-13-5: Certification; Public Hearing And Notification
9-13-6: Action By Commission
9-13-7: Notification By Administrator
9-13-8: Action By Board
9-13-9: Resubmittal
9-13-1: PURPOSE:
The recreation development district is a special use district designated to
guide recreation development adjacent to specific recreational access points
and to provide for public facilities when located adjacent to residentially
zoned lands. (Ord. 98-6, 7-7-1998; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms are defined:
PRIMARY RECREATION DEVELOPMENT: Those facilities and structures directly
related to use of the specific recreational resource.
RECREATION DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A master plan consisting of both a short term plan
and a long term plan.
   Long Term Plan: The long term plan shall present nondetailed plans of
logical maximum development within the district.
   Short Term Plan: A short term plan must specify all development planned
within the following three (3) years.
SECONDARY RECREATION DEVELOPMENT: Those facilities or structures not vital to
use of the specified recreational resource, but justified by their relation to
the recreational resource itself and primary recreational development. (Ord.
77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-13-3: DEVELOPABLE DENSITY:
There is no base density assigned for this district. The board may, after
considering the recommendation of the commission, allow whatever developable
density it deems justifiable in relation to the recreation resource and primary
recreational development; provided, however, that the total developable density
within this district shall never exceed one unit for one-fourth (1/4) acre.
(Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-13-4: SUBMISSION AND CONTENTS OF A PLAN:
   A.   Recreation Development Plan:
      1.   Description Of Plan: The developer(s) shall describe the recreation
resource itself, together with present and potential utilization. The
recreation development plan shall include a short term plan and a long term
plan and distinguish between anticipated primary and secondary recreational
development.
      2.   Review By Administrator: The administrator shall review all
recreation development plan applications for conformance to this title, as
amended, and the county comprehensive plan. The administrator may refer
recreation development plan applications to the county engineer for technical
review and local, state or federal agencies as deemed appropriate by the
administrator, based upon the proposed use and the potential impact on ground
water, potable water sources, infrastructure, and agencies' ability to provide
public services. Such review shall be at the applicant's expense and shall be
paid by the applicant prior to public hearing.
   B.   Public Facility: A conditional use permit shall be required for a
public facility. The submittal requirements for a conditional use permit
application shall be as specified in subsections 9-25-2A and F of this title.
   C.   Wireless Communication Facilities: A conditional use permit shall be
required for wireless communication facilities (see section
9-3-16 of this title). (Ord. 2006-13, 10-26-2006; Ord. 2001-10, 10-1-2001; Ord.
98-6, 7-7-1998; Ord. 93-6, 7-19-1993; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-13-5: CERTIFICATION; PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTIFICATION:
   A.   Certification Of Application: Upon receipt of the plan and all other
required data, the administrator shall certify the application as complete and
affix the date of application acceptance thereon.
   B.   Hearing Scheduled: Allowing sufficient time to conduct a site visit and
write staff reports, the administrator shall then schedule the plan for the
commission's next available hearing time wherein the legal notice requirements
can be met. If no regular meeting time is available within one hundred eighty
(180) days of certification, the administrator shall call a special commission
meeting to be held not more than three (3) weeks after the end of the one
hundred eighty (180) days, to hear the application.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of the time, date and place of hearing shall
be as set forth in subsection
9-25-4C of this title. (Ord. 98-6, 7-7-1998; Ord. 95-2, 3-6-1995; Ord. 77-5, 3-
28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-13-6: ACTION BY COMMISSION:
   A.   Recreation Development Plan: The commission shall consider the
development plan and take public input at a duly noticed public hearing as set
forth hereinabove. The commission shall recommend approval, conditional
approval or disapproval, making appropriate findings to support its decision.
   B.   Public Facility Conditional Use Permit Application: Action by the
commission shall be as specified in section
9-25-5 of this title.
   C.   Continuance Of Hearing: The commission may order the hearing to be
continued up to thirty one (31) days at the same place, in which case no
further published notice shall be required other than that requested by the
commission. Continuation beyond thirty one (31) days shall require further
published notice, according to section
9-13-5 of this chapter. The commission shall adopt its written findings of fact
and recommendation on a recreation development plan or its written findings of
fact and decision on a public facility conditional use permit application
within thirty one (31) days after the decision by the commission.
   D.   Factors To Be Considered:
      1.   For a recreation development plan: The commission shall include any
conditions of approval, recommendations for change of the plan or reasons used
in coming to its decision. Factors that must be addressed by the commission and
board in evaluating a proposed plan include:
         a.   The proposed development and its relationship to the specified
recreation resource. The proposed development shall not degrade the recreation
resource.
         b.   The design of transportation facilities shall ensure minimum
impact on existing and proposed development, topography and vegetation.
         c.   The quality of site design and planning demonstrated and the
extent that the plan preserves existing natural features, including air and
water quality.
         d.   Secondary development will not adversely affect utilization of
the recreation resource.
         e.   The impact of the proposed uses on potable water sources.
      2.   For a public facility conditional use permit: The standards of
evaluation shall be as set forth in section
9-25-3 of this title. The commission may attach conditions of approval as
specified in subsection 9-25-5A of this title. (Ord. 2006-13, 10-26-2006; Ord.
98-6, 7-7-1998; Ord. 95-2, 3-6-1995; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-13-7: NOTIFICATION BY ADMINISTRATOR:
The administrator shall give the applicant written notice of the commission's
recommendation on a recreation development plan or its written findings of fact
and decision on a public facility conditional use permit application within ten
(10) days after the commission has signed written findings of fact and
decision. (Ord. 98-6, 7-7-1998; Ord. 95-2, 3-6-1995; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff.
4-7-1977)
9-13-8: ACTION BY BOARD:
   A.   Public Hearing: The board shall hold a public hearing on a proposed
recreation development plan at its earliest convenience. Public notice of the
time and place of this hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation at least fifteen (15) days in advance.
   B.   Commission's Recommendation: At its next regular meeting after the
hearing, the board shall approve, disapprove or modify the commission's
recommendation on a proposed recreation development plan. If the board
disapproves the commission's recommendation, it shall give the reasons used to
come to that decision. (Ord. 98-6, 7-7-1998; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-
1977)
9-13-9: RESUBMITTAL:
No recreation development plan which has been denied by the board or withdrawn
by the applicant shall be resubmitted within less than one year from the date
of final action thereon. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
CHAPTER 14
GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C)
SECTION:
9-14-1: Purpose
9-14-2: Developable Density
9-14-3: Permitted Uses
9-14-4: Accessory Uses
9-14-5: Conditional Uses
9-14-6: Dimensional Standards
9-14-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this district to designate space for commercial uses as
defined in section
9-2-1 of this title. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-14-2: DEVELOPABLE DENSITY:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area in a residential subdivision
shall be four-tenths (0.4) of one acre.
   B.   Base Density: The base density shall be one unit per four- tenths (0.4)
of an acre.
   C.   Maximum PUD Density Bonus: Maximum PUD density bonus shall be twenty
percent (20%).
   D.   R-1/4 Densities: R-1/4 densities may be allowed if and when central
water and sewer service become available. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-14-3: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses for this district are limited to the following:
   A.   Single-family residential use.
   B.   Business, professional, public or social services offices.
   C.   Gas stations, restaurants, bars, theaters, banks, motels, tourist homes
and hotels, car washes, motor vehicles repairs or sales.
   D.   Retail stores and related storage, including commercial nursery and
building supply outlet.
   E.   Public utility business offices, repair and storage facilities.
   F.   Light industrial uses.
   G.   Recreational facilities including bowling alleys.
   H.   Nursery for children, nursing homes.
   I.   Repair and personal services.
   J.   Self-storage facilities. (Ord. 2014-04, 10-14-2014)
9-14-4: ACCESSORY USES:
The accessory uses for this district include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Temporary buildings incidental to construction work on the premises;
such buildings to be removed upon completion of construction work.
   B.   Boat, camper and travel trailer storage.
   C.   Tier 1 home occupations.
   D.   Tier 2 home occupations. (Ord. 2019-03, 1-8-2019; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977,
eff. 4-7-1977)
9-14-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses for this district are limited to the following:
   A.   Public facilities.
   B.   Parking lots and garages.
   C.   Bulk storage and sale of flammable liquids and gases, subject to the
approval of the Chief of the Rural Fire District having jurisdiction.
   D.   Multi-family dwellings.
   E.   Mobile homes, when placed on a suitable foundation of concrete or
block, skirted and screened from adjacent areas by fences, walls or planted
areas.
   F.   Mobile/manufactured home subdivisions, mobile/manufactured home parks,
and mobile/manufactured home PUDs.
   G.   Daycare facilities.
   H.   Wireless communication facilities (see section
9-3-16 of this title). (Ord. 2012-05, 6-5-2012; Ord. 2001-10, 10-1-2001; Ord.
88-5, 1-12-1989; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-14-6: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
Dimensional standards for this district are the following:
   A.   Maximum Building Height: Forty feet (40').
   B.   Side And Rear Yard Setbacks: Twenty feet (20').
   C.   Minimum Lot Width, Front Yard Setback And Minimum Lot Area For
Commercial Uses: None.
   D.   Minimum Lot Width, Front Yard Setback And Minimum Lot Area For
Residential Uses: Same as within the R-.4 District.
   E.   Parking Requirements: For parking requirements, refer to chapter 28 of
this title.
   F.   Front Yard Setback: One hundred feet (100') from State Highway 75;
otherwise none. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, as amended)
CHAPTER 15
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (LI)
SECTION:
9-15-1: Purpose
9-15-2: Permitted Uses
9-15-3: Accessory Uses
9-15-4: Conditional Uses
9-15-5: Dimensional Standards
9-15-1: PURPOSE:
The Light Industrial District is established to provide lands for "light
industrial uses" as defined in section
9-2-1 of this title which can be designed to operate compatibly in close
proximity to adjoining commercial or residential uses. This district is not
intended for residential purposes and no developable residential density is
assigned within it. (Ord. 95-11, 11-6-1995; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-
1977)
9-15-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses for this district are limited to the following:
   A.   Assembly, light manufacturing, processing, packaging, treatment and
fabrication of goods and merchandise, including laboratories and research
offices, bottling and distribution plants, light repair facilities and storage
distribution warehouses.
   B.   Wholesaling only if the items are manufactured on site and are not for
sale as retail merchandise to the general public.
   C.   Contractor's storage yard.
   D.   Machine shops, printing services.
   E.   Use of land for agricultural purposes.
   F.   Commercial nurseries.
   G.   Animal hospitals and kennels. (Ord. 81-3, 8-24-1981; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-
1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-15-3: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses for this district include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Dwelling unit(s) for an owner, operator, caretaker, or employees (and
their households) of a permitted or conditional use. Dwellings shall:
      1.   Be located on the same premises as the primary or affiliated (in
same ownership) light industrial use.
      2.   Have a density of not more than one unit per acre.
      3.   Occupy not more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the contiguous
land area of the primary or affiliated use. (The affiliated property is not
required to be contiguous to the primary light industrial use.)
      4.   Be occupied by qualified persons (owners, operators, caretakers, or
employees, and their households). Employers shall submit documentation to the
Land Use and Building Services department annually to verify that all dwellings
are being occupied by qualified persons. Documentation may include rent or
lease agreements, or affidavits of occupancy signed by qualified occupants,
along with payroll or similar proof of employment.
   B.   Temporary buildings necessary for construction work on premises, such
buildings to be removed upon completion or abandonment of construction work.
   C.   Recreational vehicle storage - covered or uncovered storage for
recreational vehicles, boats and personal recreational craft when a
conditionally permitted self-storage use is located on the same premises.
   D.   Tier 1 home occupations.
   E.   Tier 2 home occupations. (Ord. 2019-03, 1-8-2019; Ord. 2018-04, 6-19-
2018; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977; Ord. 2022-02, 4-19-2022, eff. 4-27-
2022)
9-15-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses for this district are limited to the following:
   A.   Bulk storage of flammable liquids or gases, subject to the approval of
the Fire Chief of the Rural Fire District having jurisdiction.
   B.   Office buildings.
   C.   Solid waste incineration.
   D.   Light industrial uses with commercial outlets, but which remain
primarily light industrial rather than commercial.
   E.   Truck terminal.
   F.   Food or animal processing plants creating off site impacts, including
the processing, packaging, storage and distribution of agricultural or dairy
products.
   G.   Public utility and service installations, including repair and storage
facilities.
   H.   Self storage facilities.
   I.   Wireless communication facilities (see section
9-3-16 of this title).
   J.   Storage, mixing, blending and sales of fertilizers. (Ord. 2012-06, 7-
10-2012; Ord. 2001-10, 10-1-2001; Ord. 96-12, 10-15-1996; Ord. 77-5 as amended)
9-15-5: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
Dimensional standards for this district are the following:
   A.   Maximum Building Height: Forty feet (40').
   B.   Side And Rear Yard Setbacks: None, except for lots adjoining property
located in the Commercial District (C) or any residential district, in which
case the yard setback shall be twenty feet (20'). One hundred feet (100') from
State Highway 75.
   C.   Minimum Lot Width And Minimum Lot Area For Light Industrial Uses: None.
   D.   Minimum Lot Width, Front Yard Setback, And Minimum Lot Area For
Residential Uses: Same as within the R-.4 District.
   E.   Parking Requirements: For parking requirements, refer to chapter 28 of
this title.
   F.   Front Yard Setback: One hundred feet (100') from State Highway 75;
otherwise ten feet (10') from property line or edge of access easement. (Ord.
2018-03, 2-13-2018)
CHAPTER 16
HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (HI)
SECTION:
9-16-1: Purpose
9-16-2: Restrictions
9-16-3: Permitted Uses
9-16-4: Accessory Uses
9-16-5: Conditional Uses
9-16-6: Dimensional Standards
9-16-1: PURPOSE:
The heavy industrial district is established to group heavy industrial uses
with foreseeable off site impacts such as air, noise, visual or other forms of
pollution where they will minimally affect neighboring land uses. This district
is not intended for residential purposes and no developable residential density
is assigned within it. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-16-2: RESTRICTIONS:
The following restrictions apply within this district:
   A.   The uses shall be subject at all times to state and federal air and
water pollution regulations.
   B.   The uses shall be subject to the uniform fire code and operations are
subject to the approval of the fire chief of the rural fire district having
jurisdiction.
   C.   Off site impacts such as direct or reflected glare, noise, vibration,
dust, smoke or odor must be minimized through use of the best practical
technology.
   D.   All permanent structures built within the intermediate regional
floodplain shall be sealed watertight up to the IRF flood elevation.
   E.   One acre minimum lot size. (Ord. 79-4, 9-11-1979; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977,
eff. 4-7-1977)
9-16-3: PERMITTED USES:
   There are no permitted uses for this district, see conditional uses in
section
9-16-5 of this title.
(Ord. 2025-03, 2-12-2025; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-16-4: ACCESSORY USES:
   Accessory uses in this district must satisfy the definition specified in
section
9-2-1 of this title.
(Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-16-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses for this district are limited to the following:
   A.   Bulk storage and sale of flammable liquids and gases, subject to the
approval of the fire chief of the rural fire district having jurisdiction.
   B.   Solid waste incineration.
   C.   Truck terminal.
   D.   Chemical storage and/or manufacture.
   E.   Public utility and public service installations.
   F.   Smelter, rendering plants.
   G.   Wireless communication facilities (see section
9-3-16 of this title).
   H.   Storage, mixing, blending and sales of fertilizers.
   I.   Extraction, refining, processing and storage of forest products and
mineral resources (including, but not limited to: sawmills, asphalt hot mix
plants, ore mills, rock crushers and concrete batch plants).
   J.   Junkyards; provided, that stored materials shall be invisible from
public rights of way.
   K.   Contractors’ storage yards.
   L.   Processing, packaging, storage and distribution of agricultural or
dairy products.
(Ord. 2025-03, 2-12-2025; Ord. 2012-06, 7-10-2012; Ord. 2001-10, 10-1-2001;
Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-16-6: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
There are no dimensional standards established for this district, except as
regulated under section
9-3-10 of this title. (Ord. 2009-09, 12-22-2009)
CHAPTER 17
FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT (FP) AND RIPARIAN SETBACK DISTRICT (R)
SECTION:
9-17-1: General Provisions
9-17-2: Purpose
9-17-3: Establishment Of Floodplain Overlay And Riparian Setback Districts
9-17-4: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
9-17-5: Definitions
9-17-6: Floodway And Floodplain Subdistrict Use Regulations
9-17-7: Riparian Setback District Use Regulations
9-17-8: Categorical Exclusions
9-17-9: Conditional Use Permit Procedure
9-17-10: Nonconforming Structures And Uses In Floodplain Overlay And Riparian
Setback Districts
9-17-11: Stream Alteration Permit Procedure
9-17-12: Variances
9-17-13: Violations And Enforcement
9-17-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Importance To County: The rivers and creeks of the County are important
to its citizens as a source of recreation, fish and wildlife habitat, aesthetic
beauty, a source of irrigation water for the farmlands as well as other
economic and lifestyle values.
   B.   Flood Losses Resulting From Periodic Inundation: The flood hazard areas
of the County are subject to periodic inundation which may result in loss of
life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and
governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection
and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
   C.   General Causes Of These Flood Losses: These flood losses are increased
by:
      1.   The cumulative effect of obstructions and constriction to flood
heights and velocities;
      2.   Development within flood hazard areas which are vulnerable to floods
or hazardous to other lands;
      3.   The removal of riparian vegetation.
   D.   Methods Used To Analyze Flood Hazard: The studies listed below are
hereby adopted as the primary sources of flood hazard analysis:
      1.   The special flood hazard areas identified by the Federal Insurance
Administrator in a scientific and engineering report titled “The Flood
Insurance Study (FIS) for Blaine County, Idaho and Incorporated Areas” dated
November 26, 2010, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRM), and
other supporting data, are adopted by reference and declared a part of this
chapter. The FIS and the FIRM are on file at the Land Use and Building Services
Office located at 219 First Avenue South, Suite 208, Hailey, Idaho.
      2.   Flood hazard analysis sources as determined by the Blaine County
Engineer, Floodplain Manager, or other expert hired by the County and the
Administrator to be the best available information.
   E.   Statutory Authority: The Legislature of the State of Idaho in Idaho
Code 46-1020 through 46-1024, authorized local government units to adopt a
floodplain map and floodplain management ordinance that identifies floodplains
and that sets forth minimum development requirements in floodplains that are
designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its
citizenry.
   F.   Compliance: This chapter shall not in any way impair/remove the
necessity of compliance with any other applicable local laws, ordinances, or
regulations. Where this chapter imposes a greater restriction, the provisions
of this chapter shall apply.
   G.   Documents Kept By County: All permit applications, plans and
certifications required through this chapter shall be obtained and maintained
by the County for public inspection and made available as needed.
   H.   Filing Fees: Those applications referred to in this chapter may have a
fee established for the processing of the application. The fees shall be paid
to the County and deposited with the Administrator. No action can be taken on
an application until all applicable fees have been paid in full. Fees shall be
established by resolution passed and adopted by the County Board of
Commissioners and shall take effect on the date of publication. (Ord. 2010-08,
11-16-2010; amd. Ord. 2010-13, 1-18-2011; Ord. 2019-02, 1-8-2019; Ord. 2021-12,
7-20-2021)
9-17-2: PURPOSE:
The standards and mechanisms established herein are intended to protect
floodplain and riparian areas in the County. The Floodplain Overlay and
Riparian Setback Districts restrict or prohibit uses which endanger health,
safety or property during flood events, or result in environmental damage and
increased flood heights and velocities. By regulating development and
alterations to floodplains and riparian areas this chapter seeks to:
   A.   Protect members of the public and public resources and facilities from
injury, loss of life, property damage or financial losses due to flooding or
erosion;
   B.   Protect and restore unique, fragile and valuable elements of floodplain
and riparian areas including wildlife habitat;
   C.   Mitigate avoidable impacts to aquatic systems by regulating alterations
in and adjacent to riparian areas;
   D.   Prevent cumulative adverse environmental impacts to water availability,
water quality, wetlands and streams;
   E.   Augment the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP)
and maintain the County as an eligible community for Federal flood insurance
benefits;
   F.   Alert members of the public, such as appraisers, owners, real estate
companies, individuals, potential buyers or lessees, to the development
limitations of riparian areas and floodplains;
   G.   Provide County officials with sufficient information to protect
floodplains, watercourses and riparian areas;
   H.   Implement the County comprehensive plan, as amended, and all County
functional and community plans;
   I.   Minimize prolonged adverse impacts due to flooding and post-flood
recovery;
   J.   Minimize the need for, and excessive costs borne by, rescue and
emergency services associated with flooding;
   K.   Ensure that property owners within areas of special flood hazard are
held accountable for the impacts from their private development; and
   L.   Ensure that all development is reasonably safe from flooding. (Ord. 77-
5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977; amd. Ord. 88-4, 9-13-1988; Ord. 91-9, 7-22-1991;
Ord. 2011-01, 1-18-2011; Ord. 2019-02, 1-8-2019; Ord. 2021-12, 7-20-2021)
9-17-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY AND RIPARIAN SETBACK DISTRICTS:
   A.   Establishment Of Districts:
      1.   The Floodplain Overlay District is hereby established. The
regulations of this district apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the
County that lie within the special flood hazard area boundaries as established
by subsection
9-17-1D of this chapter. Except as stated in subsection
9-17-1D2 of this chapter, any boundary established by a registered professional
engineer in the State that is in conflict with the effective flood insurance
study (FIS) must be submitted to and approved by FEMA through revised FIRM, or
through a letter of map change (LOMC) issued by FEMA. Such amendments or
revisions to the effective FIRMs authorized by FEMA shall be considered
amendments or revisions to the maps adopted hereinabove and may be used as the
best available information.
         a.   Establishment Of Subdistricts: The floodplain areas within the
jurisdiction of this chapter are divided into two (2) subdistricts: the
Floodway Subdistrict and the Floodplain Subdistrict. The boundaries of these
subdistricts are determined in accordance with subsection
9-17-1D of this chapter.
      2.   The Riparian Setback District is hereby established. The regulations
of this district shall include the setbacks from the ordinary high water mark
according to the class of stream as delineated in subsection
9-17-7D of this chapter.
   B.   Rules For Interpretation:
      1.   The Floodplain Overlay District boundaries are partially represented
on the Floodplain Overlay District map for the County. The precise boundaries
shall be determined by on-site elevations in accordance with subsection
9-17-1D of this chapter.
The Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation of the boundary based
upon the FEMA designation or the recommendation of the County Engineer,
Floodplain Manager, or other expert hired by the County. An applicant
contesting the location of the boundary may submit applicant’s own technical
evidence when presenting applicant’s case to the Administrator, County
Engineer, or Floodplain Manager, for the conditional use permit, stream
alteration permit, building permit or subdivision application.
      2.   The Riparian Setback District boundaries will not be designated on
the official County zoning map. These boundaries shall include the setbacks
from the ordinary high water mark according to the class of stream as
delineated in subsection
9-17-7D of this chapter.
      3.   Land used primarily for commercial agricultural purposes, not
including agricultural buildings, is excluded from section
9-17-7, “Riparian Setback District Use Regulations”, of this chapter, provided
a ten foot (10') natural vegetation buffer, as measured from the ordinary high
water mark, shall be preserved or maintained along all designated streams.
Revegetation of this natural vegetation buffer shall not be required where the
watercourse moves its channel.
   C.   Notification To Other Entities: For development purposes, the following
apply:
      1.   Whenever a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, notify
adjacent communities and the State Coordinating Office prior to such alteration
or relocation of a watercourse.
      2.   Base flood elevations may increase or decrease resulting from
physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon as practicable, but not
later than six (6) months after the date such information becomes available,
the applicant shall notify the Federal Insurance Administrator of the changes
by submitting technical or scientific data in accordance with volume 44 Code of
Federal Regulations section 65.3. Such a submission is necessary so that upon
confirmation of those physical changes affecting flooding conditions, risk
premium rates and floodplain management requirements will be based upon current
data.
      3.   Notify the Federal Insurance Administrator in writing of acquisition
by means of annexation, incorporation or otherwise, of additional areas of
jurisdiction. (Ord. 2010-08, 11-16-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-01, 1-18-2011; Ord.
2019-02, 1-8-2019)
9-17-4: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions or flood heights
may be increased by manmade or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. Streams and rivers are dynamic physical and
ecological systems. Channel realignments, erosion, deposition, sedimentation,
and varying surface and ground water elevations are expected. This chapter does
not imply that areas outside the floodplain districts or land uses permitted
within such districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the County or any officer or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-
7-1977; amd. Ord. 88-4, 9-13-1988; Ord. 2019-02, 1-8-2019)
9-17-5: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ADMINISTRATOR: See Floodplain Administrator.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded each year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): A determination by the Federal Insurance
Administrator of the water surface elevations of the base flood, that is, the
flood level that has a one percent (1%) or greater chance of occurrence in any
given year. When the BFE has not been provided in a special flood hazard area,
it may be obtained from engineering studies available from a Federal, State, or
other source using FEMA-approved engineering methodologies. This elevation,
when combined with the freeboard, establishes the flood protection elevation.
BASEMENT: The portion of a structure with its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: See definition of structure.
COMPENSATORY STORAGE: Sometimes referred to as "cut-and-fill", this provision
requires developers to compensate for the loss of flood storage caused by
filling in the floodplain fringe by removing an equal amount of material in the
floodplain near the proposed development. This mitigation tool helps to
maintain flood storage and ensure that floodwaters will not be displaced onto
someone else's property as a result of the floodplain fill. Engineering
analysis is required when considered for mitigation to offset fill in the
floodplain.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction of buildings, structures or
accessory structures, or the construction of additions or substantial
improvements to buildings, structures or accessory structures; the placement of
mobile homes; mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials; and the deposition or
extraction of materials, including the construction of dikes, berms and levees.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
Federal Insurance Administrator has delineated both the special hazard areas
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been
made available digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): An examination, evaluation, and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations; or
an examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards. Also known as Flood Elevation Study.
FLOOD OR FLOODING:
   A.   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from:
      1.   The overflow of inland waters from streams, rivers, and other
watercourses.
      2.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
      3.   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding
as defined in subsection A2 of this definition and are akin to a river of
liquid and flowing mud on the surface of normally dry land areas, as when earth
is carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
   B.   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other
body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents
of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an
unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe
storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding as defined in subsection A1 of this definition.
FLOOD PROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate risk of flood
damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The base flood elevation plus the freeboard.
   A.   In "special flood hazard areas" where base flood elevations (BFEs) have
been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet (2') of
freeboard; and
   B.   In "special flood hazard areas" where no BFE has been established, this
elevation shall be at least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade.
FLOODPLAIN: Floodplain or flood-prone area means any land area susceptible to
being inundated by water from any source (see definition of flooding).
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: Referred to as the “Administrator” in this Chapter,
is the Administrator of the Land Use and Building Services Department, and is
hereby appointed to administer, implement and enforce this Chapter. The
Administrator may delegate authority to implement these provisions.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGER: The person appointed by the Administrator to manage and
implement the provisions of the Floodplain Overlay District regulations.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
FREEBOARD: A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
the purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams and the hydrologic
effects of urbanization in a watershed. The base flood elevation (BFE) plus the
freeboard establishes the flood protection elevation (FPE). Freeboard shall be
two feet (2').
HAND EQUIPMENT: Any construction machinery such as chain saws, wheelbarrows,
post hole diggers (not attached to vehicles) and all handheld tools.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: Highest adjacent grade means the highest natural
elevation of the ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed
walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a State Inventory of Historic Places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary
of the Interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local Inventory of Historic Places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1.   By an approved State program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior or
      2.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
programs.
LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC): An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps, and flood insurance studies. LOMCs are issued in the following
categories:
   A.   Letter Of Map Amendment (LOMA): An official amendment, by letter, to an
effective National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) map. An LOMA establishes a
property's or structure's location in relation to the special flood hazard area
(SFHA). LOMAs are usually issued because a property or structure has been
inadvertently mapped as being in the floodplain but is actually on natural high
ground above the base flood elevation.
   B.   Letter Of Map Revision (LOMR): FEMA's modification to an effective
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). LOMRs are generally based on the
implementation of physical measures that affect the hydrologic or hydraulic
characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the modification of the
existing regulatory floodway, the effective base flood elevations (BFEs), or
the special flood hazard area (SFHA). The LOMR officially revises the FIRM, and
sometimes the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) report, and when appropriate,
includes a description of the modifications. The LOMR is generally accompanied
by an annotated copy of the affected portions of the FIRM.
   C.   Letter Of Map Revision Based On Fill (LOMR-F): FEMA's modification of
the special flood hazard area (SFHA) shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) based on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway.
The LOMR-F does not change the FIRM or FIS report.
   D.   Conditional Letter Of Map Revision (CLOMR): A formal review and comment
as to whether a proposed flood protection project or other project complies
with the minimum NFIP requirements for such projects with respect to
delineation of special flood hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the
effective Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or Flood Insurance Study (FIS). Upon
submission and approval of certified as-built documentation, an LOMR may be
issued by FEMA to revise the effective FIRM. Building permits cannot be issued
based on a CLOMR, because a CLOMR does not change the NFIP map.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of 44 CFR section 60.3 and this
chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, built on
a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term "manufactured
home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For floodplain management purposes, new construction means
structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after May 14,
1971 (effective date of the initial regulations adopted by the County) and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
NO ADVERSE IMPACT: No adverse impact floodplain management takes place when the
actions of one property owner shall not adversely affect the rights of other
property owners or the County's NFIP eligibility. Adverse impacts include
increased flood peaks, flood stage, flood velocity, erosion and sedimentation,
or decreased water quality or quality of riparian habitat.
ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK: The mark on all watercourses, where the presence and
action of waters is so common and continued in all ordinary years as to mark
upon the soil a character distinct from that of the abutting upland, in respect
to vegetation and destroy its value for agricultural purposes. With respect to
the riparian setback, in areas where riprap bank stabilization has occurred,
the measurement shall begin on the landward side of such stabilization work.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle that is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis,
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection,
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty
truck, and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: See definition of floodway.
RIPARIAN AREAS: Lands adjacent to a watercourse or water body that are
influenced by water, have the presence of riparian vegetation and have an
important function in mitigating flood damage.
RIPARIAN VEGETATION: The vegetation associated with streams that are subject to
and sustained by seasonal surface water inputs, or high ground water
elevations. Species commonly found in riparian areas are listed by the Idaho
Conservation Data Center as "wetlands and riparian plants associations in
Idaho". Riparian areas in Blaine County shall be delineated by the presence of
riparian plant communities that appear on the Conservation Data Center list or
other lists adopted by resolution of the Board.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): The land within the Floodplain Overlay
District, subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any
given year. For purposes of these regulations, the term "special flood hazard
area" is synonymous in meaning with the phrase "area of special flood hazard".
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Start of construction, includes substantial improvement,
and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or
other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date.
The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STREAMS: Those areas where surface water produces a defined channel or bed
which demonstrates evidence of the passage of water. Dry washes, irrigation
ditches, canals, surface water runoff devices or other entirely artificial
water bodies/watercourses (unless specifically referred to herein) are not
included. "Streams" are further defined as follows:
Class 1 Streams: Streams and/or reaches of streams with the potential to have
extensive flooding, erosion and attendant hazards and include the Big Wood
River.
Class 2 Streams: Streams and/or reaches of streams that flow year round during
years of normal rainfall and have the potential for significant flooding and
erosion. Such streams include the East Fork of the Big Wood River, Little Wood
River, Salmon River (Upper), Smiley Creek, Trail Creek and Warm Springs Creek.
Class 3 Streams: Smaller perennial or intermittent streams and/or reaches of
streams that are prone to periodic flooding and erosion. Class 3 streams shall
include, but are not limited to, the following: Beaver Creek, Broadford Slough,
Croy Creek, Deer Creek, Eagle Creek, Greenhorn Creek, Purdum Slough, Fish Creek
and Rock Creek.
Class 4 Streams: All spring fed creeks and their tributaries, which are not
subject to erosive flooding. Class 4 streams shall include, but are not limited
to, the following: Grove Creek, Loving Creek, Mudd Creek, Patton Creek, Silver
Creek, Spring Creek and Wilson Creek.
STRUCTURE: For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a manufactured home, as well as a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of its market value before the damage occurred. See
definition of "substantial improvement".
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the start of construction of
the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. Permits for any
improvement shall be counted cumulatively for a period of ten (10) years. If
the improvement project is conducted in phases, the total of all cost
associated with each phase, beginning with the issuance of the first permit,
shall be utilized to determine whether "substantial improvement" will occur.
The term does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of State or local Health, Sanitary, or Safety Code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure" and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant to
chapter 30 of this title.
YARDSCAPE: Introduced vegetation such as grass and ornamental shrubs, forbs and
trees that may require irrigation in a normal cycle. (Ord. 2019-02, 1-8-2019;
amd. Ord. 2021-12, 7-20-2021)
9-17-6: FLOODWAY AND FLOODPLAIN SUBDISTRICT USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Floodway Subdistrict Use Regulations: Because of the possibility of
flooding and changeable characteristics of streams in the County, development
in the regulatory floodway is highly restricted. All development within the
floodway shall comply with the following:
      1.   Demonstrate that the proposed encroachment will not result in any
increase in base flood elevation, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses
performed in accordance with standard engineering practice.
      2.   Compliance with all specific use regulations outlined in subsection
E of this section.
      3.   Written notification with details regarding description of work,
location, and a proposed construction activities schedule shall be submitted to
the Blaine County Land Use Office prior to the start of work.
         a.   Permitted uses:
            (1)   Maintenance or repair of pre-existing agricultural uses
including, but not limited to, pipes, headgates, diversion structures, pumps,
fences and weirs, provided that no agricultural buildings are involved. New or
expansion of pre- existing agricultural uses are subject to the stream
alteration permit requirements including no-rise certification.
            (2)   Activities operating in accordance with a County-approved
stream alteration permit.
         b.   Prohibited uses:
            (1)   Any encroachment into the floodway, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements or modifications, stream alterations or
other development that would cause any increase of the base flood elevation,
thus jeopardizing the County's eligibility for participation in the NFIP.
            (2)   Any development whereby potential adverse impacts cannot be
mitigated through the stream alteration permit process.
            (3)   Any use located within a wellhead protection area that may
adversely impact a potable water source.
   B.   Floodplain Subdistrict Use Regulations: Because of hazard to individual
and public health, safety, and welfare, uses in the Floodplain Subdistrict are
restricted or designated for individual consideration under the categorical
exclusion or conditional use permit process. All uses within the floodplain
shall comply with the following:
      1.   Demonstrate that the proposed development will result in no adverse
impacts to adjacent properties, as defined.
      2.   Compliance with all specific use regulations outlined in subsection
E of this section.
      3.   Written notification with details regarding description of work,
location, and a proposed construction activities schedule shall be submitted to
the Blaine County Land Use Office prior to the start of work.
         a.   Permitted Uses:
            (1)   Agricultural, recreational, and residential accessory uses
(nonstructural) which are designed to withstand flooding and will not increase
the risk of flood losses on other land, to the public nor to the environment;
inundation or flood damage to said permitted uses shall not be considered
extraordinary circumstances. This includes the temporary installation of flood
control barriers, ninety (90) days or less, when located no more than ten feet
(10') from a structure.
            (2)   Sub-grade utilities such as fiber optics, pipelines, power or
gas lines provided that they do not involve the placement of fill or that
requirements for balanced cut and fill are met.
            (3)   At-grade sidewalks and pedestrian or equestrian pathways or
trails.
         b.   Categorically Excluded Uses: A conditional use permit shall not
be required provided the landowner or agent, before commencing any work, first
obtains a written decision from the Administrator, in consultation with the
County Engineer, Floodplain Manager, or his/her designated representative, that
the development falls within and meets one of the following categorical
exclusions and all of the requirements in subsection
9-17-6-E are satisfied, as applicable.
            (1)   Single-family residences and structures and uses accessory
thereto, when located fully within an approved platted building envelope shown
on a recorded subdivision plat;
            (2)   Fences, provided they will not divert the passage of
floodwaters;
            (3)   Retaining walls, bulkheads, driveways, patios, decks,
porches, pools, spas, and landscaping berms and other non-structural
residential uses;
            (4)   Docks, piers, boat ramps, and marinas;
            (5)   Farm and garden buildings, and the storage of boats, campers
and travel trailers by residents;
            (6)   Wireless communication facilities, refer to chapter 3 of this
title;
            (7)   Above grade utilities;
            (8)   Bridges and culverts within or spanning Class 2, 3 or 4
streams; and
            (9)   New structures for the authorized delivery of water.
         c.   Conditional Uses: For any proposed conditional use, the applicant
shall demonstrate that adverse impacts are mitigated through the conditional
use permit procedure:
            (1)   Commercial or public works sand and gravel extractions;
            (2)   Gravel or shale pits, or asphalt plants;
            (3)   Bridges and culverts within or spanning Class 1 streams; and
            (4)   Residential structures located outside platted building
envelopes;
            (5)   Other projects as the Administrator deems necessary due to
adverse impacts or local public interest conflicts.
         d.   Prohibited Uses:
            (1)   Subdivision lots or lands for residential development within
the floodplain that do not include a buildable site;
            (2)   Any use, activity, or structure that could cause flood damage
to other property or environmental damage, including but not limited to removal
of live or dead vegetation;
            (3)   Any use or structure that could cause the reduction of flow
capacity or blockage of a side or overflow channel; or
            (4)   Any use located within a wellhead protection area that may
adversely impact a potable water source.
   C.   Dimensional Standards: Any buildable lot within a Floodplain Overlay
District shall use the setbacks required in the Riparian Setback District for
the class of stream involved. More restrictive setbacks may be imposed through
the conditional use permit or subdivision review process.
   D.   Development Density: The base development density in the Floodplain
Overlay District shall be the base density in the adjacent zoning district or
one unit per five (5) acres, whichever is less dense.
Floodway land may be included in determining development density. For a parcel
of land which straddles the Floodplain Overlay District and a residential
district, individual lots may be drawn which include portions of the Floodplain
Overlay District. However, each lot shall include land outside of the riparian
setback and outside of the Floodplain Overlay District.
   E.   Specific Use Requirements: The following provisions apply to all uses
within the Floodway and Floodplain Subdistricts. The burden of proof always
rests with the applicant:
      1.   Local Public Interests: The proposed application (use) does not
conflict with the local public interest, i.e., the affairs of the people in the
area directly affected by the proposed use. This includes, but is not limited
to, property values, fish and wildlife habitat, aquatic life, recreation, water
quality, potable water sources or an impact upon a locally important factor.
      2.   Changes To The Flood Insurance Rate Map: Any boundary or base flood
elevation established by a registered professional engineer in the State that
is in conflict with the effective flood insurance study (FIS) must be submitted
to and approved by FEMA through a revised FIRM, or through a letter of map
change (LOMC) issued by FEMA. Such amendments or revisions to the effective
FIRMs authorized by FEMA shall be considered amendments or revisions to the
maps adopted hereinabove and may be used as the best available information.
      3.   Riparian Habitat: Replacement of native riparian habitat, including
vegetation, shall be required for all disturbed areas within the required
setbacks.
      4.   Location: Development and building sites or envelopes shall be
located outside of the Floodplain Overlay District, where such areas are
available, unless such a location would result in greater adverse impacts to
wetland, riparian, or other risk areas.
      5.   Anchoring: All new construction and substantial improvements shall
be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
      6.   Requirements For Structures Partially In The Floodplain Overlay
District: When a structure is partially located in the Floodway or Floodplain
Subdistricts, the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new
construction and substantial improvements.
      7.   Additional Permits: Categorical exclusions, conditional use permits
and building permits shall be reviewed to determine that all necessary permits
have been obtained from those Federal, State or local governmental agencies
from which prior approval is required.
      8.   Construction Materials And Methods: All new construction and
substantial improvements shall be constructed with materials and utility
equipment resistant to flood damage, using methods and practices that minimize
flood damage. All new and replacement electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities shall be
elevated to BFE, so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during conditions of flooding. These include, but are not
limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures,
ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable boxes, hot water
heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
      9.   Basements: Basements are prohibited within the Floodplain and
Floodway Subdistricts.
      10.   Utilities: New and replacement water disposal, sanitary sewage, and
water supply facilities shall be designed to minimize or prevent the
infiltration of floodwaters to avoid impairment to them or contamination from
them during flooding. A permit shall be received from the South Central Public
Health District who shall determine the specific system to be used.
      11.   Residential Construction:
         a.   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor elevated to or above flood protection
elevation.
         b.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding are prohibited or shall be used solely for parking of vehicles,
building access or storage and be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
            (1)   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided. Credit is only provided for openings below BFE;
            (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
(1') above grade;
            (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
            (4)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor shall only be
used for parking, building access or storage.
            (5)   Flood-resistant material shall be used at least to the flood
protection elevation.
            (6)   For crawl space foundation types, construction must follow
the guidelines as set forth in this chapter or FEMA TB (technical bulletin) 11-
01, crawl space construction for structures located in special flood hazard
areas: national flood insurance program interim guidance whichever is more
restrictive, specifically:
               (A)   Below grade crawl spaces are prohibited at sites where the
velocity of floodwaters exceeds five feet (5') per second;
               (B)   Interior grade of the crawl space below the BFE must not
be more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent exterior grade (LAG);
               (C)   Height of the below grade crawl space, measured from the
lowest interior grade of the crawl space to the bottom of the floor joist must
not exceed four feet (4') at any point;
               (D)   Contain an adequate drainage system that removes
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space.
      12.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, or top side of slab on grade, elevated to
the level of the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, shall:
         a.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
         b.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
         c.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this subsection for the
structural design, specifications and plans. Such certifications shall be
provided to the Administrator.
         d.   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, and not
floodproofed, must meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as
described in "residential construction" of this subsection E.
         e.   Applicants floodproofing nonresidential buildings are hereby
notified that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot
(1') below the floodproofed level (e.g., a building constructed to the base
flood level will be rated as 1 foot below that level).
      13.   Appurtenant Structures (Detached Garages And Storage Structures):
Appurtenant structures used solely for parking of vehicles or storage may
either be elevated or meet the design requirements in subsection E11b of this
section.
      14.   Manufactured Homes: All manufactured homes to be placed or
substantially improved shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such that
the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at least elevated to the flood
protection elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system in accordance with the provisions of this subsection E.
      15.   Recreational Vehicles: In the Floodplain Overlay District,
recreational vehicles, must either:
         a.   Be stored on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days and are subject to removal during base flood conditions;
         b.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or
jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices, and have no permanently attached structures or additions;
or
         c.   The recreational vehicle must meet all the requirements for "new
construction", including the anchoring and elevation requirements.
      16.   Subdivision Proposals (Refer Also To Title 10, "Subdivision
Regulations", Of This Code):
         a.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage and shall meet the requirements of this chapter;
         b.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
         c.   All subdivision proposals shall provide adequate drainage to
minimize potential flood damage; and
         d.   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available, it shall be generated for subdivision proposals and other proposed
developments which contain at least fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres
(whichever is less). The subdivision applicant shall submit the determined base
flood elevation data to FEMA prior to preliminary plat approval and obtain
approval from FEMA prior to final plat approval.
      17.   Tanks: When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed in the
Floodplain Subdistrict, the following criteria shall be met:
         a.   Underground tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads
during the base flood, including the effects of buoyancy.
         b.   Above-ground tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement during conditions of the base flood or elevated
to the FPE.
         c.   Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents shall be:
            (1)   At or above the FPE or fitted with covers designed to prevent
the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents of the tanks during
conditions of the base flood; and
            (2)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the base flood.
      18.   Standards For Shallow Flooding Areas (AO Zones): Shallow flooding
areas appear on FIRMs as AO Zones with depth designations. The base flood
depths in these zones range from one foot to three feet (1' - 3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist or where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is usually
characterized as sheet flow. In these areas, the following provisions apply:
         a.   New construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures within AO Zones shall have the lowest floor elevated above the
highest adjacent grade of the building site, to or above the depth number
specified on the FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified and no
less than 2 feet).
         b.   New construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures within AO Zones shall either:
            (1)   Have the lowest floor elevated above the highest adjacent
grade of the building site, to or above the depth number specified on the FIRM
(at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified and no less than 2 feet); or
            (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
completely floodproofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. If this method is
used, compliance shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
      19.   AH/AO Zone Drainage: Adequate drainage course shall be provided
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
      20.   No Base Flood Elevation Data Available: The Administrator shall
obtain, review and reasonably utilize any Federal, State or local source to
determine a BFE. In areas without base flood elevation data, the following
provisions apply:
         a.   New construction, including placement of manufactured homes, and
substantial improvements of existing structures shall have the lowest floor
elevated no less than two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade at the
building site to assure that the structure is reasonably safe from flooding.
         b.   Openings sufficient to facilitate the movement of floodwaters in
accordance with subsection E11b of this section construction standards are
required for enclosed areas used solely for parking, access or storage below
the required floor elevation.
      21.   Certification Requirements: All elevations as specified hereunder
shall be certified on a FEMA Elevation Certificate by a licensed surveyor or
engineer secured by the applicant, and made part of permit records.
         a.   As-built elevation of lowest floor including basement, of all new
or substantially improved structures;
         b.   As-built floodproofed elevation of all new or substantially
improved nonresidential structures;
         c.   As-graded elevation of lowest crawl space grade, as applicable.
         d.   Floodproofing measures shall be designed consistent with the
flood protection elevation for the particular area, flood velocities,
durations, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, and other factors
associated with the regulatory flood. The applicant shall submit a plan or
document certified by a registered professional engineer that the floodproofing
measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection elevation and
associated flood factors for the particular area. Floodproofing plans shall
include the operation, inspection and maintenance of such measures.
      22.   Floodway Not Determined: Where the floodway has not been
determined, no new construction, substantial improvements, or other development
(including fill) shall be permitted in Zones AE on the effective FIRM, unless
it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any
point within the community. Applicants of proposed projects that increase the
base flood elevation more than one foot (1') are required to obtain and submit
to the Floodplain Administrator, a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR)
preconstruction.
   F.   Variance: When applicable, an applicant may seek an exception from the
standards and requirements of this section and
9-17-10(A)2 by means of a variance as provided in Section 12 of this chapter.
(Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977; amd. Ord. 79-4, 9-11-1979; Ord. 88-4, 9-
13-1988; Ord 90-4, 6-11-1990; Ord. 91-9, 7-22-1991; Ord. 92-5, 9-14-1992; Ord.
92-7, 9-28-1992; Ord. 96-3, 4-8-1996; Ord. 97-1, 7-22-1997; Ord. 98-5, 6-8-
1998; Ord 2000-3, 3-20-2000; Ord. 2001-10, 10-1-2001; Ord. 2006-13, 10-26-2006;
Ord 2006-18, 11-2-2006; Ord. 2010-08, 11-16-2010; Ord. 2010-13, 1-18-2011;
Ord.2011-01, 1-18-2011; Ord. 2014-03, 8-19-2014; Ord. 2019-02, 1-8-2019; Ord.
2021-12, 7-20-2021; Ord. 2023-01, 1-3-2023)
9-17-7: RIPARIAN SETBACK DISTRICT USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Applicability: Only those permitted uses or activities, as noted in
subsection C of this section, are allowed within specified stream setbacks.
   B.   Nondisturbance In Stream Setbacks: Except as provided below, no
disturbance of land shall be allowed in the stream setbacks set forth in
subsection D of this section, including, but not limited to, dredging, filling,
new construction, substantial improvements or modifications, installation of
septic systems, scraping by motorized equipment, and removal of vegetation or
root systems.
   C.   Permitted Uses: The purpose of this subsection is to indicate the type
of activities that can enhance the flood protection function and allow
landowners uses that do not significantly increase flood hazard and provides
for long term bank stabilization.
      1.   The planting of native riparian vegetation with hand equipment.
      2.   Agricultural purposes on lands used primarily for agriculture,
provided a ten foot (10') wide setback of a mix of native riparian grasses,
forbs, shrubs, and trees is preserved or maintained on the stream bank, to
match adjacent native streambank ecology. Agricultural land within a designated
critical habitat area is subject to subsection D5 of this section and shall
maintain a fifty foot (50') setback.
      3.   Maintenance of yardscape existing prior to July 22, 1991. Due to
significant risks of erosion, pollution, and property damage, owners of these
non- conforming uses are strongly encouraged to preserve and maintain a minimum
ten foot (10') wide buffer of a mix of native riparian grasses, forbs, shrubs,
and trees on the streambank, to match adjacent native streambank ecology.
Owners should avoid removal of vegetation and mowing within the buffer.
      4.   Activities operating in accordance with a County approved permit,
including riparian and stream restoration activities.
      5.   Emergency bank stabilization activities as provided in this chapter.
      6.   Electric, natural gas, cable communications and telephone utility
related activities within an existing right-of-way or easement where necessary.
      7.   The control and maintenance of noxious weeds, provided chemical
control methods are in accordance with USEPA label restrictions and only hand
sprayers are used.
      8.   The following management activities:
         a.   Removal of fallen dead branches or fallen dead trees, although
this practice is discouraged due to the beneficial wildlife, fisheries and
environmental value of fallen dead branches and trees;
         b.   Removal of hazardous leaning trees or dead branches (this does
not include trees that are in declining health but do not pose an immediate
hazard); and
         c.   The clearing of one private access trail to the stream of up to
eight feet (8') in width, or clearing for a public trail.
      9.   Platted subdivision lots which contain designated building envelopes
or development proposals previously approved by the County may be developed
pursuant to the conditions on that subdivision plat; provided, that the
development does not intrude into the riparian setback farther than the
boundary of the envelope or a previously approved structure(s).
   D.   Dimensional Standards: Any buildable lot within this district shall be
subject to the following minimum setbacks, subject to subsection D6 of this
section, as measured from the ordinary high water mark:
      1.   Class 1 stream: Seventy five foot (75') setback.
      2.   Class 2 stream: Fifty foot (50') setback.
      3.   Class 3 stream: Twenty five foot (25') setback.
      4.   Class 4 stream: Twenty five foot (25') setback.
      5.   More restrictive setbacks shall be imposed on all streams and rivers
that are designated critical habitat to any listed aquatic species or any
aquatic species proposed for listing under the federal Endangered Species Act
as follows: Perennial - one hundred foot (100') setback, Intermittent - Fifty
foot (50') setback. Such streams include: Salmon River and all its tributaries.
      6.   More restrictive setbacks may be imposed through the conditional use
process if site conditions or protection of natural resources so warrant. More
restrictive setbacks are also imposed in Title 10, Subdivision Regulations
      7.   When applicable, an applicant may seek an exception from the
requirements of Section
9-17-7(D) and
9-17-10(A)1 by means of a variance as provided in chapter 30 of this title.
(Ord. 91-9, 7-22-1991; amd. Ord. 2006-18, 11-2-2006; Ord. 2019-02, 1-8-2019;
Ord. 2021-12, 7-20-2021)
9-17-8: CATEGORICAL EXCLUSIONS:
A.   Administrator's Review Of Categorical Exclusions: The Administrator, in
consultation with the County Engineer or the Floodplain Manager, shall review
all written requests for determinations of categorical exclusions under
subsection 9-17-6B3b of this chapter, and promulgate appropriate forms to
Blaine County Ordinance # 2024-04 (Amending Title 9 Chapters 17, 21, 21A and
32) Page 2 be used for such requests. The applicant shall have the burden of
demonstrating that the proposed development falls within and meets the
requirements of a categorical exclusion. The Administrator, prior to issuance
of its decision, may request additional information from the applicant,
including, without limitation, technical review from the County Engineer at the
applicant's expense, and the failure to provide such requested information
within sixty (60) days of request shall be grounds for denial of the request
for determination of categorical exclusion. Any person aggrieved by the written
decision of the Administrator as to a categorical exclusion may appeal the
Administrator's decision to the Board according to the procedures and time
requirements of section
9-32-3 of this title. (Ord. 2024-04, 2-13-2024; Ord. 2019-02, 1-8-2019)
9-17-9: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT PROCEDURE:
Application for a conditional use in the district shall be made on a form
furnished by the Administrator. Upon receipt of the completed form, the
application shall be placed on the agenda of the next available regular meeting
of the hearing examiner, commission or the Board when concurrent stream
alteration permit applications are submitted which require Board approval, and
shall meet the requirements for notification by publication and mail
(subsection B of this section).
   A.   General: It is recognized that certain uses possess unique and special
characteristics with respect to their location, design, size, method of
operation, circulation and public facilities. In order to protect the public
health, safety and welfare and guarantee conformance with the plan, permits are
required for such uses upon review by the commission or the Board.
   B.   Procedure: The following sections of chapter 25, "Conditional Use
Permits", of this title, shall be followed:
      1.   Section
9-25-4, "Public Hearing And Notice".
      2.   Section
9-25-5, "Action By The Commission Or The Board".
      3.   Section
9-25-6, "Notification By The Administrator".
      4.   Section
9-25-7, "Appeals Process".
      5.   Section
9-25-8, "Expiration And Renewal".
      6.   Section
9-25-9, "Special Provision".
   C.   Application: An application for a conditional use permit shall be filed
with the Administrator by at least one holder of an interest in the property or
their agent accompanied by the fee established. The application shall include
the following information:
      1.   All information requested in subsections 9-25-2A1 through A5, A7, A8
and A9 of this title (subsection 9-25-2A6 of this title is excluded).
      2.   Additional information that may be requested by the Administrator in
order to review a specific application may include, but is not limited to, the
following:
         a.   Eight (8) sets of plans when application requires commission
approval, six (6) sets of plans when application requires Board approval, or
two (2) sets of plans when the application requires hearing examiner approval
or when submitting an application for a building permit, drawn to scale showing
the nature, location, dimensions and elevation of the lot, existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, floodproofing measures and the
relationship of the above to the location of the channel, floodway and the
flood protection elevation for the lowest floor which shall be two feet (2')
above the base flood elevation or highest adjacent grade of the building site
where no base flood elevation exists.
         b.   Site specific information from the methods used to analyze flood
hazard listed in subsection 9-17-1D of this chapter, including base flood
elevation and location of the boundaries of the floodway and floodplain.
         c.   A valley cross section showing the channel of the stream,
elevation of land areas adjoining each side of the channel, cross sectional
areas to be occupied by the proposed development and high water information.
         d.   Plans (surface view) showing elevations or contours of the
ground; pertinent structure, fill or storage elevations; size, location and
spatial arrangement of all proposed and existing structures on the site;
location and elevations of streets, water supply, sanitary facilities;
photographs showing existing land uses and vegetation upstream and downstream
and soil types.
         e.   A profile showing the slope of the bottom of the channel or flow
line of the stream.
         f.   Specifications for building construction and materials,
floodproofing, filling, dredging, grading, channel improvement, storage of
materials, water supply and sanitary facilities.
         g.   Existing direction of water forces, areas of critical erosion,
potential for channel movement or relocation and related hydraulic
considerations.
         h.   Potential depth of inundation by flood.
         i.   Existing or potential overflow channels.
         j.   Groundwater table level at high water in the spring.
         k.   Existing vegetation, soils and habitat for fish and streamside
wildlife.
         l.   When the proposed use involves a potential contaminant source or
potential contaminant as set forth in appendix A on file in the County, and is
located within a wellhead protection area, written comment from Idaho
Department of Environmental Quality and from any other appropriate agency,
including, but not limited to, owners of public water systems located within
the wellhead protection area, shall be solicited if this is determined by the
Administrator to be necessary.
         m.   A statement to address potential beneficial and adverse impacts
of the project, including the areas upstream, downstream and across the stream.
In addition, the application shall include a written statement by a licensed
engineer that the project will have no adverse impact or that such impacts have
been identified and mitigated to the maximum extent feasible.
   D.   Evaluation And Determination: Transmit one copy of the information
described in subsection C of this section to an engineer (designated by the
County) or other expert person or agency for technical assistance, where
necessary, in evaluating the proposed project in relation to flood heights and
velocities, the seriousness of flood damage to the use, the adequacy of the
plans for protection, other technical matters and environmental damage. Such
technical review shall be at the applicant's expense. Fee for such review shall
be paid by the applicant prior to public hearing.
Based upon the technical evaluation by this designated engineer or expert and
other pertinent information, the commission or the Board shall determine the
specific flood hazard at the site and shall evaluate the suitability of the
proposed use in relation to the flood hazard and possible environmental damage.
   E.   Criteria For Evaluation: The applicant shall show that the criteria of
this regulation has been satisfied. The commission or the Board shall consider
other requirements specified in this chapter as well as the following:
      1.   The relationship of the proposed use or development to the
comprehensive plan and floodplain management program for the area.
      2.   The preservation of the inherent natural characteristics of the
watercourses and floodplain areas. This includes maintaining the storage and
carrying capacity of these areas.
      3.   The compatibility of the proposed use or development with existing
development and development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
      4.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments.
      5.   The effect upon fish and wildlife habitat, including existing
vegetation.
      6.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use or development.
      7.   The probability of mass erosion to adjacent property as opposed to
normal stream bank erosion and accretion.
      8.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood of ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
      9.   The danger that materials may be swept on to other lands or
downstream to the injury of others.
      10.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions.
      11.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owners and the
local public interest.
      12.   The importance of the service provided by the proposed facility to
the community.
      13.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters expected at the site.
      14.   Effect of and susceptibility to obstruction by landslides,
avalanches, ice jams or timber.
      15.   If the applicant or landowner with respect to an application for a
conditional use permit under this chapter is the State of Idaho, or any agency,
board, department, institution, or district thereof, the commission or the
Board, in addition to all other applicable standards and criteria hereunder,
shall take into account the plans and needs of the State, or any agency, board,
department, institution or district thereof, as required by Idaho Code section
67-6528.
      16.   The project will not have an adverse impact on potable water
sources when the project is located within a wellhead protection area.
   F.   Conditions Attached To Conditional Use Permits: Upon consideration of
the factors listed above and the purposes of this chapter, the commission or
the Board shall attach such conditions to the granting of conditional use
permits as deemed necessary to further the purposes of this chapter, including,
but not limited to:
      1.   Infiltration Of Floodwaters: Modification of water disposal and
water supply facilities to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters. A
permit shall be received from the South Central Public Health District who
shall determine the specific system to be used.
      2.   Periods Of Use: Limitations of periods of use and operation.
      3.   Operational Controls: Imposition of operational controls, sureties
and deed restrictions.
      4.   Certification: Certification in writing by a registered engineer
after completion that work was done according to approved plans and County
requirements.
      5.   Drainage: Overflow channels and upland drainage swales shall remain
open and unobstructed.
      6.   Woody Debris Removal: No-net removal of woody debris and other
vegetation within the Floodplain Overlay District.
      7.   Revegetation: Revegetation of all disturbed areas within the
floodplain and/or riparian setback. Security agreement may be drawn up for up
to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost of work, or other
amount as determined by the hearing examiner, commission or Board.
      8.   Construction Material Placement And Removal: Project staging
materials and equipment that is temporarily stockpiled shall be removed from
the site from April 1 to June 15 or stored outside of flood-prone areas.
      9.   Expiration Of Permit: Permit shall expire at time determined by the
hearing examiner, commission or Board.
      10.   Permit Exemptions: Stating that the approval does not exempt the
applicant from requirements of other agencies.
      11.   Best Management Practices: Requiring that Best Management
Practices, as outlined by Idaho Department of Environment Quality, are
maintained throughout implementation of the project and until vegetation is
established for purposes of stormwater management and drainage. (Ord. 77-5, 3-
28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977; amd. Ord. 88-4. 9-13-1988; Ord. 91-9, 7-22-1991; Ord.
93-6, 7-19-1993; 1996 Code; Ord. 96-3, 4-8-1996; Ord. 2001-03, 3-19-2001; Ord.
2006-13, 10-26-2006; Ord. 2006-18, 11-2-2006; Ord. 2010-08, 11-16-2010; Ord.
2010-13, 1-18-2011; Ord. 2014-03, 8-19-2014; Ord. 2019-02, 1-8-2019)
9-17-10: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES AND USES IN FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY AND RIPARIAN
SETBACK DISTRICTS:
   A.   Non-Conforming Structures Or Uses: A structure or use which is not in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter is subject to the following:
      1.   Riparian Setback District:
         a.   Maintenance: All legally established, nonconforming structures
can be maintained (e.g., painting and non-structural repairs).
         b.   Relocation: A nonconforming structure that is moved any distance
shall comply with current regulations of this title.
         c.   Alteration: Legally established nonconforming residential
structures may be altered within their existing building footprint.
Additionally, attached decks, porches, and patios may be altered in their
existing footprint, excluding the addition of permanent roof structures.
         d.   Restoration: A nonconforming structure or a structure containing
a nonconforming use which has been damaged by unintentional causes may be
restored to its original condition. A nonconforming building or use that is
moved or torn down by the owner cannot be replaced within the setback.
         e.   Expansion: Structures or uses located wholly within a designated
setback shall not be expanded. When a structure is partially located within a
setback, the portion located outside of the setback shall not be considered
non-conforming.
            (1)   Residential and non-residential: Conforming portions of
structures may be expanded through the administrative process subject to the
following provisions:
               (A)   No portion of the expansion shall be within the required
riparian setback.
               (B)   The expansion must not impact any stream channel, overflow
channel or special flood hazard area.
      2.   Floodplain Overlay District:
         a.   Modification: Structural alterations, repairs, or improvements of
a non-conforming structure are allowed provided they do not result in
substantial improvement.
         b.   Expansion: Any addition to a non-conforming structure shall meet
the requirements of this chapter for new construction. If any single addition
or combination of additions to a non-conforming structure result in substantial
improvement, then the entire structure shall meet the requirements of this
chapter for new construction.
         c.   Maintenance: Maintenance (e.g., painting and other non-
structural repairs) is allowed and is not considered a modification. Any cost
associated with maintenance shall not be counted towards modification or
expansion.
   B.   Building Envelopes: Platted subdivision lots which contain designated
building envelopes may be developed pursuant to the conditions on that
subdivision plat without the necessity of obtaining a variance or conditional
use permit, provided that the site alteration, including yardscape, does not
intrude into the riparian setback farther than the designated building envelope
or previously approved structure. If the building envelope is within the SFHA,
the requirements of subsection
9-17-6E of this chapter shall apply. (Ord. 88-4, 9-13-1988; amd. Ord. 91-9, 7-
22-1991; Ord. 2019-02, 1-8-2019)
9-17-11: STREAM ALTERATION PERMIT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Purpose: The Board of County Commissioners hereby finds that in order
to more adequately control hazards from flooding existing lands within the
Floodplain Overlay District, to ensure that the important environmental
features of the State and localities are protected and enhanced, to protect
life and property in areas subject to natural hazards at flooding, to protect,
preserve and enhance fish, wildlife habitat and recreation resources, to avoid
undue water and air pollution, to ensure that residents of the County continue
to qualify for the national flood insurance program and to ensure that all
persons desiring to undertake any stream alteration are afforded equal
protection and procedural due process of law, this section is adopted
establishing a formal stream alteration permit system and establishing
appropriate standards and criteria to govern the issuance or denial of such
permits.
   B.   Interference With Stream Channels Restricted: No person may excavate
in, disturb, fill, build in, upon or across, deposit in or change the channel
of any nonintermittent stream in the County from high water mark to high water
mark; or within the Floodplain Subdistricts, without a stream alteration permit
issued by the Board of County Commissioners.
If a property has intermittent streams upon it, a possible change in the
channel shall be reviewed under this section at the time of development or
subdivision of the property.
   C.   Procedures: Application shall be made for a stream alteration permit
upon a form furnished by the Administrator (see subsection C4 of this section).
Forms shall also be provided the applicant for a permit from the Department of
Water Resources and the Army Corps of Engineers.
      1.   Application: An application for a stream alteration permit shall be
filed with the Administrator by at least one holder of interest or their agent.
The application may include, but not be limited to, the following information
to be specified by the Administrator:
         a.   Applicant's name, address and phone number.
         b.   Name of engineer, if applicable.
         c.   Property location and legal description.
         d.   Name and reach of stream and area of proposed work, including a
river milepost description.
         e.   Length of the stream to be worked.
         f.   Type of work to be done.
         g.   Type of equipment to be used.
         h.   Starting and completion dates of work.
         i.   Vicinity map of the area.
         j.   Names and addresses of property owners on both sides of the
stream three hundred feet (300') above and one thousand feet (1,000')
downstream from the proposed work site.
         k.   Plans and information done to appropriate scale accurately and
legibly showing:
            (1)   Location and dimension of lot or property.
            (2)   Location of existing or proposed structures and location of
previous stream alterations.
            (3)   Typical cross section of the proposed work.
            (4)   Location of the lot in relation to the stream channel,
floodway and floodplain.
            (5)   A valley cross section of the area to be altered, if
requested by the County Engineer, showing the stream channel, floodway limit
lines, elevations of land areas adjacent to the stream and the elevation of the
intermediate regional flood (IRF). The County Engineer, in consultation with
FEMA officials, shall review and approve the cross section.
            (6)   Location of any drainageways or overflow channels through the
property affected.
         l.   A statement to address potential beneficial and adverse impacts
of the project, including the areas upstream, downstream and across the stream.
In addition, the application shall include a written statement by a licensed
engineer that the project will have no adverse impact or that such impacts have
been identified and mitigated to the maximum extent feasible.
         m.   Date application was sent to the Army Corps of Engineers and the
Department of Water Resources.
      2.   State And Federal Permits: The applicant shall provide the
Administrator with written approval from all applicable State and Federal
agencies prior to project implementation.
      3.   Certification, Public Hearing And Action By Board:
         a.   Certification: Upon receipt of the application and all other
required data, the Administrator shall certify the application as complete and
affix the date of application acceptance thereon.
         b.   Public Hearing: Allowing sufficient time to conduct a site visit,
receive input from the County Engineer and other governmental agencies and
write staff reports the Administrator shall then schedule the application for
the Board's next available hearing time wherein the legal notice requirements
can be met.
         c.   Technical Review; Fee: Technical review shall be at the
applicant's expense. Fee for such technical review shall be paid by the
applicant prior to public hearing.
         d.   Board Consideration: The Board shall consider the application and
take public input at a duly noticed public hearing as set forth hereinbelow,
and shall evaluate the application based on the standards of evaluation listed
in subsection D of this section. The Board shall approve, conditionally approve
or disapprove the application making appropriate findings to support its
decision.
         e.   Continuance Of Hearing: The Board may order the hearing to be
continued up to thirty one (31) days at the same place, in which case no
further published notice shall be required other than that requested by the
Board. Continuation beyond thirty one (31) days shall require further published
notice, established hereinbelow.
         f.   Written Findings: The Board shall adopt its written findings of
fact and decision within fifteen (15) days after decision by the Board. The
procedures in subsection
9-25-4C of this title shall be followed. The public hearing shall be scheduled
within sixty (60) days of certification.
      4.   Emergency Bank Stabilization: There are times when immediate action
must be taken to prevent major flood losses. At such times, the normal
application and review procedure may be waived; however, before action may be
taken, the County must be contacted and verbal approval received from two (2)
County Commissioners. The Board may wish to contact the County Engineer to
review the request. If emergency bank stabilization is approved, the applicant
shall apply for a stream alteration permit within three (3) months of any
stabilization and implement the provisions of any approved stream alteration
permit by March 31 of the year following the stabilization. If a stream
alteration permit is approved, the applicant for the emergency bank
stabilization shall:
         a.   Post sufficient financial security as determined by the Board;
and
         b.   Complete restoration of the affected property to State minimum
standards by either March 31 of the year following the stabilization or by
another date so specified by the Board.
   D.   Standards Of Evaluation: The following standards shall be used to
review each proposed stream alteration. It is required of the applicant to show
that the project meets the criteria of this regulation. Each of the standards
in subsections D1 through D6 of this section must be satisfied before a permit
can be approved:
      1.   Permit Application: The applicant has applied for permits from the
Army Corps of Engineers and the Idaho Department of Water Resources.
If the watercourse runs through a neighboring city, they shall be sent a copy
of the application, at the direction of the Administrator, to notify them of
possible stream alterations. Copy shall be sent if the project is within one
thousand feet (1,000') downstream or one mile upstream.
      2.   Other Property Not Adversely Affected: The proposed stream
alteration shall have no adverse impact on the property of another person or
entity, including the areas upstream, downstream and across the stream. "No
adverse impact" means that the proposed use or activity will not have any
deleterious impacts in terms of increased flood peaks, flood stage, flood
velocity, erosion and sedimentation, or water quality or that such impacts have
been identified and mitigated to the maximum extent feasible.
      3.   Acceptance By County Engineer For Encroachments, Obstructions, Etc.,
In Floodway: The stream alteration desired will not involve placing an
encroachment, structure, fill, deposit, obstruction, storage of materials or
equipment in the floodway, all of which are prohibited by subsection 9-17-6A3b
of this chapter, unless certification by a registered engineer is provided and
accepted by the County Engineer, demonstrating that encroachments shall not
result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the 100-year
flood discharge and other standards of this section are met.
      4.   Compliance: The stream alteration desired shall not have any adverse
impacts or go against the stated purposes of the Floodplain Overlay District
(section
9-17-2 of this chapter) and the stream alteration permit program (subsection A
of this section).
      5.   Local Public Interests: The proposed application (use) does not
conflict with the local public interest, i.e., the affairs of the people in the
area directly affected by the proposed use. This includes, but is not limited
to, property values, fish and wildlife habitat, aquatic life, recreation,
aesthetic beauty, water quality or an impact upon a locally important factor.
The burden of proof always rests with the applicant.
      6.   Extraordinary Circumstances: The following extraordinary
circumstances may favor the granting of a stream alteration permit:
         a.   If the river tries to change to a channel outside of the
floodway.
         b.   If the viability of an irrigation structure or water delivery
system is threatened.
         c.   If a road or bridge which provides access to homes or businesses
is threatened.
         d.   If an existing home or building envelope in a platted subdivision
is threatened.
         e.   If severe erosion or severe sedimentation of land is threatened.
         f.   If a public facility (sewer plant, school, etc.) and/or any other
use which would affect the chemical quality of the river is threatened.
      7.   State Agencies: If the applicant or landowner with respect to an
application for a stream alteration permit under this chapter is the State of
Idaho, or any agency, board, department, institution, or district thereof, the
commission or the Board, in addition to all other applicable standards and
criteria hereunder, shall take into account the plans and needs of the State,
or any agency, board, department, institution or district thereof, as required
by Idaho Code section 67-6528.
   E.   Conditions: The Board or Administrator may attach conditions upon
granting a stream alteration permit. These conditions may include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      1.   Requiring the project to be built to Idaho Department of Water
Resources, Army Corps of Engineers, the County and applicant's engineering
specifications and standards.
      2.   Requiring work to be certified in writing by a registered engineer
after its completion that work was done according to County requirements and
stipulations.
      3.   Requiring any modification in the extent or design of the proposed
work in order to meet the mandatory standards imposed by subsection D of this
section.
      4.   Requiring preservation of existing vegetation and revegetation and
enhancement of fish and wildlife habitat.
      5.   Requiring review or approval of the application by other agencies or
government units.
      6.   Requiring modifications of the project so as not to raise the level
of the 100-year floodplain and not to encroach upon the floodway, except as
stated in subsection D3 of this section.
      7.   Requiring work to be planned and approved in conjunction with other
landowners along the particular reach of the stream in question.
      8.   Requiring the work to be done at a certain height or location.
      9.   Specifying time that the work shall be done (such as low water).
      10.   Requiring work to be done by appropriate construction equipment.
      11.   Limiting reclamation of eroded stream banks in the floodway.
      12.   Requiring overflow channels to remain open.
      13.   Restricting the future location of building envelopes.
      14.   Requiring bonding or a letter of credit to guarantee completion of
the work or conditions of approval.
      15.   Agreement to maintain, by the property owners, shall be a condition
of approval for all stream alteration permits for any watercourse so that the
flood carrying capacity is not diminished and that erosion potential is not
increased. The Administrator shall be notified when maintenance work is to be
done.
   F.   Responsibilities: The landowner is responsible for obtaining the
necessary permit and approval and for ensuring that the work is done according
to County and State approvals. The design engineer is responsible for ensuring
that engineer's work meets County and State requirements; the certifying
engineer is responsible for ensuring that the stream alteration work is done
according to County and State approvals. The contractor shall ensure that
permits are obtained and the work is done according to them.
   G.   Guides To Be Referenced For Work Performed Under A Stream Alteration
Permit And Within Riparian Areas:
      1.   The 1983 manual, “Rules and Regulations, Stream Channel
Alterations”, and subsequent amendments, and prepared by the Department of
Water Resources; and “Big Wood River Atlas,” prepared by Cardno and Ecosystem
Sciences, 2020, are hereby adopted as the primary guides to stream alteration
work.
      2.   The “Blaine County Riparian Planting List”, and subsequent
amendments, as prepared by the County Planning Department in cooperation with
practicing professionals in the field and approved by resolution of the Board,
is hereby adopted as the primary guide to riparian area site alteration work.
(Ord. 88-4, 9-13-1988; amd. Ord. 91-9, 7-22-1991; Ord. 2019-02, 1-8-2019; Ord.
2021-12, 7-20-2021)
9-17-12: VARIANCES:
   A.   Variances Allowed: A variance may be granted for a parcel of property
with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the requirements
of Section 9-17-6(A), (B) & (E) and 9-17-10(A)2 of this Chapter would create an
exceptional hardship to the applicant or the surrounding property owners. The
unique characteristics must be unique to the property in question and must
pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its inhabitants or the
property owners.
   Protecting Blaine County citizens from flooding is a compelling public
interest that is so serious that variances from the flood elevation or from
other requirements in this Chapter will be rare and limited to the greatest
extent possible.
   B.   Procedure: The following sections of Chapter 30, “Variances”, of this
Title, shall be applicable to any request for a variance made under this
Section:
      1.   Section
9-30-2, “Application for Variance”.
      2.   Section
9-30-3, “Public Hearing and Notice”.
      3.   Section
9-30-5, “Action by Commission”.
      4.   Section
9-30-6, “Notification By The Administrator”.
      5.   Section
9-30-7, “Appeals Process”.
      6.   Section
9-30-8, “Resubmittal”.
      7.   Section
9-30-9, “Expiration”.
   C.   Conditions for Variances:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued:
         a.   Upon a determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, or create nuisances, and;
         b.   Upon a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief from the other requirements of this Chapter;
      3.   Variances shall be issued for the repair, rehabilitation or
restoration of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure;
      4.   Variances shall not be issued within any floodway if any increase in
flood levels during the base flood discharge would result;
      5.   Variances shall be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the Base
Flood Elevation, provided the requirements of section
9-17-6-E of this ordinance have been fully satisfied. As the lot size increases
beyond one-half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the
variance increases.
   D.   Standards of Evaluation: In considering variance applications, the
commission shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors,
standards specified in other sections of this ordinance, and:
      1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
potential or actual injury of others and their property;
      2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      6.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use,
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the general goals and
objectives of the Comprehensive Plan as well as the floodplain management
program for that area;
      9.   The safety of access to the property in time of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site; and,
      11.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water system and streets and bridges.
   E.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given authorized
written notice specifying the difference between the BFE and the elevation to
which the structure is to be built and that such construction below the BFE
increases risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a variance to
construct a structure below the BFE will result in increased premium rates for
flood insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification
shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions, including
justification for their issuance.
   F.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance. (Ord. 2021-12, 7-20-2021)
9-17-13: VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violations And Enforcement: In addition to the methods of enforcement
available under Chapter 32 of this Title, violations of this Chapter may be
enforced as follows:
      1.   Stop Work Order: For any violation of this Chapter, any approved
permit, or any action which constitutes a threat to life or to public or
private property as determined by the Administrator, the County shall have the
authority to issue a stop work order in the form of a written notice given to
the owner of the property or to the owner’s agent or to the person doing the
work where such a violation exists. Upon receiving such notice all work shall
immediately cease. The notice shall state the conditions, if any, under which
work may be resumed. Where an emergency exists, the Board of County
Commissioners or Administrator may stop work. A verbal notice is sufficient
which must be later memorialized at a public meeting within seven days.
Continuation of any such work after written or oral notice is a separate
violation of this Chapter.
      2.   Additional Remedies: In addition to any remedies set forth herein,
the County retains any remedies in law and equity as may be necessary to
enforce the provisions set forth in this Chapter, including, but not limited
to:
         a.   Revocation of any permit or modification of the conditions of any
permit granted under this Chapter;
         b.   Withholding the issuance of any building permit, certificate of
occupancy or inspection by the county; and/or;
         c.   Requiring replacement and a board approved financial guarantee or
security by the property owner of any vegetation removed in violation of this
chapter or in violation of any permit issued under any county ordinance.
Replacement vegetation shall be of sufficient quantity to replace that removed.
Vegetation planted in accordance with this requirement shall be replaced if it
dies any time within two (2) years after planting.;
         d.   Injunctive relief to enjoin and restrain any person from
violating the provisions of this Chapter; and
         e.   Recovery of damages, civil penalties, attorney fees and costs.
      3.   Misdemeanor: In addition to the other remedies set forth herein, any
person, contractor, entity or organization which performs or causes or permits
to be performed any work or activity in violation of this chapter or who
performs any work in excess of the authority granted by the issuance of a
stream alteration permit hereunder, or who violates any condition or
stipulation placed upon the issuance of a stream alteration permit shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor; and subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day or portion thereof during which any work performed
in violation of this Chapter continues in existence shall constitute a separate
and distinct violation of these provisions. All enforcement provisions of this
title as contained in Chapter 32 of this Title, shall be applicable to any
violation of this Chapter. (Ord. 2021-12, 7-20-2021)
CHAPTER 18
AIRPORT VICINITY OVERLAY DISTRICT
ARTICLE A. FRIEDMAN MEMORIAL AIRPORT VICINITY OVERLAY DISTRICT (FMAV)
SECTION:
9-18A-1: Purpose
9-18A-2: Authority
9-18A-3: Applicability
9-18A-4: Definitions
9-18A-5: Airport Height Restriction Zone Designations (Height Zones)
9-18A-6: Airport Height Zone Limitations
9-18A-7: Airport Compatible Land Use Overlay Zones (Land Use Zones)
9-18A-8: Airport Compatible Land Use Overlay Zone Boundaries
9-18A-9: Airport Land Use Zone Map
9-18A-10: Use of Land And Buildings
9-18A-11: Additional Land Use Regulations
9-18A-12: Disclosure Statement
9-18A-13: Friedman Memorial Airport Vicinity Overlay District Land Use Table
Notes/Conditions Of Approval
9-18A-14: Friedman Memorial Airport Vicinity Overlay District Land Use Table
9-18A-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   It is the purpose of the Friedman Memorial Airport Vicinity Overlay
District to regulate the use of property in the vicinity of the Friedman
Memorial Airport (the Airport) by: creating the appropriate zones and
establishing the boundaries thereof; providing for changes in the restrictions
and boundaries of such zones; defining certain terms used herein; referencing
the Friedman Memorial Airport's Federal Aviation Regulation (FAR) Part 77
Airspace Drawing (herein referred to as Airspace Drawing) and Friedman Memorial
Airport Land Use Zone Map, which are incorporated in and made a part of this
Chapter.
   B.   It is hereby found that an aviation hazard endangers the lives and the
property of users of the Friedman Memorial Airport, as well as the property and
the occupants of land in the vicinity of the Airport. An aviation hazard
reduces the size of the area available for landing, takeoff and maneuvering of
aircraft, and thus diminishes or impairs the utility of the Airport and the
public investment therein.
   C.   The Friedman Memorial Airport Vicinity Overlay District does not modify
the base density of the underlying zoning district existing at time of
adoption. Future uses are limited to those in strict conformance, as
applicable, with the zoning in existence at the time of adoption of this
article and with the additional limitations and conditions set forth in table
9-18-14. (Ord. 2023-05, - -2023)
9-18A-2: AUTHORITY:
The Board adopts this Chapter pursuant to the provisions and authority
conferred by Article 12, Section 2, of the Idaho State Constitution, and Title
21, Chapter 5, Airport Zoning Act, and Title 67, Chapter 65, Local Land Use
Planning, of the Idaho Code. (Ord. 2023-05, - -2023)
9-18A-3: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter and code shall apply to all lands, buildings,
structures, natural features or uses located within those areas that are
defined by the Friedman Memorial Airport Vicinity Overlay District designated
on the Airspace Drawing and Airport Land Use Zone Map that are located within
Blaine County, Idaho, whether now or in the future. (Ord. 2023-05, - -2023)
9-18A-4: DEFINITIONS:
14 CFR PART   Code of Federal Regulations referred to as Federal Aviation Regulation
77:           (FAR) Part 77. 14 CFR Part 77 defines the regulations applicable to
              objects which may affect navigable airspace.
              Any runway, any area, or other facility designed or used either publicly
              or privately for the landing and taking-off of aircraft, including all
AIRPORT:      accessory taxiways, aircraft storage and tie down areas, hangars, and
              other necessary buildings. For purposes of Chapter 9-18A, Airport means
              the Friedman Memorial Airport.
AIRPORT       The highest point of an airport's usable landing area measured in feet
ELEVATION:    from mean sea level.
              An area which establishes boundaries used to define the airport environs
AIRPORT       for land use planning purposes. Factors to be considered in defining the
INFLUENCE     boundary of the Airport Influence Area include airport noise contours
AREA:         (when applicable), airport traffic patterns, departure, arrival and
              instrument approach corridors, safety zones and height restriction areas.
              A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway centerline,
              extending outward and upward from the end of the primary surface and at
              the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set forth in
APPROACH      Section 9-18A-5: AIRPORT HEIGHT RESTRICTION ZONE DESIGNATIONS (HEIGHT
SURFACE:      ZONES) of this Chapter. The outer width of an approach/departure surface
              will be that width prescribed in this subsection for the most precise
              approach existing or planned for that runway end as identified on the
              Friedman Memorial Airport's approved Airport Layout Plan.
APPROACH,
DEPARTURE,
TRANSITIONAL, These zones are set forth in Section 9-18A-5: AIRPORT HEIGHT RESTRICTION
HORIZONTAL,   ZONE DESIGNATIONS (HEIGHT ZONES) of this Chapter.
AND CONICAL
ZONES:
              An obstruction or hazard to air navigation that includes any new or
              existing structure, object of natural growth, use of land, or modification
AVIATION      thereto, which endangers the lives and property of users of an airport, or
HAZARD:       of occupants of land in its vicinity, and that reduces the size of the
              area available for landing, taking off and maneuvering of aircraft, or
              penetrates an imaginary surface, and has an adverse effect on the safe and
              efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.
              A non-possessing property interest in airspace over a land parcel or
AVIGATION     portion of land. It is a legally developed document obtained by the owner
EASEMENT:     of an airport to permit activities including the right of flight and the
              right to remove obstructions, but not necessarily to the extent of
              prohibiting the use of the land within the limits of the rights obtained.
              A portion of the Lateral Safety Zone, North Critical Zone, or South Inner
BUFFER ZONE:  Critical Zone that provides a transition of zoning from one zone to the
              next.
              Compatibility of land use is attained when the use of property adjacent to
              an airport neither adversely affects flight operations from the airport
              nor is itself adversely affected by such flight operations. In most cases,
              the adverse effect of flight operations on adjacent land results from
              exposure of noise sensitive development, such as residential areas, to
              aircraft noise and vibration. Land use that adversely affects flight
              operations is that which creates or contributes to a flight hazard. For
              example, any land use that might allow tall structures, block the line of
COMPATIBLE    sight from the control tower to all parts of the airfield, inhibit pilot
LAND USE:     visibility (such as glaring lights, smoke, etc.), produce electronic
              aberrations in navigational guidance systems, or that would tend to
              attract birds would be considered an incompatible land use. For instance,
              under certain circumstances, an exposed landfill may attract birds. If
              open incineration is regularly permitted, it can also create a smoke
              hazard. In some cases, concurrent land use can be an appropriate
              compatible land use. Concurrent land use means that the land can be used
              for more than one purpose at the same time. For example, portions of land
              needed for clear zone purposes could also be used for agriculture purposes
              at the same time.
CONICAL       A surface extending outward and upward from the periphery of the
SURFACE:      horizontal surface at a slope of twenty to one (20:1) for a horizontal
              distance of four thousand feet (4,000').
CRITICAL      An extended area off the runway end used to enhance the protection of
ZONES:        people and property on the ground.
FAA:          The Federal Aviation Administration.
FAIR          A notification to prospective buyers of property near airports that they
DISCLOSURE    may be exposed to potentially impactful levels of aircraft overflight.
STATEMENT:    These statements in no way abrogate an individual's right to take later
              action against the airport, but rather give buyers a fair warning.
              For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth in
HEIGHT:       this Chapter and shown on the Friedman Memorial Airport Airspace Map, the
              datum shall be mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
HORIZONTAL    A horizontal plane one hundred and fifty feet (150') above the established
SURFACE:      airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with the
              perimeter of the Horizontal Zone.
              An area in the proposed Area of City Impact where aircraft are commonly
              operating for the purposes of landing and take-off in the immediate
IMPACT        vicinity of the airport. The Impact Coordination Zone(s) establishes land
COORDINATION  use restrictions to enhance the protection of people and property on the
ZONE:         ground while considering influences of the Area of City Impact. The Impact
              Coordination Zone is any Area of City Impact area within any Airport
              Compatible Land Use Overlay Zone.
              Incompatible land use at or near airports may result in the creation of
              hazards to air navigation and reductions in airport utility resulting from
              obstructions to flight paths or noise-related incompatible land use
              resulting from residential construction too close to the airport.
              Incompatible land uses include obstructions or residential construction
              built on airport property or in violation of conditions of released land
              or residential development within grant funded aircraft noise
INCOMPATIBLE  compatibility land. Introducing a wildlife attractant or failure to take
LAND USES:    adequate steps to mitigate hazardous wildlife at the airport can also
              result in an incompatible land use. Incompatible land uses can include
              wastewater ponds, municipal flood control channels and drainage basins,
              sanitary landfills, solid waste transfer stations, electrical power
              substations, water storage tanks, golf courses and other bird attractants,
              roads, railroads, and navigable waterways. Other incompatible uses would
              be towers or buildings that penetrate Part 77 surfaces or are located
              within a runway protection zone (RPZ), runway object free area (ROFA),
              object free zone (OFZ), clearway or stopway.
INNER         Rectangular in shape and centered about the extended runway centerline.
CRITICAL      The width of the Inner Critical Zone is two thousand feet (2,000') and
ZONE:         extends a horizontal distance of up to seven thousand five hundred feet
              (7,500') from each end of the primary surface.
INSTRUMENT    A trapezoidal shape that begins at the end of the runway and extends along
DEPARTURE     the extended runway centerline and with a slope, starting at the elevation
SURFACE:      of the end at a slope of forty to one (40:1) for a horizontal distance of
              ten thousand feet.
LARGER THAN   A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by propeller
UTILITY       driven aircraft of greater than twelve thousand five hundred (12,500)
RUNWAY:       pounds maximum gross weight and jet powered aircraft.
LATERAL       An area extending 1000 feet either side of runway centerline and including
SAFETY ZONE:  the area between the ends of the primary surface(s) used to enhance the
              protection of people and property on the ground.
NAVD 88:      North American Vertical Datum 1988. All elevations in this Chapter are
              referenced to the 1988 North American Vertical Datum.
              Any airspace where heavier-than-air vehicles can operate. Specifically per
NAVIGABLE     Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR), navigable airspace includes airspace
AIRSPACE:     at and above the minimum safe flight level, including airspace needed for
              safe takeoff and landing.
              A runway having an existing instrument approach procedure utilizing air
NON-PRECISION navigation facilities, or area type navigation equipment, for which a
INSTRUMENT    straight-in non-precision instrument approach procedure has been approved
RUNWAY:       or planned. It also means a runway for which a non-precision approach
              system is planned and is so indicated on an approved Airport Layout Plan.
              Any object of natural growth, terrain, or permanent or temporary
              construction or alteration, including equipment or materials used, and any
OBSTRUCTION:  permanent or temporary apparatus, including mobile objects, that now, or
              in the future, may exceed a limiting height set forth in Section 9-18A-6:
              AIRPORT HEIGHT ZONE LIMITATIONS of this Chapter.
              Rectangular in shape and centered about the extended runway centerline.
OUTER         The width of the Outer Critical Zone is one thousand feet (1,000') and
CRITICAL      extends a horizontal distance of up to five thousand feet (5,000'), but no
ZONE:         less than three thousand feet (3,000'), from each end of the Inner
              Critical Zone.
              An individual, corporation, joint venture, limited partnership,
PERSON:       partnership, firm, syndicate, association, trustee, or other similar
              entity or organization.
              A runway having an existing instrument approach procedure utilizing an
PRECISION     Instrument Landing System (ILS), a Precision Approach Radar (PAR) or a
INSTRUMENT    Global Positioning System (GPS). It also means a runway for which a
RUNWAY:       precision approach system is planned and is so indicated on an approved
              Airport Layout Plan.
              A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the runway has a
              specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends 200 feet
              beyond each end of that runway; for military runways or when the runway
PRIMARY       has no specially prepared hard surface, or planned hard surface, the
SURFACE:      primary surface ends at each end of that runway. The width of the primary
              surface is set forth in Section 9-18A-5: AIRPORT HEIGHT RESTRICTION ZONE
              DESIGNATIONS (HEIGHT ZONES) of this Chapter. The elevation of any point on
              the primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest point on
              the runway centerline.
              An area off the runway end used to enhance the protection of people and
              property on the ground. The RPZ is trapezoidal in shape and centered about
RUNWAY        the extended runway centerline. The inner width of the RPZ is the same as
PROTECTION    the width of the primary surface. The outer width of the RPZ is a function
ZONE (RPZ):   of the type of aircraft and specified approach visibility minimum
              associated with the runway end. The applicable RPZ dimensions are depicted
              on the Friedman Memorial Airport Layout Plan.
RUNWAY:       A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of aircraft
              along its length.
              Anything constructed or erected and which is attached, directly or
              indirectly, to a fixed location on the ground. Structures include, but are
              not limited to, buildings, modular homes, mobile homes, walls, fences,
STRUCTURE:    signs and billboards. For purposes of this Chapter, the term "structure"
              shall be expanded to include, in addition to the foregoing, overhead
              electrical transmission lines or power poles, and their appurtenances,
              towers, cranes and smokestacks.
              These surfaces extend outward at ninety-degree (90°) angles to the runway
              centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope of seven (7) feet
              horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the primary and
              approach surfaces as defined in FAR Part 77 to a point where they
TRANSITIONAL  intersect the horizontal and conical surfaces. Transitional surfaces for
SURFACES:     those portions of the precision approach surfaces, which project through
              and beyond the limits of the conical surface, extend a distance of five
              thousand feet (5,000') measured horizontally from the edge of the approach
              surface and at ninety-degree (90°) angles to the extended runway
              centerline.
UTILITY       A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by propeller
RUNWAY :      driven aircraft of twelve thousand five hundred (12,500) pounds maximum
              gross weight and less.
VISUAL        A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using visual
RUNWAY:       approach procedures. (Ord. 2023-05, - -2023)
 
9-18A-5: AIRPORT HEIGHT RESTRICTION ZONE DESIGNATIONS (HEIGHT ZONES):
   A.   In order to carry out the provisions of this Chapter, there are hereby
created and established certain zones which include all of the land lying
beneath the approach and departure surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal
surfaces, and conical surfaces as they apply to the Airport. Such zones are
shown on the Airspace and Departure Surface Drawings. The Airspace and
Departure Surface Drawings reflecting the boundaries of the airport Height
Zones is adopted by reference and declared a part of this chapter, identified
as Exhibit A. The Airspace and Departure Surface Drawing is on file at the Land
Use and Building Services Office located at 219 First Avenue South, Suite 208,
Hailey, Idaho. Subsequent changes to the Airspace Drawing shall be made by
amendment to this chapter pursuant to Chapter 26, Reclassification of a Zoning
District (Rezone) and Chapter 31, Amendments, of this Title.
   B.   Each portion of an area located in more than one (1) of the following
zones shall be evaluated independently according to the zone in which it is
located. The various zones are hereby established and defined below.
      1.   Non-precision Instrument Runway Approach Zone (Larger Than Utility
Runway). Runway 31. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the
width of the primary surface and is five hundred feet (500') wide. The approach
zone expands outward uniformly to a width of three thousand five hundred feet
(3,500') at a horizontal distance ten thousand feet (10,000') from the primary
surface. Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      2.   Visual Runway Approach Zone (Larger Than Utility Runway). Runway 13.
The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary
surface and is five hundred feet (500') wide. The approach surface expands
uniformly to a width of one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') at a horizontal
distance five thousand feet (5,000') from the primary surface. Its centerline
is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      3.   Instrument Departure Surface. A trapezoidal shape that begins at the
end of the runway and extends along the extended runway centerline and starts
at the elevation of the end of the runway. The inner edge of the instrument
departure surface is one thousand feet (1,000') wide. The instrument departure
surface expands uniformly to a width of six thousand three hundred feet
(6,300') at a horizontal distance of ten thousand feet (10,000') from the
runway end.
      4.   Transitional Zone. The transitional zones are the areas beneath the
transitional surfaces.
      5.   Horizontal Zone. The horizontal zone is established by swinging arcs
of five thousand feet (5,000') or ten thousand feet (10,000') radii from the
center of each end of the primary surface of the primary runway and connecting
the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to those arcs. The horizontal zone
does not include the approach and transitional zones. The horizontal zone was
constructed with ten thousand feet (10,000') radii.
      6.   Conical Zone. The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward there
from a horizontal distance of four thousand feet (4,000'). (Ord. 2023-05, - -
2023)
9-18A-6: AIRPORT HEIGHT ZONE LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Pursuant to this section and except as otherwise provided in this
Chapter, no structure shall be erected, altered, or maintained, and no tree
shall be allowed to grow in any Height Zone created by this Chapter to a height
in excess of the applicable height limit established for such zone, as follows:
      1.   Non-precision instrument runway approach zone (larger than utility
runway). Runway 31. Slopes thirty-four feet (34') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and
extending to a horizontal distance of ten thousand feet (10,000') along the
extended runway centerline.
      2.   Instrument departure surface. Runway 13. Slopes forty feet (40')
outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and the same elevation as
the runway extending to a horizontal distance of ten thousand feet (10,000')
from the extended runway centerline.
      3.   Visual runway approach zone. Runway 13. Slopes twenty feet (20')
outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation
as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of five thousand
feet (5,000') along the extended runway centerline.
      4.   Transitional zone. Slopes seven feet (7') outward for each foot
upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary
surface and the approach surface, and extending to a height of one hundred and
fifty feet
      (150') above the airport elevation. In addition to the foregoing, there
are established height limits sloping seven feet (7') outward for each foot
upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach
surface, and extending to where they intersect the conical surface. Where the
precision instrument runway approach zone projects beyond the conical zone,
there are established height limits sloping seven feet (7') outward for each
foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach
surface, and extending a horizontal distance of five thousand feet (5,000')
measured at ninety- degree (90°) angles to the extended runway centerline.
      5.   Horizontal zone. Established at one hundred and fifty feet (150')
above the airport elevation.
      6.   Conical Zone. Slopes twenty feet (20') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at one hundred and fifty
feet (150') above the airport elevation and extending to a height of three
hundred and fifty feet (350') above the airport elevation.
   B.   Excepted Height Limitations: In the area lying within the limits of the
Horizontal and Conical Zones, nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as
prohibiting the construction, maintenance, or growth of anything to a height
that is less than fifty feet (50') above the surface of the land, except when,
because of terrain, land contour or topographic features, such structure or
growth would extend above the height limits prescribed herein. (Ord. 2023-05, -
-2023)
9-18A-7: AIRPORT COMPATIBLE LAND USE OVERLAY ZONES (LAND USE ZONES):
The controlled area of the airport is divided into Airport Compatible Land Use
Overlay Zones (Land Use Zones). The purpose of such zones shall be to regulate
the development of noise sensitive land uses; promote compatibility between the
Airport and the surrounding land uses; protect the Airport from incompatible
development; and promote the health, safety and general welfare of property
users. The Airport Land Use Zones established herein shall be known as:
   A.   Runway Protection Zone (RPZ).
   B.   Lateral Safety Zone (LSZ).
   C.   Inner Critical Zone (ICZ).
   D.   Buffer Zone.
   E.   Outer Critical Zone (OCZ).
   F.   Airport Influence Area (AIA). (Ord. 2023-05, - -2023)
9-18A-8: AIRPORT COMPATIBLE LAND USE OVERLAY ZONE BOUNDARIES:
   A.   When a question arises as to how or where a parcel of property is zoned
and such questions cannot be resolved by the application of Section
9-18A-7, AIRPORT COMPATIBLE LAND USE OVERLAY ZONES (LAND USE ZONES) the
property shall be considered to be classified as the most restrictive Airport
Land Use Zone.
   B.   Where a parcel of land lies within more than one (1) Airport Land Use
Zone, the zone within which each portion of the property is located shall apply
individually to each portion of the development. (Ord. 2023-05, - -2023)
9-18A-9: AIRPORT LAND USE ZONE MAP:
   A.   The boundaries of the Airport Land Use Zones set out herein shall be
delineated upon the Airport Land Use Zone Maps, with said maps being adopted by
reference and made a part of this Chapter as fully as if the same were set
forth herein in detail, identified as Exhibit B.
   B.   The Friedman Memorial Airport Land Use Zone Maps are on file at the
Land Use and Building Services Office located at 219 First Avenue South, Suite
208, Hailey, Idaho. Subsequent changes to the Land Use Zone Maps shall be made
by amendment to this chapter pursuant to Chapter 26, Reclassification of a
Zoning District (Rezone) and Chapter 31, Amendments, of this Title. (Ord. 2023-
05, - -2023)
9-18A-10: USE OF LAND AND BUILDINGS:
   A.   Within the Airport Land Use Zones as defined herein, no land shall
hereafter be used and no structure or other object shall hereafter be erected,
altered, converted, or modified other than (1) those land uses authorized by
the underlying zoning districts, as specified in this Title, which are
identified as permitted or permitted with airport conditions in the Friedman
Memorial Airport Vicinity Overlay District Land Use Table, Section
9-18A-14 of this chapter; or (2) those land uses located on property owned or
leased by Friedman Memorial Airport Authority which are or may become necessary
to conform with Federal Aviation Administration requirements or Idaho Division
of Aeronautics requirements to operate the airport. Additional land uses are
prohibited in the Airport Land Use Zones, regardless of underlying zoning, as
set forth in the Friedman Memorial Airport Vicinity Overlay District Land Use
Table.
   B.   Where any prohibited use of land and buildings set forth in the
Friedman Memorial Airport Vicinity Overlay District Land Use Table conflicts
with any use of land and buildings set forth in the Blaine County Zoning
Ordinance and/or Zoning Map, this chapter shall apply. (Ord. 2023-05, - -2023)
9-18A-11: ADDITIONAL LAND USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   On property within the Airport Land Use Zone Map jurisdiction, but
outside the jurisdictional limits of Blaine County, Idaho, this Chapter shall
be used to formulate land use recommendations or responses to land use comment
requests from other jurisdictions.
   B.   In the event of conflict between this section and any aviation hazard
restriction, the most restrictive provision shall apply.
   C.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Chapter or sections of the
Blaine County Zoning Ordinance, no use may be made of land, water, or
structures within any zone established by this Chapter in such a manner as to
create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio communication
between the Airport and aircraft; make it difficult for pilots to distinguish
between airport lights and others, or result in glare in the eyes of pilots
using the Airport; impair visibility in the vicinity of the Airport; create
bird strike hazards; or otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with the
landing, taking off, or flight operations of aircraft utilizing the Airport.
(Ord. 2023-05, - -2023)
9-18A-12: DISCLOSURE STATEMENT:
   A.   Fair Disclosure Statement shall be provided to any applicant for a
permit within the Airport Influence Area, and shall be required to be provided
to any prospective buyers of any structure or property within in such zones
prior to closing. Further, the Fair Disclosure Statement shall serve to notify
permit applicants and prospective buyers of property near the airport that the
indicated property is subject to the provisions of this Chapter and lies within
the Airport Influence Area and under the Airport's FAR Part 77 Airspace.
Although there are no known intrusions into the Airspace in existence resulting
in safety or operational impacts at the time of the adoption of this article,
it may be necessary to clear and keep clear the Airspace of any portions of
buildings, structures, or improvements of any and all kinds, and of trees,
vegetation, or other objects. This includes reserving the right of the County
to remove or demolish those portions of such buildings, structures,
improvements, trees or any other objects which extend into the Airspace; cut to
the ground level and remove any trees which extend into the Airspace; the right
to mark and light, or cause or require to be marked or lighted, as obstructions
to air navigation, any and all buildings, structures, or other improvements,
and trees or other objects now upon, or that in the future may be upon, said
Parcel, and which extend into the Airspace. The Fair Disclosure Statement shall
also notify applicant for permit or prospective buyers that they may be exposed
to potentially impactful levels of aircraft overflight, including but not
limited to noise, vibration, fumes, dust, fuel or fuel particles, and other
effects that may be caused by normal aircraft operations in around an airport.
   B.   Before a permit is issued or the closing of a sale, the applicant or
prospective buyer shall sign the Fair Disclosure Statement and the Fair
Disclosure Statement will be recorded in the deed records of the County. Upon
the applicant's or prospective buyer's refusal, County shall acknowledge that
the applicant or prospective buyer was made aware of the above-described
impacts. Such statement shall be recorded in the deed records of the County.
   C.   Nothing stated herein is meant to provide pilots, crews, owners of
aircraft, or any other person protection from liability for negligence
committed on their part. (Ord. 2023-05, - -2023)
9-18A-13: FRIEDMAN MEMORIAL AIRPORT VICINITY OVERLAY DISTRICT LAND USE TABLE
NOTES/CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
   A.   Notes:
      1.   All facilities and structures, whether permanent or temporary, must
be configured to comply with federal regulation 14 CFR Part 77 requirements
including the submittal of Form FAA 7460-1 as applicable.
      2.   The Impact Coordination Zone includes all Areas of City Impact
within the Airport Compatible Land Use Overlay Zones.
   B.   Airport Conditions:
      1.   If allowed, avigation easements and disclosure must be required as a
condition of development.
      2.   Limit residential density to 1 unit per 1 acre, or less pursuant to
underlying zoning district.
      3.   Avoid high intensity commercial uses such as large box retail stores
(i.e. Wal-Mart, Home Depot) or strip malls. Use should be located as far from
extended centerline as possible.
      4.   If no reasonable alternative exists, noise sensitivity of the use
should be considered including construction methods and materials that mitigate
noise impacts where applicable.
      5.   If no reasonable alternative exists, use should be located as far
from extended centerline as possible.
      6.   Such uses may present a bird and wildlife attractant. If allowed,
consideration of the proximity of the airport and potential negative impacts
should be considered. Refer to FAA Advisory Circulars (AC) 150/5200-33 and 150/
5200-34, as amended, for guidance.
      7.   Development must be in strict conformance with the underlying
zoning. No waivers and/or height variances shall be permitted. No Planned Unit
Development (PUD) density bonuses are allowed in these zones. (Ord. 2023-05, -
-2023)
9-18A-14: FRIEDMAN MEMORIAL AIRPORT VICINITY OVERLAY DISTRICT LAND USE TABLE:
Land Use Compatibility Criteria:
X - Not Allowed, P - Permitted, PWAC - Permitted with Airport Conditions
(See previous page for notes and conditions)
         LAND USE ZONE
         A           B           C        D           E             F
LAND USE Runway      Lateral     Inner                Outer         Airport
         Protectio n Safety Zone Critical Buffer Zone Critical Zone Influenc e
         Zone                    Zone                               Area
Land Use Compatibility Criteria:
X - Not Allowed, P - Permitted, PWAC - Permitted with Airport Conditions
(See previous page for notes and conditions)
              LAND USE ZONE
              A         B          C          D           E          F
LAND USE      Runway    Lateral    Inner                  Outer      Airport
              Protectio Safety     Critical   Buffer Zone Critical   Influenc e
              n Zone    Zone       Zone                   Zone       Area
Residential
                                              PWAC        PWAC       PWAC
Single-family X         X          X          (1,2,4,5,7  (1,2,4,5,  (1,4,5)
                                              )           7)
Nursing
homes, multi-
family,                                                   PWAC       PWAC
apartments,   X         X          X          X           (1,4,5,7)  (1,4,5)
condominiums,
mobile home
parks
Transient
lodging (i.e. X         X          X          X           PWAC       PWAC
hotels and                                                (1,4,5,7)  (1,4,5)
motels)
Public / Semi-Public Uses
Schools,
libraries,
churches, day
care                                                      PWAC       PWAC
facilities,   X         X          X          X           (1,4,5,7)  (1,4,5)
gyms, senior
centers,
activity
centers
Parking and   X         P          P          P           P          P
cemeteries
Commercial/Industrial
Offices,
retail stores
and trades,
light and
heavy
industrial,
commercial,                        PWAC       PWAC        PWAC       PWAC
utilities     X         PWAC (1)   (1,3,7)    (1,5,7)     (1,5,7)    (1)
(including
wireless
communication
facilities),
gravel pit,
self-storage
units
Airport
revenue-      X         PWAC (1)   PWAC       PWAC        PWAC       PWAC
producing                          (1,3,7)    (1,5,7)     (1,5,7)    (1)
enterprises
Agricultural and Recreational
Cropland      P         P          P          P           P          P
Livestock
breeding,
zoos, golf
courses,      X         PWAC (5,6) PWAC       PWAC        PWAC       P
riding                             (5,6,7)    (5,6,7)     (5,6,7)
stables,
water
recreation
Outdoor
spectator
sports,       X         PWAC       PWAC       PWAC        PWAC       PWAC (1,5)
parks,                  (1,4,5)    (1,4,5,7 ) (1,4,5,7)   (1,4,5,7)
playgrounds,
campgrounds
Amphitheaters X         PWAC       X          PWAC        PWAC       PWAC (1,5)
                        (1,4,5)               (1,4,5,7)   (1,4,5,7)
Open space    P         P          P          P           P          P
Bird and Wildlife Attractants
Sanitary      X         X          X          X           X          PWAC
Landfills                                                            (6)
Water
treatment     X         X          X          X           X          PWAC
plants, water                                                        (6)
impoundments
Wetlands
mitigation,
river
restoration,
stream        X         X          PWAC (6,7) PWAC (6,7)  PWAC (6,7) PWAC (6)
alteration,
flood
mitigation
activities
 
(Ord. 2023-05, - -2023)
ARTICLE B. NON-FRIEDMAN AIRPORT VICINITY OVERLAY DISTRICT (AV)
SECTION:
9-18B-1: Purpose
9-18B-2: Definitions
9-18B-3: Developable Density
9-18B-4: Permitted Uses
9-18B-5: Accessory Uses
9-18B-6: Additional Restrictions
9-18B-1: PURPOSE:
This District is established to prevent encroachment on air space, to prevent
interference from the light and electromagnetic sources on runway approaches
and to prevent intensive human use of runway approaches at all airports in the
jurisdiction of Blaine County with the exception of the Friedman Memorial
Airport. (Ord. 2023-05, - -2023)
9-18B-2: DEFINITIONS:
The Airport Vicinity Overlay District for airports other than Friedman Memorial
Airport (such as Friedman Field, Gimlet Airport and the Picabo Airport) shall
be geometrically defined as:
   A.   A rectangle (the runway proper) whose width is five hundred feet (500')
and whose length (L) is the maximum planned or foreseeable length of the
runway. Unpaved, non-commercial airports may allow for a lesser width, with a
minimum of two hundred fifty feet (250').
   B.   A primary safety zone, or that portion of the approach area to the
runway measuring in length 2/3L, and a width flaring on both sides from five
hundred feet (500') (immediately adjacent to the runway proper), at a rate of
one lateral foot for every ten feet (10') in length.
   C.   A secondary safety zone on both extremities of the primary safety zone,
measuring in length 1/3L, and flaring in width in the same manner. Where
topographic features near an airport indicate, the alignment of these
components may be altered slightly in accordance with topography. Where
approaches and takeoffs are restricted to the same direction, the primary and
secondary zones shall be defined accordingly, in the same direction alone.
(Ord. 2023-05, - -2023)
9-18B-3: DEVELOPABLE DENSITY:
   A,   Primary Safety Zone: Within the primary safety zone, the base density
and maximum PUD bonus shall be the same as that assigned to the underlying
district. However, no residential building permits will be issued within this
zone; all density accumulated by ownership of these lands must be transferred
to land outside this zone to contiguous property.
   B.    Secondary Safety Zone: Within the secondary safety zone, the base
density and maximum PUD bonus shall be the same as that assigned to the
underlying district. (Ord. 2023-05, - -2023)
9-18B-4: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   For The Runway Proper: Only those uses necessary for the operation of
the airport.
   B.    Within The Primary Safety Zone: Agricultural purposes, recreational
uses without structures, parks, golf courses, cemeteries or water impoundments.
   C.   Within The Secondary Zone: Agricultural purposes, recreational uses and
residential uses. (Ord. 2023-05, - -2023)
9-18B-5: ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   In The Runway Proper: None.
   B.   In The Primary Safety Zone: Additional buildings or uses on the same
premises which are clearly and customarily incidental to the principal
permitted use.
   C.   In The Secondary Safety Zone: Additional buildings or uses on the same
premises which are clearly and customarily incidental to the principal
permitted use. (Ord. 2023-05, - -2023)
9-18B-6: ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS:
In any portion of the Airport Vicinity Overlay District that following
additional restrictions apply:
   A.   Prohibited Lighting:
      1.   Any moving, pulsating, flashing, rotating or oscillating light.
      2.   Flood lights, spot lights or other lighting device shall be so
arranged or shielded as not to cause illumination in an upward direction.
      3.   Any light which constitutes "misleading light" within the meaning of
regulations adopted by the Federal Aviation Administration.
   B.   Glare: No glare-producing building materials shall be allowed on any
structure.
   C.   Electromagnetic Influences: No use may be made of land which results in
electromagnetic radiation which interferes with radio communication between
aircraft and airport or interferes with established radio navigation aids.
(Ord. 2023-05, - -2023)
CHAPTER 19
WETLANDS OVERLAY DISTRICT (WE) 1
SECTION:
9-19-1: Purpose
9-19-2: Definitions
9-19-3: Developable Density
9-19-4: Permitted Uses
9-19-5: Conditional Uses
9-19-6: Development Standards
 
Notes
1 1. Prior ordinance history: Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977; Ord. 91-9,
  7-22-1991.
9-19-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this district is to identify and protect those lands in the
County characterized by marshes, sloughs, poorly drained soils, a high water
table or which are covered by natural nonfloodwaters during a significant
portion of the year. These lands should be protected from harmful land uses
because of their value for fish and waterfowl habitat, for grazing and for
stabilizing fluctuations in water levels. (Ord. 2006-18, 11-2-2006)
9-19-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definition applies to the Wetlands Overlay District:
 
                                  Non-jurisdictional such as isolated wetlands
                                  and ephemeral streams not adjacent to waters
                                  of the United States. Wetlands, for the
                                  purpose of this classification, means an area
GEOGRAPHICALLY ISOLATED WETLANDS: where three (3) of the following attributes,
                                  as defined in the "The Federal Manual for
                                  Identifying and Delineating Jurisdictional
                                  Wetlands" exist: a) hydrophytic vegetation,
                                  b) hydric soils, and c) wetland hydrology.
                                  Those areas of Blaine County that are
                                  inundated or saturated by ground or surface
                                  water at a frequency and duration sufficient
                                  to support, and that under normal
                                  circumstances do support, a prevalence of
                                  vegetation typically adapted for life in
                                  saturated soil conditions and which may
                                  support both aquatic and terrestrial species.
                                  Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes,
                                  bogs and similar areas (Army Corps of
                                  Engineers regulation, 33 CFR, 328.3, 1988)
WETLANDS:                         and tend to be found in transitional areas
                                  between dry land and water where the water
                                  table is usually at or near the surface or
                                  the land is covered by shallow water.
                                  Wetlands, for the purpose of this
                                  classification, means an area where three (3)
                                  of the following attributes, as defined in
                                  the current and future amended editions of
                                  "The Federal Manual for Identifying and
                                  Delineating Jurisdictional Wetlands" exist:
                                  a) hydrophytic vegetation, b) hydric soils,
                                  and c) wetland hydrology. (Ord. 2006-18, 11-
                                  2-2006; amd. Ord. 2021-14, 9-21-2021)
 
9-19-3: DEVELOPABLE DENSITY:
The base density and maximum PUD bonus shall be the same as that assigned to
the underlying district. (Ord. 2006-18, 11-2-2006)
9-19-4: PERMITTED USES:
The purpose of this section is to permit the type of activities that can
enhance wetlands function and not allow uses that may impede wetlands function.
The following uses shall be permitted:
   A.   The planting of native riparian vegetation with hand equipment (see
definition of "hand equipment" in section
9-17-5 of this title).
   B.   Agricultural purposes on lands used primarily for agriculture.
   C.   Maintenance of yardscape existing at the time of passage hereof.
   D.   Activities operating in accordance with a County approved permit. (Ord.
2006-18, 11-2-2006)
9-19-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   Disturbance to wetlands and Geographically Isolated Wetlands or within
the wetlands or Geographically Isolated Wetlands setback, including driveway
crossing or installation of utilities leading to a building site, which are not
reasonably feasible elsewhere on the property, shall comply with the
requirements of this chapter and all other County, State and Federal
requirements. The amount of land disturbance shall be minimized to the smallest
area possible. (Ord. 2006-18, 11-2-2006; amd. Ord. 2021-14, 9-21-2021)
9-19-6: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following standards shall apply within the wetlands overlay district:
   A.   No Disturbance In Wetlands and Geographically Isolated Wetlands Or
Wetlands and Geographically Isolated Wetlands Setbacks: Except as provided in
sections
9-19-4 and
9-19-5 of this chapter, no disturbance of land shall be allowed within the
wetlands or wetlands setbacks described in subsection B of this section,
including, but not limited to, dumping, filling, dredging, new construction,
excavating, substantial improvements or modifications, installation of septic
systems, scraping by motorized equipment, removal of vegetation or root
systems, or transferring materials that will reduce the natural storage
capacity of the land or interfere with the natural flow pattern of any
watercourse or degrade the quality of surface or ground water.
   B.   Wetlands and Geographically Isolated Wetlands Setback: Any development
excepting, development within a designated building envelope, within this
district shall be subject to a minimum setback of twenty five feet (25'), as
measured from the edge of any delineated wetland, outside of a riparian
setback, and consisting of an area larger than twenty five (25) square feet.
Platted or recognized lots of record under two (2) acres shall be subject to a
ten foot (10') minimum setback, as measured from the edge of any delineated
wetland, outside of a riparian setback.
   C.   In A-20 And A-40 Districts: Applicant shall comply with standards for
wetlands set forth in subsection
9-5-7E of this title.
   D.   More Restrictive Setbacks: More restrictive setbacks may be imposed
through the subdivision review and conditional use process if site conditions
or protection of natural resources so warrant.
   E.   Variance: When application of this chapter would deny reasonable use of
property, an applicant may seek an exception from the standards and
requirements of this chapter by means of a variance as provided in chapter 30
of this title. (Ord. 2006-18, 11-2-2006; amd. Ord. 2021-14, 9-21-2021)
CHAPTER 20
WILDLIFE OVERLAY DISTRICT (W)
SECTION:
9-20-1: Purpose
9-20-2: Establishment Of District
9-20-3: Applicability
9-20-4: Definitions
9-20-5: Review Procedure
9-20-6: Conservation Plan
9-20-7: Design Standards
9-20-1: PURPOSE:
The Blaine County board of county commissioners finds that the county contains
wildlife habitat and species of local, statewide, and national significance as
documented by Idaho department of fish and game (IDF&G), the federal bureau of
land management, United States fish and wildlife service and the United States
forest service. It is the purpose of these regulations to preserve and enhance
the diversity of wildlife habitat and species throughout the county for the
economic, recreational, and environmental benefit of county residents and
visitors. (Ord. 2006-19, 11-14-2006)
9-20-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICT:
The wildlife overlay district (W) is hereby established and shall cover all
lands within Blaine County. (Ord. 2008-17, 11-25-2008)
9-20-3: APPLICABILITY:
Any subdivision of land within Blaine County. (Ord. 2006-19, 11-14-2006)
9-20-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms used in this chapter shall be defined as follows:
CLASSIFIED LANDS: Lands within Blaine County, as follows:
Class I Lands: Lands within Blaine County that include elk winter habitat or
mule deer winter habitat as defined within references used by IDF&G and other
professional sources.
Class II Lands: Lands within Blaine County that include elk migration corridors
or mule deer migration corridors as defined within references used by IDF&G and
other professional sources.
Class III Lands: Lands within Blaine County that include current endangered,
threatened, and candidate species pursuant to the endangered species act of
1973, species of greatest conservation need as listed within IDF&G's 2005 Idaho
comprehensive wildlife conservation strategy, or defined within references used
by IDF&G and other professional sources.
CONSERVATION PLAN (MITIGATION PLAN): A plan that discusses wildlife habitat
management and protection, mitigation, and habitat enhancement planned to
become part of the development.
ELK MIGRATION CORRIDORS: The migration routes used by elk to migrate from
summer habitat to winter habitat. Elk migration corridors in Blaine County are
designated by IDF&G.
ELK WINTER HABITAT: Generally consists of low to mid elevation, southern
exposed xeric and mesic sagebrush grasslands and mixed shrub grasslands that
are used during winter months by elk. Winter habitat is essential to the
survival of these animals during winter. Elk winter habitat in Blaine County is
designated by IDF&G.
ENDANGERED, THREATENED AND CANDIDATE SPECIES: Protected under the endangered
species act of 1973, and administered by the U.S. fish and wildlife service.
HABITAT ASSESSMENT: A study that determines the types and values of vegetation
and habitat, including sensitive lands. It shall include, but not be limited
to, a description and maps of ownership, location, type, size, condition,
habitat potential, and other attributes of wildlife habitat on site. A habitat
assessment shall be prepared at the applicant's expense under the direction of
a qualified person who has demonstrated appropriate expertise in the fields of
resource biology, fish and wildlife management, and similar disciplines. It may
be subject to peer review at the applicant's expense. Habitat assessments for
subdivisions creating ten (10) or more lots shall be subject to peer review at
the applicant's expense.
MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE: Under the circumstances, that reasonable efforts
have been undertaken to comply with the regulation or requirement, that the
costs of compliance clearly outweigh the potential benefits to the public or
would unreasonably burden the proposed project and that reasonable steps have
been undertaken to minimize any potential harm or adverse impacts resulting
from noncompliance.
MULE DEER MIGRATION CORRIDORS: The routes used by mule deer to migrate from
summer habitat to winter habitat. Mule deer migration occurs over a few days or
may span several weeks, depending upon the weather and other factors. Mule deer
migration corridors in Blaine County are designated by IDF&G.
MULE DEER WINTER HABITAT: Generally consists of low elevation, southern exposed
xeric and mesic sagebrush grasslands and mixed shrub grasslands that are used
during winter months by mule deer. Winter habitat is essential to the survival
of these animals during winter. Mule deer winter habitat in Blaine County is
designated by IDF&G.
SENSITIVE LANDS: Lands professionally determined to be integral to the
functioning of the ecosystem, including wetlands, riparian areas and wildlife
habitat.
SPECIES OF GREATEST CONSERVATION NEED: Those species listed as within the
IDF&G's 2005 Idaho comprehensive wildlife conservation strategy, or as
subsequently updated.
WILDLIFE HABITAT: An area with a combination of resources (food, water, cover,
and space) and environmental conditions (temperature, precipitation, and
presence or absence of predators and competitors) that promotes occupancy by
individuals of a given species (or population) and allows those individuals to
survive and reproduce. Components of wildlife habitat include, but are not
limited to, principal feeding or foraging areas, winter range, summer range,
transition areas, production and breeding areas, movement corridors, and areas
providing essential minerals and water.
WILDLIFE SURVEY: Current and historical observation and documentation of the
animals using the property. It shall include, but not be limited to, a
description and map of the populations of wildlife species that inhabit or use
the site, including a qualitative description of their spatial distribution and
abundance. A wildlife survey shall be prepared at the applicant's expense under
the direction of a qualified person who has demonstrated appropriate expertise
in the fields of resource biology, fish and wildlife management, or similar
disciplines. It may be subject to peer review at the applicant's expense.
Habitat assessments for subdivisions creating ten (10) or more lots shall be
subject to peer review at the applicant's expense. (Ord. 2008-17, 11-25-2008;
Ord. 2006-19, 11-14-2006)
9-20-5: REVIEW PROCEDURE:
The following procedures shall apply to all applications for subdivision in
Blaine County:
   A.   Preliminary Review:
      1.   Prior to the planning or designing of any subdivision, the applicant
shall contact IDF&G and any other applicable agency or professional as
determined by the administrator to identify any classified lands on the subject
property. IDF&G shall forward all preliminary reviews to the planning and
zoning administrator who will determine if classified lands are on the subject
property. If classified lands are determined to exist on the subject property,
the applicant shall be referred to section
9-20-6 of this chapter.
      2.   If the preliminary review by the administrator determines that the
proposed subdivision will have no significant impact on wildlife or wildlife
habitat, no further action is required of the applicant pursuant to this
chapter.
      3.   An applicant may appeal the administrator's classified lands
determination to the board pursuant to section
9-32-3 of this title. (Ord. 2008-17, 11-25-2008; Ord. 2006-19, 11-14-2006)
9-20-6: CONSERVATION PLAN:
The following procedures shall apply to all subdivisions in the wildlife
overlay district determined by the administrator in section
9-20-5 of this chapter to have classified lands:
   A.   Plan Preparation: A conservation plan required by this section shall be
prepared by a qualified person at the applicant's expense and shall be
submitted by the applicant.
A conservation plan shall be prepared at the applicant's expense, under the
direction of a qualified person who has demonstrated appropriate expertise in
the fields of resource biology, fish and wildlife management, and similar
disciplines. It may be subject to peer review at the applicant's expense.
Habitat assessments for subdivisions creating ten (10) or more lots shall be
subject to peer review at the applicant's expense.
   B.   Plan Content: The conservation plan required by this section shall
include, but not be limited to, the following information:
      1.   Wildlife survey and habitat assessment, as described in section
9-20-4 of this chapter.
      2.   Conservation plan:
         a.   An analysis of the potential adverse impacts of the proposed
development on wildlife and wildlife habitat on or off site;
         b.   A list of proposed mitigation measures and an analysis of the
probability of success of such measures;
         c.   A plan for implementation, maintenance and monitoring of
mitigation measures;
         d.   A demonstration of prohibition of wildlife feeding;
         e.   A plan for any relevant enhancement or restoration measures,
including noxious weed eradication and control; and
         f.   A demonstration of fiscal, administrative, and technical
competence of the applicant or other relevant entity to successfully execute
the plan.
   C.   Waiver Of Requirements: The administrator may waive in writing specific
submittal requirements based on the location of the development, the previous
use of the site, the size and potential impact of the development, the absence
of a particular species on the site and other relevant factors.
   D.   Commission Or Board Review: If upon review of the application, the
commission or board determines that a conservation plan is necessary the
commission or board may require a conservation plan be prepared and submitted.
(Ord. 2008-17, 11-25-2008; Ord. 2006-19, 11-14-2006)
9-20-7: DESIGN STANDARDS 1 :
The following standards shall apply to all subdivisions in the wildlife overlay
district and for which a completed conservation plan has been required. The
applicant has the burden of demonstrating compliance with this chapter,
including each of the following design review standards of evaluation. Before
approving or conditionally approving this application, the board shall find
that the proposed development meets the following standards:
   A.   Wildlife And Wildlife Habitat: All development shall be designed so it
does not have a significant adverse impact on wildlife or wildlife habitat or
that such significant adverse impacts have been avoided or mitigated to the
maximum extent practicable. In determining if a new development will or may
have a significant adverse impact on wildlife or wildlife habitats or that such
adverse impacts have been avoided or mitigated to the maximum extent
practicable, the administrator, commission, or board as relevant shall consider
the following criteria:
      1.   Wildlife Species: Impacts on wildlife species, including, but not
limited to, human related activities (including impacts from domestic pets)
that disrupt necessary life cycle functions of wildlife, displace wildlife from
suitable habitat or decrease the capacity of an area to support wildlife.
Assessment of significant impacts will be based on the following:
         a.   Activities in previously undisturbed areas involving any
combination of humans, pets, and machines or equipment that disturb or harass
an individual animal, group of animals or wildlife species;
         b.   Site development or activities that disrupt necessary life cycle
functions, resulting in stress to the extent that physiological damage is done
to an individual animal, group of animals or wildlife species. Examples
include, but are not limited to, introduction of nonnative vegetation;
excessive use of fertilizers and other chemicals; placement of structures in
close proximity to nesting and feeding areas; and excessive exterior lighting;
         c.   Species reliance on specific, unique habitat features, such as
riparian areas, that may be affected;
         d.   Mitigation efforts that directly address the potential adverse
impacts of the proposed land use on wildlife species, including, but not
limited to, controls on domestic animals and household pets; approval of an
outdoor lighting plan as required by chapter 29A of this title; seasonal
restrictions of recreational travel (motorized and nonmotorized) and
activities, clustering of development to avoid intrusion into or fragmentation
of habitat; and creation of buffers around critical areas.
      2.   Wildlife Habitat: Impact on wildlife habitat, including, but not
limited to, the loss, degradation or fragmentation of wildlife habitat to the
extent that the capacity of an area to support wildlife is diminished and the
diversity of wildlife species occurring in the county is reduced. Assessment of
significant impacts will be based on the following:
         a.   The amount of vegetation/habitat removal or alteration within the
development site;
         b.   The amount of habitat of similar type and quality within the
development site that remains contiguous;
         c.   The existing and proposed amount of lot coverage;
         d.   The existence of contiguous habitat of similar type and quality
on adjoining land; and
         e.   Mitigation efforts that directly address the potential adverse
impacts of the proposed land use on wildlife species, including, but not
limited to, clustering of development to avoid intrusion into or fragmentation
of habitat; creation of buffers around critical areas; limits on the amount of
disturbance on a site; restrictions on vegetation removal; and enhancement or
restoration of equivalent habitat on or adjacent to the site.
      3.   Wildlife Movement Patterns: Impact on wildlife movement patterns,
wildlife displacement and habitat use, including, but not limited to,
disruption of necessary migration or movement patterns that prevent wildlife
from using current or traditional habitats; displacement of wildlife species
into areas that cannot support or sustain the species over the long term; or
decrease the capacity of an area to support wildlife. Assessment of significant
impacts will be based on the following:
         a.   Preventing wildlife from using current or traditional habitats,
such as blocking migration corridors from summer to winter range;
         b.   Causing wildlife to find new routes that expose them to
significantly increased predation, interaction with motor vehicles, intense
human activity or more severe topography and climatic conditions;
         c.   The size of the affected habitat and availability of similarly
sized and quality habitat within the surrounding area;
         d.   The human activity and development that would result in the
inability of a single or multiple species to adapt to the new conditions;
         e.   Inability of affected species to adapt to significant alteration
of their current habitats or to find a new habitat that is sufficient to
sustain the species over the long term; and
         f.   Mitigation efforts that directly address the potential adverse
impacts of the proposed land use on wildlife species, including, but not
limited to, clustering or location of development to avoid intrusion into
migration or movement areas; creation of buffers around critical areas; limits
on fencing that might interfere with migration and movement patterns; and
enhancement or restoration of equivalent habitat on or adjacent to the site.
      4.   Uniqueness Of Habitat And Species: Uniqueness of habitat and species
to Blaine County, including, but not limited to, loss, degradation, or
fragmentation of important wildlife habitat that is identified as unique to
Blaine County in that it supports wildlife species that do not commonly occur
outside the county to the extent that the health and viability of a species is
threatened in the county and impacts on wildlife species that do not commonly
occur outside Blaine County to the extent that a species is threatened in the
county. Assessment of significant adverse impacts will be based on the
following:
         a.   The extent that habitat similar to that affected by the proposed
development exists in Blaine County;
         b.   Whether the species does not commonly occur outside Blaine
County, as determined by listing by state or federal agencies as threatened or
endangered or as determined by Blaine County in conjunction with the Idaho
department of fish and game;
         c.   Whether the habitat does not commonly occur outside of Blaine
County as determined by the county in conjunction with the Idaho department of
fish and game;
         d.   The extent of the threat to the viability of the species;
         e.   The extent of the reduction of the diversity of wildlife species
in the county; and
         f.   Mitigation efforts that directly address the potential adverse
impacts of the proposed land use on wildlife species, including, but not
limited to, clustering of development to avoid intrusion into or fragmentation
of habitat; creation of buffers around critical areas; limits on the amount of
disturbance on a site; and enhancement or restoration of equivalent habitat on
the site or elsewhere in the county.
      5.   Cumulative Impacts Assessment: An assessment of cumulative impacts
including the effects of past, present, and reasonably foreseeable future
actions within and beyond the boundaries of the proposed site. Assessment of
significant adverse impacts will be based on the following:
         a.   The area, including land outside the project site, in which
effects of the proposed project will occur and the impacts of the proposed
project that are expected to occur in that area; and
         b.   A cumulative assessment of the incremental impacts on wildlife
populations and habitat of the proposed development in conjunction with the
past, present, and reasonably foreseeable future impacts of other activities
and developments.
      6.   Vegetation Removal And Revegetation:
         a.   Removal of natural vegetation shall be minimized and restricted
to the smallest area necessary to construct permitted uses and associated
structures, septic systems, and driveways within an activity envelope.
         b.   All disturbed areas shall be revegetated with native vegetation
as soon as possible and no later than one growing season after construction of
the primary structure(s) is completed.
         c.   Planting nonnative ornamental plants on sites near or adjacent to
designated big game winter habitat is prohibited and strongly discouraged on
all other sites. In areas immediately surrounding residential dwelling units,
planting of nonpalatable vegetation is strongly encouraged to reduce potential
human/wildlife conflicts. (Ord. 2010-06, 5-25-2010; Ord. 2006-19, 11-14-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 10-5-3R of this code.
CHAPTER 21
MOUNTAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT (M)
SECTION:
9-21-1: Statement Of Intent And Purposes
9-21-2: Establishment
9-21-3: Base Density
9-21-4: Categorical Exclusions And Exemptions
9-21-5: Site Alteration Permit Procedure
9-21-1: STATEMENT OF INTENT AND PURPOSES:
   A.   Intent: It is important that current owners and potential purchasers of
property that includes land within the mountain overlay district recognize the
significance of the public policy and land use interests reflected in this
chapter, and the additional requirements under this code applicable to that
land. Unless a categorical exclusion applies, site alterations within the
mountain overlay district require a site alteration permit, which is a type of
special use permit authorized by Idaho Code section 67-6512.
The intent of the mountain overlay district is to direct development to land
outside of the mountain overlay district. Only when no sufficient available
area for a site alteration exists outside of the mountain overlay district and
all other criteria under this chapter have been met may a site alteration occur
within the district. Site alterations should not include land within the 100-
year floodplain, floodway, designated wetland areas, and avalanche hazard
within "available area", as defined in the criteria. Even then, the site
alteration must be located at the lowest point within the district which will
minimize its disturbance and hillside visibility. The design review standards
of evaluation of this chapter, and any conditions of approval, should be used
to ensure that any site alteration will be limited in its bulk, design, and use
of materials to minimize its site disturbance and visibility from a reference
road. The size of "sufficient available area" shall depend upon the facts and
circumstances of each application for site alteration permit, and is not
necessarily dependent upon the specific plans of an applicant. For example, an
area may exist outside of the mountain overlay district that would be
sufficient in all respects for a one-story, two thousand (2,000) square foot
residential dwelling. The mere fact that the applicant's plans specify a ten
thousand (10,000) square foot residential dwelling that could only be
constructed within the mountain overlay district because of lot configuration
and topography would not necessarily change the fact that a "sufficient
available area" exists outside the mountain overlay district, albeit for a
smaller home than the applicant desires. In other words, an applicant may not
create a so called lack of "sufficient available area" outside of the mountain
overlay district merely by enlarging the scope of the proposed site alteration.
The county is directed by its comprehensive plan and this chapter to protect
its hillsides and closely regulate structural and other development within the
mountain overlay district. "Visibility" is an important concept under this
chapter. In reviewing visibility of a proposed site alteration within the
mountain overlay district, a building one thousand five hundred (1,500) yards
from a reference road but higher on a hillside would, except where
extraordinary circumstances exist, be considered for the purpose of this
chapter to be more visible than a building located only fifty (50) yards from
the reference road. A building farther up a hillside may be visible from more
vantage points on reference roads and therefore more visible under this chapter
than a building directly adjacent to a reference road. This chapter shall not
be construed to support the claim that buildings closer to reference roads are
necessarily more visible than those located farther up a hillside.
The mapping of the mountain overlay district provides landowners with a more
certain basis for determining the location of lands within the district and
affords more certainty than the definitional approach used previously within
this code. Any future proposals to rezone the mapped boundary of the mountain
overlay district should not create a patchwork that excludes saddles, ridges,
knolls, summits, or pockets or islands of flatter land between and including
the applicable lowest slopes within the mapped district and the summit of the
hillside. The district is intended to include all such areas.
This chapter is to be read as a whole, and construed to effectuate its purposes
and the intent of this chapter.
   B.   Purpose: The purposes of the mountain overlay district are:
      1.   To preserve the natural character and aesthetic value of hillsides
and mountains in the county by regulating development thereon;
      2.   To maintain slope and soil stability;
      3.   To prevent scarring of hillsides and mountains made by cuts and
fills and/or by access roads to hillside and mountainous areas;
      4.   To ensure accessibility by emergency vehicles on hillside roads;
      5.   To prevent unsafe conditions for access, circulation, and road
maintenance and unwarranted problems associated therewith in hillside and
mountainous areas;
      6.   To help ensure water quality and prevent deterioration due to
sedimentation or inadequately performing septic systems;
      7.   To prevent unsafe development into areas at risk to wildfires;
      8.   To protect hillside and mountainous areas that function as essential
wildlife habitat;
      9.   To regulate site alteration and structural development in the
mountain overlay district to assure that site alteration and development occurs
in the mountain overlay district only when no sufficient available area for
siting of the proposed site alteration or development exists outside of the
district and all other criteria under this chapter have been met, and to assure
that any site alteration and structural development within the district occurs
in a manner that minimizes hillside visibility;
      10.   To carry out the provisions contained in the county comprehensive
plan; and
      11.   To protect agricultural lands for productive agriculture while
providing for necessary residential and other structural use within the context
of productive agriculture. (Ord. 2010-10, 12-7-2010; Ord. 2007-02, 3-20-2007;
Ord. 2006-04, 6-29-2006; Ord. 2000-04, 3-27-2000; Ord. 98-1, 1-7-1998; Ord. 94-
15, 11-14-1994; Ord. 94-6, 6-16-1994; Ord. 91-15, 11-25-1991; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-
1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-21-2: ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   District Established: The mountain overlay district (MOD) is hereby
established in accordance with the area indicated on the mountain overlay
district layer available on the geographical information services (GIS) mapping
pages on the Blaine County website (www.blainecounty.org), effective May 30,
2012. The mountain overlay district buffer is hereby established as a subarea
of the mountain overlay district in accordance with the area indicated on the
GIS mapping pages on the Blaine County website, effective May 30, 2012. The
scenic corridor 1 (SC1) as defined in chapter 2 of this title is hereby
established as a subarea of the mountain overlay district, as defined in this
title in accordance with the area indicated on the scenic corridor 1 layer, on
the GIS mapping pages on the Blaine County website, effective May 30, 2012, and
visible from Highway 75.
   B.   Site Alteration Permit Required: Site alteration within the mountain
overlay district is prohibited unless a special use permit designated as a site
alteration permit has been issued in accordance with this chapter, or the
administrator has determined in writing pursuant to this title that the site
alteration falls within a categorical exclusion. A site alteration permit or a
written categorical exclusion is required prior to issuance of a building
permit within the mountain overlay district, and applications for any site
alteration permit shall include plans for all proposed buildings, other
structures, and hillside roads.
   C.   Mining: Mining activity on private property in the mountain overlay
district is subject to a conditional use permit and hillside site alteration
permit. (Ord. 2012-04, 4-30-2012; Ord. 2007-02, 3-20-2007; Ord. 98-1, 1-7-1998;
Ord. 94-15, 11-14-1994; Ord. 94-6, 6-16-1994; Ord. 91-15, 11-25-1991; Ord. 77-
5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-21-3: BASE DENSITY:
For slopes that exceed twenty five percent (25%), the base density shall be as
follows:
   A.   Outside of the urban influence boundary: One unit per one hundred sixty
(160) acres.
   B.   Inside the urban influence boundary: One unit per forty (40) acres.
Portions of a site within the mountain overlay district may be included in
determining single lot on site base density development acreage requirements.
For a parcel of land that straddles the mountain overlay district and another
district, individual lots may be drawn that include portions of the mountain
overlay district. However, each lot shall include buildable land outside of the
mountain overlay district. Density shall not be transferable to noncontiguous
lots. (Ord. 2006-04, 6-29-2006; Ord. 94-15, 11-14-1994; Ord. 94-6, 6-16-1994;
Ord. 91-15, 11-25-1991; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-21-4: CATEGORICAL EXCLUSIONS AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Exemptions: Firebreaks and related site alterations made by fire
incident command personnel and used to protect public and private property from
an active wildfire shall not be subject to the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Exclusions: Unless the intent of the landowner or his/her authorized
agent is to circumvent the purposes of the mountain overlay district
regulations, the requirements of this chapter shall not apply to the following,
provided the landowner or agent, before commencing any site alteration, first
obtains a written decision from the administrator, in consultation with the
county engineer or his/her designated representative, that the site alteration
falls within and meets one of the following categorical exclusions:
      1.   On lands outside of scenic corridor 1 (SC1):
         a.   Roads used primarily for agricultural purposes.
         b.   Agricultural fences and equipment and activity directly related
to agricultural purposes.
      2.   On lands outside of scenic corridor 1 (SC1) and until such time as
subdivision or planned unit development are proposed:
         a.   Single-family residences; provided, that:
            (1)   They are not skylined;
            (2)   They are located among agricultural buildings and structures
on lands used primarily for agricultural purposes; and
            (3)   They are inhabited by agricultural property owners or their
employees.
         b.   Agricultural structures which do not require a building permit;
provided, that they are not skylined.
      3.   On lands inside of scenic corridor 1 (SC1): Single-family residences
or structures or uses where all structures and improvements are certified by a
state licensed surveyor to be located outside and below lands greater than
fifteen percent (15%) slope, as measured by the contour line demarcating the
lowest fifteen percent (15%) slope on the parcel.
      4.   On lands inside the mountain overlay district buffer: Single-family
residences or accessory structures or uses where all structures and
improvements are certified by a state licensed surveyor to be located outside
lands greater than twenty five percent (25%) slope. On lands inside the
mountain overlay district buffer and scenic corridor 1, applicants seeking a
categorical exclusion must meet the requirements of both subsection B3 of this
section and this subsection B4.
      5.   Valid permits and platted building envelopes approved prior to the
effective date of ordinance 91-15 on December 18, 1991. This exception includes
all structures built within the platted building envelope.
      6.   Any building, other structure, access road and/or driveway that is
not visible from a reference road. Plans submitted to the county for building
permit and/or road/driveway construction for such development shall include and
demonstrate, in addition to all other requirements, revegetation with native or
native compatible vegetation to prevent erosion; compliance with all applicable
road and driveway standards, including all applicable grade standards;
appropriate measures or design features to prevent soil erosion, silting of
lower slopes, slide damage, flooding, and any other geologic instability; and
approval from the applicable fire district/marshal and the South Central health
district for on site sewage disposal.
      7.   The locations of existing platted unbuilt roads within platted
subdivisions existing prior to the effective date of ordinance 91-15 on
December 18, 1991, will be allowed a driveway/road exception provided the road
shall meet the evaluation standards as set forth in subsections 9-21-5D4, D5,
D7 and D8 of this chapter. This may require a realignment of the platted
unbuilt road.
      8.   Platted lots existing prior to the effective date of ordinance 91-15
on December 18, 1991, may be combined to reduce the number of lots within the
mountain overlay district and such existing lots may be amended for the purpose
of designating a building envelope. Replat applications necessary therefor
shall not be considered new subdivisions however, shall be subject to public
notice and hearing and criteria contained in title 10 of this code as they
relate to drainage, suitability of soils for septic systems, emergency and
road/driveway access and erosion control.
      9.   Chairlifts as part of a bureau of land management or United States
forest service or county approved ski area permit.
      10.   Underground utility structures working in accordance with a county
approved permit.
      11.   Testing necessary to meet the requirements of subsection 9-21-5B of
this chapter.
      12.   Incidental planting and transplanting of vegetation by hand tools.
      13.   Maintenance, repair and improvement of any building, other
structure, or hillside road that was in existence and lawful before December
18, 1991, the effective date of ordinance 91-15, or lawfully constructed
thereafter, which does not increase its visibility from any reference road,
provided the plans for such maintenance, repair and improvement demonstrate
appropriate measures or design features to prevent soil erosion, silting of
lower slopes, slide damage, flooding, and any other geologic instability.
      14.   The construction, installation, siting or operation of a wireless
communication facility when said proposed facility: a) is in the immediate
vicinity of one or more wireless communication facilities existing as of the
effective date of Blaine County ordinance 2001-10 on October 10, 2001; and b)
is no higher than any existing WCF in the immediate vicinity. The fact that a
WCF may qualify for a categorical exclusion from the site alteration permit
requirements of the mountain overlay district, shall not exempt the WCF from
the requirements of section
9-3-16 of this title. Plans submitted to the county for the construction,
siting or installation of a wireless communication facility shall include and
demonstrate, in addition to all other requirements, revegetation with native or
native compatible vegetation to prevent erosion; appropriate measures or design
features to prevent soil erosion, silting of lower slopes, slide damage,
flooding, and any other geologic instability.
   C.   Subdivision Exclusion: Upon application to the board, subdivisions
platted before June 16, 1994, may propose to enter into agreement with the
county to exempt building lots within that subdivision from the site alteration
permit procedures contained herein, provided that any such building site and
proposed structures are not visible from Highway 75. To qualify for this
exclusion, the subdivision shall meet, at a minimum, the following criteria and
conditions:
      1.   The subdivision has an effective design review committee that has
been in existence for at least two (2) years prior to application for
exemption.
      2.   Architectural design review standards of the subdivision are
submitted to the county for review and approval to ensure that the standards of
subsection 9-21-5D of this chapter are included.
      3.   Once approved by the county, the subdivision design review standards
may not be changed by the subdivision without the approval of the county.
      4.   The administrator or commission shall be notified and is allowed to
attend subdivision design review sessions to ensure the goal of minimizing
visual impact is emphasized.
      5.   The county may revoke a subdivision exclusion if it finds that the
subdivision design review committee decisions do not comply with approved
design standards or the intent of this chapter. Should the subdivision fail to
conduct design review according to the agreement with the county, the county
may terminate said agreement and revoke exemption.
   D.   Administrator's Review Of Categorical Exclusions: The administrator, in
consultation with the county engineer or his/her designated representative,
shall review all written requests for determinations of categorical exclusions
under subsection B of this section, and promulgate appropriate forms to be used
for such requests. The applicant shall have the burden of demonstrating that
the proposed site alteration falls within and meets the requirements of a
categorical exclusion. The administrator, prior to issuance of its decision,
may request additional information from the applicant, including, without
limitation, technical review from the county engineer at the applicant's
expense, and the failure to provide such requested information within sixty
(60) days of request shall be grounds for denial of the request for
determination of categorical exclusion. Any person aggrieved by the written
decision of the administrator as to a categorical exclusion may appeal the
administrator's decision to the board according to the procedures and time
requirements of section
9-32-3 of this title.
   E.   Exception To Written Decision Requirement: Notwithstanding any
provision of this title to the contrary, a written decision of the
administrator shall not be required prior to commencing a site alteration that
falls within and meets a categorical exclusion stated in subsection B1b, B2, or
B5 of this section. (Ord. 2024-04, 2-13-2024; Ord. 2023-01, 1-3-2023; Ord.
2015-02, 3-10-2015; Ord. 2010-04, 4-6-2010; Ord. 2007-02, 3-20-2007; Ord. 2006-
04, 6-29-2006; Ord. 2001-10, 10-1-2001; Ord. 98-1, 1-7-1998; Ord. 94-15, 11-14-
1994; Ord. 94-6, 6-16-1994; Ord. 91-15, 11-25-1991; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff.
4-7-1977)
9-21-5: SITE ALTERATION PERMIT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application Form; Contents; Review: Application for a site alteration
permit in the mountain overlay district shall be made on a form furnished by
the administrator. All site alteration permit applications shall include the
plans for all proposed buildings, additions to existing buildings, other
structures, and hillside roads. The commission shall review all such elements
of the development simultaneously but shall evaluate under the provisions of
this chapter only those portions which lie within the mountain overlay
district. Upon receipt of the completed form, together with the information
listed below, and following an on site inspection by the administrator, the
completed application shall be placed on the agenda of the next available
regular meeting of the commission, and shall meet the requirements for
notification contained in section
9-25-4 of this title.
   B.   Application And Submittal Requirements; Fees: An application for a site
alteration permit shall be filed with the administrator by at least one holder
of an interest in the property, or their agent, accompanied by the fee
established by resolution of the board of county commissioners. Fees resulting
from review by the county engineer are the responsibility of the applicant,
according to the fee resolution of the board and shall be paid prior to public
hearing. No application shall be certified as complete unless it includes the
following information in sufficient detail for the commission to determine
compliance with the design review standards of evaluation:
      1.   The name, address and phone number of the owner of the land for
which the permit is requested and of the person, firm or corporation
(contractor) that will physically alter the land, if known.
      2.   The proposed date that the site alteration will commence and the
projected date of completion.
      3.   A description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done,
by lot, block, tract and house and street address, or similar description that
will readily identify and definitively locate the proposed site. A vicinity map
shall be included.
      4.   A report including text, designs, and visual representations
including simulations, which indicates how the design and construction of
improvements shall mitigate visibility, and also including specific
engineering, public safety, revegetation, site review, building and other
information demonstrating compliance with the design review standards of
evaluation. Where applicable, the report shall include a visual resource
contrast rating worksheet and other forms promulgated and required by the
administrator.
      5.   A description of the work to be performed, an estimate of the depth
of soil, the type of equipment to be used, the total area of disturbance, and
the amount and type of material to be removed or deposited, all in sufficient
detail to evaluate impact of such activities.
      6.   A graphic representation of the proposal. This plan shall include
property lines and delineate the proposed areas for improvement or alteration,
existing and proposed contours, drainage and drainage structures, landscaping
and revegetation plans, including a plan for the control of noxious weeds,
location for placement of the drainfield, and retaining walls.
      7.   A statement that the proposed areas of disturbance have been staked
and are ready for administrative review.
      8.   A signature by the property owner or his/her authorized agent that
application is certified as true and accurate.
      9.   Slope and elevation analysis by a licensed engineer or surveyor and
a report from a licensed engineer describing the risks of soil erosion, silting
of lower slopes, slide damage, flooding, severe scarring or any other
geological instability associated with the site alteration, and plans for
mitigation of those risks.
      10.   Evidence that South Central health district has reviewed the site
and determined that the property is found appropriate for on site sewage
disposal.
      11.   Written input from the applicable rural fire district or the county
fire marshal, if the parcel is located outside an established fire district,
addressing adequacy of the proposed access for emergency vehicles and
compliance with fire protection requirements.
      12.   Written input from the county engineer addressing, but not limited
to, compliance with road standards, drainage and erosion mitigation.
      13.   When the proposed use involves a potential contaminant source or
potential contaminant as set forth in appendix A of this title, on file in the
county, and is located within a wellhead protection area, the applicant shall
depict on a map the general location of potable water sources within three
hundred feet (300') of the subject property and identify any ten (10) year time
of travel zones of public water system(s) affecting the property. The applicant
shall provide a report and plans by an Idaho licensed engineer which describes
how the project will be designed and constructed to mitigate adverse impact on
potable water sources. The applicant shall solicit and document the request for
written comment from Idaho department of environmental quality and, in
addition, written comment from any other appropriate agency, including, but not
limited to, owners of public water systems located within the wellhead
protection area, if this is determined by the administrator to be necessary.
   C.   Commission Review And Action: Decisions shall be based on the standards
of evaluation contained herein. Review of the application and receipt of public
input shall be conducted at a scheduled public hearing as set forth
hereinabove. The commission may order the hearing to be continued up to thirty
one (31) days at the same place, in which case no further published notice
shall be required other than that requested by the commission. Continuation
beyond thirty one (31) days shall require further published notice, according
to this section. The commission shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny
said application, making appropriate findings to support its decision. The
commission shall enter an order or adopt its written findings of fact and
decision within thirty one (31) days after the action is taken by the
commission. The granting of a site alteration permit shall not be considered as
establishing a binding precedent to grant other site alteration permits. A site
alteration permit is not transferable from one parcel of land to another.
   D.   Design Review Standards Of Evaluation: The applicant has the burden of
demonstrating compliance with this chapter, including each of the following
design review standards of evaluation. Before approving or conditionally
approving a site alteration permit, the commission shall review and find
adequate evidence that the proposed development or site alteration meets the
following standards:
      1.   No sufficient available area for the site alteration exists on the
lot outside of the mountain overlay district. "Available area" excludes land
located within the 100-year floodplain, floodway, wetlands, avalanche or
landslide hazards created by off site conditions where such environmental
concerns outweigh the hillside concerns for the particular project. Existing
structures that are nonconforming to this chapter may be improved, moved, or
replaced within the mountain overlay district, provided the commission finds
that the proposal is less nonconforming than what is existing and is in
substantial compliance with subsections D2 through D13 of this section.
      2.   Visibility of the site alteration as viewed from reference roads
shall be minimized through design, landscaping and siting. Except where
extraordinary circumstances (or natural circumstances as defined in subsection
D3 of this section) exist that are peculiar to the physical characteristics of
the site, site alterations, particularly buildings, other structures, and
hillside roads, are less visible the lower in elevation they are as determined
by topographic contour lines. New development shall be compatible with the
general scale (height, dimensions, overall mass) of development in the
vicinity. The maximum bulk of structures shall be hidden or minimized by
design, landscaping and siting. Landscaping shall blend harmoniously with the
surrounding area, and shall not create excessive contrast with the surrounding
area.
      3.   Site alterations for property protection and hillside stabilization
and rehabilitation due to natural circumstances may be permitted, if the
applicant can demonstrate and a licensed engineer certifies that the site
alterations are designed to remedy a substantial threat of significant damage
to permanent structures. Natural circumstances are limited to the following
natural hazard circumstances: postfire and postfire debris flows or landslides
and postflood.
      4.   The site alteration, and any grading and excavation relating
thereto, shall include measures or designs to mitigate the risk of soil
erosion, silting of lower slopes, slide damage, flooding, and any other
geologic instability. All excavation, grading and fill shall be revegetated as
provided herein (except for roadway surfaces) and otherwise stabilized to
control erosion.
      5.   The site alteration shall comply, where reasonable, with the
requirements of the avalanche overlay district.
      6.   Any proposed building or other structure shall remain below the
skyline and shall be sited in such a manner so as not to create a silhouette
against the sky as viewed from any reference road.
      7.   Manmade slopes, road alignments, driveways, improvements, grading,
excavation, berming, and fill activities shall conform as closely as possible
to the natural terrain. Alteration and severe scarring of the natural drainage
of the site shall be minimized and mitigated, except where natural
circumstances exist as defined in subsection D3 of this section, in which cases
protective factors of the site alteration shall be considered. Hillside roads
shall also meet all other applicable road or driveway standards under county
ordinances and adopted codes, including, but not limited to, those for grades
and emergency vehicles. Existing roads/driveways to existing nonconforming
structures located within the mountain overlay district may be moved or
improved to reduce the degree of noncompliance with requirements for grades and
emergency vehicles.
      8.   Native or native compatible vegetation shall be preserved to the
greatest extent possible, and revegetation adjacent to residences shall be with
low combustible plant species. Revegetation and rehabilitation of disturbed
areas shall utilize plant materials harmonious and/or native to the area. The
method for control and prevention of noxious weeds shall be demonstrated.
Disturbed areas shall be regraded, landscaped or revegetated in a timely manner
after completion of the site alteration activities. Components of the
revegetation plan shall include the techniques that will be used to ensure the
establishment of the proposed vegetation for a period of not less than five (5)
years.
      9.   Exterior building materials shall be of nonreflective materials. The
visibility of hillside development shall be lessened by limited glazing and
exterior lighting, and by use of materials and colors compatible with the
natural surrounding setting. Roofs shall be designed to minimize the visibility
of the structure. Reflective metal roofs are prohibited; nonreflective metal
roofs may be approved.
      10.   All outdoor lighting shall comply with the outdoor lighting
requirements of chapter 29A of this title.
      11.   Construction proposed as part of a site alteration permit
application shall comply with other applicable codes and ordinances, including,
but not limited to, the fire code; title 7, chapter 3 of this code; and the
building code, as amended, in effect at the time.
      12.   Any proposed new road or driveway is necessary to access a building
site or building that was lawfully approved under this title.
      13.   If the applicant or landowner with respect to an application for a
site alteration permit under this chapter is the state of Idaho, or any agency,
board, department, institution, or district thereof, the commission or the
board, in addition to all other applicable standards and criteria hereunder,
shall take into account the plans and needs of the state, or any agency, board,
department, institution or district thereof, as required by Idaho Code section
67-6528.
      14.   When the proposed use involves a potential contaminant source or
potential contaminant as set forth in appendix A of this title, on file in the
county, and is located within a wellhead protection area the applicant has
adequately demonstrated that the project has been designed to mitigate any
adverse impact to a potable water source.
   E.   Conditions: The commission may attach reasonable conditions upon
granting a site alteration permit, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Providing bonding or other sufficient financial guarantee to
complete the site alteration; at a minimum, the revegetation of disturbed
areas, including weed control, and new vegetation or landscaping proposed to
minimize the visibility of the project on the hillside shall be financially
guaranteed at one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost for five
(5) growing seasons;
      2.   Modification of the property development or site alteration;
      3.   Providing road design modifications to avoid undue scarring;
      4.   Further mitigation of visibility not included on the application;
and/or
      5.   Any other condition for special use permit specified in Idaho Code
section 67-6512(d), as amended: a) minimizing adverse impact on other
development; b) controlling the sequence and timing of development; c)
controlling the duration of development; d) assuring that development is
maintained properly; e) designating the exact location and nature of
development; f) requiring specific on site or off site public facilities or
services; g) requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in this title; and h) requiring mitigation of effects of the proposed
development upon service delivery by any political subdivision, including
school districts, providing services within the planning jurisdiction.
      6.   When the proposed use involves a potential contaminant source or
potential contaminant as set forth in appendix A of this title, on file in the
county, and is located within a wellhead protection area, the commission may
impose reasonable conditions of approval to protect the surface and/or ground
water from contamination, including, without limitation, the installation by
the applicant of monitoring wells and the granting of easements relating to
such wells.
   F.   Expiration Of Permit: Any site alteration permit granted under this
chapter after January 31, 1998, shall expire one year following the date of its
approval if construction of the site alteration has not been substantially
commenced. If good cause for delay in commencement of construction is shown,
the administrator may once only extend the period for commencement of
construction for a period not exceeding one year, provided application is made
for an extension before expiration of the permit.
   G.   Emergency Site Alteration Permit Procedure: There are times and
circumstances in which immediate action must be taken to prevent major property
loss. Wildfires and other natural disasters may create such situations. In
these limited situations the normal application and review procedure may be
waived and an emergency site alteration permit granted or amended.
      1.   Submittal And Application Requirements: The applicant shall own land
within an area affected by wildfire or other natural disaster. A complete
application for an emergency site alteration permit shall be submitted with the
following attachments:
         a.   An aerial photo or site map/drawing of the subject property
showing the approximate location and scope of work for the site alteration
being applied for.
         b.   Dated photographs showing the condition of the property for which
the work is proposed before alteration.
         c.   If the location of the proposed site alteration is within one
hundred feet (100') of a property line, the limits of disturbance shall be
flagged.
         d.   A time frame whereby the site alteration will commence and a date
when alteration will be completed. If the site alteration is not completed
within the specified time frame, administrative approval shall be sought prior
to the expiration date.
      2.   Review And Decision: An emergency site alteration permit shall be
reviewed and either approved or denied in writing by two (2) county
commissioners.
         a.   The two (2) county commissioners shall conduct a site visit:
            (1)   Held in accordance with Idaho Code 67-2343(2) (special
meetings);
            (2)   For which a reasonable effort is made to contact adjacent
landowners; and
            (3)   Where minutes are taken.
         b.   Approval may be granted if the following criteria are met:
            (1)   Permanent structures are imminently threatened and would
sustain considerable damage if emergency stabilization measures are not
undertaken;
            (2)   Emergency stabilization measures will not unreasonably
increase the threat of damage to permanent structures on neighboring property;
            (3)   The emergency stabilization measures are limited in scope to
protecting permanent structures, as set forth in the emergency permit;
            (4)   The applicant posts financial security of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) or more as determined by the board for the purpose of
ensuring that a regular site alteration permit application will be filed; and
            (5)   The applicant shall apply for a regular site alteration
permit by the date set forth in the emergency permit and commence
implementation of any regularly approved site alteration permit as may be
required, following emergency stabilization. In such cases, the regular site
alteration permit application shall be reviewed and a decision rendered by the
board of county commissioners.
         c.   The board may seek review and recommendations by the county
engineer at any time.
   H.   Notice And Reconsideration Procedure:
      1.   Notice: Once an emergency site alteration permit has been approved,
the land use and building services office shall within two (2) business days
post notice on the property of such approval and mail notice to property owners
within three hundred feet (300') and two thousand feet (2,000') down gradient
of the exterior boundaries of the subject property.
      2.   Reconsideration: An application for reconsideration of an emergency
site alteration permit may be filed with the administrator within fifteen (15)
calendar days of its issuance by anyone claiming an increased threat of damage
to permanent structures on neighboring properties as referenced in subsection
G2b(2) of this section, accompanied by a fee established by resolution of the
board of county commissioners. County engineer review fees are the
responsibility of the applicant seeking reconsideration.
         a.   Application Contents: An application for reconsideration shall
contain at a minimum, the following information:
            (1)   Name, property address, and phone number of the person or
persons requesting the reconsideration.
            (2)   Name and property address of the emergency permit holder.
            (3)   A report including photographs, engineering studies, if any,
and all supporting documents describing the grounds for the reconsideration.
         b.   Application Placed On Agenda: Upon receipt of the completed
application for reconsideration, together with the information listed below,
and following an on-site site inspection by the administrator and county
engineer, the completed application for reconsideration shall be placed on the
agenda of the next available regular or special meeting of the board.
         c.   Hearing By The Board: The board shall conduct a public hearing on
the matter, providing notice of the hearing at least three (3) business days
prior to the hearing to property owners as described in this subsection H and
post the property. The board shall consider the documents in the record
including the recommendations of the administrator and county engineer and oral
arguments as they relate to the threat of damage to structures on neighboring
properties.
         d.   Decision By The Board: The board shall enter an order within
fifteen (15) calendar days after the reconsideration affirming, reversing or
modifying the original emergency permit. (Ord. 2015-02, 3-10-2015; Ord. 2014-
02, 2-25-2014; Ord. 2010-06, 5-25-2010; Ord. 2007-02, 3-20-2007; Ord. 2006-13,
10-26-2006; Ord. 2001-03, 3-19-2001; Ord. 2000-04, 3-27-2000; Ord. 98-1, 1-7-
1998; Ord. 94-15, 11-14-1994; Ord. 94-6, 6-16-1994; Ord. 91-15, 11-25-1991;
Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
CHAPTER 21A
SCENIC HIGHWAY OVERLAY DISTRICT (SHO)
SECTION:
9-21A-1: Intent And Purposes
9-21A-2: Establishment
9-21A-3: Categorical Exclusions, Standards And Procedures
9-21A-4: Site Alteration Permit Standards And Procedures
9-21A-1: INTENT AND PURPOSES:
   A.   This chapter is intended to provide measures to protect visual
resources and allied economic interests associated with scenic corridor 1
(SC1), as defined in chapter 2 of this title, in addition to those measures
found in chapter 21 of this title, and to assist in providing for safety of
passage on Idaho State Highway 75. Prior to the addition of this chapter,
Blaine County has been regulating development within one hundred feet (100') of
Highway 75. It is important that current owners and potential purchasers of
property that includes land within the Scenic Highway Overlay District
recognize the significance of the public policy and land use interests
reflected in this chapter, and the additional requirements under this Code
applicable to that land. Unless a categorical exclusion applies, construction
of earthen berms, fences and sight obscuring screens of trees within the Scenic
Highway Overlay District require a site alteration permit, which is a type of
special use permit authorized by Idaho Code section 67-6512. Freestanding walls
are prohibited in the SHO.
   B.   Among the references to visual resources in the Blaine County
Comprehensive Plan, the following are particularly illustrative of the role of
land use planning in protecting these values:
The word aesthetic is used in this section to define the perception or
awareness of one's environment. It pertains to the sensations of sight, sound,
taste, smell and touch. The importance placed on aesthetics varies according to
individual attitude and sensitivity. There is, however, a longstanding
consensus, among experts as well as laymen, that visual scenic quality, clean
air, high water quality, absence of noise pollution, and other aspects of the
natural environment represent invaluable County resources.
Preservation of these resources is of vital importance to the residents of the
County as well as to the recreational economy.
The use of berms as a landscaping device to protect the visual aspects of the
scenic corridor, or for the benefit of private property owners, has led to
unanticipated negative effects. High berms, in a continuous line, with tall
trees, lead to ice formation on highways and streets in winter and to
impairment of the views from roads. To protect against these problems,
ordinances shall be drawn requiring design review for landscaping in scenic
corridors. Such ordinances shall consider heights, spacing, setbacks, and
plantings of berms and the visual effect on view corridors.
The building of fences, walls and earthen structures and the planting of trees
have impacts in addition to obscuring views. Accordingly, the following are the
purposes to be achieved by regulation of such structures:
   •   Preserve natural and natural like views from Highway 75.
   •   Allow reasonable separation of homes from Highway 75 1
.
   •    Avoid unnatural levels of drainage onto public roads and adjacent
lands.
   •    Avoid decrease in highway safety from shading of the highway and
resultant icing of the pavement.
   •    Avoid decrease in highway safety by preserving sightlines and distant
visibility for travel2.
   •    Avoid excess water usage for irrigation of landscaping of earthen
structures in accordance with the County's local public interest water
resources policy.
   •    Control noxious weeds and erosion on disturbed soil. (Ord. 2023-01, 1-
3-2023; Ord. 2021-16, 10-12-2021; Ord. 2018-03, 2-13-2018; Ord. 2010-09, 11-9-
2010; Ord. 99-5, 10-12-1999)
 
Notes
  1. It should be recognized by landowners that mitigating the sound from
  Highway 75 is not practical. Vegetation has little effect for filtering
  traffic noise. In order for a structure to provide a noticeable reduction in
  traffic noise, a 10 decibel average (dBA) reduction is needed. For a barrier
1 to have any effect, it must be relatively close to the home it is intended to
  protect. Otherwise, the sound waves will simply "bend" over the structure and
  continue to reach the home. A structure blocking the sound source at line of
  sight will result in a 5 dBA volume reduction. Each additional meter of
  height of the structure will contribute only an additional 1.5 dBA reduction
  in volume. Volpe Transportation Center.
9-21A-2: ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   District Established: The Scenic Highway Overlay District is hereby
established.
      1.   Application Of Regulations: The regulations of this overlay
district, which will not be designated on the official zoning map, shall apply
within the County to all lands within one hundred feet (100') of the right-of-
way of Idaho State Highway 75 on both sides of said State Highway 75 north of
the east to west intersection with State Highway 20, excluding lands within the
jurisdiction of an incorporated City. (Ord. 99-5, 10-12-1999)
9-21A-3: CATEGORICAL EXCLUSIONS, STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   General Exclusions: Unless the intent of the landowner or his/her
authorized agent is to circumvent the purposes of the Scenic Highway Overlay
District regulations, the requirements of this chapter shall not apply to the
following, provided the landowner or agent, before commencing construction of
earthen berms, fences and sight obscuring screens of trees, first obtains a
written decision from the Administrator, in consultation with the County
Engineer or his/her designated representative, and the Idaho Fish and Game
Department, that the construction falls within and meets one of the following
categorical exclusions. The fact that construction does fall within a
categorical exclusion does not remove such construction from the Scenic Highway
Overlay District.
      1.   Agricultural fences on lands within the R-5, A-20, A-40, R-10 and
RR-40 Districts which are customarily and directly related to agricultural
purposes.
      2.   Berms, fencing and landscape improvements that are required as part
of a valid conditional use permit, variance or subdivision approved prior to
the effective date hereof provided the improvements are consistent with the
previously approved plan.
      3.   Earthen berms, fences and sight obscuring screens of trees that meet
the following design standards:
         a.   Fences shall be of a post and pole design with a maximum top rail
height of forty two inches (42") and with the bottom rail at least eighteen
inches (18") off of the ground as measured from natural grade. Fences shall not
be located on any portion of a berm or within five feet (5') of the toe of any
berm. The openings in fences shall not be blocked with wire fencing or in any
other manner 1 . Fences shall comply with the provisions of section
9-29B-2 of this title.
On lots which have a residence within one hundred feet (100') of Highway 75,
sight obscuring fences of wood construction no higher than five feet (5') as
measured from natural grade may be constructed. On such lots, post and pole
design fences may be blocked. Fences on such lots must also be set back at
least five feet (5') distant from the toe of any berm 2 .
         b.   The toe of earthen berms shall be located no closer than five
feet (5') from the edge of the Highway 75 right- of-way within the Scenic
Highway Overlay District 2 . This setback is to be increased in accordance with
subsection A3c of this section where the natural grade is higher than the
centerline of Highway 75.
         c.   Within the first twenty feet (20') of depth of the lot or parcel
as measured from the edge of the Highway 75 right of way, the slope of earthen
berms shall be no greater than three to one (3:1) (run:rise) on the side facing
Highway 75. On lots which have a residence within one hundred feet (100') of
Highway 75, earthen berms may have a slope no greater than two to one (2:1)
(run:rise) within the first twenty feet (20') of the depth of the lot or parcel
3 .
The peak of earthen berms shall not exceed the following maximum heights 3 :
 
Setback Distance             Maximum Height
From property line to 5 feet Natural grade
5 feet to 20 feet            4 feet
From 20 feet to 75 feet      5 feet
Greater than 75 feet         6 feet
 
The height measurements shall be taken from the centerline of the highway at
the point closest to the berm. The distance measurements shall be taken from
the peak of the berm to the Highway 75 right of way at the point closest to the
berm.
Where the natural grade is higher than the centerline of Highway 75, berms and
fences must be set back an additional three feet (3') for every one foot (1')
in height the natural grade is higher than the centerline of Highway 75, and
this additional setback shall be added to the distance measurement for
calculation of the maximum height designated 1 . Landowners are encouraged to
build berms that undulate in height and distance from the right of way in order
to provide a less monotonous, more pleasing appearance.
         d.   No additional structures, including fences, shall be placed on
top of or above the toe of earthen berm structures to which the restrictions in
this chapter apply 2 .
         e.   Vegetation on earthen berms, other than trees and shrubs for
which standards are provided in subsection A3f of this section, shall be
limited to native or native compatible drought tolerant grasses, wildflowers
and ground cover. Disturbed areas shall be landscaped or revegetated
immediately after completion of the site alteration activities, but no later
than the end of the first construction season during which the site alteration
commences. Earthen structures shall be covered with a depth of topsoil adequate
to sustain vegetation, and shall be planted with native or native compatible
drought tolerant grasses, wildflowers or ground cover in a weed free
environment prior to the end of the fall season in the year in which
construction of the earthen structure was commenced. The required topsoil is to
be included in the height of the berm for the purpose of determining compliance
with maximum height limitations. Earthen structures shall be maintained weed
free in all phases of construction and after revegetation 3 . Components of the
revegetation plan shall include techniques that will be used to ensure the
establishment of the proposed vegetation within a period of three (3) years.
         f.   Trees and shrubs may only be planted within the lowest two (2)
vertical feet of earthen berms. The limitations in this subsection A3f shall
apply to all trees and shrubs planted within the district with the exception of
naturally growing trees and shrubs along the banks of surface bodies of water.
No more than thirty percent (30%) of the width of the lot measured parallel to
Highway 75 shall be occupied by trees and shrubs, and no more than twenty five
percent (25%) of such trees and shrubs shall be conifers. In order to avoid
shading and icing of Highway 75 when they have matured, clusters and screens of
trees and shrubs shall be planted at least ten feet (10') from the edge of the
Highway 75 right-of-way, and no conifers may be planted within the first fifty
feet (50') from the edge of the Highway 75 right-of-way 2 .
         g.   Earthen structures shall be designed and constructed so that no
more than natural runoff of water and sediment leaves the property of the
applicant.
         h.   Applicants are encouraged to consult with the Idaho Department of
Transportation to determine what State standards may apply. Applicants must
also comply with the safety standards in section
9-29B-2 of this title.
      4.   Modifications to any conforming or nonconforming existing berm,
fencing, wall, or landscaping, within the Timberway to Big Wood Bridge project
area, as designated on exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein:
Timberway to Big Wood Bridge-SHO, as of the passage date hereof, as consistent
with an approved Timberway to Big Wood Bridge - scenic highway overlay State-
County transportation improvement plan, which shall not:
         a.   Exceed the elevation of the existing berm or fence as identified
on the improvement plan; or
         b.   Add any retaining wall taller than forty eight inches (48") in
height, as measured from base of footing to top of wall.
Any existing berm or fence, deemed conforming before the passage date hereof
shall not be required to obtain an SHO site alteration permit unless new
modification or construction is proposed.
   B.   Review Of Categorical Exclusions: The Administrator or his/her
designated representative, in consultation with the County Engineer or his/her
designated representative, shall review all written Blaine County Ordinance
#2024-04 (Amending Title 9 Chapters 17, 21, 21A and 32) Page 3 requests for
determinations of categorical exclusions under subsection A of this section,
and promulgate appropriate forms to be used for such requests. The applicant
shall have the burden of demonstrating that the proposed site alteration falls
within and meets the requirements of a categorical exclusion. In addition to
completing the application form and providing a drawing or plan and such other
information required for evaluation by the Administrator, photographs of the
site before and after construction (upon confirmation of compliance with
categorical exclusion standards) of fences, berms and planting of vegetation
regulated by this chapter shall be provided to the Administrator by the
applicant. The Administrator, prior to issuance of its decision, may request
additional information from the applicant, including, without limitation,
technical review from the County Engineer, and the failure to provide such
requested information within sixty (60) days of request shall be grounds for
denial of the request for determination of categorical exclusion. Any person
aggrieved by the written decision of the Administrator may seek review of the
Administrator's decision before the Board according to the procedures and time
requirements of this section.
   C.   Review By The Board: Any person aggrieved by a decision of the
Administrator made in interpreting or enforcing this chapter may request review
by the Board of such a decision by filing a request for review with the Board
within twenty (20) calendar days of the date of such decision, stating the date
and nature of the decision and the grounds for the review. The person seeking
review shall lodge all legal and factual material in support of the request for
review with the administrator within twenty (20) calendar days of the date of
the administrator's decision being reviewed. If any of such lodged material had
not been submitted to the administrator prior to the administrator's decision,
the board may remand the matter to the administrator for reconsideration in
light of the new material.
   D.   Hearing By The Board: The board shall hold a hearing on a request for
review of a decision of the administrator under this chapter during the next
available date after the person requesting review has complied with the
requirements of this section. Review of the administrator's decision under this
chapter shall be de novo, or a new hearing allowing and requiring presentation
of all legal and factual material to be considered as if it were being
presented for the first time. The original application and the administrator's
decision shall be considered, and the administrator may submit a report and
testify at the de novo hearing before the board. Otherwise, prior submissions
and testimony shall not be required.
   E.   Decision By The Board: The board shall, within fourteen (14) calendar
days after the hearing, enter a written order affirming, reversing or modifying
the administrator's decision. The order shall also contain the reasons for the
board's decision. On its own motion, the board may, within seven (7) calendar
days of issuing a written decision, reconsider that decision.
   F.   Exception To Written Decision Requirement: Notwithstanding any
provision of this title to the contrary, a written decision of the
administrator shall not be required prior to commencing construction that falls
within and meets the agricultural categorical exclusion stated in subsection A1
of this section. (Ord. 2021-16, 10-12-2021; Ord. 2010-09, 11-9-2010; Ord. 2006-
08, 6-29-2006; Ord. 99-5, 10-12-1999; Ord. 2023-01, 1-3-2023)
 
Notes
  1. This fence design and spacing is intended to allow movement of wildlife
  across the highway. Deer, antelope and elk often move across Highway 75 to reach
  water supply in the Big Wood River. Fencing cannot only obstruct wildlife
1 movement across the highway, it may also trap wildlife in the highway corridor.
  The setback of fences from berms is to allow deer to jump fences and not have to
  land on the uphill side of berms. As long as the setback from berms is provided,
  this post and pole fence design may be placed on the property line or elsewhere
  on the lot or parcel.
  2. It is understood that some lots are too small to allow reasonable use of the
  lot and also fully comply with the 100 foot setback restriction on residences in
2 section
  9-3-10 of this title. For such lots, solid fences are being allowed by this
  chapter to allow owners of such lots greater safety for pets and children.
     The "buffer" provided by the setback for berms is intended to allow runoff
2 from the berm to collect on the property of the berm owner, and to provide a
  margin of error to avoid encroachment across property lines.
     The steepness of berms is not regulated beyond the first 20 feet of the depth
  of a lot or parcel as measured from the Highway 75 right of way. Applicants are
  encouraged to create a slope of no steeper than 3:1 (run:rise) facing Highway
  75. A 2:1 slope may be necessary to allow the use of a berm if the lot does not
  have much depth away from the highway, and that is allowed for lots which must
  place the residence within 100 feet of the Highway 75 right of way. A 2:1 slope
  is practically the steepest that a berm can be and still retain vegetation and
3 allow for mowing of grass. Applicants are also encouraged to vary the slope of
  berms to provide a less artificial and more pleasing visual experience to
  drivers on the highway. The slope of the berm opposite the highway is not
  regulated. The landowner may utilize a retaining wall on the house side of the
  berm in order to reduce the land area occupied by the berm but shall not exceed
  the height of the berm so as to be visible from the highway. Retaining walls
  that provide support for earthen berms must obtain a building permit under the
  building code.
  3. The maximum height increases as the distance between the peak and the highway
  increases. This design is based upon the experience that, the further back a
  berm is from the highway, the higher it can be without blocking the view.
  The height limitations are maxima. Berms cannot exceed these heights at the
  given distances, but they are not required to achieve these heights. Landowners
  are encouraged to build berms that undulate in height, and also undulate in
  distance from the property line. If the height of the berm varies over the width
3 of the lot along the highway, the berm will be more pleasing visually than will
  be a berm which has the same height for its entire length. Likewise, a berm
  whose toe and peak move back and forth, closer to and further away from the
  property line nearest to the highway, will be more visually pleasing than a
  straight berm. Applicants are encouraged to design and construct earthen
  structures to vary in height, in distance from the highway, and in slope facing
  Highway 75 in order to present an attractive and interesting presence and avoid
  a monotonous and tedious visual experience.
  1. Where a bank is already higher than the highway, adding a fence or berm would
  block views from the highway in spite of the height limitations in this chapter.
1 The additional setback of the toe of the berm (as a function of the height of
  the land above the highway) adjusts the maximum heights in order to continue to
  preserve views.
  2. No structures may be placed on berms above the toe of that berm. The height
2 of the structure added to the height of the berm would defeat the effectiveness
  of the height limitation and allow views to be blocked. This restriction also
  addresses potential obstructions to passage of wildlife over berms.
  3. Applicants are encouraged to consult personnel of the County weed abatement
3 program for information and assistance or the University of Idaho cooperative
  extension service.
     As a practical matter, screens of trees can mature much higher than berms,
  and can block views more effectively than berms. Because the limbs of conifers
  extend as they grow and mature, over time they can increase their coverage of
  the lot blocking more view than when originally planted. Conifers also provide
2 shading of the highway during the winter potentially contributing to buildup of
  ice on the highway. Shrubs can grow to be as high as trees. The restrictions on
  trees and shrubs are intended to balance the ability of the landowner to
  beautify his or her property and add to separation of the living space from the
  highway against the public's interest in views and the safety of the highway.
9-21A-4: SITE ALTERATION PERMIT STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Form Of Application: Application for a site alteration permit in the
scenic highway district shall be made on a form furnished by the administrator.
All site alteration permit applications shall include the plans for all
proposed fences, earthen structures and associated vegetation within the scenic
highway district. Upon receipt of the completed form, together with the
information listed below, and following an on site inspection by the
administrator, the completed application shall be placed on the agenda of the
next available regular hearing of the hearing examiner or planning and zoning
commission, as designated by resolution, and shall meet the requirements for
notification in section
9-25-4 of this title.
   B.   Application And Submittal Requirements; Fees: An application for a site
alteration permit shall be filed with the administrator by at least one holder
of an interest in the property, or their agent, accompanied by the fee
established by resolution of the board. Fees resulting from review by the
county engineer are the responsibility of the applicant, according to the fee
resolution of the board, and shall be paid prior to public hearing. No
application shall be certified as complete unless it includes the following
information in sufficient detail for the hearing examiner or planning and
zoning commission to determine compliance with the design review standards of
evaluation in subsection D of this section:
      1.   The name, address and phone number of the owner of the land for
which the permit is requested and of the person, firm or corporation
(contractor) who will physically alter the land, if known.
      2.   The proposed date that the site alteration will commence and the
projected date of completion.
      3.   A description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done,
by lot, block, tract and house and street address, or similar description that
will readily identify and definitively locate the proposed site. A vicinity map
shall be included.
      4.   A report including text, designs, and visual representations
including simulations which indicate the design and construction of
improvements, and also including public safety, revegetation, and other
information demonstrating compliance with the design review standards of
evaluation.
      5.   A description of the work to be performed, an estimate of the depth
of soil, the type of equipment to be used, the total area of disturbance, and
the amount and type of material to be removed or deposited, all in sufficient
detail to evaluate the impact of such activities.
      6.   A graphic representation of the proposal. This plan shall include
property lines and delineate the proposed areas for improvement or alteration,
existing and proposed contours, drainage and drainage structures, landscaping
and revegetation plans, including a plan for the control of noxious weeds, and
retaining walls. Photographs of the site prior to beginning of construction and
planting, and after completion of construction and planting.
      7.   A statement that the proposed areas of disturbance have been staked
and are ready for administrative review.
      8.   A signature by the property owner or his/her authorized agent that
the application is certified as true and accurate.
      9.   Written input from the county engineer addressing, but not limited
to, compliance with road standards, drainage and erosion mitigation.
   C.   Hearing Examiner Or Commission Review And Action: Either the hearing
examiner or the planning and zoning commission (commission), as designated by
resolution, shall make decisions based on the standards and evaluation herein.
Review of the application and receipt of public input shall be conducted at a
scheduled hearing as set forth hereinabove. The hearing examiner or commission
may order the hearing to be continued up to thirty one (31) days at the same
place, in which case no further published notice shall be required other than
that requested by the hearing examiner or commission. Continuation beyond
thirty one (31) days shall require further published notice, according to this
section. The hearing examiner or commission shall approve, approve with
conditions, or deny said application, making appropriate findings to support
its decision. The hearing examiner or commission shall enter an order or adopt
its written findings of fact and decision within thirty one (31) days after the
action is taken by the hearing examiner or commission. The granting of a site
alteration permit shall not be considered as establishing a binding precedent
to grant other site alteration permits. A site alteration permit is not
transferable from one parcel of land to another.
   D.   Design Review Standards Of Evaluation: The applicant has the burden of
demonstrating compliance with this chapter, including each of the following
design review standards of evaluation. The hearing examiner or commission shall
review and find adequate evidence that the proposed development or site
alteration meets all of the following standards:
      1.   The size of the lot, geographical features of the lot, or a
combination thereof require that the maximum height limitations for earthen
berms or fences, or the maximum coverage limitations for sight obscuring
screens of trees must exceed the categorical exclusion standards of this
chapter in order to allow the landowner reasonable use and enjoyment of the
parcel for which the permit is sought.
      2.   While still allowing reasonable use and enjoyment of the lot, new
development shall be designed and sited so as not to impair or obstruct
existing mountain and river views from Highway 75 to the maximum extent
possible, and will meet the requirements and encouraged practices of the
categorical exclusion set forth in subsection
9-21A-3A3 of this chapter to the maximum extent possible using generally
accepted engineering practices.
      3.   Native or native compatible vegetation shall be preserved to the
greatest extent possible. Revegetation of disturbed areas shall utilize plant
materials harmonious and/or native to the area. The method for control and
prevention of noxious weeds shall be demonstrated. Disturbed areas shall be
landscaped or revegetated immediately after completion of the site alteration
activities, but no later than the end of the first construction season during
which the site alteration commences. Components of the revegetation plan shall
include techniques that will be used to ensure the establishment of the
proposed vegetation within a period of three (3) years 1 .
      4.   Earthen structures shall be designed and constructed so that no more
than natural runoff of water and sediment leaves the property of the applicant.
      5.   Fences, earthen berms and sight obscuring screens of trees must
comply with all applicable regulations and standards of the Idaho Department of
Transportation.
      6.   If the applicant or landowner with respect to an application for a
site alteration permit under this chapter is the state of Idaho, or any agency,
board, department, institution, or district thereof, the commission or the
board, in addition to all other applicable standards and criteria hereunder,
shall take into account the plans and needs of the state, or any agency, board,
department, institution or district thereof, as required by Idaho Code section
67-6528.
   E.   Conditions: The hearing examiner or planning and zoning commission may
attach reasonable conditions upon granting a site alteration permit, including,
but not limited to:
      1.   Providing bonding or other sufficient financial guarantee to
complete the site alteration; at a minimum, the revegetation of disturbed
areas, including weed control, and new vegetation or landscaping for at least
three (3) years.
      2.   Modification of the site alteration.
      3.   Any other condition for special use permit specified in Idaho Code
section 67-6512(d), as amended: a) minimizing adverse impact on other
development; b) controlling the sequence and timing of development; c)
controlling the duration of development; d) assuring that development is
maintained properly; e) designating the exact location and nature of
development; f) requiring specific on site or off site public facilities or
services; g) requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in this title; and h) requiring mitigation of effects of the proposed
development upon service delivery by any political subdivision, including
school districts, providing services within the planning jurisdiction.
   F.   Expiration Of Permit: Any site alteration permit granted under this
chapter after October 20, 1999, shall expire one year following the date of its
approval if construction of the site alteration has not been substantially
commenced. If good cause for delay in commencement of construction is shown,
the administrator may once only extend the period for commencement of
construction for a period not exceeding one year, provided application is made
for an extension before expiration of the permit. (Ord. 2023-01, 1-3-2023; Ord.
2021-16, 10-12-2021; Ord. 2001-03, 3-19-2001; Ord. 99-5, 10-12-1999)
 
Notes
  1. In order to control proliferation of noxious weeds, ground cover on berms
  must be thriving by the fall of the year following the year in which
1 construction of the berm was begun. Noxious weeds must be controlled in the
  interim. Bonding requirements, stated in this chapter, require a guarantee of
  the revegetation for at least 3 years after construction.
CHAPTER 22
AVALANCHE OVERLAY DISTRICT (A)
SECTION:
9-22-1: Purpose
9-22-2: Base Density
9-22-3: High Hazard Areas
9-22-4: Low Hazard Areas
9-22-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this District is to restrict and guide development in areas of
avalanche hazard. Such areas are categorized as either high hazard or low
hazard, for which different regulations shall pertain. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-77,
eff. 4-7-77)
9-22-2: BASE DENSITY:
The base density and maximum PUD bonus for both high and low hazard areas shall
be the same as that assigned to the underlying district. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-77,
eff. 4-7-77)
9-22-3: HIGH HAZARD AREAS:
No public roads shall be located within high hazard areas and no building
permits for residential, commercial or industrial uses will be issued within
the high hazard areas, as shown on the Avalanche Overlay maps or site specific
avalanche studies. All density accumulated by ownership of these lands is
transferrable to contiguous land in the same ownership which is not located in
a high hazard area. However, the transfer of density is not guaranteed and
shall be allowed only if the Commission and the Board find it in conformance
with the purposes and standards of the Planned Unit Development Ordinance 1 .
(Ord. 77-5, 3-28-77, eff. 4-7-77)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 10, Chapter 6 of this Code.
9-22-4: LOW HAZARD AREAS:
Residential uses are permitted in low hazard areas. The following performance
standards shall apply to all structures built within the low hazard areas:
   A.   Inhabited Structures: Inhabited structures must be set back from
projected slide areas and offset from slide paths.
   B.   Structural Modifications: Reinforcing structural modifications shall be
incorporated in the design of structures subject to avalanche danger.
   C.   Natural Barriers: Natural barriers to potential avalanche slide areas
shall not be removed or altered so as to increase the degree of avalanche
potential. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-77, eff. 4-7-77)
CHAPTER 23
SEASONAL USE OVERLAY DISTRICT (SU)
SECTION:
9-23-1: Purpose
9-23-2: Developable Density
9-23-1: PURPOSE:
The Seasonal Use District identifies summer use areas in the County where
winter and spring occupancies should be restricted in order to release the
County from road maintenance where the public safety and welfare may be
jeopardized by avalanches or other hazardous winter conditions. Residential
developments proposed for these areas shall be served by private roads, from
which the County will be absolved from all maintenance responsibility. (Ord.
77-5, 3-28-77, eff. 4-7-77)
9-23-2: DEVELOPABLE DENSITY:
The base density and maximum PUD bonus shall be the same as that assigned to
the underlying district. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-77, eff. 4-7-77)
CHAPTER 24
SAWTOOTH CITY ZONES (SCC, SCR-.4)
SECTION:
9-24-1: Amendment
9-24-2: Purpose
9-24-3: Regulations
9-24-4: Conformance
9-24-5: Building Sites
9-24-6: Commercial Standards
9-24-7: Sign Standards
9-24-8: Property Zoned SCC
9-24-9: Property Zoned SCR-.4
9-24-1: AMENDMENT:
This title is hereby amended to add two (2) new zoning classifications as
follows:
   (SCC)   Sawtooth City Commercial.
   (SCR-.4)   Sawtooth City Medium Density Residential.
(Ord. 91-2, 1-28-1991; Ord. 77-16, 11-28-1977)
9-24-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for community development land use
regulations for the unincorporated Village of Sawtooth City within Sawtooth
National Recreation Area in northern Blaine County. (Ord. 91-2, 1-28-1991; Ord.
77-16, 11-28-1977)
9-24-3: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Commercial Zones: Specific provisions are set forth in section
9-24-6.
   B.   Medium Density Residential Zones: All provisions of chapter 11 of this
title, as it defines R-.4 (Medium Density Residential) Zones shall apply to the
SCR-.4 (Sawtooth City Medium Density Residential) Zones except as such
provisions are in conflict with the hereinafter provisions of this chapter in
which event the provisions of this chapter shall be controlling and applied in
conjunction with the relevant nonconflicting portions of chapter 11 of this
title.
   C.   Applicable Provisions: The following provisions shall apply to and
define both the SCC, except where explicitly stated, and SCR-.4 Zones:
      1.   Use And Development: Use and development on all lands within
community shall be in conformance with all applicable Federal, State and local
laws, regulations and ordinances.
      2.   Septic System Permit Required: On site septic systems may be used
for sanitary disposal after obtaining a septic system permit from the State
Health Department or its authorized regional or County agent.
      3.   New Utilities: All new utilities shall be underground.
      4.   Structures And Improvements: Structures or other improvements shall
not be constructed within fifty feet (50') of streambeds, banks or in
floodplains of live or intermittent streams. Streambeds, banks and floodplains
will not be disturbed, except as may be necessary to construct, operate and
maintain irrigation, fisheries, utilities, fences, roads and similar facilities
or improvements. Any such necessary encroachment will avoid impeding water
flow, sedimentation of streams or entrance of deleterious material into streams
and must comply with Idaho Code, section 42-3801 et seq., and chapters 3 and 17
of this title.
      5.   Total Development Allowed: (This section shall not apply to SCC. See
section
9-24-6 of this chapter.) Not more than one single-family dwelling shall be
permitted on each building site or lot. Buildings or structures cannot occupy
more than thirty percent (30%) of the land surface on a lot less than 20,000
square feet in area. On any lot larger than 20,000 square feet, buildings
cannot occupy more than 6,500 square feet. Existing properties exceeding this
amount of building coverage as of the effective date of Sawtooth NRA
regulations (March 28, 1974) may not be further developed. Lots in Sawtooth
City shall not be subdivided. Adjoining lots shall not be joined together and
considered as one lot unless a common line is vacated by amending the governing
plat or modifying parcel boundaries. Any structure that does not share a common
wall or any structure that does not share a partial common wall with an
entryway with the main structure is considered an outbuilding.
      6.   Mobile or Manufactured Homes: Mobile Home is defined pursuant to
Idaho Code, section 39-4105, Idaho Code as: "Mobile home", a factory-assembled
structure or structures generally constructed prior to June 15, 1976, and
equipped with the necessary service connections and made so as to be readily
movable as a unit or units on their own running gear and designed to be used as
a dwelling unit or units with or without a permanent foundation. Manufactured
homes may be permitted pursuant to Building Code regulations.
      7.   Parking: (This section shall not apply to SCC. See section
9-24-6 of this chapter.) Temporary parking of guest and resident owner's
vehicles is allowed only on permitted developed property. Parking of operable
motor vehicles on an undeveloped lot is allowed only if the lot is adjacent to
a permitted developed lot owned by the same owner. Parking and storage of
boats, campers and travel trailers is only allowed by resident owners on
developed property.
      8.   Compatible Architecture: Building architecture is to be compatible
with the general location, site environment and to be consistent with the
present generally rustic western character of the community, which is to be
maintained as such in its natural scenic setting. Structures shall be
reflective of the historic, pastoral architectural traditions of the Sawtooth
Valley. Unusual or nontraditional architectural styles are not permitted.
      9.   Maintenance: All commercial and residential buildings and
structures, including fences, shall be maintained in a usable and serviceable
condition or shall be repaired or removed by owner. Properties shall be
maintained in a clean and orderly condition. All debris shall be removed within
a reasonable time. Debris shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
         a.   Unused construction material;
         b.   Miscellaneous equipment used during construction permissible
during construction period. Not to be allowed after construction, unless
screened from view;
         c.   General trash, household and commercial; and/or
         d.   Nonfunctioning vehicles parked or stored out of doors.
      10.   Animals: No animals shall be maintained on residential premises
except house pets and riding horses for private use, and in accordance with
this Code and this section. No more than one riding horse per one-third (1/3)
available fenced acre of permeable land area is allowed. Horse area to be kept
in sanitary and healthful condition to avoid creating unhealthy and unsightly
conditions for adjacent properties.
      11.   Public Utility Easement: A ten foot (10') easement shall be
provided for public utilities on the side and rear boundaries of each lot.
      12.   Signs: See section
9-24-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 2020-07, 11-24-2020; Ord. 2019-10, 8-13-2019:
Ord. 2018-03, 2-13-2018; Ord. 2006-12, 8-22-2006; Ord. 2005-06, 8-23-2005; Ord.
99-4, 8-23-1999; 1996 Code; Ord. 93-4, 5-3-1993; Ord. 92-2, 4-27-1992; Ord. 91-
2, 1-28-1991; Ord. 77-16, 11-28-1977)
9-24-4: CONFORMANCE:
Buildings and structures, or parts thereof, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, moved or used for any purpose, shall be in conformance
with the Building Code and this Code.
   A.   Grading And Excavating: Grading, excavating and other topographical
changes are permitted as required for foundations, utilities, drainage or roads
but shall be minimized to preserve natural hillsides or mountain slope lands. A
building permit must be obtained prior to any excavation for land development.
   B.   Driveways And Roads: Driveways and roads are to be located and designed
to preserve natural features. Driveways and roads shall meet Fire District
standards, preserving natural topographic features when feasible. To preserve
the appearance of natural site conditions, surfaces shall be of earth-tone
colors common to the area.
   C.   Lot Coverage: (This section shall not apply to SCC. See section
9-24-6 of this chapter.) Buildings or structures cannot occupy more than thirty
percent (30%) of the land surface on a lot less than 20,000 square feet in
area. On any lot larger than 20,000 square feet, buildings cannot occupy more
than 6,500 square feet. Existing properties exceeding this amount of building
coverage as of the effective date of Sawtooth NRA regulations. (March 28, 1974)
may not be further developed. (Ord. 2020-07, 11-24-2020; Ord. 2019-10, 8-13-
2019; Ord. 93-4, 5-3-1993; Ord. 91-2, 1-28-1991; Ord. 77-16, 11-28-1977; Ord.
77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-24-5: BUILDING SITES:
Building sites are to be located with maximum regard to natural features, open
space area, topography, vegetation, access parking and design treatment.
   A.   Permits: The property owner is required to obtain a building permit
from the Blaine County planning and zoning building inspector after review and
recommendation of building plans by the Sawtooth City Building Committee.
   B.   Setback: All new buildings shall be set back a minimum of twenty feet
(20') to building foundations from front and rear property lines, one hundred
feet (100') from State Highway 75 (in the SCR-.4 district), and ten feet (10')
from side property lines.
   C.   Building Height: (This section shall not apply to SCC. See section
9-24-6 of this chapter.) The vertical distance measured from the highest point
of the roof directly to natural grade shall not exceed thirty feet (30'). This
provision does not apply to accessory fixtures such as flagpoles, lightning
rods, weathervanes, antennas, chimneys or air conditioners. Accessory buildings
such as garages and sheds shall not exceed twenty-six feet (26') above natural
grade.
   D.   Foundations: Pillars or stilts, if used, must be enclosed. Foundation
exterior surfaces above six inches (6") shall be covered with wood or natural
stone. However, painted metal, concrete, or block are permitted up to a maximum
of eighteen inches (18"). Painted surfaces shall be in earth tone colors common
to the area.
   E.   Minimum Area: The minimum floor area of new residences shall be seven
hundred fifty (750) gross square feet, including porches and garages.
   F.   Exterior Materials and Colors: Exterior walls shall be of non-
reflective natural materials or composite materials that mimic natural
materials and colors. Exterior colors shall be earth tone colors common to the
area to preserve the appearance of natural site conditions. Rusted metal
materials shall encompass less than 50% of any vertical façade and be non-
reflective and weathered.
   G.   Roofs: Roofs shall be of non-reflective earth tone colors common to the
area to preserve the appearance of natural site conditions. Darker gray and
darker brown roofs are best absorbed into the background. Bright colors and
lighter colors are highly visible and should be avoided. Roofs shall meet Title
7 Building regulations, Chapter 7 Fire Code.
   H.   Solar Panels: Non-reflective solar panels as permitted by Title 9,
Chapter 3B. A building permit is required.
   I.   Tree Removal: Only those trees within 30 feet of a structure may be
removed. Firewise practices are recommended.
   J.   Landscaping Development: Owners shall submit a landscaping plan to the
Sawtooth City Building Committee and the Sawtooth City Fire District for
approval. Such plan shall be consistent with Firewise practices as determined
by the fire district. Use of indigenous plants and vegetation is encouraged to
promote vegetative survival and to maintain native scenery.
   K.   Fences: Fences shall preserve the appearance of natural site
conditions. Examples of common fence designs in the area are: logworm, log
block, post and rail, and jack and rail fences, with a maximum height of five
feet (5').
   L.   Steps And Walks: Steps and walks are to be constructed of natural
materials, or composite materials that mimic natural materials and colors.
Colors shall be neutral earth tone colors common to the area to preserve the
appearance of natural site conditions.
   M.   LPG Tanks: Liquefied petroleum gas tanks shall be screened from public
view with natural materials. Location of tanks and plans for screening shall
require the approval of the administrator.
   N.   Yard Lights And Outdoor Lights: All new outdoor lights shall be in
compliance with chapter 29A of this title.
   O.   Enforcement: Blaine County has the ultimate responsibility for
enforcement of Sawtooth City regulations pursuant to the provisions of chapter
32 of this title. (Ord. 2020-07, 11-24-2020; Ord. 2019-10, 8-13-2019; Ord.
2010-06, 5-25-2010; Ord. 99-4, 8-23-1999; Ord. 91-2, 1-28-1991; Ord. 77-16, 11-
28-1977)
9-24-6: COMMERCIAL STANDARDS:
The following standards are specific to the Sawtooth City Commercial District
(SCC):
   A.   Dimensional Requirements:
      1.   Setbacks: All new buildings shall be set back a minimum of twenty
feet (20') to building foundations from front and rear property lines, forty
feet (40') from State Highway 75, and ten feet (10') from side property lines.
      2.   Maximum Height: Commercial buildings or structures shall not exceed
thirty five feet (35') in maximum height.
      3.   Buildings or structures shall not occupy more than forty percent
(40%) of the land surface.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Single-family residential use.
      1.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area in a subdivision shall be one
acre.
      2.   Maximum Lot Coverage: Thirty percent (30%).
   C.   Accessory Uses:
      1.   Accessory dwelling unit (see section
9-3-11 of this title).
   D.   Conditional Uses:
      1.   Business, professional, public or social service offices.
      2.   Gas stations, restaurants, bars, motels, motor vehicle repairs.
      3.   Retail stores.
      4.   Recreational facilities including campgrounds and RV parks.
      5.   Repair and personal services.
      6.   Employee housing units, with density as allowed by the South Central
Public Health District.
      7.   Wireless communication facilities (see section
9-3-16 of this title).
   E.   Parking: Minimum one parking space shall be provided for: each lodging
unit, each two hundred fifty (250) square feet of retail floor area, each three
hundred (300) square feet of office floor area, and each two hundred (200)
square feet of public restaurant/bar space; or as determined through the
conditional use permit process.
   F.   Temporary Structures: In order to protect SNRA visual scenic values and
the quality of community way of life, temporary structures are not permitted.
   G.   Screening: Campground and RV park areas shall be screened from Highway
75 with trees or shrubs. (Ord. 2020-07, 11-24-2020; Ord. 2001-10, 10-1-2001;
Ord. 91-2, 1-28-1991; Ord. 77-16, 11-28-1977)
9-24-7: SIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to regulate the use of signs
and lighting to promote traffic safety, to protect property values, to provide
visibility for signs for public and private purposes and to preserve and
enhance the natural beauty and aesthetic values of Sawtooth City.
   B.   Restrictions and Requirements:
      1.   All signage shall be subject to Chapter 29, Signs, of this Title.
      2.   Sign background and foreground letters or numbers, shall be of earth
tone colors common to the area which preserve the appearance of natural site
conditions.
(Ord. 2019-10, 8-13-2019)
9-24-8: PROPERTY ZONED SCC:
The Blaine County Zoning Maps adopted by reference by Section
9-4-7 of this Title are hereby amended to change the zoning on the following
described real property from (C) Commercial District to (SCC), Sawtooth City
Commercial:
TOWNSHIP 7 NORTH, RANGE 14 EAST OF THE BOISE MERIDIAN, BLAINE COUNTY, IDAHO.
SECTION 27: A parcel of land in the east one-half, more particularly described
as follows:
Commencing at the south one-quarter corner of Section 27, Township 7 North,
Range 14 East of the Boise Meridian, to a point No 0°13'45" E 4048.25' to the
southerly boundary of State Highway 75 right-of-way; thence S 59°30'21" E
1450.54' along said right-of-way to the REAL POINT OF BEGINNING; thence,
S 59°48'57" W 64.70'; thence,
S 49°03'05" W 54.06'; thence,
S 12°31'54" W 113.68'; thence,
S 07°22'06" E 100.09'; thence,
S 12°50'18" E 100.94'; thence,
S 19°38'01" W 110.01'; thence,
S 01°57'29" W 100.74'; thence,
S 12°24'38" E 100.84'; thence,
S 04°26'11" E 100.02'; thence,
S 17°24'06" E 35.45'; thence,
S 84°25'07" E 432.54'; thence,
continuing 383.24 feet along a curve to the right having a central angle of
63°11'39", a radius of 407.14 feet, a tangent of 250.44 feet, and a long chord
of 449.02 feet; thence N 58°47'39" E 159.09'; thence continuing 153.99 feet
along a curve to the right having a central angle of 04°22'21", a radius of
2067.95 feet, a tangent of 78.95 feet, and a long chord of 157.80 feet; thence,
N 63°10'00" E 34.26'; thence, continuing 49.78 feet along a curve to the left
having a central angel of 115°37'50", a radius of 20.34 feet, a tangent of
32.32 feet, and a long chord of 41.05 feet; thence 177.14 feet along a curve to
the left having a central angle of 26°07'12", a radius of 1366.70 feet, a
tangent of 317.03 feet and a long chord of 623.00 feet; thence N 59°30'21" W
815.45 feet to the REAL POINT OF BEGINNING.
(Ord. 91-2, 1-28-1991)
9-24-9: PROPERTY ZONED SCR-.4:
The Blaine County Zoning Maps adopted by reference by Section
9-4-7 of this Title are hereby amended to change the zoning on the following
described real property from R-.4, Medium Density Residential District, to
SCR-.4, Sawtooth City Medium Density Residential District:
TOWNSHIP 7 NORTH, RANGE 14 EAST OF THE BOISE MERIDIAN, BLAINE COUNTY, IDAHO.
SECTIONS 26 & 27: A parcel of land in the western one- eighth of Section 26 and
the east one-half of Section 27, more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at the south one-quarter corner of Section 27, Township 5 North,
Range 17 East of the Boise Meridian, to a point N 0°13'45" E 1319.16', known as
the central south one-sixteenth corner of Section 27, said point being the REAL
POINT OF BEGINNING. Thence, N 0°13'45" E 2729.09' to the southerly boundary of
State Highway, 75 right-of-way; thence S 59°30'21" E 2327.32' along said
southerly right- of-way boundary; thence continuing along said southerly
highway boundary 543.26 feet along a curve to the right having a central angle
of 26°07'12", a radius of 1366.70 feet, a tangent of 317.03 feet, and a long
chord of 623.00 feet; thence S 26°20'38" E 1001.07': thence, S 89°59'08" W
884.46', thence N 89°42'09" W 1057.10' to the REAL POINT OF BEGINNING.
EXCEPTING from this description that property described in Section
9-24-8 of this Chapter which is zoned SCC by the said Section
9-24-8 of this Chapter. (Ord. 91-2, 1-28-1991)
CHAPTER 25
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
9-25-1: General
9-25-2: Application For Conditional Use Permit
9-25-3: Standards For Evaluation
9-25-4: Public Hearing And Notice
9-25-5: Action By The Commission Or The Board
9-25-6: Notification By The Administrator
9-25-7: Appeals Process
9-25-8: Expiration And Renewal
9-25-9: Special Provision
9-25-1: GENERAL:
It is recognized that certain uses possess unique and special characteristics
with respect to their location, design, size, method of operation, circulation
and public facilities. In order to protect the public welfare and guarantee
conformance with the plan, permits are required for such uses upon review by
the commission or the board when concurrent stream alteration permit
applications are submitted which require board approval. (Ord. 96-3, 4-8-1996;
Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-25-2: APPLICATION FOR CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
An application for a conditional use permit shall be filed with the
administrator by at least one holder of an interest in the real property for
which such conditional use is proposed, accompanied by the fee specified in
section
9-3-9 of this title. Planned unit developments and mobile/manufactured home
subdivisions, mobile/manufactured home parks, and mobile/manufactured home PUDs
shall follow the fee schedule set forth in section
10-1-5 of this code. At the administrator's discretion, based on appropriate
findings, a conditional use permit application may be referred to the county
engineer for technical review. Such review shall be at the applicant's expense
and shall be paid by the applicant prior to public hearing.
   A.   Minimum Information: The application shall include at least the
following information:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of the applicant.
      2.   Legal description of the property.
      3.   Description of existing use.
      4.   Zoning district.
      5.   Description of proposed conditional use.
      6.   A plan of the proposed site for the conditional use showing the
location of all buildings, parking and loading area, traffic access and traffic
circulation, open spaces, easements, existing and proposed grade, landscaping,
refuse and service areas, utilities, signs, outdoor lighting, rendering of
building exteriors, property lines and north arrow, and such other information
as the commission or the board may require to determine if the proposed
conditional use meets the intent and requirements of this title.
      7.   A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining property;
the effect of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes and vibration on
adjoining property; a discussion of the general compatibility with adjacent and
other properties in the district and the relationship of the proposed use to
the comprehensive plan. When the proposed use involves a potential contaminant
source or potential contaminant as set forth in appendix A of this title, on
file in the county, and is located within a wellhead protection area, the
narrative statement shall also describe the measures that have been taken to
mitigate potential adverse impacts to potable water sources.
      8.   A list of the names and addresses of all property owners and
residents within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the
land being considered. When the project is located within a wellhead protection
area, the name and address of the affected public water system owner(s) shall
also be provided.
      9.   For any conditional use permit application required in chapter 17 of
this title, the applicant shall stake the exterior boundaries of the proposed
structure and demarcate with steel posts and wire the stream setback areas not
to be encroached upon during construction. This staking shall be performed two
(2) weeks prior to the public hearing for the conditional use permit.
   B.   Additional Application Requirements: Additional application
requirements for a conditional use permit in the Floodplain Overlay District
are set forth in subsection 9-17-9B of this title.
   C.   Applications For Gravel Or Shale Pit, Etc.: Applications for a gravel
or shale pit, public works gravel or shale pit, or public works asphalt plant
shall include a site and vicinity plan showing the area to be utilized, the
amount of material to be extracted, crushed, or stockpiled, the three hundred
feet (300') adjoining the property in all directions, and a plan for
recontouring the excavated area. A performance bond in favor of the County of
five hundred dollars ($500.00) per acre to ensure the adequate recontouring of
the area and full compliance with all conditions of the permit shall accompany
the application. This bond shall be released upon determination that an
excavated area complies with all conditions attached to the permit.
   D.   Temporary Mobile Home: Conditional use permit applications for a
temporary mobile home while constructing a permanent residence may be granted
by the Administrator upon the Administrator's finding of negative adverse
impact.
   E.   Aquaculture: In any zone, a conditional use permit shall be required
for "aquaculture", which is defined as the commercial raising of fish in a fish
hatchery. The operation of a processing plant shall be considered a conditional
use and must be secondary to the fish hatchery, except in a Heavy Industrial
(HI) Zone.
   F.   Concurrent Submission: A conditional use permit application may be
submitted and reviewed concurrently with other applications affecting the same
piece of property, with the approval of the Administrator. The Administrator
may require concurrent submission of a conditional use permit application(s)
with other land use applications affecting the same parcel(s) of property.
Additional time for review of concurrent applications may be specified by the
Administrator. Concurrent submissions will be voted on separately.
   G.   Wellhead Protection Area: When the proposed use involves a potential
contaminant source or potential contaminant as set forth in appendix A on file
in the County, and is located within a wellhead protection area, the applicant
shall provide a report and plans by a qualified Idaho licensed engineer which
describe how the project will be designed and constructed to mitigate adverse
impacts on potable water source(s). The applicant shall solicit and document
the request for written agency comment from Idaho Department of Environmental
Quality, and, in addition, written comment from any other appropriate agency,
including, but not limited to, owners of public water systems located within
the wellhead protection area, if this is determined by the Administrator to be
necessary before the application is certified as complete and scheduled for
public hearing. (Ord. 2012-05, 6-5-2012; Ord. 2011-01, 1-18-2011; Ord. 2010-06,
5-25-2010; Ord. 2006-13, 10-26-2006; Ord. 96-3, 4-8-1996; Ord. 95-2, 3-6-1995;
Ord. 93-6, 7-19-1993; Ord. 92-5, 9-14-1992; Ord. 91-9, 7-22-1991; Ord. 90-4, 6-
11-1990; Ord. 79-6, 10-10-1979; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-25-3: STANDARDS FOR EVALUATION:
   A.   Review: The commission or the Board shall review the particular facts
and circumstances of each proposed conditional use in the terms of the
following standards and shall find adequate evidence showing that such use at
the proposed location:
      1.   Will, in fact, constitute a conditional use as established for the
zoning district involved;
      2.   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general
objectives or with any specific objective of the comprehensive plan and/or this
title;
      3.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and that such use will not change the
essential character of the same area. All outdoor lighting shall comply with
chapter 29A of this title;
      4.   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future
neighboring uses;
      5.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and
services such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage
structures, refuse disposal, water and sewer and schools; or that the persons
or agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able
to provide adequately any such services;
      6.   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community;
      7.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment
and conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property
or the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise,
smoke, fumes, glare, dust, odors, vibration, water pollution or safety hazards.
Water pollution includes impact to surface and ground water and potable water
sources. When the proposed use involves a potential contaminant source or
potential contaminant as set forth in appendix A on file in the County, and is
located within a wellhead protection area, the commission shall consider the
impact of the project on potable water sources and determine whether there is
sufficient information in the record to demonstrate that the project has been
designed to mitigate adverse impact to potable water source(s);
      8.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares;
      9.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural,
scenic or historic feature of major importance; and
      10.   If the applicant or landowner with respect to an application for a
conditional use permit under this chapter is the State of Idaho, or any agency,
board, department, institution, or district thereof, the commission or the
Board, in addition to all other applicable standards and criteria hereunder,
shall take into account the plans and needs of the State, or any agency, board,
department, institution or district thereof, as required by Idaho Code section
67-6528.
   B.   Additional Standards: Additional standards for applications for a
conditional use permit in the Floodplain Overlay District are set forth in
section
9-17-9 of this title. (Ord. 2011-01, 1-18-2011; Ord. 2010-06, 5-25-2010; Ord.
2006-13, 10-26-2006; Ord. 2001-03, 3-19-2001; Ord. 96-3, 4-8-1996; Ord. 77-5,
3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-25-4: PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE:
Each application will be reviewed at a public hearing for which adequate public
notice will be given.
   A.   Review: Allowing sufficient time to conduct a site visit and write
staff reports, the Administrator shall then schedule the completed application
to be heard by the commission or the Board whenever the next regular agenda
opening is available and the advertising requirements can be met. If no regular
meeting time is available within ninety (90) days of certification, the
Administrator shall call a special commission meeting, to be held not more than
three (3) weeks after the end of the ninety (90) days, to hear the application.
   B.   Public Hearing: Prior to granting a conditional use permit, at least
one public hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be
heard shall be held.
   C.   Notice: Notice of the time, date and place of the hearing and a summary
of the proposal shall be given to the general public, local newspaper,
purchasers of record, and potable water source owners as follows:
      1.   Publication: One publication in the official newspaper or paper of
general circulation within the County's jurisdiction at least fifteen (15) days
prior to the hearing.
      2.   Notice To Property Owners And Potable Water Source Owners: Notice to
property owners or purchasers of record and potable water source owners within:
         a.   The land being considered;
         b.   Three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land
being considered;
         c.   Affected public water system owners when the project is located
within a wellhead protection area; and
         d.   Any additional area that the commission, in accordance with
subsection C3 of this section, determines necessary.
      3.   Determination Of Proper Notice: As set forth in Idaho Code, section
67-6512, notice shall be provided to property owners or purchasers of record
that may be substantially impacted by the proposed conditional uses as
determined by the commission or the Board. To implement this statute, the
commission or the Board shall make a finding at the time the advertised item is
to be publicly heard as to whether proper notice was given. If owners or
purchaser of record that may be substantially impacted by the proposed
conditional uses, as determined by the commission or the Board, were not
notified, then these entities shall be notified and the hearing continued, as
set forth in section
9-25-5 of this chapter.
      4.   Posting On Premises: A notice sign, as provided by the planning
department, shall be posted by the applicant on the premises not less than one
week prior to the hearing. The visibility of the on site posting shall be as
follows:
         a.   Location Of Posting: Posting location shall be on the property
line closest to a public thoroughfare or, if no such thoroughfare exists, on
the property line of the nearest adjoining property not owned by the applicant,
a property of which the applicant has a proprietary interest, or the
government.
         b.   Size Of Notice Sign: Approximately six (6) square feet.
      5.   Supplying Of Names And Addresses: The applicant is responsible for
providing the names and addresses specified in this subsection C.
   D.   Notice Requirements For Over Two Hundred Property Owners: When notice
is required to two hundred (200) or more property owners or purchasers of
record, the following notice procedure shall be used:
      1.   Prior to the hearing, notice of the time, date and place, as well as
a summary of the proposal shall be given to the public. To ensure that the
public is properly noticed, this information shall be posted on site and
published in the newspaper as follows:
         a.   Newspaper: Fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing the following
notice shall be given in the official newspaper and one additional paper of
general circulation within the jurisdiction:
            (1)   One publishing.
            (2)   A reasonable sized advertisement, as determined by the
administrator, which is not less than two (2) columns by four inches (4"). This
advertisement shall be paid for by the applicant.
   E.   Continuance Of Hearing: In any public hearing on a conditional use
permit application, the commission or the board may order the hearing to be
continued up to thirty one (31) days at the same place, in which case no
further published notice shall be required other than that requested by the
commission or the board. (Ord. 2006-13, 10-26-2006; Ord. 96-3, 4-8-1996; Ord.
95-2, 3-6-1995; Ord. 92-3, 5-11-1992; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977; Ord.
2023-01, 1-3-2023)
9-25-5: ACTION BY THE COMMISSION OR THE BOARD:
   A.   Conditions: The commission or the board shall enter an order approving,
conditionally approving or disapproving the application within thirty one (31)
days after conclusion of the public hearing together with the reasons therefor.
Conditional uses are subject to the conditions specified prior to issuance of
their permits. Conditions which may be attached include, but are not limited
to, those which will:
      1.   Minimize adverse impact on other development.
      2.   Control the sequence, timing and duration of development.
      3.   Assure that development is maintained properly.
      4.   Designate the exact location and nature of development.
      5.   Require the provision for on site or off site public facilities or
services.
      6.   Mitigate foreseeable social, economic, fiscal and environmental
effects, including the effect on potable water sources when the project is
located within a wellhead protection area. The commission may impose reasonable
conditions of approval to protect the surface and/or ground water from
contamination, including, without limitation, the installation by the applicant
of monitoring wells and the granting of easements relating to such wells.
      7.   Require more restrictive standards than those generally required in
this title.
   B.   Gravel Or Shale Pit Conditions: Permits for gravel or shale pits may be
granted subject to the following specific conditions:
      1.   Permits shall be granted for a period of two (2) years or less.
      2.   Excavation shall take place no closer than ten feet (10') from any
property line or right of way.
      3.   Excavation and hauling of gravel shall be operated only between
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., or confined to
weekdays unless exceptions for special project require longer hours or weekend
and holiday work.
      4.   All topsoil must be stockpiled to be used to restore the excavation
area at the termination of the permit. Excavated areas shall be back sloped and
smoothed and all traces of excavation shall be removed.
      5.   The minimum distance from any natural stream shall be established by
the commission or the Board.
      6.   Access roads may be required to be paved if the use of any unpaved
access road would interfere with the health and safety of others or interfere
with the enjoyment of residential or recreational property rights.
      7.   All uses in connection with the gravel pit shall set back at least
one hundred feet (100') from any major arterial.
      8.   All uses shall be subject to most recent State and Federal Air
Pollution Regulations.
   C.   Floodplain Overlay District Conditions: Conditions attached to
conditional use permits in the Floodplain Overlay District are described in
subsection 9-17-9F of this title.
   D.   Public Works Asphalt Plants And Gravel And Shale Pit Conditions:
Permits for public works asphalt plants and public works gravel or shale pits
may be granted subject to the following specific conditions:
      1.   The scrubbing ponds and all fuel material tanks, used with public
works asphalt plants, shall be placed over lined pits capable of preventing any
seepage into the ground, watercourses or water table.
      2.   All uses shall be subject to the most recent State and Federal EPA,
OSHA and air pollution standards.
      3.   A restoration plan shall be filed with each application. Restoration
work shall be completed within one growing season after the completion of the
project.
      4.   An application shall contain:
         a.   A proposed timetable for each phase of the use;
         b.   A statement indicating the need for the use and the approximate
savings to be had over using an established nontemporary site for the public
works asphalt plant or public works gravel or shale pit, so the commission or
the Board may evaluate the need for the temporary site;
         c.   A statement indicating how such a temporary use will serve the
public interest; and
         d.   A statement agreeing that no permanent change in the temporary
site will take place other than the changes which take place with the removal
of gravel.
      5.   Any other condition deemed appropriate in subsections A and B of
this section.
   E.   Tier 2 Conditional Use Permits: Conditional use permits for tier 2 home
occupations may be granted in all zoning districts except Resource Conservation
District (RC-160) and Heavy Industrial District (HI) subject to the following
specific conditions:
      1.   The home occupation shall be conducted by the inhabitants of the
dwelling, with a maximum of two (2) non-resident employees.
      2.   If conducted within a dwelling, the home occupation shall use less
than one-fourth (1/4) the gross floor area of the dwelling unit.
      3.   It shall not generate traffic exceeding that of regular traffic
patterns for local streets (as identified in the current ITE Trip Generation
Manual).
      4.   Outdoor display or storage of materials associated with the home
occupation:
         a.   Shall be screened from view from adjacent public or private
access ways and from the adjoining properties.
         b.   Shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the lot area or one
acre, whichever is less, or a smaller area as established by the commission or
hearing examiner.
         c.   Shall comply with the standards of any overlay district in which
it is located.
(Ord. 2019-03, 1-8-2019; Ord. 2011-01, 1-18-2011; Ord. 2006-13, 10-26-2006;
Ord. 96-3, 4-8-1996; Ord. 95-2, 3-6-1995; Ord. 92-5, 9-14-1992; Ord. 90-4, 6-
11-1990; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-25-6: NOTIFICATION BY THE ADMINISTRATOR:
Written notice of the commission's or Board's decision shall be delivered to
the applicant within ten (10) days after the commission or the Board has
adopted the findings of fact and conclusions of law. (Ord. 96-3, 4-8-1996; Ord.
92-3, 5-11-1992; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-25-7: APPEALS PROCESS:
A decision by the commission on a conditional use permit application may be
appealed to the Board through the process specified in section
9-32-4 of this title. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-25-8: EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL:
   A.   Periodic Review: It is recognized that certain types of conditional
uses have the potential to become public nuisances if mismanaged or operated
improperly. Periodic review of such conditional uses is therefore desirable. As
a result, conditional use permits for gravel or shale pits, concrete batch
plants, mills refining mineral ore, temporary mobile homes, feedlots,
processing plants, bulk storage of flammable liquids or gases and solid waste
incineration shall expire two (2) years after their issuance or most recent
renewal.
   B.   Evaluation, Review: Conditional use permits for public works gravel or
shale pits and public works asphalt plants shall expire one year after the
scheduled starting date of the conditional use and the commission or the Board
shall specify the duration and starting date of any public works gravel or
shale pit and public works asphalt plant. In determining the duration and
starting date, the commission or the Board shall evaluate the proposed
conditional use on a site and project specific basis, predicated on the scope
of the project and the location of the temporary use. In the event there is an
unexpected delay in any project requiring public works gravel or shale pits and
public works asphalt plant, the applicant shall return to the Administrator for
any extension of the conditional use, so long as the commission or the Board
previously permitted renewal by the Administrator and the renewal is within the
guidelines previously set by the commission or the Board. Otherwise, any
renewal must be reviewed by the commission or the Board. In any event, renewal
is allowed only if the applicant has complied with all the conditions of the
conditional use permit. (Ord. 96-3, 4-8-1996; Ord. 92-5, 9-14-1992; Ord. 90-4,
6-11-1990; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-25-9: SPECIAL PROVISION:
   A.   Nonbinding Precedent: The issuance of a conditional use permit shall
not be considered a binding precedent for the issuance of other conditional use
permits.
   B.   Nontransferable: A conditional use permit is not transferable from one
parcel of land to another. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
CHAPTER 26
RECLASSIFICATION OF A ZONING DISTRICT (REZONE)
SECTION:
9-26-1: Applications For Rezones
9-26-2: Applications For Reclassification
9-26-3: Public Hearing And Notice
9-26-4: Criteria For Review
9-26-5: Action By The Commission
9-26-6: Notification By Administrator
9-26-7: Action By Board
9-26-8: Additional Requirements For Reclassification With Development Agreement
9-26-9: Resubmittal
9-26-1: APPLICATIONS FOR REZONES:
Any person may submit an application for a reclassification of the zoning
district to which property is subject, with or without a development agreement,
provided such person is the owner of the property or possesses a legally
binding option to purchase such property. Any such application shall be
governed by the provisions of this chapter. The commission or the board may
initiate amendments effecting a reclassification or rezone of property pursuant
to the provisions of chapter 31 of this title.
Reclassifying to an inactive zoning district (i.e., R-.4 and R-1/4) is not
permitted. (Ord. 2006-15, 10-26-2006; Ord. 98-3, 4-13-1998; Ord. 94-2, 4-4-
1994; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-26-2: APPLICATIONS FOR RECLASSIFICATION:
   A.   Form And Content: Any person seeking a reclassification or a
reclassification with a development agreement shall apply to the commission on
a form provided by the administrator, accompanied by the fees in section
9-3-9 of this title.
      1.   Reclassification: An application for a reclassification shall
include:
         a.   A vicinity map showing the lots and parcels on the property in
question, on all property within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior
boundaries of the property in question and any additional area, as determined
by the commission, that may be impacted by the proposed change; and
         b.   A list of names and addresses of the owners of each parcel
required to be included on the vicinity map.
         c.   When the area to be rezoned is located within a wellhead
protection area, the applicant for a rezone shall identify on a map the ten
(10) year, six (6) year, three (3) year time of travel zone of the public water
system in which the property is located, and all potable water sources within
three hundred feet (300') of the boundary of the property being considered.
         d.   When the proposed zoning district allows permitted or accessory
uses that may involve a potential contaminant source or potential contaminant
as set forth in appendix A of this title, on file in the county, and is located
within a wellhead protection area, the applicant shall solicit and document the
request for written agency comment from Idaho department of environmental
quality, and, in addition, written comment from any other appropriate agency,
including, but not limited to, owners of public water systems located within
the wellhead protection area, if this is determined by the administrator to be
necessary before the application is certified as complete and scheduled for
public hearing.
      2.   Reclassification With Development Agreement: An application for a
reclassification with a development agreement shall include:
         a.   The name, address and phone number of the applicant(s);
         b.   The present and proposed land use including roadways;
         c.   The present and proposed zoning and overlay districts;
         d.   A vicinity map showing the lots and parcels on the property in
question, all property within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior
boundaries of the property in question and any additional area, as determined
by the commission, that may be impacted by the proposed change;
         e.   A list of names and mailing addresses of the owners of each
parcel required to be included on the vicinity map and the name and mailing
address of any affected potable water source owner;
         f.   A proposed site plan showing at a minimum:
            (1)   Property lines, scale and north arrow;
            (2)   Location and width of rights of way, easements, canals and
ditches;
            (3)   Building locations;
            (4)   Traffic access and circulation;
            (5)   Parking, loading and snow removal areas;
            (6)   Open space and landscaping;
            (7)   Existing and proposed grade(s);
            (8)   Refuse and service areas;
            (9)   Utilities and signs;
            (10)   Rendering of building exteriors; and
            (11)   Any additional materials the administrator considers
necessary such as those set forth in subsection 10-4-3F and section
10-6-10 of this code.
         g.   A list of required permits;
         h.   The phasing of the project, time of commencement and completion;
         i.   The phasing of supporting public facilities;
         j.   A statement setting out how the public would benefit from the
project; and
         k.   When the area to be rezoned is located within a wellhead
protection area, the applicant shall identify the ten (10) year, six (6) year,
three (3) year time of travel zone of the public water system in which the
property is located, and all potable water sources within three hundred feet
(300') of the boundary of the property being considered. The applicant shall
also identify proposed uses that may involve a potential contaminant source or
potential contaminant as set forth in appendix A attached to the ordinance
codified herein, on file in the county. The applicant shall solicit and
document the request for written agency comment from Idaho department of
environmental quality, and, in addition, written comment from any other
appropriate agency, including, but not limited to, owners of the public water
systems located within the wellhead protection area, if this is determined by
the administrator to be necessary before the application is certified as
complete and scheduled for public hearing.
         l.   Such other information that the administrator considers
necessary.
   B.   Screening: In granting rezone applications for light industrial and
commercial uses, the board shall require the zones to be visually screened. The
cost of the screening is to be borne by the individual(s) obtaining the rezone.
   C.   Additional Information For Light Industrial Zoning: Prior to any
consideration of a rezone application for light industrial zoning, the board
shall require the following information:
      1.   A statement describing how the proposed light industrial area will
provide expanded employment opportunities in the county.
      2.   Information tending to show that the economic benefit of a proposed
light industrial area will outweigh the cost of providing services to the area
concerned at taxpayer expense.
      3.   Information tending to show that additional light industrial lands
are necessary in light of the unavailability of sufficient land zoned for light
industrial uses located either in incorporated or unincorporated areas of the
county.
      4.   A statement describing detrimental and/or beneficial impacts on
existing adjacent lands and uses.
      5.   Design plan which shows:
         a.   Existence of natural screening, or the provision of reasonable
alternatives, to give separation of the proposed light industrial use from
surrounding existing uses. The cost of the screening is to be borne by the
individual(s) obtaining the industrial rezone.
         b.   Employee and service traffic flow to and within the proposed
light industrial area, and the parking facilities to be provided on site.
         c.   Location of utilities (water, sewer, gas and electricity).
         d.   Proposed layout of building(s), including lot coverage and
building area.
         e.   Plans for snow removal. (Ord. 2006-13, 10-26-2006; Ord. 94-2, 4-
4-1994; Ord. 92-3, 5-11-1992; Ord. 81-3, 8-24-1981; Ord. 79-4, 9-11-1979; Ord.
77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-26-3: PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE:
   A.   Hearing Date: Once the administrator certifies that an application for
reclassification of a zoning district is complete, and allowing sufficient time
to conduct a site visit and write staff reports, the administrator shall
schedule the application to be heard by the commission at the next available
regular commission meeting date for which public notice requirements can be
met. If a hearing before the commission cannot otherwise be held during a
regularly scheduled commission meeting within one hundred eighty (180) days of
certification, the administrator shall call a special commission meeting, to be
held not more than three (3) weeks after the end of the one hundred eighty
(180) days, to hear the application.
   B.   Publication Of Notice: Notice of the time, date and place of the
hearing, and a summary of the proposal shall be given by one publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county at least fifteen (15) days prior
to the hearing. The commission shall also make available a notice to other
newspapers, radio and television stations serving the county for use as a
public service announcement. Notice of the proposed amendment shall be sent to
all political subdivisions providing services within the county, including
school districts, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing
scheduled by the commission.
   C.   Mailing Of Notice: The administrator shall also give notice by United
States mail to each property owner or purchaser of record within the land being
considered and within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of
the land being considered, and within any additional area that may be impacted
by the proposed change as determined by the commission, giving the time, date
and the place of the hearing, the relief or other action sought by the
applicant, and an identification of the property under consideration. The
applicant is responsible for providing the administrator a list of the names
and addresses of property owners and purchasers of record within the land being
considered and within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of
the land being considered. When the land being considered is located in a
wellhead protection area, the name and address and mailing label(s) shall be
provided for all affected potable water source owners.
   D.   Posting Of Notice: Notice shall also be posted on the land being
considered as provided by chapter 31 of this title.
   E.   Alternative Forms Of Notice: When notice is required to two hundred
(200) or more property owners or purchasers of record for reclassification of
the zoning district to which property is subject under this chapter,
alternative forms of notice in lieu of posted or mailed notice may be provided
as set forth in chapter 31 of this title.
   F.   Continuance Of Hearing: In any public hearing on a reclassification of
the zoning district to which property is subject, the commission may order the
hearing to be continued. If during any such public hearing the hearing is
continued to a specific date, time and place within thirty one (31) days, no
further published notice shall be required. (Ord. 2006-13, 10-26-2006; Ord. 98-
3, 4-13-1998; Ord. 95-2, 3-6-1995; Ord. 94-2, 4-4-1994; Ord. 92-3, 5-11-1992;
Ord. 81-3, 8-24-1981; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-26-4: CRITERIA FOR REVIEW:
   A.   In acting upon an application for a reclassification or a
reclassification with a development agreement, the commission shall first
determine whether the proposal is in accordance with the comprehensive plan
text and map.
   B.   If the application is determined to be in accordance with the
comprehensive plan text and map, the board shall then consider, at least, the
following criteria:
      1.   Accuracy: Whether there was a mistake in the original zoning, or a
map amendment to the MOD is warranted under subsection B11 of this section.
      2.   Change: Whether there has been a change in the surrounding
neighborhood since the existing zoning was adopted.
      3.   Special Planning Area: Whether this or any adjoining property has
been designated a special planning area on the county zoning map.
      4.   Effect On Public: To what extent the public health, safety, or
general welfare may be adversely affected by the reclassification.
      5.   Conformity: Whether present zoning classifications are in conformity
with existing uses of adjacent property.
      6.   Availability Of Services: Whether central water and sewer services
are available.
      7.   Map Amendment Satisfied: Whether the relevant sections of chapter 31
of this title regarding a map amendment have been satisfied.
      8.   Development Agreement: Whether a development agreement that includes
stricter regulations than those applicable to the proposed zoning district
generally should be required as a condition of rezoning the subject parcel. See
section
9-26-8 of this chapter for the additional requirements that apply to a
reclassification with a development agreement.
      9.   Location Of Rezone: When the rezone is located within a wellhead
protection area, it may only be granted if best management practices will be
taken to mitigate the risk of contamination of public water systems and potable
water sources.
      10.   Light Industrial District Rezones: Additional criteria for proposed
light industrial rezones, unless satisfactorily addressed by a development
agreement, shall include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following:
         a.   Before approving any rezone application for a light industrial
zone, the board shall find that the following required standards are met:
            (1)   Maintenance of the Highway 75 view corridor by not allowing
industrial rezones within one thousand feet (1,000') of the Highway 75 right of
way except when they are to be located adjacent and contiguous to an existing
light industrial zone in or adjacent to the cities. In situations where the
topography indicates that a smaller setback will ensure maintenance of the view
corridor, reasonable flexibility may be allowed.
            (2)   Allowance of only one access off of Highway 75.
            (3)   Location of the property outside identified hazard areas such
as floodplain or avalanche zones with the exception of the airport vicinity
overlay district.
            (4)   Existence of natural screening or the provision of reasonable
alternatives to give separation from existing uses.
            (5)   Minimum size of area to be rezoned is ten (10) acres, unless
it is to be located adjacent and contiguous to an existing light industrial
zone in or adjacent to the cities.
            (6)   Location of the proposed light industrial area outside of
land zoned as A-20 or A-40 (productive agriculture).
         b.   In considering any rezone application for a light industrial
zone, the board shall consider the following factors as favoring the
application:
            (1)   Utilization or substitution of an existing access off of
Highway 75.
            (2)   Location adjacent to existing industrial uses in the cities.
            (3)   Accessibility of proposed area to employee and product
transportation lines.
            (4)   Provision of expanded employment opportunities in the county.
            (5)   Be economically beneficial to the county when compared to the
cost of county services needed.
         c.   In considering any rezone application for a light industrial
zone, the board shall consider the following factors as being unfavorable to
the application:
            (1)   Utilization of residential accesses to serve the industrial
area.
            (2)   Location of the proposed industrial area outside of and not
adjacent to any incorporated or unincorporated town sites.
      11.   Mountain Overlay District (MOD) Rezones: Boundary modifications are
of a topographic nature and therefore may impact more than one parcel or an
area greater than identified in the current application. In addition to
considering the general rezone standards set forth above in this section,
before approving any rezone application for the mountain overlay district
(including any land in the SC1), with or without a development agreement and
after a site visit and a review of all pertinent materials, the board shall
find that each of the following required standards are met:
         a.   The rezone is in accordance with the intent and purposes of the
MOD regulations described in chapter 21 of this title; and
         b.   The rezone consists of one of the following:
            (1)   All land of less than twenty five percent (25%) slope
contiguous to land outside of MOD where the MOD boundary was created by slopes
falling within the floodplain overlay or riparian setback district, or the bank
of a river or stream named in the national hydrography data set attached as
exhibit AA, dated July 8, 2010, to the ordinance codified herein, or
            (2)   All land of less than twenty five percent (25%) slope
contiguous to land outside of MOD where the MOD boundary was exclusively
created by the isolated artificial slopes falling within the right of way or
thirty feet (30') from the centerline of a manmade road cut; or
            (3)   All land of less than twenty five percent (25%) slope
contiguous to land outside of MOD, within a discrete drainage, traversed by a
dedicated, paved and accepted county road or a road designated as eligible for
improvement under a county approved master plan.
      12.   Standards And Criteria: If the applicant or landowner with respect
to an application for a rezone under this chapter is the state of Idaho, or any
agency, board, department, institution, or district thereof, the commission or
the board, in addition to all other applicable standards and criteria
hereunder, shall take into account the plans and needs of the state, or any
agency, board, department, institution or district thereof, as required by
Idaho Code section 67-6528. (Ord. 2011-01, 1-18-2011; Ord. 2010-10, 12-7-2010;
Ord. 2006-13, 10-26-2006; Ord. 2006-08, 6-29-2006; Ord. 2001-03, 3-19-2001;
Ord. 94-2, 4-4-1994; Ord. 81-3, 8-24-1981; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-26-5: ACTION BY THE COMMISSION:
   A.   Entry Of Order: The commission shall enter an order recommending for or
against the application within fifteen (15) days after conclusion of the public
hearing, together with the reasons therefor.
   B.   Expansion Of Boundaries; Second Hearing: The commission shall have the
option to recommend the expansion of the boundaries of any application to the
board after the initial public hearing. In such a case, a second public hearing
must be held to consider the revised boundaries, after giving public notice in
the same manner prescribed above.
   C.   Notice Of Second Hearing: In such case, the administrator shall
determine the names and addresses of the owners of each parcel of land within
three hundred feet (300') of the amplified boundaries and notify them by United
States mail of the upcoming hearing. (Ord. 94-2, 4-4-1994; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-
1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-26-6: NOTIFICATION BY ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Notice Of Recommendation: The administrator shall give the applicant
written notice of the commission's recommendation by certified mail within ten
(10) days after the commission has reached a decision.
   B.   Filing Of Recommendation: The administrator shall file the commission's
written recommendation with the county clerk within ten (10) days after such
recommendation has been made. (Ord. 94-2, 4-4-1994; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff.
4-7-1977)
9-26-7: ACTION BY BOARD:
   A.   Schedule Public Hearing: After receipt of the commission's
recommendation, the board shall schedule at its earliest convenience a public
hearing that complies with the requirements of section
9-26-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Adoption Of Motion: The board shall adopt a motion with written
findings approving, disapproving or modifying the commission recommendation. If
the board decides to modify the commission recommendation after the public
hearing, it shall follow the procedure set out in subsection 9-26-5B of this
chapter. (Ord. 94-2, 4-4-1994; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-26-8: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR RECLASSIFICATION WITH DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT:
Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6511A, the additional requirements of this
section shall apply to any written agreements between the county and an owner
or an owner's authorized agent made as a condition of reclassifying a specific
parcel of property; and furthermore, compliance with these additional
requirements does not obligate the commission to recommend or the board to
adopt any reclassification proposal. Nothing in this section shall be construed
as relieving any property which is subject to a development agreement from
complete compliance with all other applicable permit and code requirements.
   A.   Standards Of Review: In addition to the criteria set forth in section
9-26-4 of this chapter, the commission shall determine whether the application
for a reclassification with a development agreement:
      1.   Is compatible with the uses authorized in, and the regulations
prescribed for, the proposed zoning district;
      2.   Is compatible with surrounding zoning districts, or whether
reasonable conditions can sufficiently mitigate any incompatible use;
      3.   Will not adversely impact public services such as fire, water,
sewer, police, schools, transportation, or other entities; or whether exaction/
impact requirements need to be added beyond those required by any other
applicable county ordinances;
      4.   Will not adversely impact the orderly development of land;
      5.   Complies, to the extent applicable, with title 10, chapters 4,
"Procedure For Approval And Plat Contents", and 6, "Planned Unit Developments",
of this code;
   B.   Agreement Terms, Conditions Or Obligations: In acting upon an
application for a reclassification with a development agreement, the commission
may require any additional term, condition or obligation it deems reasonable to
address the specific circumstances of the application, the standards in section
9-26-4 of this chapter and subsection A of this section, or the general
purposes of this title.
   C.   Recording Of Development Agreements: At the applicant's expense, an
approved development agreement or any subsequent modification shall be recorded
in the Blaine County recorder's office. Proof of recording must be submitted by
the applicant prior to finalizing any rezoning decision. All the development
agreement terms, conditions, duties, or any modifications shall run with the
land and shall bind each owner of the parcel, each subsequent owner, and each
other person acquiring an interest in the property.
   D.   Modification Of Development Agreements:
      1.   Any proposal to modify a development agreement shall require a
public hearing that complies with the hearing and notice requirements set out
in section
9-26-3 of this chapter; and
      2.   Except as provided in subsection E of this section, a zoning
classification adopted pursuant to a request by a property owner shall not be
changed for a period of four (4) years without the consent in writing of the
current property owner.
      3.   Subject to subsection D2 of this section, the county may initiate a
development agreement modification if it can demonstrate that:
         a.   Subsequent applicable legislation is essential to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the public;
         b.   Relevant circumstances have changed materially since the
development agreement was executed;
         c.   The development agreement was based on materially inaccurate
information; or
         d.   The property owner or their authorized agent has failed to comply
with any development agreement term, condition or duty.
      4.   Any major modification, as determined by the planning director,
shall require a public hearing by the commission and the board. A minor
modification shall require a public hearing only by the board.
   E.   Enforcement Or Termination Of Development Agreements: The county shall
periodically review a project through completion to ensure compliance with the
terms of the development agreement. If it appears that there is a breach of any
term of the agreement, the county has the option of enforcing the terms of the
agreement or seeking termination of the agreement. The county shall recover
from the property owner any engineering or professional service costs necessary
to complete this review and any costs associated with an enforcement or
termination action.
      1.   Enforcement Of Development Agreements: The county may enforce a
development agreement by any means appropriate at law or in equity, including,
but not limited to, specific enforcement, injunctive relief, damages for
violation of this chapter.
      2.   Termination Of Development Agreements: The board, after a public
hearing that complies with the notice and hearing requirements, may terminate a
development agreement when a party fails to comply with any of its terms,
conditions, or obligations. Failure to comply with the terms, conditions or
obligations of a development agreement shall be deemed consent to rezone the
land back to the preexisting zone. Only those uses in the original zoning
district shall be allowed to continue so long as the conditions of approval in
the original zoning district are satisfied. (Ord. 94-2, 4-4-1994; Ord. 77-5, 3-
28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-26-9: RESUBMITTAL:
No application for the reclassification of a piece of property which has been
denied by the board or withdrawn by the applicant shall be resubmitted in less
than one year from the date of final action thereon. (Ord. 94-2, 4-4-1994; Ord.
77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
CHAPTER 27
NONCONFORMING USES AND BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-27-1: Purpose
9-27-2: Continuation Of Use
9-27-3: Change Of Use
9-27-4: Expansion Of Use Or Buildings
9-27-5: Discontinuance Of Use
9-27-6: Repair
9-27-7: Restoration
9-27-8: Single Nonconforming Lots Of Record
9-27-9: Nonconforming Lots Of Record In Combination
9-27-10: Existing Illegal Uses And Buildings
9-27-1: PURPOSE:
It shall be the policy of this Chapter to allow the continuation of existing
nonconforming uses and buildings, but not to encourage their survival or allow
an increase in size or intensity of use. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-77, eff. 4-7-77)
9-27-2: CONTINUATION OF USE:
A nonconforming use or building may be continued except as elsewhere provided
in this Chapter. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-77, eff. 4-7-77)
9-27-3: CHANGE OF USE:
A nonconforming use may be changed to a conforming use. A nonconforming use may
not be changed to another category of nonconforming use. Categories of use as
recognized and defined by this Chapter are: 1) Commercial, 2) Industrial and 3)
Residential. Nothing in this Section shall be construed to allow an expansion
of a nonconforming use as described in Section
9-27-4. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-77, eff. 4-7-77)
9-27-4: EXPANSION OF USE OR BUILDINGS:
Nonconforming uses and buildings shall not be enlarged or extended after
passage of this Title. Criteria used to determine enlargement or extension of a
nonconforming use shall include, but are not limited to, hours of operation,
square footage of building or use space, traffic generated, area of land
covered, volume of goods handled and number of dwelling units. A nonconforming
use shall not be used as justification for adding other structures or uses
prohibited in the same district. Criteria used to determine enlargement or
extension of a nonconforming building shall include, but are not limited to,
square footage of building, height of building, location of building relative
to required setback, number of dwelling units. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-77, eff. 4-7-
77; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-3-2023)
9-27-5: DISCONTINUANCE OF USE:
If active and continuous operations are not carried on in a nonconforming use
during a continuous period of six (6) months, the building or tract of land
shall thereafter be used only for a conforming use. Intent to resume active
operation shall not be considered active and continuous operation unless
written intent of continuation, including a timetable therefor, is filed with
the Board within the six (6) month period. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-77, eff. 4-7-77)
9-27-6: REPAIR:
   A.   Ordinary Repair Work: On any nonconforming structure, or portion of a
structure containing a nonconforming use, ordinary repair work may be done,
including repair or replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring or
plumbing, provided that the structure's volume when it became nonconforming
shall not be increased. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-77, eff. 4-7-77)
   B.   Reduction Of Nonconformity: Any structural alteration that would reduce
the degree of nonconformity or change the use to a conforming use is permitted.
(Ord. 79-4, 9-11-79; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-77, eff. 4-7-77)
   C.   Unsafe Condition: Any structure containing a nonconforming use, or any
nonconforming building or portion thereof, declared unsafe by the Building
Inspector may be strengthened or restored to safe condition. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-
77, eff. 4-7-77)
9-27-7: RESTORATION:
A nonconforming building or a building containing a nonconforming use which has
been damaged by natural causes may be restored to its original condition,
provided such work is started within six (6) months of such damage. A
nonconforming building or use that is moved or torn down by the owner cannot be
replaced. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-77, eff. 4-7-77)
9-27-8: SINGLE NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
   A.   Yard Dimensions And Requirements: In any district in which single-
family dwellings are permitted, a single-family dwelling and accessory building
may be erected on any single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or
amendment hereof, except where such lots are located in the floodplain overlay
district or other identified hazardous areas and thereby limited. This
provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the requirements for
lot area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the district,
provided that yard dimensions and requirements other than those applying to
area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations for the
district in which such lot is located.
   B.   Undersized Lot: A residential building on an undersized lot shall not
be considered a nonconforming building provided the building meets the bulk and
setback requirements in that district. (Ord. 2011-01, 1-18-2011; Ord. 77-5, 3-
28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-27-9: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD IN COMBINATION:
   A.   If two (2) or more lots or a combination of lots and portions of lots
with continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of
passage hereof and if all or part of the lots with no buildings do not meet the
requirements established for lot width or area, the lands involved shall be
considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this title and no
portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which diminishes
compliance with lot width and area requirements established by this title, nor
shall any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with a width or
area below the requirements stated in this title.
   B.   All lots in platted subdivisions which have been approved and filed for
recording with the Blaine County recorder shall be exempted from subsection A
of this section. (Ord. 2012-07, 10-9-2012)
9-27-10: EXISTING ILLEGAL USES AND BUILDINGS:
All buildings and uses that existed prior to the adoption of the ordinance
codified in this title and that were, at that time, in violation of the then
existing state statutes or county zoning regulations shall not be considered to
be either nonconforming uses or nonconforming buildings. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977,
eff. 4-7-1977)
CHAPTER 28
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES
SECTION:
9-28-1: Purpose
9-28-2: Off Street Parking Required, By Use Type
9-28-3: Access
9-28-4: Surface And Drainage
9-28-5: Lighting
9-28-6: Design And Location
9-28-7: Joint Use
9-28-8: Intensity Of Use Increases And Change Of Use
9-28-9: Off Street Loading Facilities
9-28-1: PURPOSE:
Accessory parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required herein
for every building and structure erected and every land use established after
the effective date hereof. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-28-2: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIRED, BY USE TYPE:
   A.   Off Street Parking Required:
      1.   Off street parking spaces, each containing at least one hundred
eighty (180) square feet, shall be required in all districts for all uses
minimally at the rates established in subsection B of this section for each
use. Parking requirements for a use not specifically listed shall be the same
as for a use specified below which has similar traffic generating
characteristics as determined by the county.
      2.   Minimum parking stall and aisle dimensions are as follows:
 
Angle      Width    Length    Aisle Width
90 degrees 9.0 feet 18 feet   24 feet
60 degrees 9.0 feet 21 feet   18 feet
45 degrees 9.0 feet 19.8 feet 15 feet
Parallel   8.0 feet 23 feet   -
 
      3.   All area counted as off street parking space shall be unobstructed
and kept clear of snow and free of other uses and snow storage.
      4.   Unobstructed access to and from a street shall be provided for all
off street parking space.
      5.   All off street parking spaces shall be surfaced with asphalt,
concrete, compacted gravel or other dustless material and shall be routinely
maintained. Compatibility with surrounding area and uses shall be encouraged.
      6.   Off street parking spaces may be provided in areas designed to serve
jointly two (2) or more buildings or users provided that the total number of
off street parking spaces shall not be less than that required by this section
for the total combined number of dwelling units and uses.
      7.   No part of an off street parking space required for any building or
use for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this section shall be
included as a part of an off street parking space similarly required for
another building or use.
      8.   No required off street parking space may be converted for any other
use unless an equivalent amount of additional parking space is provided.
      9.   When the calculation of the required number of spaces called for in
this section results in a fractional number, fractions equal to or greater than
one-half (1/2) shall be adjusted to the next higher whole number of spaces.
      10.   Lighting used to illuminate off street parking areas shall comply
with chapter 29A of this title.
   B.   Parking Spaces Required By Type Of Use:
      1.   Residential: Additional visitor parking may be required for any of
the following uses:
         a.   Single-family or two-family dwellings: Two (2).
         b.   Apartments or multi-family dwellings: One and one-half (11/2) per
dwelling unit.
         c.   Boarding houses, rooming houses, dormitories: One for each
sleeping room.
         d.   Mobile/manufactured home park, subdivision, and PUD: One and one-
half (11/2) per mobile/manufactured home.
         e.   Community buildings and facilities in community housing and other
planned unit or similarly planned developments: One per one thousand four
hundred (1,400) square feet of gross floor area.
      2.   Commercial:
         a.   Service stations and repair garages: One for each two (2) gas
pumps and two (2) for each service bay.
         b.   Hotels, motels, tourist homes: One per sleeping room, plus one
space for each two (2) employees.
         c.   Funeral parlors, mortuaries: One for one hundred (100) square
feet of parlors or service rooms.
         d.   Restaurants, taverns, nightclubs: One for each two hundred (200)
square feet of floor.
         e.   Bowling alleys: Four (4) for each lane plus one per two hundred
(200) square feet of restaurant/cocktail lounge.
         f.   Auditoriums, arenas, theaters: One for each four (4) seats.
         g.   Retail stores: One for each two hundred fifty (250) square feet
of floor area.
         h.   Offices, administration buildings: One for each three hundred
(300) square feet of floor area.
      3.   Public and semipublic uses:
         a.   Churches: One for each four (4) seats.
         b.   Hospitals: One for every two (2) beds plus employees' parking.
         c.   Nursing homes, homes for the aged: One for every four (4) beds
plus employees' parking.
         d.   Medical and dental clinics: One for every two hundred (200)
square feet.
         e.   Elementary and junior high schools: Two (2) for each classroom
and a minimum of six (6) per building.
      4.   Industrial: All types of manufacturing, storage, wholesale,
distribution: One for every two (2) employees on the large shift for which the
building is designed plus one for every motor vehicle used in the business.
(Ord. 2012-05, 6-5-2012; Ord. 2010-06, 5-25-2010; Ord. 2004-02, 5-3-2004; Ord.
77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-28-3: ACCESS:
All spaces must have unobstructed access to and from streets and alleys by
means of a driveway not less than ten feet (10') wide. Parking areas shall be
designed in such a manner that any vehicle leaving or entering the parking area
from or onto a public or private street shall be traveling in a forward motion.
Access driveways for parking areas or loading spaces shall be located in such a
way that any vehicle entering or leaving such area shall be clearly visible by
a pedestrian or motorist approaching the access or driveway from a public or
private street. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-28-4: SURFACE AND DRAINAGE:
Off street parking and loading areas shall be surfaced with asphalt, concrete,
compacted gravel, crushed rock or other dust free durable material. Drainage of
surface water adequate to prevent flows of water onto adjacent properties or
walkways shall be provided. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-28-5: LIGHTING:
Any lights used to illuminate a parking area shall comply with chapter 29A of
this title. (Ord. 2010-06, 5-25-2010)
9-28-6: DESIGN AND LOCATION:
Whenever a new parking or loading area is located in or adjacent to a
residential area, it shall be effectively screened on all sides which adjoin or
face any property used for residences by a wall, fence or planting screen not
less than four feet (4') in height. The space between such fence, wall or
planting screen and the lot line of the adjoining premises in any residential
district shall be landscaped with grass, hardy shrubs or evergreen ground cover
and maintained in good condition.
   A.   No part of any parking area for more than ten (10) vehicles shall be
closer than twenty feet (20') to any dwelling unit, school, hospital, or other
institution for human care located on an adjoining lot.
   B.   Parking spaces for commercial, industrial or institutional uses shall
be located not more than four hundred feet (400') from such use.
   C.   Parking spaces for apartments, dormitories or multi-family dwellings
shall be located not more than three hundred feet (300') from such use. (Ord.
77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-28-7: JOINT USE:
When times of use for several buildings do not normally overlap, off street
parking may be provided collectively and used jointly, after obtaining approval
from the commission. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-28-8: INTENSITY OF USE INCREASES AND CHANGE OF USE:
   A.   Increase In Use: When the intensity of any use of any building,
structure or premises is increased through the addition of dwelling units,
gross floor area, seating capacity or other units of measurement as specified
in subsection 9-28-2B of this chapter requiring parking or loading facilities,
parking and loading facilities as required herein shall be provided for such
increased intensity of use.
   B.   Change In Use: When the existing use of a building shall be changed to
an entirely new use, parking and loading facilities shall be provided as
required for such new use. If the building was erected prior to the effective
date hereof, additional parking and loading facilities are mandatory only in
the amount by which the requirements for the new use would exceed those for the
existing use if the latter were subject to the parking and loading provisions
of this chapter.
   C.   Conversion Of Space: No required off street parking space may be
converted to any other use unless an equivalent amount of additional parking
space is provided. (Ord. 2004-02, 5-3-2004; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-
1977)
9-28-9: OFF STREET LOADING FACILITIES:
Adequate off street loading spaces for commercial, industrial and institutional
uses shall be provided so that loading need not take place from public streets.
Off street loading facilities shall not project into the public right of way or
setback area. They shall be conveniently accessible from streets and alleys.
The required off street loading berths shall not be part of the same area used
to satisfy the off street parking requirements. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-
7-1977)
CHAPTER 29
SIGNS
SECTION:
9-29-1: Purpose
9-29-2: Restrictions
9-29-3: Permitted Signs For Uses Conducted On The Same Premises
9-29-4: Signs Permitted As A Conditional Use In Any District
9-29-5: Dimensional, Structural And Location Requirements
9-29-6: Nonconforming Signs
9-29-7: Lighting Of Signs
9-29-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate the use of signs, and billboards,
to ensure maximum visibility along streets and highways, to promote traffic
safety, to protect property values, to provide visibility for signs for public
and private purposes and to preserve and enhance the natural beauty and
aesthetic values of the County.
A certain character has been established in Blaine County and should be
maintained through the use of indigenous materials, for example, wood, rock and
earth tone colors. (Ord. 2018-05, 10-2-2018; Ord. 2018-03, 2-13-2018; 1996
Code; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-29-2: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Signs shall only identify or advertise uses conducted on the same
premises, unless approved under section
9-29-4 of this chapter.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, alter,
maintain or use any sign except as provided for in this chapter.
   C.   No sign shall be placed in any public right-of-way except:
      1.   Public signs, such as traffic control and directional signs.
      2.   Subdivision signs at the entrance to subdivisions to which the
primary access is a public road, if the sign:
         a.   Has been granted a right-of-way permit for an encroachment by
Blaine County Road and Bridge Department, and
         b.   Includes a visible indication that the road is a public road.
   D.   Moving, revolving, flashing, intermittent or oscillating signs, parts
or lights shall not be permitted.
   E.   Signs shall not look similar to devices controlling public traffic or
to impair the safety of a moving vehicle by distracting or obstructing the
vision of the driver.
   F.   Signs shall be maintained in good repair at all times. Abandoned signs
no longer in use shall be removed and the area returned to its natural state.
   G.   No more than one freestanding sign may be placed on a parcel. (Ord.
2018-03, 2-13-2018; Ord. 2013-04, 11-12-2013; Ord. 2010-03, 1-19-2010; Ord. 77-
5 as amended; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-29-3: PERMITTED SIGNS FOR USES CONDUCTED ON THE SAME PREMISES:
   A.   A sign permit is not required for the following signs:
      1.   Customary residential, professional and home occupation signs, not
to exceed two (2) square feet in surface area, may be erected in any district.
      2.   One single freestanding or wall sign, unlit, not to exceed six (6)
square feet in surface area, when advertising sale or rental of a lot, a
business or home, may be erected in any district. Farms and ranches may be
advertised by "for sale" signs up to ten (10) square feet in area.
      3.   Unlit signs advertising the sale or rental of a lot, home or
business abutting State Highway 75 may be located in any district with a twenty
five foot (25') yard setback providing that only one sign per lot, home or
business is used.
      4.   A ranch identification sign incorporated into the entry gate shall
be allowed, up to twenty (20) square feet.
      5.   Posting notices (e.g., "private property", "no trespassing") may be
erected anywhere on a parcel of land as long as the sign surface does not
exceed four (4) square feet.
      6.   One unlit sign with a surface area not to exceed fifteen (15) square
feet when advertising all lots for sale in a specific subdivision shall be
allowed in any district. The sign shall be temporary, and shall be located on
the subdivision property. The sign shall meet requirements of section
9-29-5 of this chapter.
      7.   One sign with a surface area not to exceed twenty (20) square feet
identifying a construction site. The sign shall be temporary and shall be
located on the property associated with the obtained building permit. The sign
shall be removed prior to Certificate of Occupancy.
   B.   A sign permit must be applied for and approved for the following signs.
Criteria for these signs shall be found in the applicable subsections of
sections
9-29-1 through
9-29-5 of this chapter.
      1.   One permanent, indirectly lit or unlit, identification sign with a
surface area not to exceed fifteen (15) square feet, shall be allowed for a
subdivision.
      2.   One identification sign in conjunction with commercial or industrial
uses, agricultural businesses, public uses and semi-public uses (e.g., non-
profit or philanthropic organization) shall be allowed, provided such sign does
not exceed twenty (20) square feet in surface area. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-13-2018)
9-29-4: SIGNS PERMITTED AS A CONDITIONAL USE IN ANY DISTRICT:
Off site, nonilluminated directional signs for identification of commercial,
residential, tourist, recreational or cultural uses as warranted by size and
remote location of the use with a maximum of six (6) square feet. (Ord. 77-5,
3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-29-5: DIMENSIONAL, STRUCTURAL AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Signs shall be subject to the following yard setback requirements:
      1.   From Highway 75: Thirty five feet (35') from the adjacent edge of
the right-of-way.
      2.   Other roads: Zero (0); sign location shall conform to sight vision
distance requirements of road intersections.
      3.   Side and rear lot lines not adjacent to a road: Ten feet (10').
   B.   A freestanding sign shall not project above the building height of the
nearest building to which the sign pertains. In no case shall the height of the
sign exceed ten feet (10') from the ground level to sign top.
   C.   No lettering on any sign, including cutout letter signs, shall exceed
eighteen inches (18") in height.
   D.   Projecting or wall signs shall not project above the eave line or
parapet wall of the building to which they are affixed and shall be a minimum
of eight feet (8') above grade when projecting over a pedestrian walkway. Such
signs shall not project out more than two feet (2') from the front or face of
the building, except where such a sign is an integral part of an approved
awning or canopy.
   E.   The area of a sign painted or imprinted on a wall, a sign composed of
cutout letters or other type of sign whose background has no clearly defined
dimension shall be equal to the smallest rectangular figure which can contain
copy, insignia background and other graphic elements.
   F.   Sign surface area is defined in section
9-2-1 of this title. Where a sign is double-sided, the allowable surface area
is per side. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-13-2018)
9-29-6: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
Each sign which is physically in place at the effective date hereof and which
does not conform to the requirements of this chapter may be continued until the
end of the following specified period of time, after which it shall be removed:
   A.   In the case of a lessee of premises for the sole purpose of maintaining
a sign: The expiration of the lease period or two (2) years from the effective
date hereof, whichever comes first.
   B.   In the case of a nonconforming on site sign, if such sign is leased
from another person, the expiration of the lease period or two (2) years from
the effective date hereof, whichever comes first.
   C.   In the case of a nonconforming on site sign, if the sign is owned by
the property owner and advertises interests which are on site, two (2) years
from the effective date hereof. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-29-7: LIGHTING OF SIGNS:
   A.   External Light Source: A sign lit by an external light source shall
specifically illuminate the sign and shall be downcast with the lighting source
not visible.
Example (allowed):
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7cb48253b0efda9dc27de6445f007dfbaf52ca8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1285.jpg]
   B.   Internal Lighting: A sign using internal lighting shall only illuminate
the copy portion (letters and symbols) of the signs. All other areas, including
background, shall be constructed, treated or colored in a manner which makes
those areas opaque.
Examples (allowed):
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7cb48253b0efda9dc27de6445f007dfbaf52ca8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1287.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7cb48253b0efda9dc27de6445f007dfbaf52ca8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1289.jpg]
Example (not allowed):
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7cb48253b0efda9dc27de6445f007dfbaf52ca8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1291.jpg]
   C.   Backlighting: Backlighting behind individually mounted letters and
symbols is allowed provided the lighting source is not visible.
Example (allowed):
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7cb48253b0efda9dc27de6445f007dfbaf52ca8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1293.jpg]
   D.   Flashing Or Intermittent Lights: Flashing or intermittent lights,
lights of changing degree of intensity or moving lights shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 2018-03, 2-13-2018)
CHAPTER 29A
OUTDOOR LIGHTING
SECTION:
9-29A-1: Purpose
9-29A-2: Applicability
9-29A-3: Definitions
9-29A-4: Outdoor Lighting Standards
9-29A-5: Complex Uses
9-29A-6: Prohibited Lighting
9-29A-7: Exemptions
9-29A-8: Procedure
9-29A-9: Penalties
9-29A-1: PURPOSE:
The general purpose of an outdoor lighting ordinance is to protect and promote
the public health, safety and welfare, while preserving and protecting the
scenic and aesthetic values and natural resources of Blaine County by
establishing regulations and a process for review of outdoor lighting. This
chapter establishes minimum standards for regulating outdoor lighting in order
to eliminate or reduce the nuisance and hazards of light pollution, including,
but not limited to: glare, light trespass, sky glow, energy waste, and negative
impacts on the nocturnal environment. (Ord. 2021-17, 10-19-2021; Ord. 2010-06,
5-25-2010)
9-29A-2: APPLICABILITY:
All outdoor lighting shall conform to the standards established by this
chapter. (Ord. 2021-17, 10-19-2021; Ord. 2010-06, 5-25-2010)
9-29A-3: DEFINITIONS:
FLOODLIGHT:  A lamp that is designed to flood a well defined area with light.
FULL CUTOFF  A luminaire designed and installed where no light is emitted at or above a
LUMINAIRES:  horizontal plane running through the lowest point on the luminaire.
FULLY        The luminaire incorporates a solid barrier (the shield), which permits no light
SHIELDED:    to escape through the barrier.
             Stray, unshielded light striking the eye that may result in:
             A.   Nuisance or annoyance glare such as light shining into a window;
GLARE:       B.   Discomfort glare such as bright light causing squinting of the eyes;
             C.   Disabling glare such as bright light reducing the ability of the eyes to
             see into shadows; or
             D.   Reduction of visual performance.
HOLIDAY      Strings of individual lamps, where the lamps are at least three inches (3")
LIGHTING:    apart and the output per lamp is not greater than fifteen (15) lumens.
KELVIN:      Temperature scale, in this context used to describe color of light.
LAMP:        The generic term for an artificial light source, to be distinguished from the
             whole assembly (see definition of Luminaire). Commonly referred to as "bulb".
LED:         A type of lamp which uses one or more light emitting diodes which can be of any
             of several colors.
LIGHT:       The form of radiant energy acting on the retina of the eye to make sight
             possible.
LIGHT COLOR: Color temperature specified in degrees Kelvin.
LIGHTING:    Any or all parts of a luminaire that function to produce light.
             Any adverse effect of manmade light including, but not limited to, discomfort to
LIGHT        the eye or diminished vision due to glare, light trespass, uplighting, the
POLLUTION:   uncomfortable distraction to the eye, or any manmade light that diminishes the
             ability to view the night sky.
LIGHT        Light falling on the property of another or the public right of way when it is
TRESPASS:    not required to do so.
             The unit used to quantify the amount of light energy produced by a lamp at the
             lamp. Lumen output of most lamps is listed on the packaging. For example, a
LUMEN:       sixty (60) watt incandescent lamp produces nine hundred fifty (950) lumens while
             a fifty five (55) watt low pressure sodium lamp produces eight thousand (8,000)
             lumens.
             A complete lighting unit, consisting of a lamp or lamps together with the parts
LUMINAIRE:   designed to distribute the light, to position and protect the lamps and to
             connect the lamps to the power. When used, includes ballasts and photocells.
             Commonly referred to as “fixture.”
NONESSENTIAL Lighting that is not necessary for an intended purpose after the purpose has
LIGHTING:    been served. Does not include any lighting used for safety and/or public
             circulation purposes.
             Temporary or permanent lighting that is installed, located or used in such a
OUTDOOR      manner to cause light rays to shine outdoors. Luminaires that are indoors that
LIGHTING:    are intended to light something outside are considered outdoor lighting for the
             purpose of this chapter.
SECURITY     Unshielded outdoor lighting for security purpose and not associated with an
LIGHTING:    outdoor activity that requires illumination.
             The overhead glow from light emitted sideways and upward. Sky glow is caused by
SKY GLOW:    the reflection and scattering of light by dust, water vapor and other particles
             suspended in the atmosphere. Sky glow reduces one's ability to view the night
             sky.
UPLIGHTING:  Fully shielded lighting that is directed in such a manner as to shine light rays
             above the horizontal plane. (Ord. 2021-17, 10-19-2021; Ord. 2010-06, 5-25-2010)
 
9-29A-4: OUTDOOR LIGHTING STANDARDS:
Unless exempted in
9-29A-7, shall comply with the regulations set forth in this section:
   A.   Light Fixtures:
      1.   Fixtures shall be mounted such that no light is emitted above the
horizontal plane of the fixture.
      2.   Any light source shall be downcast and fully shielded. Examples of
Unshielded (Prohibited) and Fully Shielded (Allowed) lights and luminaires
limiting light to the horizontal plane are shown below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7cb48253b0efda9dc27de6445f007dfbaf52ca8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1386.png]
   B.   Light Color: Correlated color temperature of any exterior light source
shall not exceed three thousand (3,000) Kelvin.
   C.   Light Trespass: All light fixtures, including security lighting, shall
be aimed and shielded so that the direct illumination shall be confined to the
property boundaries of the source. Refer to the diagram below. Particular care
is to be taken to assure that the direct illumination does not fall onto or
across any public or private street or road. Motion sensing light fixtures
shall be fully shielded or properly adjusted, according to the manufacturer's
instructions, to turn off when detected motion ceases.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7cb48253b0efda9dc27de6445f007dfbaf52ca8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1388.png]
   D.   Placement and Height Of Luminaires:
      1.   Parking area luminaires shall be no higher than seventeen feet (17')
in height as measured from the ground to the top of the highest light source.
      2.   All freestanding area lights within a residential zone, except
streetlights, shall be mounted at a height equal to or less than the sum of H =
3 + (D/3), where D is the distance in feet to the nearest property boundary,
but shall not exceed twelve feet (12') from ground level to the top of the
luminaire, whichever is less.
      3.   Streetlights used on arterial roadways shall be no higher than
twenty feet (20') in height.
      4.   The height of any light fixture or luminaire shall be no higher than
thirty feet (30') in height.
   E.   Controls. All nonresidential lighting fixtures shall employ automatic
lighting controls that extinguish exterior lighting when sufficient daylight is
available. Such controls include, but are not limited to: timers, wireless
remote monitoring with turn on/off capabilities, photo sensitive light
controls, photoelectric switches, occupancy sensors, astronomic time switches
or equivalent functions from a programmable lighting controller, building
automation system or lighting energy management system, all with battery or
similar backup power or device.
      1.   Exceptions:
         a.   Lighting required by Building Code;
         b.   Lighting necessary for public safety.
   F.   Lighting reduction: All nonessential outdoor commercial, recreational,
and residential lighting shall be turned off after business hours and/or when
not in use. Lights on a timer shall be used. Sensor activated lights shall be
used to replace existing lighting that is desired for security purposes.
   G.   No lighting shall be installed within the public right of way without
first receiving approval for any such application by the Land Use and Building
Services Department Director. (Ord. 2010-06, 5-25-2010)
9-29A-5: COMPLEX USES:
   A.   Uses in complexes such as stadiums, ball diamonds, playing fields,
outdoor rinks, ski areas, special events, tennis courts, construction sites,
parking structures, urban parks, ornamental and architectural lighting of
bridges, public monuments, statuary and public buildings, correctional
facilities, and industrial sites all have unique requirements for nighttime
visibility and often have limited hours of operation. They shall be exempted
from the standards in
9-29A-4, if the below standards are met and if their lighting has been approved
via issuance of a Conditional Use Permit, Building Permit or other Zoning
Permit.
      1.   The applicant shall demonstrate that every reasonable effort to
mitigate the effects of light on the environment and surrounding properties has
been taken, supported by a signed statement describing the mitigation measures.
      2.   Maximum height. Exterior luminaires shall not exceed a maximum post
height of sixty feet (60').
      3.   Fully Shielded. Each luminaire shall be fully shielded in either its
orientation or by landscaping to prohibit glare and light trespass to adjacent
residential property and must be installed and maintained with minimum aiming
angles of twenty-five (25) degrees downward from the horizontal.
      4.   Lights Extinguished. Lights shall be extinguished by ten o’clock
(10:00) p.m. or at the conclusion of the event, whichever is later. Lighting is
not allowed to remain on overnight. (Ord. 2021-17, 10-19-2021)
9-29A-6: PROHIBITED LIGHTING:
The following forms of outdoor lighting are prohibited from being installed or
used.
   A.   Except as otherwise allowed by this title, any lighting that is
flashing, blinking, rotating, chasing, or rapidly changing in color or
intensity is prohibited.
   B.   Searchlights, beacons, laser source, neon lighting, and other high-
intensity light fixtures.
   C.   Strings or strands of lights.
   D.   Lighting in which any single luminaire exceeds twenty thousand (20,000)
initial lumens.
   E.   Uplighting is prohibited in all zoning districts. (Ord. 2021-17, 10-19-
2021)
9-29A-7: EXEMPTIONS:
The following forms of outdoor lighting are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter and are not required to comply with its terms:
   A.   Lighting used primarily for agricultural activities including the
farming or ranching of land limited to:
      1.   Cultivation of the soil;
      2.   Production of forage, crops, or timber;
      3.   Growing of ornamental or landscaping plants;
      4.   Greenhouses; and
      5.   Rearing, feeding, and management of livestock. Security lighting
needs to comply.
   B.   Traffic control, roadway, vehicular lights and all temporary emergency
lighting.
   C.   Open flame gas lamps.
   D.   Flagpole lighting that is shielded and directed downward from the top
of the flagpole, provided the flag is of a government. Flags are encouraged to
be taken down at sunset to avoid the need for lighting.
   E.   Underwater lighting in swimming pools and other water features.
   F.   Lighting that is required to meet the federal aviation authority's
compliance standards.
   G.   Holiday Lighting displayed between November 15 and February 1, provided
the requirements in subsections
9-29A-4  B.,
9-29A-6  A. and
9-29A-6  B. are met. All holiday lighting shall be turned off by eleven o’clock
(11:00) P.M. in all zoning districts. (Ord. 2023-09, 10-3-2023; Ord. 2021-17,
10-19-2021; Ord. 2010-06, 5-25-2010)
9-29A-8: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Applications; Lighting Plan Required: All applications for conditional
use permits, planned unit developments, subdivision, recreation development
plans, applicable sign permits, or building permits shall include lighting
plans showing location, type, height, color temperature, amount of all proposed
and existing fixtures and boundary of lights.
   B.   The administrator shall review any new or existing outdoor lighting on
the subject property that is part of an application to determine whether the
lighting complies with the standards of this chapter. The administrator shall
convey in writing a recommendation whether the lighting complies with the
standards of this chapter to the building official, the board of county
commissioners, planning and zoning commission or hearing examiner before
issuing approval of any zoning permit, subdivision application, or certificate
of occupancy. The administrator, prior to issuance of its decision, may request
additional, relevant information from the applicant. (Ord. 2021-17, 10-19-2021;
Ord. 2010-06, 5-25-2010)
9-29A-9: PENALTIES:
A violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that such a violation continues shall constitute a
separate criminal offense. The landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder, public
official or any other person who commits, participates in, assists in or
maintains such violation may be found guilty of such a violation. (Ord. 2021-
17, 10-19-2021; Ord. 2010-06, 5-25-2010)
CHAPTER 29B
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND FENCES
SECTION:
9-29B-1: Accessory Structures
9-29B-2: Fences
9-29B-1: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
   A.   Detached Accessory Structures:
      1.   Detached accessory structures meeting all of the following criteria
are exempt from building permit:
         a.   Non-habitable (e.g., storage shed, livestock shelter - must be
utility "U" occupancy according to the International Building Code).
         b.   Maximum floor area of one hundred twenty (120) square feet.
         c.   Maximum building height of twelve feet (12'). See definition of
building height in section
9-2-1, "Definitions", of this title.
Detached accessory structures that do not meet all criteria of subsections A1a
through A1c of this section are required to have a building permit and shall
comply with the required yard setbacks of the zoning district within which they
are located.
      2.   Minimum yard setbacks for detached accessory structures meeting all
criteria of subsection A1 of this section are as follows:
         a.   Front yard setback: One hundred feet (100') on State Highway 75,
fifty feet (50') for other major roads, twenty five feet (25') for minor roads.
         b.   Side and rear yard setback: According to the minimum yard
setbacks of the zoning district within which they are located. Exceptions:
            (1)   On lots less than two (2) acres in size, three feet (3').
            (2)   One hundred feet (100') from State Highway 75.
            (3)   Thirty feet (30') from State- and Federally-managed public
lands.
         c.   Setback from any other building: Three feet (3').
   B.   Attached Accessory Structures: Attached accessory structures,
regardless of size, are required to have a building permit and shall comply
with the minimum yard setbacks of the zoning district within which they are
located. (Ord. 2018-05, 10-2-2018)
9-29B-2: FENCES:
   A.   Placement And Setback Regulations: Fences, posts and foundations must
be wholly contained within the subject property. There are no minimum yard
setback requirements for fences. Exceptions:
      1.   Fences within one hundred feet (100') of State Highway 75 shall
comply with chapter 21A, "Scenic Highway Overlay District (SHO)", of this
title.
      2.   Fences within any regulated overlay district or hazard area shall
comply with its corresponding setback.
   B.   Fences Requiring Building Permit: Fences over seven feet (7') tall
require a building permit. Interior fencing to prevent wildlife depredation of
stored livestock feed may be exempted.
   C.   Sight Obscuring Fence Prohibited: Fences, hedges, walls, latticework or
screens shall not be constructed in such a manner that vision necessary for
safe operation of motor vehicles or bicycles is obstructed. (Ord. 2018-05, 10-
2-2018)
CHAPTER 30
VARIANCES
SECTION:
9-30-1: Definition
9-30-2: Application For Variance
9-30-3: Public Hearing And Notice
9-30-4: Criteria For Review
9-30-5: Action By Commission
9-30-6: Notification By The Administrator
9-30-7: Appeals Process
9-30-8: Resubmittal
9-30-9: Expiration
9-30-1: DEFINITION:
"Variance" is defined as a modification of the requirements in this Title
regarding lot size, lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear
yard, setbacks, parking space and location, height of buildings or other
provisions affecting the size or shape of a structure or the placement of a
structure upon lots or the size of lots.
A variance shall not be considered a right or special privilege, but may be
granted to an applicant only upon a showing of undue hardship because of
characteristics of the site and only when the variance will not conflict with
the public interest. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-77, eff. 4-7-77)
9-30-2: APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE:
   A.   Form And Content: An application for a variance shall be filed with the
Administrator by at least one holder of an interest in the real property for
which such variance is proposed accompanied by the fee specified in Section
9-3-9 of this Title. This application shall include a map showing the lots and
parcels of land within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundaries of
the property in question, together with a list of the names and addresses of
the owners of each parcel within the three hundred feet (300'). (Ord. 95-4, 3-
20-95; Ord. 93-6, 7-19-93; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-77, eff. 4-7-77)
   B.   Review: The Administrator shall review the application for general
compliance with this Title and the County Comprehensive Plan. The Administrator
may refer the application to the County Engineer for technical review. The cost
of such review shall be at the applicant's expense and shall be paid prior to
public hearing. (Ord. 93-6, 7-19-93)
   C.   Concurrent Submission: A variance application may be submitted and
reviewed concurrently with other applications affecting the same piece of
property, with the approval of the Administrator. The Administrator may require
concurrent submission of a variance application with other land use
applications affecting the same parcel(s) of property. Additional time for
review of concurrent applications may be specified by the Administrator.
Concurrent submissions will be voted on separately. (Ord. 95-2, 3-6-95; Ord.
93-6, 7-19-93)
9-30-3: PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE:
Each application will be reviewed at a public hearing, for which adequate
public notice will be given.
   A.   Certification; Hearing:
      1.   Certification And Acceptance Of Application: Upon receipt of the
application and all other required data, the Administrator shall certify the
application as complete and affix a date of application acceptance thereon.
      2.   Scheduling Of Hearing:
         a.   Regular Meeting: Allowing sufficient time to conduct a site visit
and write staff reports, the Administrator shall then schedule the application
to be heard by the Commission whenever the next regular agenda opening is
available and the advertising requirements can be met.
         b.   Special Meeting: If no regular meeting time is available within
ninety (90) days of certification, the Administrator shall call a special
Commission meeting, to be held not more than three (3) weeks after the end of
the ninety (90) days, to hear the application.
   B.   Notice: Notice of the time, date and place of the hearing and a summary
of the proposal shall be given as follows:
      1.   Publication: One publication in the official newspaper or paper of
general circulation within the county's jurisdiction at least fifteen (15) days
prior to the hearing.
      2.   Notice To Property Owners: Notice to property owners or purchasers
of record within:
         a.   The land being considered; and
         b.   Three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land
being considered.
         c.   Notice to all Blaine County political subdivisions.
      3.   Supplying Of Names And Addresses: The applicant is responsible for
providing the required names and addresses of property owners or purchasers of
record to be notified.
   C.   Continuance Of Hearing Without Notice: In any public hearing on a
variance application the commission may order the hearing to be continued up to
thirty one (31) days at the same place, in which case no further published
notice shall be required. (Ord. 95-4, 3-20-1995; Ord. 92-3, 5-11-1992; Ord. 77-
5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-30-4: CRITERIA FOR REVIEW:
The commission has the authority to grant variances and shall consider the
following factors in ruling on a variance application:
   A.   Whether the granting of the variance will conflict with the public
interest as expressed in the Blaine County comprehensive plan.
   B.   Whether there are exceptional conditions creating an undue hardship,
applicable only to the property involved or the intended use thereof, which do
not apply generally to the property or class of use in the zone or district.
   C.   Whether the granting of such relief will be detrimental to the public
health, safety or welfare.
   D.   Whether the owner can derive a reasonable use of the owner's land
without a variance.
   E.   Whether the variance will effect a change in zoning.
   F.   Whether the variance will be injurious to the property or improvements
of others.
   G.   If the applicant or landowner with respect to an application for a
variance under this chapter is the state of Idaho, or any agency, board,
department, institution, or district thereof, the commission or the board, in
addition to all other applicable standards and criteria hereunder, shall take
into account the plans and needs of the state, or any agency, board,
department, institution or district thereof, as required by Idaho Code section
67-6528. (Ord. 2001-03, 3-19-2001; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-30-5: ACTION BY COMMISSION:
The commission shall enter an order approving, conditionally approving or
disapproving the application at the next regular meeting of the commission,
together with the reasons therefor. In acting upon such applications, the
commission may specify that approval shall be contingent upon the acceptance of
conditions it deems necessary to protect the rights of all affected property
owners and the general welfare. The application shall be denied upon a finding
by the commission that granting such relief will be detrimental to the public
health, safety or welfare. (Ord. 95-4, 3-20-1995; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-
7-1977)
9-30-6: NOTIFICATION BY THE ADMINISTRATOR:
The administrator shall give the applicant written notice of the commission's
decision by mail within ten (10) days after the commission has adopted the
findings of fact and conclusions of law. (Ord. 92-3, 5-11-1992; Ord. 77-5, 3-
28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-30-7: APPEALS PROCESS:
A decision by the commission on a variance application may be appealed to the
board through the procedure specified in section
9-32-4 of this title. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-30-8: RESUBMITTAL:
No application for a variance which has been denied by the commission or the
board, or withdrawn by the applicant, may be resubmitted within less than one
year of the final date of action thereon. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-30-9: EXPIRATION:
All variances shall expire one year after their issuance if a building permit
has not been obtained for the purpose of exercising the variance. (Ord. 77-5,
3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
CHAPTER 31
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
9-31-1: General Statement
9-31-2: Definition
9-31-3: Amendment Procedure
9-31-4: Action By The Commission
9-31-5: Action By The Board
9-31-6: Resubmission Of Application
9-31-1: GENERAL STATEMENT:
The text and maps of this title may be amended whenever the board deems that
amendment is required for public convenience or necessity, or for the general
welfare. All proposals to add, repeal or amend any of the provisions of this
title shall be enacted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and Idaho
Code, section 67-6501 et seq., as it shall be amended from time to time;
provided, that applications by property owners for reclassification of the
zoning district to which their property is subject shall be governed by chapter
26 of this title. (Ord. 98-3, 4-13-1998; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-31-2: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, an "amendment" shall mean any change, supplement or
repeal of the provisions of this title. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-31-3: AMENDMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Initiation: Amendments to this title may be initiated by adoption of a
motion by the commission or the board, or by the filing of an application with
the administrator by any person.
   B.   Application Requirements: Applications for amendments to this title
submitted by any person shall contain at least the following information:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
      2.   Proposed amendment;
      3.   Present land use;
      4.   Present zoning district and proposed zoning district;
      5.   Proposed use;
      6.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the administrator showing
property lines, thoroughfares, existing and proposed zoning and such other
items as the administrator may require;
      7.   In the case of a proposed amendment involving a zoning district
boundary change, a list of the names and mailing addresses of all property
owners and purchasers of record within the land being considered, and within
three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being
considered, and any additional area that may be impacted by the proposed change
as determined by the commission. When the land being considered is located in a
wellhead protection area, the name and address and mailing label(s) shall be
provided for all affected potable water source owners;
      8.   A statement of the extent and nature of the proposed amendment. Such
statement shall include information on the effects of any proposed zone change
upon the delivery of services by any political subdivision providing services,
including school districts, within the planning jurisdiction, and a cost/
benefit analysis of the impacts to residents and taxpayers of Blaine County.
When the land being considered is located in a wellhead protection area, the
applicant shall include a statement addressing how potable water source(s) will
be affected by the proposed zone change;
      9.   Written agency comment shall be solicited and the request documented
for input from Idaho department of environmental quality and, in addition,
written comment from any other appropriate agency, including, but not limited
to, owners of public water systems located within the wellhead protection area,
if this is determined by the administrator to be necessary;
      10.   A statement of all facts bearing upon the determination that the
proposed amendment is in accordance with the comprehensive plan. Such statement
shall include a discussion of the manner in which the proposed amendment
reflects the goals of, and takes into account the relevant factors in the
comprehensive plan in light of the present factual circumstances surrounding
the proposed amendment;
      11.   The application must be accompanied by a filing fee as provided by
resolution or ordinance of the board. Advertising and notice costs hereunder
are at the expense of the applicant, including the costs of any additional
advertisements required by the administrator.
   C.   Review By Administrator; Cost: The administrator shall review all text
and map amendment applications for consistency with this title and the county
comprehensive plan. The administrator may refer such application to the county
engineer for technical review. Cost of such review shall be borne by the
applicant and shall be paid prior to public hearing. (Ord. 2006-13, 10-26-2006;
Ord. 98-3, 4-13-1998; Ord. 93-6, 7-19-1993; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-
1977)
9-31-4: ACTION BY THE COMMISSION:
   A.   Commission Evaluation Of Application: Proposed amendments to this
title, by application or by motion of the commission or board, shall be
submitted to the commission, which shall evaluate the facts and circumstances
of the proposal to determine the nature and extent of the amendment, the
reasons therefor, whether it is in accordance with the comprehensive plan, the
effect on potable water sources, and the impacts of the proposal upon the
delivery of services by any political subdivision providing public services,
including school districts, within the county.
   B.   Commission Recommendation: If the commission finds the proposal is in
accordance with the comprehensive plan, and would not result in demonstrable
adverse impacts upon the delivery of services by any political subdivision
providing public services, including school districts, within the county, the
commission may recommend the proposed amendments to the board.
   C.   Nonconformance With Comprehensive Plan: If the commission finds the
proposal is not in accordance with the comprehensive plan, or would result in
demonstrable adverse impacts upon the delivery of services by any political
subdivision providing public services, including school districts, within the
county, the commission shall notify the applicant of this finding and inform
the applicant that applicant must successfully apply for an amendment to the
comprehensive plan before the amendments requested in the proposal may be
considered further.
   D.   Commission Public Hearing: The commission shall hold at least one
noticed public hearing on any proposed amendment to this title, in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard.
      1.   Notice For Public Hearing: At least fifteen (15) days prior to the
noticed public hearing on any proposed amendment to this title, notice of time,
date and place of the public hearing, and a summary of the proposed amendment
shall be published in the official newspaper or paper of general circulation
within the county. The commission shall also make available a notice to other
newspapers, radio and television stations serving the county for use as a
public service announcement. Notice of the proposed amendment shall be sent to
all political subdivisions providing services within the county, including
school districts, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing
scheduled by the commission.
      2.   Additional Notice Requirements For Zoning District Amendments: Where
a proposed amendment to this title includes a proposal to rezone property or
change a zoning district boundary, the following additional notice of public
hearing shall be provided:
         a.   Posting Of Notice: A notice sign, as provided by the
administrator, shall be posted on the premises not less than one week prior to
the hearing. Where possible, the posting location should be on or near the
property line closest to a public thoroughfare or, if no such thoroughfare
exists, on or near the property line of the nearest adjoining property not
owned by the applicant, of which neither the applicant nor the government has a
proprietary interest.
         b.   Mailing Of Notice: Notice of the time, date and place of the
public hearing and a summary of the proposal shall be provided by mail to all
property owners and purchasers of record within the land being considered;
within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being
considered; and within any additional area including a wellhead protection area
that may be impacted by the proposed change as determined by the commission.
When the land being considered is located in a wellhead protection area, notice
shall be provided to all affected potable water source owners.
      3.   Alternative Forms Of Notice: When notice is required under this
title to be given to two hundred (200) or more property owners or purchasers of
record, alternative forms of notice in lieu of posted or mailed notice may be
provided as follows:
         a.   In lieu of mailed notice, and in addition to any other required
publication of notice, an additional notice of the time, date and place of the
hearing, including a summary of the proposal, shall be published not less than
one week prior to the hearing in the official newspaper and one additional
newspaper of general circulation within the county; and publication in one such
newspaper shall also include a reasonably sized advertisement, as determined by
the administrator, which is not less than two (2) columns by four inches (4").
         b.   In lieu of posted notice on the premises, notices shall be
posted, not less than two (2) weeks prior to the hearing, in not less than five
(5) locations of high public use within the county, including locations such as
post offices, and other government buildings open to the public; preference
shall be given to posting at such locations within or near the affected areas
of the county.
         c.   At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, a notice shall
be made available to other newspapers, radio and television stations servicing
the county for use as a public service announcement.
      4.   Material Change By Commission: Following such public hearing, if the
commission recommends a material change from what was presented at the public
hearing, the commission may forward its recommendation to the board and notice
of the original proposal before the commission and material change shall be
included in the notice of public hearing provided by the board. If the
commission determines additional hearing is necessary or desirable, notice of
hearing shall be provided as required by applicable code before a
recommendation to the board is made.
   E.   Transmittal Of Commission Recommendation: The commission may recommend
that the amendment be granted as requested, or it may recommend a modification
of the amendment requested, or it may recommend that the amendment be denied.
Such recommendation shall be promptly transmitted to the board.
   F.   Entry Of Order: The commission shall enter its written decision
recommending for or against the proposed amendment at the conclusion of the
noticed public hearing, or at its next regularly scheduled commission meeting
after the conclusion of the public hearing.
   G.   Maintenance Of Records: The administrator shall maintain a record of
all public hearings, findings made, and actions taken by the commission. (Ord.
2006-13, 10-26-2006; Ord. 2001-02, 3-19-2001; Ord. 98-3, 4-13-1998; Ord. 92-3,
5-11-1992; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977; Ord. 2023-01, 1-3-2023)
9-31-5: ACTION BY THE BOARD:
   A.   Hearing: The board, prior to adopting, revising or rejecting the
amendment as recommended by the commission, shall conduct at least one public
hearing using notice and hearing procedures set forth in section
9-31-4 of this chapter. The board shall not hold the public hearing, give
notice of a proposed public hearing, or take action upon the proposed
amendments until the recommendation has been received from the commission.
Following consideration by the board, if the board makes a material change to
the recommendation or alternatives contained in the recommendation by the
commission concerning the proposed amendments, further notice and hearing shall
be provided before the board amends this title.
   B.   Passage Of Amendment: Upon approval of an amendment as recommended by
the commission or as revised by the board, the board shall pass an ordinance
making said amendment a part of this title. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-19-2001; Ord. 98-
3, 4-13-1998; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-31-6: RESUBMISSION OF APPLICATION:
No application for a reclassification of any property which has been denied by
the board shall be resubmitted in either substantially the same form or with
reference to substantially the same premises for the same purposes within a
period of one year from the date of such final action, unless there is an
amendment in the comprehensive plan which resulted from a change in conditions
as applying to the specific property under consideration. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-
1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
CHAPTER 32
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-32-1: Administrator
9-32-2: Planning And Zoning Commission
9-32-3: Appeals From Decisions Of The Administrator
9-32-4: Appeals To The Board
9-32-5: Enforcement; Penalty
9-32-1: ADMINISTRATOR:
The board shall appoint an administrator to administer this title. The
administrator may be provided with the assistance of such other persons as the
board may direct. The administrator's duties include, but are not limited to,
the following:
   A.   Advise interested citizens of the zoning ordinance provisions.
   B.   Inform the news media regarding land use and zoning matters of public
interest, particularly the time and place of public hearings.
   C.   Prepare the agenda for the monthly meetings of the commission.
   D.   Aid applicants in the preparation of required forms and permit
applications. Where practical, the administrator may combine related permits
for the convenience of the applicant.
   E.   Investigate all violations of this title and notify in writing the
person responsible for such violation(s), ordering the action necessary to
correct such violation.
   F.   Receive, file and transmit to the commission or board all applications,
petitions, transcripts and other communications on which they must act. Advise
the commission and the board of pertinent provisions of the title regarding
development proposals.
   G.   Maintain permanent and current records of applications,
reclassifications, variances and conditional use permits and of the hearings
and actions thereon.
   H.   Inspect and make recommendations upon all filed plats pursuant to title
10 of this code.
   I.   Interpret boundaries of zone districts.
   J.   Provide a liaison between the commission and the board. (Ord. 77-5, 3-
28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
9-32-2: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION 1 :
   A.   Established: A planning and zoning commission shall be established.
(Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
   B.   Membership:
      1.   Appointment: The commission shall consist of seven (7) voting
members, each appointed by the chairperson of the board of county commissioners
and confirmed by the majority vote of the board.
      2.   Purpose: The board shall ensure that the interests of the entire
county are broadly represented on the commission and shall select the members
without respect to political affiliation.
      3.   Residency: Each member must remain a resident of the county during
his/her service on the commission. Each member shall have lived in Blaine
County for at least five (5) years prior to the commencement of membership on
the commission. Not more than one-third (1/3) of the appointed members may
reside within an incorporated city of one thousand five hundred (1,500) or more
population in the county. Each city council shall have opportunity to submit
nominations to the board for potential members from that city.
      4.   Term: Each member will serve for a term of three (3) years.
Unexpired terms shall be filled in the same manner as the original
appointments. Members may be removed for cause or have their term renewed, by a
majority vote of the board. (Ord. 2008-01, 1-15-2008; 1996 Code; Ord. 90-7, 10-
22-1990; Ord. 90-3, 4-9-1990; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
   C.   Conflict Of Interest: A member or employee of the commission shall not
participate in any proceeding or actions when the member or employee (or his/
her employer, business partner, associate or any person related to him/her by
affinity or consanguinity within the second degree) has economic interest in
the procedure or action. Any actual or potential interest in any proceeding
shall be disclosed at or before any meeting at which the action is being heard.
A knowing violation of this subsection shall be a misdemeanor.
   D.   Organization: The commission shall elect a chairperson and create any
additional offices it may deem necessary. The commission may establish
subcommittees, advisory committees or neighborhood groups to advise and assist
in carrying out the responsibilities under this chapter. The commission may
enact a set of bylaws to guide its operation.
   E.   Meetings, Records And Voting: At least one regular meeting shall be
held each month for not less than nine (9) months in a year; additional special
or workshop meetings may be scheduled as necessary. All meetings and records
shall be open to the public. A record of meetings, hearings, resolutions,
studies, findings, permits and actions taken shall be maintained. All members
shall have voting rights; a majority of the members of the commission shall
constitute a quorum.
   F.   Expenditures And Staff: With approval of the board, the commission may
receive and expend funds, goods and services from the federal, state or local
government agencies or from civic and private sources. Expenditures by the
commission shall be within the amounts appropriated by the board. Within such
limits, the commission is authorized to hire or appoint nonvoting technical
advisors.
   G.   Responsibilities And Duties: The commission shall hold public meetings,
hearings, surveys, etc., to obtain input to the planning process. The
commission may also conduct informational meetings to consult with public
officials and agencies, civic or professional organizations, etc. As a result
of such meetings, the commission may submit recommendations to the board
concerning the planning process. Further, the commission shall:
      1.   Initiate amendments to titles 9 and 10 of this code and the
comprehensive plan.
      2.   Periodically review all privately proposed amendments to this title
and the comprehensive plan and make recommendations to the board.
      3.   Review development proposals according to the process outlined in
title 10 of this code.
      4.   Review applications for zoning reclassifications and make
recommendations to the board.
      5.   Review conditional use permit applications and applications for
variances.
      6.   Hear and decide appeals when it is alleged that an error has been
made by the administrator. (Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-1977)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 67-6501 et seq.
9-32-3: APPEALS FROM DECISIONS OF THE ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Appeal To Board: Any person aggrieved by a decision of the
administrator made in interpreting or enforcing this title may appeal such a
decision to the board by filing a notice of appeal with the board within twenty
(20) calendar days of the date of such decision, stating the date and nature of
the decision appealed from and the grounds for the appeal. The cost of an
appeal from decisions of the administrator shall be in accordance with the
schedule of fee requirements given in section
9-3-9 of this title. The appellant shall lodge all legal and factual material
in support of the appeal with the administrator within fourteen (14) calendar
days after the notice of appeal is filed. If any of such lodged material had
not been submitted to the administrator prior to the administrator's decision,
the board may remand the matter to the administrator for reconsideration in
light of the new material.
   B.   Hearing By Board: The board shall hold a public hearing on all appeals
from decisions of the administrator during the next available date after the
appellant has complied with the requirements of this section. The board shall
base its decision upon the record before the administrator and any additional
lodged material. However, the board may, in its discretion, allow additional
material and evidence if there were good reasons for failure to submit the
material and evidence within fourteen (14) calendar days of the filing of the
notice of appeal, but any such additional written material and evidence shall
be submitted to the board at least fourteen (14) days prior to the public
hearing. Whenever an appellant lodges additional material or evidence with the
board that was not submitted to the administrator prior to its decision, the
administrator shall be entitled to lodge with the board prior to public hearing
any additional material or evidence relevant to the appeal.
   C.   Decision By Board: The board shall, within twenty eight (28) calendar
days after the public hearing, enter a written order affirming, reversing or
modifying the administrator's decision. The order shall also contain the
reasons for the board's decision. On its own motion, the board may, within
fourteen (14) calendar days of issuing a written decision, reconsider that
decision. (Ord. 2024-04, 2-13-24; Ord. 2008-06, 3-11-2008; Ord. 98-1, 1-7-1998;
Ord. 94-3, 5-16-1994; Res. 93-6, 3-22-1993; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-7-
1977)
9-32-4: APPEALS TO THE BOARD:
   A.   Appeal; Rehearing: Any person aggrieved by any final action of the
Commission may either:
      1.   Decision To Appeal: Appeal the Commission's decision to the Board by
filing a notice of appeal within twenty (20) days of the Commission's final
action; or
      2.   Request For Rehearing: At the applicant's option, may request a
limit of one rehearing before the Commission to reconsider one or more of any
conditions attached to the Commission's decision. The applicant will inform the
Administrator of what changes are requested. The Administrator will confer with
the Commission Chairperson and if the requested changes would not materially
affect the Commission's decision, a rehearing would be permitted. If the
rehearing is denied, the applicant may still exercise appellant's rights under
the Board appeal process.
      3.   Notice Of Appeal: The notice of appeal shall state the date and the
substance of the decision appealed from and state the grounds for the appeal.
      4.   Written Request; Fee: Reappearance before the Commission may be made
by written request to the Administrator and shall include a fee in accordance
with the schedule of fee requirements given in Section
9-3-9 of this Title. This fee shall be refunded if the reappearance is denied.
      5.   Filing Notice; Costs Of Appeal: Copies of the notice of appeal shall
be filed with the Board and the Commission. In the case of a Board appeal, the
Administrator shall provide any such aggrieved party with a written statement
of the estimated cost of transcript preparation. The cost of an appeal shall be
in accordance with the Schedule of Fee requirements given in Section
9-3-9 and shall include a base fee plus the cost of transcript preparation. The
cost of such preparation shall be based on current costs of outside temporary
employees to furnish such transcripts and the cost shall be borne by the
appellant.
   B.   Transmission Of Record: Within thirty (30) days after a notice of
appeal is filed with the Commission, the Commission shall prepare three (3)
copies of a summary of the proceedings appealed from and forward said summary
to the Board. A transcript of the proceedings may be prepared, and such
transcripts shall be prepared at the appellant's expense. The cost of the
transcripts shall be paid in full before the transcript may be forwarded to the
Board. The Commission shall serve one copy of the summary or transcript on the
appellant and one copy on the attorney for the respondent. The Commission shall
submit to the Board with the summary or transcript all documents, exhibits and
orders pertinent to the appeal. The entire record shall be forwarded to the
Board with a certificate signed by the Administrator listing all documents in
the record in chronological order of filing together with the Administrator's
certificate stating that the documents listed comprise the complete record of
the Commission's proceedings. Depending on the level of need, a summary of the
proceedings may include, but is not limited to, minutes of the proceedings and/
or relevant portions of the transcript.
   C.   Briefs On Appeal:
      1.   Definition: For the purpose of this Section, "brief" is defined as
any written document, regardless of form, outlining the parties' legal
positions. Parties to an appeal are not required to file briefs. If a party
chooses not to file briefs, the time restrictions under this subsection do not
apply to that party. If a party chooses not to file a brief, the Administrator
shall be notified in writing. The Administrator shall then schedule a hearing
pursuant to Section 9-32-4D of this Chapter.
      2.   Number Of Copies: The original and four (4) copies of all appellate
briefs shall be filed with the Administrator.
      3.   Length Of Briefs: No brief in excess of ten (10) pages, exclusive of
any addendum or exhibit, shall be filed without consent of the Administrator.
      4.   Time For Filing: The appellant's brief shall be filed within
fourteen (14) calendar days of receipt of the transcript. The respondent's
brief shall be filed within fourteen (14) calendar days from receipt of the
appellant's brief. No briefs shall be accepted outside of the time periods
described under this subsection. If the Commission is the only respondent, no
respondent's brief is required.
      5.   Service Of Briefs: One copy of all appellate briefs shall be served
upon each party to the appeal. If the Commission or Administrator is the only
respondent, no further service other than that required under this subsection
shall be necessary.
   D.   Hearing By The Board: After the last brief is filed or if a party
chooses not to file any responsive brief, the Board shall hold a hearing on the
appeal. The Board shall publish a notice specifying the time, date and place of
the hearing and stating the subject of the appeal. The notice shall be
published once in the newspaper of general circulation at least fifteen (15)
calendar days prior to the hearing. In addition, the same notice requirements
as were applicable to the hearing, if any, at which the decision being appealed
was made shall be met, including advising that materials submitted pertaining
to the appeal are available for public inspection prior to the appeal hearing.
No party may present more than five (5) minutes of oral argument to the Board
unless otherwise allowed by the Chairperson. Other than exhibits and documents
in the record, briefs and oral arguments, the Board shall not consider any
other information.
   E.   Decision By The Board: The Board shall enter an order after the hearing
affirming, reversing or modifying the Commission's decision. The order shall
contain a statement of the reasons for the Board's decision and shall be served
on all parties to the appeal. On its own motion, the Board may, within fourteen
(14) calendar days of issuing a written decision, reconsider that decision.
   F.   Request For Rehearing On Board's Decision: An applicant aggrieved by
any final action of the Board to which conditions were attached may request a
limit of one rehearing before the Board to reconsider one or more of any
conditions attached to the Board's decision. A written request for rehearing
shall toll the time for filing an appeal. The applicant will inform the
Administrator of what changes are requested. The Administrator will confer with
the Board Chairperson and, if the requested changes would not materially affect
the Board's decision, a rehearing would be permitted. If the rehearing is
denied, the applicant may still exercise applicant's rights to further appeal
the Board's decision. Reappearance before the Board may be made by written
request to the Administrator and shall include a fee as adopted by the Board of
Commissioners. This fee shall be refunded if the reappearance is denied. (Ord.
2024-04, 2-13-24; Ord. 94-3, 5-16-94; Ord. 93-6, 7-19-93; Res. 93-6, 3-22-93;
Ord. 77-5, 3-28-77, eff. 4-7-77)
9-32-5: ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY:
The provisions of this Title shall be enforced in the following manner:
   A.   Violation: Whenever a violation of this Title occurs, or is alleged to
have occurred, any person may file a written complaint with the Administrator
stating the causes and basis thereof. The Administrator shall investigate and
forward to the Blaine County Prosecuting Attorney the results of such
investigation and the complaint.
   B.   Criminal Penalty: A violation of this Title shall be a misdemeanor, and
subject to penalty as provided in Section 1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that
such a violation continues shall constitute a separate criminal offense. The
landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder, public official or any other person who
commits, participates in, assists in or maintains such violation may be found
guilty of such a violation.
   C.   Civil Penalties: In addition to the criminal sanctions in subsection B
above, whenever a violation of this Title occurs, the Board may institute
proceedings in the District Court seeking civil penalties not to exceed one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per day.
   D.   Civil Action By County: Whenever it appears to the Board that any
person has engaged or is about to engage in any act or practice violating any
provision of this Title, the Board may institute a civil action in the District
Court to enforce compliance with this Title.
   E.   Civil Action By Private Citizen: Nothing herein shall be construed as
preventing any private citizen from pursuing any available civil remedy for the
prevention of any activity which constitutes a violation of this Title.
   F.   Withholding of Permits: The Administrator may withhold permits or
application consideration, including but not limited to variances, conditional
use permits, rezones, site alterations, building permits and certificates of
occupancy, on lots or parcels of land where a violation of Title 7, 9, or 10 of
this Code exists, unless the permit being requested is to resolve the violation
(s). (Ord. 2024-05, 2-13-24; Ord. 79-4, 9-11-79; Ord. 77-5, 3-28-77, eff. 4-7-
77)
CHAPTER 33
HEARING EXAMINER
SECTION:
9-33-1: Qualifications And Designation Of Hearing Examiners
9-33-2: Referral Of Applications To Hearing Examiners
9-33-3: Conflict Of Interest Prohibited
9-33-4: Notice, Hearing And Records
9-33-5: Duties Of The Administrator
9-33-6: Conduct Of Hearings
9-33-7: Standards And Criteria
9-33-8: Hearing Examiner's Findings And Decision
9-33-9: Appeals From Decisions Of The Hearing Examiner
9-33-1: QUALIFICATIONS AND DESIGNATION OF HEARING EXAMINERS:
The Board by resolution shall prescribe the minimum qualifications for hearing
examiners, which shall include experience in the field of planning and zoning.
The Board shall designate those persons who may be appointed by the Board as
hearing examiners, shall determine compensation and other contractual terms
with hearing examiners, and shall have the power, subject to any contractual
terms, to dismiss any hearing examiner. (Ord. 97-4, 10-20-1997)
9-33-2: REFERRAL OF APPLICATIONS TO HEARING EXAMINERS:
   A.   Notwithstanding any provision of this Title to the contrary, the Board
by resolution shall designate those applications of a routine nature that do
not require policy decisions which shall be referred to the hearing examiner.
   B.   Applications which otherwise shall be referred to the hearing examiner
may be heard by the Commission or Board when such applications are submitted
concurrently with other applications which shall be heard by the Commission or
Board.
   C.   If no hearing examiner is appointed, the applications determined and
defined by resolution of the Board shall be referred to the Commission. (Ord.
97-4, 10-20-1997)
9-33-3: CONFLICT OF INTEREST PROHIBITED:
The conflict of interest provisions of this Title and title 67, chapter 65,
Idaho Code, shall apply to hearing examiners, and a hearing examiner shall not
participate in the hearing of an application where a conflict of interest
exists that would preclude participation under those provisions. The hearing
examiner is further subject to the conflict of interest and other provisions
contained in the by-laws of the Blaine County Planning and Zoning Commission,
revised June 15, 1995. (Ord. 97-4, 10-20-1997)
9-33-4: NOTICE, HEARING AND RECORDS:
Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, the notice, hearing, and records
for an application before the hearing examiner shall be as provided in this
Code and State law for the hearing of such applications before the Commission.
(Ord. 97-4, 10-20-1997)
9-33-5: DUTIES OF THE ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Upon receipt of an application which shall be referred to the hearing
examiner, the Blaine County Planning and Zoning Administrator (hereinafter
referred to as "Administrator") or other Administrator's staff shall review the
application for completeness. The Administrator may require additional
information to be submitted by the applicant pursuant to provisions of this
Title where such information is deemed necessary to further the evaluation by
the hearing examiner. Upon finding that the application is complete, the
Administrator shall certify same. The Administrator shall refer said certified
application and all information attached thereto to the hearing examiner.
   B.   Copies of all applications referred to the hearing examiner and the
entire public record with regard thereto shall be kept in the Blaine County
Planning and Zoning Department offices and shall be made available to the
public for review for the period of time specified by State law and this Code
prior to any hearings of the hearing examiner. All applications referred to the
hearing examiner, hearing examiner reports, findings, decisions, records of
hearings, and other documentation related to said applications shall be kept in
the public records of the Blaine County Planning and Zoning Department. (Ord.
97-4, 10-20-1997)
9-33-6: CONDUCT OF HEARINGS:
The hearing examiner shall review all information supplied by the Administrator
prior to the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with this
Title and applicable State law upon a finding that notice was adequate and in
compliance with requirements contained in this Code and State law. Reasonable
time limits may be established at the outset of the hearing, and both the
applicant and other members of the public shall be given an opportunity to be
heard. Hearings may be continued in accordance with this Title. All hearings
shall be tape recorded. A transcribable record of all hearings before the
hearing examiner shall be kept and maintained pursuant to Idaho Code by the
Blaine County Planning and Zoning Department. (Ord. 97-4, 10-20-1997)
9-33-7: STANDARDS AND CRITERIA:
In hearing an application, the hearing examiner shall apply the standards and
other criteria that are applicable under this Title, other ordinances, the
Comprehensive Plan and State law to a direct review of such an application by
the Commission. (Ord. 97-4, 10-20-1997)
9-33-8: HEARING EXAMINER'S FINDINGS AND DECISION:
   A.   After a hearing is closed, the hearing examiner shall prepare a written
document (hereinafter referred to as "findings of fact and decision") which
shall include: 1) a brief description of the application; 2) a summary of
testimony received; 3) the ordinance and standards used in evaluating the
application; 4) a finding as to the adequacy of notice; 5) findings of fact; 6)
conclusions of law; 7) decision; 8) conditions of approval; and 9) the actions,
if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a permit.
   B.   The findings of fact and decision as prepared by the hearing examiner
shall be signed and filed with the Administrator and shall be available to the
applicant and the public no more than fourteen (14) days after the close of the
hearing. (Ord. 97-4, 10-20-1997)
9-33-9: APPEALS FROM DECISIONS OF THE HEARING EXAMINER:
The findings of fact and decision of the hearing examiner may be appealed to
the Board in the manner prescribed by Chapter 32 of this Title, provided a
notice of appeal is timely filed as required by that Chapter. (Ord. 97-4, 10-
20-1997)
CHAPTER 34
POWER ZONING OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-34-1: Short Title And Purpose
9-34-2: Establishment Of Power Zoning Overlay District
9-34-3: Conditional Use Permit Required For Certain Uses
9-34-4: Development Standards
9-34-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
   A.   This chapter shall be known as the BLAINE COUNTY POWER ZONING OVERLAY
DISTRICT.
   B.   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety,
and general welfare, to minimize public and private losses due to the hazard
effects caused by high voltage power transmission lines. Specific goals are to:
      1.   Protect human life and health.
      2.   Continue to provide reliable power service to county residents.
      3.   Locate power corridors in areas of least impact to residents of the
county.
      4.   Locate power corridors in areas of least impact to extraordinary
natural, wildlife, historical, recreational, and cultural resources of the
county. (Ord. 2008-18, 12-2-2008)
9-34-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF POWER ZONING OVERLAY DISTRICT:
There is hereby established a power zoning overlay district identified and
described as all lands of the unincorporated areas of the county within
Township 7 South, Ranges 26 & 27 East, and Township 8 South, Ranges 26, 27 & 28
East, B.M. where power transmission lines greater than two hundred thirty (230)
kilovolts shall be located. (Ord. 2008-18, 12-2-2008)
9-34-3: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN USES:
Owners of private land within the power zoning overlay district shall be
required to obtain a conditional use permit to site power transmission lines
pursuant to the requirements of chapter 25 of this title. (Ord. 2008-18, 12-2-
2008)
9-34-4: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
All residential development shall be at a minimum setback three hundred fifty
feet (350') from the outside line of transmission lines greater than two
hundred thirty (230) kilovolts. (Ord. 2008-18, 12-2-2008)
CHAPTER 35
COMMUNITY HOUSING OVERLAY DISTRICT (CH)
SECTION:
9-35-1: Purpose And Provisions
9-35-2: Definitions
9-35-3: Establishment Of District
9-35-4: Developer Benefits
9-35-5: Permitted Uses
9-35-6: Accessory Uses
9-35-7: Conditional Uses
9-35-8: General Requirements For A CH-PUD
9-35-9: Developable Density
9-35-10: Standards For Evaluation
9-35-11: Conditions That May Attach
9-35-12: Application/Approval Procedure
9-35-13: Special Provisions
9-35-1: PURPOSE AND PROVISIONS:
The purposes of the Community Housing Overlay District are:
   A.   To identify areas that are considered suitable for the development of
compact community and other housing given the proximity to centralized water
and sewer services, transportation facilities and areas of employment.
   B.   To provide for densities above that permitted in the underlying zoning
district to encourage the provision of community housing in Blaine County.
   C.   To promote a greater diversity of living environments by encouraging
housing for a variety of socioeconomic households for sale and for rent, a
variety of residential densities, and a variety of housing types including
manufactured housing.
   D.   To achieve certain aesthetic and design qualities through a planned
unit development process.
The stated provisions of this chapter supersede the requirements of the
underlying zoning districts and Scenic Highway Overlay District. Modifications
to standard requirements of this title and title 10 of this Code with regard to
lot sizes and dimensions, bulk requirements, parking requirements, road widths
and other street and intersection improvement standards are warranted by the
benefits realized by the provision of community housing. In the event of a
conflict between this chapter and title 10 of this Code, the provisions of this
chapter shall apply. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-28-2019)
9-35-2: DEFINITIONS:
AREA MEDIAN INCOME (AMI): That income level in which half of the Blaine County
population makes less and the other half makes more. The Blaine County AMI is
issued by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) on an
annual basis and can be found in the Blaine County Community Housing
Guidelines.
AVERAGE INCOME CATEGORY: The average household income level, according to the
categories established in the Community Housing Guidelines, which will be
provided by the developer according to the community housing plan.
BASE DENSITY: The unit of measurement used to determine the number of possible
free market units in a CH-PUD, provided all applicable standards of this
chapter are met. If more than one subdistrict is involved, base density for the
CH-PUD is the sum total of multiplying the number of acres within each
subdistrict by the base density specified for each subdistrict.
BLAINE COUNTY HOUSING AUTHORITY (BCHA): The local governmental body which
administers, monitors, and manages the community housing applicant database,
the community housing stock and the inventory of deed restricted community
housing in Blaine County. The term BCHA, for purposes of this chapter, includes
all successor associations or entities that perform or assume the same, or
similar, duties and functions as the BCHA in its present form.
COMMERCIAL UNIT: For the purpose of calculating community housing only,
equivalent to two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet of nonresidential
(commercial) gross floor area, which accounts for one unit of developable
density.
COMMON OPEN SPACE: An area held for the use and benefit of the owners of
dwelling units or lots in a CH-PUD and which is devoid of streets, parking
areas, and buildings not intended for recreational or community purposes.
Common open space does not include any land within the required setback from
State Highway 75 or within individual single-family or duplex lots.
COMMUNITY HOUSING (CH): Ownership and rental residential housing that is price
restricted to remain affordable to persons working in Blaine County, retired
from working in Blaine County, or other groups of eligible persons according to
BCHA guidelines or other recognized affordable housing guidelines approved by
BCHA.
COMMUNITY HOUSING GUIDELINES (CH GUIDELINES): The current regulations adopted
by the BCHA and amended from time to time outlining the requirements and
parameters related to the development, pricing, eligibility, and other
administrative standards for all community housing projects that come under the
purview of BCHA.
COMMUNITY HOUSING PLAN (CH PLAN): Documents submitted pursuant to Community
Housing Guidelines, section 6.3, as amended, which describe the calculations
and method of meeting the community housing obligation in a CH-PUD.
COMMUNITY HOUSING PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (CH-PUD): An area of land developed
primarily for residential use or a mixture of residential and nonresidential
(commercial) uses, in which restriction of density, lot sizes, setbacks, and
other bulk regulations may be adjusted in return for the provision of community
housing units along with free market units and/or lots.
COMMUNITY HOUSING UNIT (CHU): A residential housing unit that is subject to a
deed covenant as a long term rental unit or as a unit for sale to eligible
persons and households, based on applicable income and residency requirements.
FREE MARKET UNIT: A unit permitted through the CH-PUD process, created for
sale, rent or lease at free market rates and not restricted as a community
housing unit or lot.
GROSS FLOOR AREA: The total of all floor areas as measured from the exterior
face of the exterior walls. Exterior stairs that are not enclosed, unenclosed
decks, and underground parking areas shall be excluded from the square footage
calculation. When an attic roof truss system creates an unusable and
inaccessible attic space between the interior and exterior wall, the floor area
measurement shall be taken from the outside of the interior wall.
HUD: United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION: An organization formed of the owners of a subdivision
or planned unit development.
IHFA: Idaho Housing and Finance Association.
MASTER PLAN: Map(s) and supporting documents that set forth approximate
locations of and requirements for master planned infrastructure within the
Community Housing Overlay District. See exhibit B attached to the ordinance
codified herein.
MASTER PLANNED RIGHT-OF-WAY (MP ROW): An area reserved for public access and
functioning as the thoroughfare for vehicular or nonvehicular traffic to
external outlets in agreement with the master plan. (Ord. 2013-01, 3-19-2013)
9-35-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICT:
The "Community Housing Overlay District" is hereby established and shall be
defined as those areas identified on the community housing overlay map (exhibit
A attached hereto and on file with the County). The community housing
subdistricts are established as set forth in table 1 of this section:
   TABLE 1
 
CH Subdistrict                        Underlying Zoning
Community Housing - Commercial (CH-C) Medium Density Residential (R-.4) and
                                      Recreation Development (RD)
                                      Residential/Agricultural (R-5), Low
Community Housing - South (CH-S)      Density Residential (R-1), Medium Density
                                      Residential (R-.4), and Light Industrial
                                      (LI)
 
(Ord. 2013-01, 3-19-2013)
9-35-4: DEVELOPER BENEFITS:
Benefits available for developers of approved CH-PUDs include:
   A.   Additional permitted, accessory and conditional uses as set forth in
sections
9-35-5,
9-35-6, and
9-35-7 of this chapter.
   B.   Increased developable density as set forth in section
9-35-9 of this chapter.
   C.   Modification of certain bulk requirements from underlying zoning, as
set forth in subsection
9-35-10B1 of this chapter.
   D.   Further modification of bulk, parking, or open space standards as set
forth in subsection
9-35-10B of this chapter, or standard requirements of this title and title 10
of this Code with regard to lot sizes and dimensions, bulk requirements,
parking requirements, road widths and other street and intersection improvement
standards may be permitted, subject to such conditions, limitations, or
additional development standards pursuant to section
9-35-11 of this chapter as the Board may require to mitigate adverse impact or
to ensure that the benefits derived from the development justify a departure
from such standards.
   E.   Reduced permitting fees for CH units as set forth in subsection
9-35-12B3a of this chapter.
   F.   Shortened time line for scheduling of public hearing following
certification of complete application, as set forth in subsection
9-35-12C1 of this chapter. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-28-2019; Ord. 2013-01, 3-19-2013)
9-35-5: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses shall include those listed as permitted in the underlying zoning
district(s). Residential uses are permitted through the CH-PUD process in
detached single-family, duplex, multi-family, multi-unit townhouse or
condominium, or combination thereof, housing types. Limited commercial uses may
be allowed through the CH-PUD process in the following subdistrict only:
   A.   CH-C:
      Convalescent care.
      Daycare.
      Health and wellness/alternative medicine facilities.
      Healthcare related training facilities.
      Hospice.
      Hospital.
      Medical and dental offices.
      Medical labs.
      Medical supply sales.
      Nursing homes.
      Pharmacies.
      Public facility.
      Rehabilitation and physical therapy facilities.
      Research and development labs.
(Ord. 2019-09, 5-28-2019; Ord. 2013-01, 3-19-2013)
9-35-6: ACCESSORY USES:
Permitted accessory uses are limited to the following:
Community or recreational facilities.
Garages and storage buildings.
Management, maintenance or utilities facilities which are related to the CH-
PUD. (Ord. 2013-01, 3-19-2013)
9-35-7: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses shall be as follows:
Those uses listed as conditional in the underlying zoning district, which shall
follow the evaluation process contained in chapter 25, "Conditional Use
Permits", of this title. Residential uses in a CH-PUD shall not require a
separate conditional use permit.
Other conditional uses may be allowed, following the evaluation process
contained in chapter 25 of this title, in the following subdistrict:
   A.   CH-C:
Auto service not to exceed five (5) service bays.
Coffee shops.
Construction, landscaping, electrical, plumbing, and heating contractors not to
exceed five thousand (5,000) square feet gross floor area and five thousand
(5,000) square feet of unenclosed exterior parking area.
Convenience stores not to exceed two thousand five hundred (2,500) gross square
feet.
Light manufacturing of medical supplies or related items.
Live-work.
Parking structures.
Unenclosed parking and storage shall be limited to licensed vehicles, not to
include equipment such as backhoes, compaction equipment, dozers, excavators,
graders, loaders, or other heavy equipment; such equipment, which shall not
exceed fifteen thousand (15,000) gross vehicle weight, shall be enclosed within
a solid screening fence not less than six feet (6') in height.
      1.   Existing uses listed in this subsection A may be expanded to a total
floor area not to exceed the requirements set forth in that use, upon the
approval of a conditional use permit. For a proposed expansion of existing
uses, a CH-PUD application is not required; however, community housing shall be
provided pursuant to subsection 9-35-10A of this chapter. The CH obligation
shall be calculated according to the expanded floor area, not existing floor
area. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-28-2019; Ord. 2013-01, 3-19-2013)
9-35-8: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR A CH-PUD:
   A.   Minimum CH-PUD Parcel Size: There is no minimum lot or parcel size for
a CH-PUD. Individual lot sizes for free market and community housing units
shall be determined through the CH-PUD evaluation process contained herein.
   B.   General Requirements: All CH-PUDs are subject to the following:
      1.   Community housing shall be provided through any of the alternative
methods set forth in subsection 9-35-10A of this chapter. The Blaine County
Housing Authority (BCHA) shall be the responsible local governing agency for
ensuring compliance with the community housing requirements. Alternatively,
rental community housing units may be provided in compliance with HUD low
income rental limits for Blaine County and IHFA management and compliance
guidelines.
      2.   All units within a CH-PUD shall be connected to a central water
system and a central sewage disposal system meeting Idaho DEQ standards.
Easements for water and/or sewer main lines shall be required to provide
interconnection of these utilities to adjacent parcels in all subdistricts in
accordance with the master plan.
      3.   Master planned ROW shall be provided as follows: Vehicular and
nonvehicular interconnectivity with adjacent parcels within all developments
bounded by State Highway 75 and Broadway Run in accordance with the master
plan. In certain locations, a nonvehicular trail separated from the roadway
shall be provided in accordance with the master plan.
      4.   Common open space shall be provided as set forth in subsection 9-35-
10B4 of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-01, 3-19-2013)
9-35-9: DEVELOPABLE DENSITY:
   A.   Developable Density Of Underlying Zoning District: For land developed
within this overlay and not proposing a CH-PUD, the total developable density
and other zoning regulations shall be those of the underlying zoning district.
   B.   Developable Density For CH-PUD: Total developable density for a CH-PUD
shall be the base density plus CH units as provided pursuant to subsection 9-
35-10A of this chapter.
   C.   Base Density: Maximum and minimum base density for residential units in
a CH-PUD are set forth in table 2 of this section:
TABLE 2
 
Subdistrict Maximum Base Density Per Acre Minimum Base Density Per Acre
CH-C        12                            6
CH-S        10                            6
 
   D.   Calculation Of Base Density: Base density shall be calculated for the
gross acreage of the parcel outside the twenty five percent (25%) slopes in the
mountain overlay district.
   E.   Fractions: In calculating units of base density, fractions of 0.5 and
greater shall be rounded to the next higher whole number and fractions of less
than 0.5 shall be rounded to the next lower whole number. In calculating CH
units, fractional units may be rounded up to the next whole unit or the
fractional CH obligation may be met by payment of cash in lieu. In calculating
land area, no rounding shall occur. (Example: lot area = 25,000 square feet =
0.57 acres x 12 units/acre = 6.8 units, which rounds up to 7 base units.) (Ord.
2013-01, 3-19-2013)
9-35-10: STANDARDS FOR EVALUATION:
The county shall review the particular facts and circumstances of each proposed
CH-PUD application utilizing the following standards and shall find adequate
evidence in the record that the proposed CH-PUD at the proposed location
complies with each standard. These standards shall apply and supersede
subdivision standards of title 10 of this code where such standards may
conflict. Certain standards or parts thereof may not be applicable to
particular applications upon specific finding by the county.
   A.   Community Housing Standards: The applicant shall meet the community
housing obligation through one of the following methods: constructed on site,
constructed off site, through land conveyance, or cash in lieu. Other methods
of meeting the CH obligation may be considered only if recommended by BCHA. A
CH plan shall be created following a preapplication meeting with BCHA regarding
options for fulfillment of the community housing obligation, pursuant to
subsection 9-35-12A of this chapter.
      1.   Constructed (Or Provided) By Applicant On Site Or Off Site: The CHUs
may be for sale, for rent, or a mix of ownership and rental units. The
applicant shall submit a CH plan based on input from BCHA that outlines the
location, number, size and targeted average income category of the units based
on evidence of current need. Units need not be of new construction, but shall
meet all applicable standards as recommended by BCHA and approved by the board.
On site CHUs may be provided in addition to the number of free market units
calculated at the base density. The percentage of CH required is set forth in
table 3 of this section:
TABLE 3
 
Average Income Category Percentage CH Required
   1 (up to 50% AMI)115% of units
   2 (50% - 60% AMI)117% of units
   3 (60% - 80% AMI) 21% of units
   4 (80% - 100% AMI)25% of units
 
Note:
   1.   Categories 1 and 2 are often provided as rental units and not ownership
units.
(On site residential example: 5 acre lot x 12 units per acre base density = 60
units. If CHUs average category 4: 60 units x 25% = 15 CHUs. 60 free market
units shall be allowed plus the 15 CHUs.)
(On site commercial example for CH-C subdistrict: 25,000 commercial square feet
proposed. 25,000/2,500 = 10 commercial units. If CHUs average category 2: 10
commercial units x 17% = 1.7 CHUs required.)
The community housing units (CHU) shall be generally comparable in appearance
to the free market units in the subject development and shall meet the minimum
construction standards of BCHA. The minimum size of CHUs shall be as set forth
in the provisions of section 6.5 of the CH guidelines, as amended. The number
of CHUs may be adjusted pursuant to section 6.5 of the CH guidelines, subject
to approval through the CH-PUD process.
      2.   Land Conveyance: Land may be conveyed to a housing entity as
recommended by BCHA and approved by the board, for the construction of CHUs by
affordable housing development entities. Land to be conveyed may be located on
or off site, as acceptable to BCHA. The area of land conveyed on site shall be
twenty percent (20%) of the gross land area of the CH-PUD, which shall not be
deducted from the total gross land area for the purpose of calculating the
allowable density for the free market units. For CH-PUDs not developing to the
maximum density, the land area conveyed shall be a minimum of seven hundred
twenty six (726) net square feet per approved free market unit. Basic
infrastructure including roads and water and sewer main lines shall be
available or installed by the developer to, but not within, the conveyed land.
The area of land conveyed off site shall be zoned to allow for single-family or
multi-family dwellings as appropriate, be served by all necessary utilities and
services, and as determined by BCHA have the same or greater impact on
communitywide affordable housing needs. The minimum conveyed land area shall be
of adequate size to accommodate at least one CHU. Land conveyed may only be
utilized for the development of CH, and any recorded development agreement or
plat shall include this restriction.
               TABLE 4
 
Subdistrict Base (Free Market) CH Density Per Acre (On Overall Maximum Density
            Density Per Acre   Land Conveyed On Site)
CH-C        12                 15                      15
CH-S        10                 13                      13
 
(On site land conveyance example: 5 acre parcel x 12 units per acre = 60 units.
Land conveyed for CHUs shall be 5 acres x 20% = 1 acre. 60 free market units
shall be allowed on the remaining 4 acres. On the 1 acre conveyed: 1 x 15 CH
units per acre = 15 CHUs. The resulting overall average density for 75 total
units on 5 acres is 15 units per acre.)
      3.   Cash In Lieu: The amount to be paid shall equal twenty percent (20%)
of the appraised value of the gross land area. The date of the certified real
estate appraisal shall be within six (6) months of the date of the CH-PUD
application. Cash in lieu shall be deposited into the housing trust fund
administered by BCHA.
      4.   Timing Of CH: When CHUs are to be provided on site, off site, or by
cash in lieu, the timing shall be as set forth in the approved CH plan. When
the CH obligation is met by conveyance of land, the land shall be conveyed
prior to issuance of the first building permit within the development.
      5.   Maintaining Affordability Of CH: A deed covenant, community trust
land lease, or other document shall be recorded for all rental or ownership
community housing units, which shall be in a format acceptable to BCHA and
shall set forth eligibility requirements and income categories served, with
pricing established according to the CH guidelines. Alternatively, rental
community housing units may be provided in compliance with HUD low income
rental limits and IHFA management and compliance guidelines.
      6.   Homeowners' Associations: Homeowners' association regular dues and
special assessments affect the initial selling price of a CHU according to BCHA
pricing guidelines. CC&Rs shall allow future increase of dues and assessments
only in accordance with BCHA guidelines to ensure the ongoing affordability of
the CHUs.
   B.   Bulk, Parking And Open Space Standards:
      1.   Setbacks And Building Height: Setbacks and building height standards
are set forth in table 5 of this section.
TABLE 5
 
            Minimum      Minimum      Minimum                    Maximum
Subdistrict Setback From Setback From Setback From   Internal    Building
            Highway 75   Broadway Run Exterior       Setbacks1   Height
                                      Property Lines
                                                                 42' (20'
CH-C        25'          n/a          As approved    As approved within 50' of
                                                                 Hwy. 75)
CH-S        100'         50'          20'            As approved Per underlying
                                                                 zoning
 
Note:
   1.   As approved through CH-PUD process and pursuant to fire district
requirements.
      2.   Building Footprint: The maximum residential building footprint shall
be ten thousand (10,000) square feet, including all enclosed space measured
from exterior building walls.
      3.   Parking Standards: Parking standards shall be as established in
chapter 28, "Off Street Parking And Loading Facilities", of this title except
as follows:
Light industrial uses: 1 space per 1,000 gross square feet.
Uses not listed: 1 space per 500 gross square feet.
Multi-family developments shall provide bicycle parking at a ratio of at least
1 space per 2 units.
      4.   Common Open Space Standards:
         a.   A minimum of seven hundred fifty (750) square feet per free
market unit shall be reserved for common open space. Common open space shall be
convenient to and usable by residents of the development rather than existing
as unrelated, isolated fragments, and shall include at a minimum finished
grading and ground cover, trees and shrubs, trash containers and park bench
(es).
         b.   Developments with more than twenty (20) free market units shall
provide common open space at a rate of seven hundred fifty (750) square feet
per free market unit and shall include at a minimum finished grading and ground
cover, trees and shrubs, trash containers, park bench(es), and picnic tables
and other active park space or recreational improvements.
         c.   Dedicated common open space located off site, within or directly
adjacent to the overlay district and with improvements noted in subsection B4a
or B4b of this section, may be permitted, subject to such conditions or
limitations as the board may require to mitigate adverse impact or to ensure
that the benefits derived from the proposed open space are of comparable value
and benefit to residents of the community housing overlay district.
         d.   Additional improvements such as sports facilities may be
considered in lieu of open space area when determined to be of equal value as
recommended by the Blaine County recreation district (BCRD) and approved by the
board.
         e.   All common open space and on site or off site improvements shall
be maintained by the homeowners' association unless agreements are provided for
maintenance by the BCRD or other public entity.
   C.   Design Standards:
      1.   Architectural Design:
         a.   Consider natural light reaching public streets, sidewalks and
open spaces.
         b.   Provide continuity of materials, colors and signing within the
project; use primarily nonreflective materials and avoid colors that conflict
with the natural surrounding setting.
         c.   Provide undulation/relief in building walls, thus reducing the
appearance of bulk and flatness.
         d.   Give multi-unit structures the appearance of small neighborhood
units; provide a mix of housing types and styles.
         e.   Design roofs to minimize the visual impact of the structure using
nonreflective materials. Exception to the use of nonreflective materials may be
made when use of solar panels is proposed.
         f.   Include weather protection which prevents water and snow from
dripping and sliding onto areas where pedestrians gather and circulate or onto
adjacent properties.
         g.   Provide enclosed or covered storage areas for household goods,
bicycles, boats, recreational vehicles, trailers on site for each residential
unit, according to CH guidelines, and/or provide plan for storage which may
include requirement to store large items off site. Screen view of storage areas
from public roads and from adjoining properties. Overhead doors should not face
a public street.
         h.   All exterior lighting shall comply with the outdoor lighting
requirements of chapter 29A of this title.
      2.   Site Design:
         a.   Preserve the site's significant natural features such as
hillsides, natural drainage features, mature trees and landscaping. Minimize
cuts and fills and conceal with landscaping. Natural drainage through the site
shall be maintained; drainage from constructed improvements shall be retained
on site.
         b.   Avoid repetitious design including streetscape setbacks,
driveways, elevations, and landscaping. Provide a mix of lot sizes.
         c.   Locate storage areas for minimum adverse impact upon living areas
and adjacent properties. Screen storage areas with fencing or landscaping.
         d.   Open space design shall facilitate wildlife passage where
appropriate.
      3.   Circulation Design:
         a.   Provide vehicular and nonvehicular access which is adequate to
satisfy demands relative to development size. These accesses shall be located
to connect with existing and anticipated transportation networks, including
public transit, easements and pathways. Walkways, pedestrian paths and bicycle
paths should link residences with parking areas, recreation facilities, open
spaces, existing bike paths, surrounding trails, and transit stops. Sidewalks
(5 foot minimum width) shall be located along all MP ROWs and on at least one
side of interior streets serving more than four (4) dwelling units.
         b.   Minimize access to Highway 75, eliminating highway access when
access to Broadway Run or Hospital Drive is available and feasible.
         c.   Provide locations for school bus or other transit stops or
shelters as needed by the school district or Mountain Rides.
         d.   Locate parking areas for minimum adverse impact upon living areas
within the proposed development and upon adjacent properties with regard to
noise, lights and visual impact. Break up large expanses of parking lots. All
surface parking lots with more than thirty (30) vehicle spaces shall be divided
into separate areas by landscaped areas of at least ten feet (10') in width.
Parking lots shall not dominate the street frontage and shall generally not be
located in front yards.
         e.   Provide adequate unobstructed access for emergency vehicles,
snowplows, garbage trucks, and similar service vehicles to all necessary
locations within the proposed project.
         f.   Provide snow storage areas for snow cleared from the parking
areas, roadways, sidewalks, and transit stops within the project, at a rate of
thirty five percent (35%) of these surfaces.
         g.   Locate large outdoor trash/solid waste receptacles on concrete or
asphalt pads large enough to accommodate easy truck access not in conflict with
residential parking or through traffic. Screen receptacles from view.
      4.   Landscape Design:
         a.   Provide substantial landscaping which is in scale with the
development and which provides relief from and screening of hard surfaces.
         b.   Use landscaping to provide a substantial buffer and visual
screening from neighboring properties and along major transportation corridors.
         c.   Utilize best practices to conserve the quantity of water used,
maintain the quality of water returning to the ground/aquifer, minimize future
maintenance and operation expenses, utilize low combustible plant species
conforming to "firewise" recommendations (www.firewise.org), utilize native or
native compatible and drought tolerant vegetation, and to conform to Blaine
County water policy.
   D.   General Standards:
      1.   Maintenance: Design and construction materials to be used in
commonly owned areas shall be durable and offer cost efficient management and
maintenance. Responsibility for long term management and maintenance of common
open space, amenities, and infrastructure is adequately defined in the CC&Rs,
other owners' documents, and/or agreements with BCHA or other entities, and
include initial developer responsibility, timing of change over to homeowners'
association or other managing organization, and funding of said management and
maintenance.
      2.   Phased Development: If the project is planned to be constructed in
phases, the phasing plan shall include a schedule for the provision of
community housing when CHUs are to be provided on site, off site, or by cash in
lieu. The community housing obligation shall be reviewed at the end of each
phase and prior to final plat if applicable. When the CH obligation is met by
conveyance of land, the land shall be conveyed prior to issuance of the first
building permit in the first phase. Project phases shall be self-sufficient in
the event future phases are not constructed. Central water system and sewer
system shall be complete and functional prior to sale of any lot or rental or
sale of any community housing unit. Blaine County has full discretion to
determine what improvements are appropriate for bonding and construction at a
later date, if any.
      3.   Public Facilities And Services: The CH-PUD will be served adequately
by essential public facilities and services such as highways, streets, police
and fire protection, schools, drainage structures, refuse disposal, water and
sewer; or the developer and as necessary thereafter the residents of the CH-PUD
shall be able to provide adequately any such services. The CH-PUD will not
create excessive additional requirements at public cost for public facilities
and services and will not be detrimental to the economic welfare of the
community. Providers of essential public facilities and services have reviewed
and approved or provided comment that the CH-PUD can be adequately served at
build-out. The developer has mitigated impacts on such facilities and services
that cannot be met by providers and has demonstrated the ability to construct
necessary improvements, facilities or infrastructure in the development
schedule.
      4.   Detrimental Uses Prohibited: The CH-PUD will not involve uses,
activities, processes, materials, equipment and conditions of operation that
will be detrimental to any persons, property or the general welfare by reason
of excessive production of noise, smoke, fumes, glare, dust, odors, vibration,
or water pollution.
      5.   State's Plans And Needs: The CH-PUD has taken into account the
state's plans and needs. If the applicant or landowner with respect to an
application for a CH-PUD under this chapter is the state of Idaho, or any
agency, board, department, institution, or district thereof, the commission or
the board, in addition to all other applicable standards and criteria
hereunder, shall take into account the plans and needs of the state, or any
agency, board, department, institution or district thereof, as required by
Idaho Code section 67-6528. (Ord. 2013-01, 3-19-2013)
9-35-11: CONDITIONS THAT MAY ATTACH:
The county may attach to the approval of a CH-PUD the following and/or any
other conditions it deems necessary to protect the public health, safety and
welfare and to support findings made on evaluation criteria. These are advisory
as to the types of conditions that may be attached. They are not intended to
decide in advance what conditions will ultimately be attached to the approval
of any given CH-PUD.
   A.   Minimize Adverse Impact: Minimizing adverse impact on other
development, such as:
      1.   Hours of construction of infrastructure.
      2.   Hours of operation of nonresidential uses that may be approved as
part of the CH-PUD.
   B.   Development Period: Controlling the sequence, timing, and duration of
development, such as:
      1.   Provide evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the
subject land and that the project shall commence with a defined time period
after final approval or the approval shall be null and void.
      2.   Provide for ability of applicant to request in writing an extension,
up to two (2) years, to begin the project.
      3.   Provide a financial guarantee acceptable to the board in a specified
percent of estimated construction costs of improvements in common open space,
amenities and/or infrastructure. This cost estimate shall be provided by the
project engineer and checked by the county engineer. If the improvements are
completed in accordance with the approved plan, the bond shall be released.
   C.   Maintenance: Assuring that development is maintained properly, such as:
      1.   Maintenance Responsibility: The owner/developer is required to
maintain common open space and common facilities until seventy five percent
(75%) of the proposed lots or units have been sold or are occupied. The
developer must specify maintenance responsibility after this period of time and
provide documentation to assure same in the future.
      2.   Failure To Maintain: The board may specify the penalties for failure
of the applicant to adequately maintain their responsibilities under the
development agreement.
   D.   Public Facilities: Requiring the provision of on site or off site
public facilities, services, or easements, including easements for water and/or
sewer main lines to provide interconnection of these utilities to adjacent
parcels in all subdistricts in accordance with the master plan.
   E.   Delivery Of Public Services: Requiring mitigation of effects of the
proposed development upon the delivery of public services within the planning
jurisdiction. The developer shall finance the improvement of the road, public
transit improvements, if any, and nonmotorized network outside of the CH-PUD
where traffic generated by the increased densities makes such improvements
necessary. A traffic signal at the southern intersection of State Highway 75
and Broadway Run has been identified as required mitigation. Contribution to
the installation of a traffic signal shall be considered a required off site
improvement.
   F.   Other Conditions: Other conditions that benefit public health, safety
and welfare, or otherwise required by law, such as: execution of a development
agreement drafted and proposed by the applicant and approved by the board.
(Ord. 2013-01, 3-19-2013)
9-35-12: APPLICATION/APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Preapplication Meetings And Requirements:
      1.   Administrative Meeting: Prior to submitting a CH-PUD application,
the developer shall meet with the administrator to discuss the comprehensive
plan and this chapter, and to familiarize the developer with the standards and
governing regulations contained therein. The developer shall submit as many
details of the proposal available at that time.
      2.   Blaine County Housing Authority (BCHA) Meeting: The developer shall
meet with the director of the BCHA to discuss options for fulfillment of the
community housing obligation. The CH plan shall be created subsequent to this
preapplication meeting with BCHA. The developer shall obtain a formal written
recommendation from BCHA on the CH plan prior to any public hearing.
      3.   Review By Agencies: The applicant shall submit copies of the
application and plans of the proposed development to agencies required by the
administrator, including, but not limited to, water and sewer regulatory
agency, Ketchum rural fire district, and county building official. The
administrator shall receive written agency recommendations prior to
certification, except as noted herein. If a recommendation from any agency
(except water, sewer, and fire protection agencies) has not been received
within four (4) calendar weeks from submittal of the application, then the
administrator shall consider this to be a nonresponse from that agency.
Mitigation of impacts on public facilities or the environment, as identified by
agencies in the following areas, shall be addressed by the applicant prior to
or as a condition of approval:
         a.   Public facilities:
            (1)   Roads, traffic, and motorized, nonmotorized, and alternate
transportation systems as evidenced in a traffic impact study when required;
            (2)   Schools;
            (3)   Police and fire protection;
            (4)   Utilities such as power, gas, phone, cable;
            (5)   Sewer facilities;
            (6)   Water source and distribution systems, including irrigation
and domestic water rights and hydrologic impact to ground and surface water;
            (7)   Public easements created, threatened, removed;
            (8)   Parks and recreation facilities.
         b.   Environment:
            (1)   Existing vegetation;
            (2)   Wildlife habitat and migration;
            (3)   Wetlands;
            (4)   Land unsuitable for development due to potential hazards not
limited to landslides, subsidence, high water table, or other severe
development limitations;
            (5)   Avalanche hazard (no building shall be located within any
blue or red avalanche hazard determined by specific on site study);
            (6)   Drainage, as it relates to existing natural drainage course
(s) and how they are impacted by the proposal.
      4.   Review By City Of Ketchum: The CH Overlay District is located within
the City of Ketchum's Area of City Impact. As such, the applicant shall submit
copies of the application and plans of the proposed development to the City of
Ketchum Planning Manager. The city may provide recommendations to the County on
the design standards set forth in subsection 9-35-10C of this chapter as well
as comments on the proposed community housing, density, parking, etc. If a
recommendation has not been received within four (4) calendar weeks from
submittal of the application, then the Administrator shall consider this to be
a nonresponse from the City of Ketchum. Comments and recommendations received
shall be considered by the commission and Board.
   B.   Application Requirements:
      1.   Ownership/Land Control: Application may be filed by at least one
holder of an interest (ownership or long term - 99 years or more - lease) in
the real property. The entire project shall be under the same ownership or
controlling interest and evidence of title to the property shall be submitted
with the final plat application for a CH-PUD, when applicable. Applications
submitted by the BCHA or licensed nonprofit housing agencies may proceed to
final plat hearing(s) prior to ownership upon approval by the Administrator.
      2.   Concurrent Submittal:
         a.   Subdivision: CH-PUD plans that contemplate sales of lots and/or
townhouse sublots and/or condominium units and therefore require a subdivision
plat shall apply for preliminary plat simultaneously with application for CH-
PUD following the procedures set forth in title 10, "Subdivision Regulations",
of this Code.
         b.   Conditional Use Permit: CH-PUD plans that include uses listed as
conditional uses in the underlying zoning district or in section
9-35-7 of this chapter shall apply for a conditional use permit simultaneously
with application for CH-PUD following the procedures set forth in chapter 25,
"Conditional Use Permits", of this title.
      3.   Minimum Application Submittal Requirements:
         a.   Application And Fees: Completed application on form provided by
the County, including payment of fees as set by resolution of the Board. All
County permitting fees for community housing units will be reduced by half. All
free market lots and units shall be assessed fees according to the fee
schedule.
         b.   CH Plan: All components of the CH plan as set forth in section
6.3 of the CH Guidelines, as prepared based on input from BCHA.
         c.   Statistics: A tabulation of the numbers including, but not
limited to:
            (1)   Acres and percent of total land area in street rights-of-way,
including MP ROW, and in common open space;
            (2)   Maximum developable density per section
9-35-9, table 2 and section
9-35-10, table 4 of this chapter if applicable;
            (3)   Number of housing units proposed, by type (detached single-
family, duplex, multiple-unit, free market, community housing);
            (4)   Estimated residential population by housing type;
            (5)   Community housing required per section
9-35-10, table 3 of this chapter.
         d.   Site Plan For Existing Uses And Conditions: Existing uses and
conditions site plan including adjacent parcels and descriptions of how the
proposal relates thereto. Scale of plan to be approved by the Administrator and
shall include, but not be limited to:
            (1)   Buildings and other structures;
            (2)   Streets, roads, and rights-of-way for motorized and
nonmotorized transportation;
            (3)   Unique site features including natural drainage features;
            (4)   Utilities underground and overhead (any utilities to be moved
shall be highlighted);
            (5)   Easements (any change to easements shall be highlighted);
            (6)   Vegetation.
         e.   Site Plan For Proposed Uses: Proposed uses site plan at a scale
approved by the administrator including, but not limited to, showing location
and dimensions of:
            (1)   Common open space;
            (2)   Common recreation areas and facilities;
            (3)   Structures and buildings to be constructed by developer with
use identified;
            (4)   Streets, parking, pedestrian, bicycle and public transit
circulation system, identifying MP ROW;
            (5)   Snow storage management plan;
            (6)   Lighting plan for all parking and other outdoor areas and
buildings/structures;
            (7)   Landscaping and revegetation plans with irrigation system(s)
including plan for water conservation and management and noxious weed control
and prevention;
            (8)   Plans for storage of personal goods including, but not
limited to, vehicles, boats, RVs, trailers, household and sporting goods;
            (9)   Preliminary grading and drainage;
            (10)   Easements.
         f.   Architectural Drawings And Sketches: Architectural drawings and
sketches including building elevations and floor plans sufficient to
demonstrate the design, dimension and character of the proposed development and
its visual effect on the neighboring land uses. Exterior lighting plan for
circulation corridors and buildings. Other depictions such as installation of
story poles and building outlines on the property may be required.
         g.   Infrastructure Plans:
            (1)   Roads: Plans for roads, paths and other circulation systems,
including all MP ROW, with evidence of compliance with county road standards
contained in title 6, chapter 1 of this code and design and improvement
standards contained in the subdivision regulations, subsections 10-5-1H, I, and
J, and 10-5-3N and O of this code. Evidence of curtailment of ingress/egress
upon Highway 75, or request to continue current use.
            (2)   Utilities: Plans for installation underground by the
applicant of gas, electric power, telephone, and cable TV. Said installations
shall include stub ins to the property line of each lot.
            (3)   Domestic Water System: Plans that demonstrate the following:
               (A)   That the water source meets state and federal standards;
               (B)   That abandoned wells are sealed to prevent contamination
of groundwater;
               (C)   That the requirements of Idaho Code section 42-111 for
domestic water limits and section 50-1334 for subdivision water systems are
satisfied;
               (D)   That a public central water system approved by Idaho
department of environmental quality (IDEQ) and any other applicable agency
shall serve the proposal;
               (E)   That a water district or other licensed, certified
operator acceptable to IDEQ shall exist for the operation, maintenance and
ongoing monitoring/testing of the water and water system.
            (4)   Irrigation Water System: Plans, if any irrigation water right
exists on the property, that demonstrate the following:
               (A)   That irrigation water, on site surface or ground water
rights, shall be converted to domestic and landscaping needs before any new
water right is sought for said purposes in conformance with Blaine County's
public interest water policy;
               (B)   That all new wells are metered at the time of
installation;
               (C)   That a plan for a central delivery system for irrigation
water rights has been submitted in compliance with Idaho Code; and
               (D)   That there are no decorative ponds or surface water
features.
            (5)   Sewer System: Plans for all phases of the required central
sewer system that demonstrate the following:
               (A)   That a central public sewer system approved by IDEQ shall
serve the proposal; and
               (B)   That a sewer district or other licensed, certified
operator acceptable to IDEQ shall exist for the operation, maintenance and
ongoing monitoring of the sewer system.
            (6)   Solid Waste: Plan for removal of solid waste and yard waste
from households and common areas that demonstrate acceptability to disposal
provider.
         h.   Review Letters: Copies of letters to agencies requesting review
and comment (see preapplication requirements in subsection A3 of this section).
Provide copies of agency responses as received.
         i.   Traffic And Transportation Study: Traffic and transportation
study including study of public transit modes in sufficient detail related to
the size and scope of the project by an engineer having expertise in the field,
as required by the Idaho Transportation Department.
         j.   CC&Rs: Draft proposed restrictive covenants (CC&Rs) for the
homeowners' association and any other documents proposed to govern the control
and maintenance of all common areas and facilities such as, but not limited to,
snow removal, landscape maintenance, and sewer and water systems. Such
documents shall include the period of responsibility of the developer to
operate and maintain such facilities, the establishment of financial plan to
support such operation and maintenance, warranty of improvements by the
developer, and consequences for failure to maintain such facilities.
         k.   Development Schedule And Phasing Plan: Development schedule and
phasing plan for the project and all self-contained phases that shall include
all infrastructure and provisions of community housing.
         l.   Requested Information: Any additional information that may be
requested by the Administrator and BCHA to demonstrate compliance with each
standard for evaluation.
   C.   Commission And Board Notice And Hearing Procedure:
      1.   Certification Of Complete Application: Allowing sufficient time to
review the application and write a staff report, the Administrator shall then
schedule the completed application to be heard by the commission or the Board
at the next available regular agenda at which noticing requirements can be met.
If no hearing time is available within forty five (45) days of certification,
the Administrator shall call a special commission meeting, to be held not more
than three (3) weeks after the end of the forty five (45) days, to hear the
application.
      2.   Commission Hearing: The Planning and Zoning Commission (commission)
shall hold a public hearing following notice procedures contained in section
9-25-4 of this title, and following notice procedures contained in subsection
10-4-3D of this Code when concurrent subdivision application is made.
      3.   Board Hearing: The Board shall hold at least one hearing following
the same notice procedures contained in subsection C2 of this section.
   D.   Action By The Commission And Board:
      1.   Commission Action: The commission upon hearing and evaluation shall
make specific written findings with regard to each standard of evaluation
contained in this chapter, and shall formulate a written recommendation to the
Board for approval, approval with conditions and/or modification and/or
development agreement, or denial of the proposed CH-PUD and simultaneous
preliminary plat application, if any. Said written findings and recommendation
shall be presented to the Board at the next regularly scheduled meeting
following execution of the written document by the commission.
      2.   Board Action: The Board upon hearing and evaluation shall consider
the application(s), the recommendations and record from the commission, public
comment, comments from public and other agencies, and may accept, accept with
modification, or reject the recommendations of the commission and shall make
the final decision with regard to the CH-PUD and any concurrent preliminary
plat subdivision application. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-28-2019; Ord. 2013-01, 3-19-
2013)
9-35-13: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Appeals Process: A decision by the County on an application for a CH-
PUD may be appealed through the process specified in chapter 32 of this title.
   B.   Nonbinding Precedent: The approval of a CH-PUD shall not be considered
a binding precedent for the approval of other CH-PUD applications.
   C.   Nontransferable: A CH-PUD approval is not transferable from one parcel
of land to another.
   D.   Amendment Of CH-PUD:
      1.   The holder of an approved but uncompleted CH-PUD may apply to the
Board for amendment of the approved CH-PUD insofar as the amendment relates to
the community housing within the CH-PUD. Such a request may concern the number,
classification, location, construction, method of provision, or any other
aspect relating to community housing within the approved development, but shall
not create new lots or increase the overall density within the CH-PUD. The
hearing shall be noticed in the same manner as the original application and a
public hearing shall be held before the Board. The community housing aspects of
the proposed amendment shall be reviewed by the Board using subsection 9-35-10A
of this chapter in effect at the time the application for amendment is filed.
The Board may approve the amendment if it makes a positive finding that: a) the
amendment does not materially compromise the Board's findings on the original
CH-PUD relating to community housing; and b) the community housing provided in
the CH-PUD, as amended, complies with the requirements of this chapter. No
amendment shall be approved that would extinguish the deed covenant on an
already completed community housing unit.
      2.   Minor changes in the location, siting or architectural details of
buildings, structures, or landscaping may be authorized by the Administrator,
if required by engineering or other circumstances not foreseen at the time the
CH-PUD was approved. Minor changes may include exterior colors/materials or
window placements that do not significantly affect project design, appearance
or function; changes to site plans that do not significantly change parking or
driveway/road alignment; changes to landscape plans that do not decrease the
amount of landscaping; changes to dumpster enclosures; changes to exterior
lighting. All such requests shall be in writing supported by such documentation
as reasonably required by the Administrator. No change shall be authorized by
the Administrator except in writing and shall not increase the size of any
building or structure, or building envelope concept, nor change the location of
any building or structure outside of an approved building envelope. If the
Administrator determines any proposed change may have a significant impact on
the approved project, the Administrator may decline to administratively approve
such change and shall forward same to the Board for consideration. (Ord. 2019-
09, 5-28-2019; Ord. 2013-01, 3-19-2013)
CHAPTER 36
MOBILE HOME/MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OVERLAY DISTRICT (MHO)
SECTION:
9-36-1: Intent And Purpose
9-36-2: Establishment
9-36-3: Developable Density
9-36-4: Permitted Uses
9-36-5: Accessory Uses
9-36-6: Conditional Uses
9-36-7: Dimensional Standards
9-36-8: Design Standards
9-36-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is intended to help provide for a balanced mix of housing types
within Blaine County per the comprehensive plan. The intent is to meet the
needs of park operators and residents by allowing for development, continued
use, and maintenance of manufactured and mobile home parks as a viable source
of affordable housing.
The purpose in establishing this chapter is to allow existing mobile and
manufactured home parks that are denser than the underlying zoning district to
be recognized by Blaine County as conforming, and to provide basic standards
for the future establishment of mobile and manufactured home parks in other
appropriate locations in Blaine County. (Ord. 2020-04, 9-15-2020)
9-36-2: ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   District Established: The Mobile Home/Manufactured Home Park Overlay
District (MHO) is hereby established in accordance with the area indicated on
the MHO map (Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 2020-04 and on file with the
County) and available on the geographic information services (GIS) mapping
pages on the Blaine County website (www.blainecounty.org), effective September
23, 2020.
   B.   Application for establishment of an MHO District outside of
9-36-2A shall comply with chapter 26 of this title and meet the criteria set
forth in sections
9-26-4 and
9-26-8 (if applicable). (Ord. 2020-04, 9-15-2020)
9-36-3: DEVELOPABLE DENSITY:
   A.   Base Density: The base density shall be eight (8) units per acre
excluding twenty foot (20') wide fire apparatus access roadways, mountain
overlay district, floodplain, and wetland overlay districts, and as permitted
by South Central Public Health District.
   B.   Existing parks established prior to September 23, 2020, with wastewater
disposal systems permitted by SCPHD and approval from the appropriate fire
district, are deemed legal and conforming uses under this code section.
   C.   Existing mobile and manufactured home parks established prior to
September 23, 2020 shall be permitted to add units up to the base density as
set forth in subsection 9-36-2A within the overlay district boundaries.
   D.   Mobile/manufactured home subdivisions and PUDs shall follow subdivision
regulations in title 10, chapter 7 of this code. (Ord. 2020-04, 9-15-2020)
9-36-4: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in this district are limited to the following:
   A.   Mobile homes (definition found in section
9-2-1).
   B.   Manufactured homes (definition found in section
9-2-1).
   C.   Residential structures existing prior to September 23, 2020. (Ord.
2020-04, 9-15-2020)
9-36-5: ACCESSORY USES:
The accessory uses for this MH District include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Storage of boats, campers and travel trailers by residents.
   B.   Storage buildings.
   C.   Tier 1 home occupations.
   D.   Wastewater and community water treatment facilities serving the mobile/
manufactured home park.
   E.   Laundry, office, clubhouse, and other resident amenities.
   F.   Onsite property manager living unit. (Ord. 2020-04, 9-15-2020)
9-36-6: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses for this district are limited to the following:
   A.   Recreational vehicle park.
   B.   Outdoor recreational facilities.
   C.   Public utility or public service facilities, not including business
offices, repair, or vehicle or structural storage facilities.
   D.   Public campgrounds when screened or hidden from view from public
highways.
   E.   Public facilities.
   F.   Group daycare facilities.
   G.   Wireless communication facilities (see section
9-3-16 of this title). (Ord. 2020-04, 9-15-2020)
9-36-7: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Front Yard Setback (From Exterior Property Line): One hundred feet
(100') on State Highway 75, fifty feet (50') for other major roads, twenty five
feet (25') for minor roads.
   B.   Side And Rear Yard Setback (From Exterior Property Line): One foot (1')
per two feet (2') of a building height or minimum ten feet (10').
   C.   Corner Lot Setback (From Exterior Property Line): Fifty feet (50') from
corner.
   D.   Spacing Between Mobile/Manufactured Home Units: In accordance with
Blaine County Building and Fire Codes.
   E.   Maximum Building Height: Thirty five feet (35').
   F.   Existing mobile/manufactured parks prior to September 23, 2020 are
exempt from dimensional standards in subsections A, B, and C if those setback
standards are greater than on the ground footprint of structures. (Ord. 2020-
04, 9-15-2020)
9-36-8: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Trees, shrubs, grass, or other forms of natural or maintained
landscaping shall be provided on a minimum of ten percent (10%) of land area.
   B.   An electrical outlet supply of at least one hundred ten (110) volts
shall be provided for each space.
   C.   Fire Prevention: The mobile/manufactured park shall be subject to the
rules and regulations of the fire district.
   D.   Septic systems shall be subject to the rules and regulations of South
Central Public Health District.
   E.   Construction: Any portion of, or appendage, or any habitation, shelter,
add-on or storage facility shall conform with the requirements of this Zoning
Code and the Blaine County Building Code, section
7-1-2.
   F.   Parking: Shall be subject to title 9, chapter 28 for off street parking
standards.
   G.   The owner or operator of a park shall maintain the entire park in a
neat and orderly manner. All installations and common areas required by this
title shall be maintained in a good state of repair. (Ord. 2020-04, 9-15-2020)
CHAPTER 37
AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA (APA)
SECTION:
9-37-1:    Purpose
9-37-2:    Definitions
9-37-3:    Creation And Designation Of Agriculture Protection Area
9-37-4:    Review Process Standards
9-37-5:    Expansion Or Modification Of An APA
9-37-6:    Termination Of An APA
9-37-7:    Enrollment Duration And Review
9-37-8:    Fees
9-37-9:    Enforcement, Prohibitions, And Penalties
9-37-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a voluntary process through which
agricultural and timber producers of Blaine County may make application to
commit lands actively devoted to agriculture for future agricultural use. An
APA designation aims to protect productive farmland, rangeland, and forest
land; promote farm viability; support the local agricultural economy; and
provide for long-term planning stability. This ordinance sets out the process
for creation of Agriculture Protection Areas as required in Chapter 97, Title
67, of Idaho Code. (Ord. 2025-01, 1-14-2025)
9-37-2: DEFINITIONS:
AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION: Activities or conditions conducted on land actively
devoted to agriculture as defined in section 63-604, Idaho Code, or on forest
land as defined in section 63-1701, Idaho Code.
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA (APA): Specific parcels of land in a designated
geographic area voluntarily created under the authority of this chapter for the
purpose of protecting and preserving agricultural land.
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA COMMISSION: The advisory board to the governing
body created pursuant to section 67-9705, Idaho Code.
APPLICANT: Anyone who owns five (5) contiguous acres or more of land that has
been in active agricultural or forest production for the previous three (3)
consecutive years, consistent with 1he provisions of sections 63-604 and 63-
1701, Idaho Code, and who voluntarily applies for that land to be part of an
agricultural protection area.
HARDSHIP: A situation or circumstance over which a landowner in an agricultural
protection area has no control and can then petition for removal for reasons
that include but are not limited to an adverse result in litigation against the
farm or landowner, death of a close family member that would lead to
unanticipated financial hardships, significant tax liabilities, bankruptcy due
to ano1her person's fraud, or any other illegal activity.
PROPOSAL: Written documents submitted to a governing body or agricultural
protection area commission from a landowner regarding their property. (Ord.
2025-01, 1-14-2025)
9-37-3: CREATION AND DESIGNATION OF AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA:
An Agriculture Protection Area shall be designated as an "APA." An APA
designation is a voluntary land use designation available to landowners who
wish to protect their agricultural land from future nonagricultural
development. To qualify for an APA designation, the land must be:
   A.   At least five (5) contiguous acres;
   B.   Actively devoted to an agricultural or forest purpose for the previous
three (3) consecutive years consistent with the provisions of sections 63-604
and 63-1701, Idaho Code;
   C.   Assessed as agriculture or forest land;
   D.   Entirely zoned A-20, A-40, RR-40, R-10 or R-5; and
   E.   Is not within an adopted Area of City Impact.
Landowners wishing to establish an APA must submit an application to the Blaine
County Land Use and Building Services. At a minimum, the application shall
include the following:
   A.   Name, phone number, email, and mailing address of the landowner;
   B.   Proof of land ownership;
   C.   A legal description of the parcels, structures, and facilities proposed
to be included in the APA;
   D.   A map showing the boundaries of the proposed APA;
   E.   A statement outlining the current contiguous acreages of land, land
use, agricultural productivity, and other relevant characteristics of the land
to be included in the APA;
   F.   The number of years the land has been in agricultural or forest
production, the types of agricultural or forest commodities produced, and the
applicant's plan to continue using the land for agricultural or forest
purposes.
   G.   Three (3) years of tax assessment record.
   H.   The stated reasons for seeking an APA designation.
   I.   Soil surveys, water rights, and. any other relevant environmental
assessments. (Ord. 2025-01, 1-14-2025)
9-37-4: REVIEW PROCESS STANDARDS:
Upon receipt of a completed application, the APA commission shall review the
proposal and make a recommendation to the Board of County Commissioners within
sixty (60) days of receiving the application or as required in § 67-9706. The
application shall be evaluated on the following criteria:
   A.   The total contiguous acreage of the land is at least five (5) acres in
size and is actively devoted to agricultural or forest production;
   B.   Adjacence to an existing area of city impact;
   C.   Possible conflict with existing city annexation or development plans or
agreements;
   D.   Possible conflict with the Blaine County Comprehensive Plan;
   E.   Proximity to existing public rights of way;
   F.   Proximity to planned transportation corridors or future public rights
of way;
   G.   Proximity to planned airport expansion or development;
   H.   Proximity to planned development with existing entitlements;
   I.   Agricultural production capability of the land within the proposed APA;
and
   J.   Other local impacts relevant to the proposed APA.
   K.   Preapplication meeting with Blaine County staff.
Notwithstanding the criteria and review process outlined in this code, the
Board of County Commissioners may place additional conditions on lands
designated as an APA, including, but not limited to, setbacks from existing
public rights of way, setbacks from existing public structures, and a review of
the land's APA designation after twenty (20) years.
Once the APA commission makes its recommendation to the Board of County
Commissioners, the Board of County Commissioners shall hold a public hearing
and issue its decision within sixty (60) days. Failure to make a decision shall
render the APA Commission's recommendation final. The Board of County
Commissioners decision shall include findings of fact supporting its decision.
Upon making its decision, the Board of County Commissioners shall:
   A.   Record an ordinance designating the parcel as an Agricultural
Protection Area and amending the land use map. The Ordinance shall include a
legal description of the area, and any findings of fact with the county
recorder within ten (10) days;
   B.   Notify relevant public officials and agencies of the designation. (Ord.
2025-01, 1-14-2025)
9-37-5: EXPANSION OR MODIFICATION OF AN APA:
An expansion, modification, or removal of an existing APA shall follow the same
application, review, and hearing procedures outlined in this code. Any
expansion of an APA shall be contiguous to the APA. (Ord. 2025-01, 1-14-2025)
9-37-6: TERMINATION OF AN APA:
A landowner wishing to terminate an APA must apply to terminate the
designation. The request shall be scheduled for a meeting with the board of
county commissioners. The application shall include a proof of hardship. Early
termination of the APA shall only occur upon the proving by the landowner of an
undue hardship as defined in § 67-9703. The landowner seeking to terminate an
APA bears the burden of proof in demonstrating the hardship. Early termination
of an APA is not taken lightly and will be carefully considered. (Ord. 2025-01,
1-14-2025)
9-37-7: ENROLLMENT DURATION AND REVIEW:
Lands designated as an APA will remain so designated for a period of twenty
(20) years. A landowner wishing to end an approved APA designation after twenty
(20) years must notify the Board of County Commissioners in writing of their
desire not to renew the land's APA designation. Failure of the landowner to
notify the county more than ninety (90) days prior to renewal, or failure of
the county to review the APA terms, will result in the APA designation
continuing for another twenty (20) years. The renewal or termination shall be
recorded with the County Recorder's Office. Termination shall amend the zoning
map. (Ord. 2025-01, 1-14-2025)
9-37-8: FEES:
An application fee shall be required to cover administrative costs, including,
but not limited to, reviewing materials, conducting public meetings and
hearings, processing and recording documents, and updating county land use
maps. (Ord. 2025-01, 1-14-2025)
9-37-9: ENFORCEMENT, PROHIBITIONS, AND PENALTIES:
Unless otherwise approved by the Board of County Commissioners, the following
land uses are not allowed within an APA:
   A.   The siting of large, confined animal feeding operations (CAFO);
   B.   The siting of residential, commercial, manufacturing, or industrial
uses or;
   C.   Commercial on-site energy production exceeding site specific
agricultural needs for distribution or transmission, including, solar, wind
energy or other generation sources, distribution infrastructure, or battery
storage structures; or
   D.   Any other nonagricultural land uses.
The Board of County Commissioners or Land Use Administrator shall be
responsible for enforcing the provisions of this ordinance. Any person found to
be in violation of this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable as
provided in Section 18-113, Idaho Code. (Ord. 2025-01, 1-14-2025)
TITLE 10
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Authority
10-1-4: Jurisdiction
10-1-5: Filing Fees
10-1-6: Large Scale Subdivisions
10-1-7: Counting Days
10-1-8: Saving Provision
10-1-9: Amendments
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known and cited as the BLAINE COUNTY SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 77-6, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-14-1977)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this title is to uphold the public's interest; exercise the
valid police power delegated by the state pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-
6513; and protect and promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
More specifically, this title establishes standards for land subdivision in
order to:
   A.   Ensure the orderly development of the county;
   B.   Ensure the provision of adequate transportation, water and sewage
facilities, water drainage, emergency services, fire and police protection and
other public services;
   C.   Ensure that the impact of subdivision development does not affect the
ability of the local jurisdictions or taxing districts, including school
districts, to deliver services without compromising their current quality or
imposing higher costs upon current residents;
   D.   Protect agricultural land for agricultural purposes as directed by the
Idaho Code and county comprehensive plan;
   E.   Require development to protect natural features, topographic and
geologic uniqueness, water quality and quantity, natural vegetation, wildlife
habitat and migration corridors, and to protect rivers, streams, riparian
habitat, wetlands, and drainage patterns;
   F.   Ensure that future growth and development is in accordance with the
county comprehensive plan and other titles of this code;
   G.   Protect and create public access to public land and waterways;
   H.   Provide proper ingress and egress and coordination of streets and
roads;
   I.   Encourage energy conservation and efficient use of existing energy
sources;
   J.   Require that water resources are protected, conserved, and used in
accordance with the county's local public interest water policy 1 and
applicable state law;
   K.   Ensure protection of hillsides and scenic qualities;
   L.   Require that a range of housing types and prices is addressed to
maintain the county's work force and social and economic diversity;
   M.   Enable residential development patterns that preserve natural features,
wildlife habitat and wildlife corridors, allow more open space amenities and
minimize the potential impact of new development on surrounding landowners;
   N.   Encourage street design that accommodates nonmotorized transportation
facilities, such as bicycles, equestrian and pedestrian paths, and public
transportation services. (Ord. 2006-16, 11-2-2006; Ord. 2006-15, 10-26-2006;
Ord. 98-8, 10-5-1998; Ord. 77-6, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-14-1977)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 3 of this code.
10-1-3: AUTHORITY:
This title is authorized by Idaho Code section 67-6501 et seq., as amended, and
article XII, section 2 of the Idaho constitution. (Ord. 77-6, 3-28-1977, eff.
4-14-1977)
10-1-4: JURISDICTION:
   A.   Applicability: These regulations shall apply to the subdivision,
resubdivision, platting or replatting of all land within the unincorporated
territory of Blaine County except those zones designated by adopted ordinance
to be zones of city impact and under separate jurisdiction pursuant to Idaho
Code section 67-6526, and shall include the following:
      1.   The subdivision of land into two (2) or more tracts, lots or parcels
for sale, transfer of ownership or building development.
      2.   The establishment of "condominium" or planned unit developments as
defined herein.
      3.   The dedication of any street or alley through or along any tract of
land.
      4.   The creation of or geographical addition to a cemetery.
      5.   The resubdivision or replatting of an already platted lot.
      6.   The modification of original parcels.
      7.   The recognition and modification of original leasehold parcels.
   B.   Exceptions: Unless the intent of the subdivider is to circumvent the
purposes of this title, these regulations shall not apply to any of the
following:
      1.   Widening of existing streets to conform to the comprehensive plan.
      2.   The acquisition of collector and arterial street rights of way by
public agency in conformance with the comprehensive plan.
      3.   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as
defined and allowed in the Idaho Code.
      4.   Land sold in tracts of forty (40) acres or more for agricultural
purposes only with no residential development allowed.
      5.   Land that is released to a buyer from a larger parcel being bought
on contract by the same buyer.
      6.   A single (not more than 1), new unplatted, four (4) acre or larger
lot or parcel (not including any patented mining claim) created from an
original parcel of land and conveyed by a deed recorded between April 14, 1977,
and June 26, 1981. The administrator shall determine the base density from the
size of the original parcel of land, not the size of the new or remainder
parcel permitted by this exception.
      7.   Transfer of real property of any size to an internal revenue code
section 501(c)3 organization formed for the purpose of land or water
conservation, open space or wildlife protection or to a political subdivision
of the state of Idaho or United States Of America with no development allowed
that would require a building permit or development permit under title 7 or 9
of this code, until the transferee completed a subdivision or plat, as defined
in this chapter. (Ord. 2021-07, 5-11-2021; Ord. 2012-07, 10-9-2012; Ord. 2008-
16, 11-25-2008)
10-1-5: FILING FEES:
   A.   Those applications referred to in this title may have a fee established
for the processing of the application. The fees shall be paid to the county and
deposited with the administrator. No action can be taken on an application
until all applicable fees have been paid in full.
   B.   Fees shall be established by resolution passed and adopted by the board
of commissioners and shall take effect on the date of adoption. (Ord. 77-6 as
amended)
10-1-6: LARGE SCALE SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Definition: "Large scale subdivisions" are defined as subdivisions with
ten (10) or more lots.
   B.   Additional Time For Review: Because of their magnitude, the
administrator may reserve an additional twenty (20) days to review the
submitted material. The commission may reserve fourteen (14) days' additional
review time to allow members to become familiar with the site and proposal.
Impact study requirements for large scale subdivisions are listed in section
10-4-4 of this title.
   C.   Additional Costs For Review: The applicant may be required to pay
additional costs for the hiring of outside consultants to review the
application or portions of the application. (Ord. 2006-16, 11-2-2006; Ord. 98-
8, 10-5-1998; Ord. 77-6, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-14-1977)
10-1-7: COUNTING DAYS:
Computation of time limits for acts to be done shall be accomplished by
excluding the first day and including the last unless the last is a holiday, in
which case the last day is also excluded. (Ord. 77-6, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-14-
1977)
10-1-8: SAVING PROVISION:
These regulations shall not be construed as abating any action now pending
under, or by virtue of, prior existing subdivision regulations or as
discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accruing or about to
accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person or a waiving of any right
of the county under any section or provision existing at the time of adoption
of these regulations or as vacating or annulling any rights obtained by any
person by lawful action of the county except as shall be expressly provided for
in these regulations. (Ord. 77-6, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-14-1977)
10-1-9: AMENDMENTS:
For the purpose of providing the public health, safety and general welfare, the
board may, from time to time, amend the provisions imposed by these subdivision
regulations. Public hearings on all proposed amendments shall be held by the
board in the manner prescribed by law. All proposals not originating with the
commission shall be referred to it for a recommendation before any action is
taken on the proposal by the board. (Ord. 77-6, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-14-1977)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Definitions Of Words And Terms
10-2-1: DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND TERMS:
Certain terms and words are hereby defined for the purpose of this title. When
consistent with the context, the present tense includes the past or future
tense, the singular includes the plural and the plural includes the singular.
The word shall is mandatory, may is permissive and should means the preferred
action. The following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this section:
ADMINISTRATOR: An official having knowledge in the principles and practices of
subdividing who is appointed by the Board to administer this title.
AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES AND AGRICULTURAL USES: Refer to title 9, chapter 2,
"Definitions", of this Code.
ALLEY: A minor public way providing secondary access at the back or side of a
property otherwise abutting a street.
AREA MEDIAN INCOME (AMI): See definition in section
9-35-2 of this Code.
BANK: The ordinary high water level of the stream, river, lake or impoundment,
which in the absence of evidence to the contrary shall be presumed to be the
edge of the vegetation growing along the shore.
BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts or parcels within well defined boundaries,
usually streets.
BOARD: The Blaine County Board of County Commissioners.
BUILDABLE ACRES: Land where the slope does not exceed twenty five percent (25%)
and where building sites can be located (see definition of buildable site).
BUILDABLE SITE: A construction site which will not require diking or riprap for
protection against flooding, nor increase the possibility of contamination of
ground or surface water from septic tanks and drain fields, nor require that
the proposed site be excavated so as to oversteepen a slope or toe of a slope,
nor be located within any Floodplain Overlay, Wetlands Overlay, Mountain
Overlay or Scenic Highway Overlay district.
BUILDING: Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use
or occupancy.
BUILDING ENVELOPE (PLATTED): An area depicted on a recorded subdivision plat
indicating where all buildings shall be located, unless the plat indicates
otherwise.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: An imaginary line established by title 9 of this Code
that requires all buildings to be set back a certain distance from lot lines.
BUILDING SITE: A proposed pad for construction of a habitable structure that is
not subject to hazards such as flooding, high groundwater, subsidence,
avalanche, landslide, infringement on wildlife areas, contamination of water
tables or other similar hazards.
CITY: An incorporated municipality.
COMMISSION: The Blaine County planning and zoning commission.
COMMUNITY HOUSING LOT: A subdivided lot or a tract of land restricted to
community housing voluntarily by the owner.
COMMUNITY HOUSING UNIT: See definition in section
9-35-2 of this code.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The Blaine County comprehensive land use plan.
CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of: a) an undivided interest in common in
real property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any
combination thereof, together with b) a separate interest in real property or
in any combination thereof.
COUNCIL: The city council of the municipal governing body.
COUNTY RECORDER: The office of the county recorder of Blaine County, Idaho.
COVENANT: A written agreement, pledge or promise of two (2) or more parties by
which any of the parties pledges themselves to others that something is done or
will be done.
CULVERT: A drain that channels water under a bridge, street, road or driveway.
DEDICATION: The conveyance of land or interest in land for use by the public by
ordinance, resolution or entry in the official minutes as by the recording of a
plat. Dedicated land may become public property if and when the county accepts
the land for dedication.
DEVELOPER: Authorized agent of a subdivider or the subdivider himself/herself.
DISPOSITION: A contract of sale resulting in the transfer of equitable title to
an interest in subdivided land; an option to purchase an interest in subdivided
land, a lease or an assignment of an interest in subdivided land; or any other
conveyance of an interest in subdivided land which is not made under one of the
foregoing.
DOMESTIC WATER: Water from wells granted by the Idaho Department of Water
Resources under the domestic exemption, pursuant to Idaho Code, Title 42.
DRAINAGEWAY: A watercourse, gully, dry stream, creek or ditch which carries
storm water runoff, or which is subject to flooding or ponding, or which is fed
by street or building gutters or by storm water sewers, or which serves the
purpose of draining water from the lands adjacent to such water course, gully,
dry stream, creek, or ditch.
DWELLING UNIT: A single building or part thereof providing complete independent
living facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for
living, sleeping, cooking, eating and sanitation.
EASEMENT: A nonpossessory interest in real property which gives the holder of
such interest the right to use some part, or all, of the real property of
another.
ENGINEER (SURVEYOR), COUNTY: That registered engineer or surveyor appointed by
the board to check plats and make such surveys, maps and plats as ordered by
the board.
FLOODPLAIN, 100-YEAR: The lowland near the channel of a river, stream, lake or
other body of water which has been or may be covered by water of 100-year
frequency, as established by the engineering practices as specified by the
federal emergency management agency.
   Channel: A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water.
   Flood: The temporary inundation of land adjacent to and inundated by
overflow from a river, stream, lake or other body of water.
   Flood Of 100-Year Frequency: A flood magnitude which has a one percent (1%)
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year as determined by
probability analysis of historical hydrological data.
   Floodway: The channel, watercourse or portion of the floodplain adjoining
the channel which is reasonably required to carry and discharge the floodwater
of any watercourse, with maximum allowable rise of one foot (1') due to
potential building encroachment.
GOVERNING BODY: The board of county commissioners.
HEAVY INDUSTRIAL USE: The manufacture, processing and testing of goods and
materials, including the production of power, where the primary or incidental
byproducts of such use (such as noise, smoke, odor, glare, gas or heavy vehicle
use) may have a negative effect on neighboring property.
HIGHWAY: A street designated as a highway by an appropriate state or federal
agency.
HILLSIDE SUBDIVISION: Any subdivision where one or more lots proposed for
building development have a slope of fifteen percent (15%) or more.
IMMEDIATE FAMILY: A spouse of the grantor, a child of the grantor and a parent
of the grantor.
IMPROVEMENT: Any alteration to the land or other physical constructions
associated with subdivision and building site developments.
IN LIEU FEES: The subsidy amount calculated pursuant to the Blaine Ketchum
housing authority guidelines that is annually calculated and adopted by the
authority.
LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENTS: A subdivision consisting of ten (10) or more lots,
townhouse sublots, or multi-family units.
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL USES: Warehousing, wholesaling, manufacturing and/or
processing of goods and materials which do not emit offensive odor, dust,
smoke, glare, gas, light, noise or vibration which cannot be confined to the
site itself and which therefore can be designed to operate compatibly in close
proximity to adjoining commercial or residential uses. It does not include
commercial uses such as retail sales or services.
LOT: A parcel, plot, tract or other contiguous land area which is created by
subdivision for sale, transfer or lease.
LOT AREA: The area of any lot exclusive of street and road easements.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, constructed after June 15, 1976, in accordance
with the HUD manufactured home construction and safety standards and as defined
by Idaho Code section 39-4105. For clarification, this definition excludes
mobile homes, recreational vehicles and park trailers.
MOBILE HOME: A factory assembled structure or structures generally constructed
prior to June 15, 1976, and equipped with the necessary service connections and
made so as to be readily movable as a unit or units on their own running gear
and designed to be used as a dwelling unit or units with or without a permanent
foundation, as defined by Idaho Code section 39-4105.
MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME PUD: A residential planned unit development designed
for siting mobile or manufactured homes on individual lots under individual
ownership.
MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: A residential development designed for siting
mobile or manufactured homes on individual spaces that are rented or leased.
MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed for mobile home
and manufactured home residential use on individual lots under individual
ownership.
MONUMENT: Any permanent marker either of concrete, galvanized iron or steel
rods, used to identify any tract, parcel, lot or street lines, as specified in
Idaho Code section 50-1303.
OPEN SPACE, PRIVATE: A land or water area devoid of buildings, streets, parking
or other physical structures, except fences and irrigation structures.
OPEN SPACE, PUBLIC: An open space area managed or owned by the public is any
parcel of land which remains undeveloped for scenic, wildlife, vegetative,
recreation, visual relief or other related public purposes. Some examples
include wilderness areas, natural areas, buffer zones, scenic corridors and
botanical gardens. Permitted management activities are limited to fences,
signs, parking, irrigation systems and public access trails. The site design is
to protect natural features of the open space while allowing public access.
ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK: The mark on all watercourses, where the presence and
action of waters is so common and continued in all ordinary years as to mark
upon the soil a character distinct from that of the abutting upland, in respect
to vegetation. With respect to the riparian setback, in areas where riprap bank
stabilization has occurred, the measurement shall begin on the landward side of
such stabilization work.
ORIGINAL LEASEHOLD PARCEL: An unplatted parcel of land that: is within a lot of
record; was separately created and described by metes and bounds that are
sufficiently certain and accurate for the county engineer or surveyor to locate
the property; was conveyed by a written lease agreement for a period of ten
(10) or more years; and has been leased continuously for residential or
recreational purposes by an individual or entity or their successor since at
least April 15, 1971, the effective date of Blaine County's first subdivision
regulations.
ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND: An unplatted contiguous parcel of land held in one
ownership and of record on a single deed at the effective date hereof (April
14, 1977). Single deeds that express a clear intent to convey land as separate
parcels (i.e., parcel 1: property description; ... parcel 2: property
description; ...) as of April 14, 1977, shall be recognized as separate
original parcels of land. Reference the definition of "lot of record" in
section
9-2-1 of this code for further information.
OWNER: The individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation
or other entity having proprietary interest in the land to be subdivided. A
leasehold interest is excluded from such proprietary interest.
PERFORMANCE BOND: An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by the
subdivider or subdivider's surety to the county clerk and recorder which
guarantees that the subdivider will perform all actions required by the
governing body regarding an approved plat, and provides that if the subdivider
defaults and fails to comply with the provisions of an approved plat, the
subdivider or subdivider's surety will pay damages up to the limit of the bond
or the surety will itself complete the requirements of the approved plat.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: An area of land developed primarily for residential
use in which normal restriction of lot sizes, setbacks, densities and land uses
may be adjusted in return for conformity with an approved plan for the total
parcel.
PLAT: A graphic representation of a subdivision showing the division of land
into lots, parcels, blocks, streets and alleys and other elements of a
subdivision, cemetery, townsite or another tract of land, or a replatting of
such including certifications, descriptions and approvals.
   Final Plat: The final drawing of the subdivision or other type of plat
prepared for filing for record with the county clerk and recorder.
   Preliminary Plat: A scaled drawing of a proposed subdivision showing the
layout of streets, alleys, lots and other elements of a subdivision for review
by a governing body and shall include covenants running with the land.
   Recorded Plat: A plat filed and recorded by the county clerk and recorder.
For the purpose of addressing state sanitary restrictions on land development,
any recorded plat is considered a subdivision plat.
   Short Plat: A plat of a subdivision of four (4) or less lots.
POTABLE WATER SOURCE: Private water system, such as wells and springs, or
public water systems.
POWER TRANSMISSION LINE: An electrical line designed to transport sixty nine
thousand (69,000) volts (69 kV) or more of electrical power.
PUBLIC FACILITIES: Structure for the use and benefit of the community,
including, but not limited to, a school, hospital, church or cultural building.
PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM: A system that provides the public with piped water for
human consumption, if such system has at least fifteen (15) service connections
or regularly serves an average of at least twenty five (25) individuals daily
at least sixty (60) days out of the year. Such term includes:
   A.   Any collection, treatment, storage, and distribution facilities under
control of the operator of such system and used primarily in connection with
such system; and
   B.   Any collection or pretreatment storage facilities not under such
control that are used primarily in connection with such system.
REFERENCE ROAD: Any federal, state or city public road, or county road
designated as a graded and drained or higher improvement designation on the
official county highway map.
RESUBDIVISION: The subdivision of a lot or parcel created by a previous legal
subdivision of land.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated or acquired for use as a public
thoroughfare, which normally includes streets, sidewalks and other public
utilities or service area.
SCENIC CORRIDOR: An area of significant scenic importance to the county as a
representation of the rural character and general attractive beauty of the
county. Scenic corridor 1 (SC1) includes the area on both sides of State
Highway 75 north of the east to west Glendale Road intersection that is visible
from said State Highway 75. The designated scenic travelway contained within
SC1 is State Highway 75, carrying the largest volume of commuter, recreational
and tourism traffic in Blaine County.
SEPTIC SYSTEM: A sewage disposal system consisting of a septic tank and drain
field large enough to ensure the disposal capacity of the anticipated volume of
sewage.
SHORT SUBDIVISION: A subdivision of land into four (4) or less lots, parcels or
townhouse sublots.
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A permanent structure designed and used as the living
quarters of a primary family or housekeeping unit. This shall not include a
mobile home unit. (See definition of Mobile Home.)
SKYLINED: An outline of a structure against the background of the sky as viewed
from federal roads, state roads and/or roads as shown on the grade and drain
map for the county.
STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS: The standard specifications for public works as
officially adopted and amended.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STREET: A right of way which provides access to adjacent properties and that
has been officially accepted. Street shall include the terms highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard, land and place.
   Alley: A minor street providing secondary access at the back or side of a
property otherwise abutting a street.
   Arterial: A street designated for the purpose of carrying fast and/or heavy
traffic.
   Collector: A street designated for the purpose of carrying traffic from
minor streets to other collector streets and/or arterial streets.
   Cul-De-Sac: A street connected to another at one end only and provided with
a turnaround space at its terminus.
    Dead End: A dead end street is one that ends abruptly with no provision for
egress or turnaround.
   Half Street: A right-of-way easement which provides only half of the usual
required right-of-way width in anticipation of having adjacent land dedicated
for the remaining required width.
   Minor Street: A street which has the primary purpose of providing access to
abutting properties and not for through traffic.
   Partial: A dedicated right-of-way providing only a portion of the required
street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract of land.
   Private Driveway: Private, nondedicated vehicular access to adjacent
properties, which may not be built to County road standards.
   Private Street: A street that is not dedicated to or accepted by the Board
for public use or maintenance.
   Stub: A street that ends at an ownership line or development phase boundary
and provides temporary cul-de-sac turnaround until the road is extended
according to prior agreement.
STRUCTURE: Refer to title 9, chapter 2, "Definitions", of this Code.
SUBDIVIDER: Any person, firm, corporation or other entity who causes land to be
subdivided or who proposes a subdivision of land.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two (2) or
more parts for the purpose of sale, lease or building development, whether
immediate or future. For the purpose of addressing state sanitary restrictions
on land development, any type of plat is considered a subdivision plat.
SURVEYOR: A person who is licensed in Idaho as a public land surveyor to do
professional surveying.
TOWNHOUSE DEVELOPMENT: A planned project of two (2) or more townhouse units
where a duplex is permitted either as part of previous development approvals or
in title 9 of this Code that may be constructed as single building(s)
containing two (2) or more townhouse units, each unit being separated from the
adjoining unit or units by a one hour fire resistant party wall or walls
extending from the basement floor to the roof along the dividing townhouse
sublot line, each unit having its own access to the outside and no unit located
over another unit in part or in whole. All townhouse development(s) shall be
platted under the procedures contained herein.
TOWNHOUSE SUBLOT: The lot(s) resulting from platting a townhouse development.
Townhouse sublots shall have a minimum area equal to that of the perimeter of
each individual townhouse unit measured at the foundation. Said sublots shall
not be buildable for structures other than a "townhouse unit" as defined
herein. Platting of sublots shall follow the procedures set forth in this title
and other applicable codes in effect. Detached garages, guesthouses and all
other detached and/or accessory buildings shall be contained within the
perimeter of the townhouse sublot.
TOWNHOUSE UNIT: One or more rooms, including a minimum of one bathroom and a
single kitchen, designed for or occupied as a unit by one family for living and
cooking purposes, located in a townhouse development on a platted townhouse
sublot.
TRACT: Land area proposed to be subdivided.
UTILITIES: Installations for conducting water, sewage, gas, electricity,
television, stormwater and similar facilities providing service to and used by
the public.
VICINITY MAP: A small map showing the location of a tract of land in relation
to a larger area.
VISIBILITY: Quality, state or fact of being visible.
VISIBLE: Capable of being seen or exposed to view without aid of binoculars or
other vision enhancing devices, to the occupants of an automobile traveling
upon a reference road.
WATERCOURSE: A natural depression or channel which gives direction to a current
of water at any time of the year.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA: Land in Blaine County that is located within a ten
(10) year time of travel zone of a public water system as determined by Idaho
Department of Environmental Quality, or land within three hundred feet (300')
of a potable water source.
WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE: The zone of transition between unoccupied land and
human development. It is the line, area or zone where structures and other
human development meet or intermingle with undeveloped wildland or vegetative
fuels.
YARDSCAPE: Introduced vegetation such as grass and ornamental shrubs, forbs and
trees that may require irrigation in a normal cycle. (Ord. 2023-10, - -2023;
Ord. 2021-07, 5-11-2021; Ord. 2020-04, 9-15-2020; Ord. 2018-01, 1-23-2018; Ord.
2012-07, 10-9-2012; Ord. 2012-05, 6-5-2012; Ord. 2008-13, 10-7-2008; Ord. 2008-
10, 7-8-2008; Ord. 2006-13, 10-26-2006; Ord. 2006-03, 6-29-2006; Ord. 2000-11,
11-6-2000; Ord. 98-8, 10-5-1998; Ord. 94-13, 11-14-1994; Ord. 94-4, 6-16-1994;
Ord. 93-2, 1-11-1993; Ord. 92-4, 8-10-1992; Ord. 77-6, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-14-
1977)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10-3-1: Administrator
10-3-2: Duties Of Commission
10-3-3: Minimum Standards
10-3-1: ADMINISTRATOR:
The Administrator is vested with the duty of administering the regulations of
this Title and may prepare and require the use of such forms as are essential
to the administration of this Title. (Ord. 77-6, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-14-1977)
10-3-2: DUTIES OF COMMISSION:
In the event the Commission fails to act or carry out its responsibilities
according to these regulations, the Board shall assume all the duties of the
Commission as specified in relation to the application concerned. (Ord. 77-6,
3-28-1977, eff. 4-14-1977)
10-3-3: MINIMUM STANDARDS:
This Title delineates the minimum standards for land subdivision. Compliance
with the minimum standards does not automatically ensure acceptance of a plat
by the County. Minimum lot areas and densities prescribed by Title 9 of this
Code are minimum standards only and do not create an entitlement to the
subdivision of land, or to subdivision of land at the minimum lot areas and
densities under Title 9 of this Code. Compliance with the standards of
evaluation and criteria in this Code may limit the amount of land available for
development. Additional requirements may be added by the Board before
acceptance in order to implement the Comprehensive Plan or provide for the
general public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 98-8, 10-5-1998; Ord. 77-6, 3-
28-1977, eff. 4-14-1977)
CHAPTER 4
PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL AND PLAT CONTENTS
SECTION:
10-4-1: General Platting Procedure
10-4-2: Preapplication Submittal
10-4-3: Preliminary Plat Procedure
10-4-4: Impact Study Requirements
10-4-5: Final Plat Procedure
10-4-6: Short Plat Procedure
10-4-7: Vacation, Dedication And Other Plat Approval Procedures
10-4-1: GENERAL PLATTING PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application: Any person desiring to subdivide or resubdivide land shall
submit an application to the Administrator. No final plat of more than four (4)
lots shall be filed with the County Recorder until it has been acted upon by
the commission and approved by the Board in preliminary plat and final plat
form as required herein. No lots shall be sold or offered for sale or lease
from any plat until it has been recorded in the Office of the Blaine County
Recorder. A subdivision of four (4) lots or less shall follow the short plat
procedure.
   B.   Hearing: Each plat submitted for preliminary or final approval shall be
placed on the Commission's or Board's agenda for hearing only after fulfilling
all the requirements of this title. References within this title to the
"Board," in regard to review of subdivision applications, include both the
Board and the Commission when the Commission provides a recommendation.
   C.   Incomplete Submission: A plat not meeting all the requirements may be
submitted, upon the Administrator's consent, provided the subdivider presents
with the plat a letter requesting the specific exceptions and giving in detail
the reason for incomplete submission.
   D.   Referral To Other Agencies: The Administrator may, at the
Administrator's discretion, refer the preliminary plat and application to those
agencies the Administrator deems necessary for review in order to carry out the
full intent of this title.
   E.   Concurrent Applications Prohibited: Subdivision applications with valid
approvals shall be withdrawn in writing by the property owner/applicant before
any new application for the same parcel(s) of land may be filed with, and
considered by, the County. Applications with expired approvals shall be deemed
null and void, pursuant to subsection 10-4-5B1 of this chapter. Concurrent
subdivision, resubdivision, short plat, cluster development (CD), planned unit
development (PUD) or other such land subdivision applications concerning the
same parcel(s) of land shall be prohibited. However, applications for vacation,
dedication or plat amendment as well as zoning applications (including CH-PUDs)
affecting the same parcel(s) of land may be made and decided concurrent with
subdivision, resubdivision, short plat, CD and PUD applications.
   F.   Site Work Prohibited: Subdivision improvements at the site of the
proposed subdivision, resubdivision, short plat, CD or PUD that involves
modification to existing grade, existing vegetation, and other natural features
of the site shall not take place prior to preliminary plat approval or contrary
to the conditions of that approval. Site work for the purpose of testing soils,
drilling test wells, surveying, and similar activities shall be permitted,
provided disturbance to the natural terrain and vegetation is minimized.
   G.   Community Housing Planned Unit Developments (CH-PUD): Applications for
subdivision, townhouse, condominium preliminary and final plats associated with
community housing planned unit developments authorized under title 9, chapter
35, "Community Housing Overlay District (CH)", of this Code shall be processed,
evaluated and decided upon according to the procedures contained therein and as
noted in this chapter. In the event of a conflict between title 9, chapter 35
of this Code and this title, the provisions of title 9, chapter 35 of this Code
shall apply.
   H.   Original Leasehold Parcels: Any person desiring to plat land that has
been found to consist of two (2) or more original leasehold parcels under this
title shall submit an application to the Administrator which shall be evaluated
per subsection 10-4-7F of this chapter. No final plat of original leasehold
parcels shall be filed with the County Recorder until the Planning and Zoning
Commission has made a recommendation, and the Board has approved the final plat
as required in this title. (Ord. 2023-10, - -2023; Ord. 2019-09, 5-28-2019;
Ord. 2012-07, 10-9-2012; Ord. 2012-03, 4-17-2012; Ord. 2004-03, 5-3-2004; Ord.
2000-05, 3-27-2000; Ord. 77-6, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-14-1977)
10-4-2: PREAPPLICATION SUBMITTAL:
   A.   Submission Of Generalized Plans: No subdivision shall be designed until
all overlay districts and classified lands are determined and relevant
standards have been considered, including a wildlife conservation plan if
required, pursuant to Section
10-5-3 of this title and title 9, chapter 20. Prior to the filing of an
application for a preliminary plat, the subdivider shall submit to the
administrator generalized plans for the layout, density and street pattern for
the proposed development. Such submission shall not require the official filing
of a subdivision application.
   B.   Review By Administrator: The administrator shall review these plans and
data, and advise the subdivider of the governing regulations and the agencies
that shall be contacted for review and comment, pursuant to 10-4-3 C. This
advisory procedure does not constitute approval of the plan.
   C.   Requirements For CH-PUDs: Preapplication requirements for community
housing planned unit developments shall be governed by title 9, chapter 35,
"Community Housing Overlay District (CH)", of this code. (Ord. 2023-10, - -
2023; Ord. 2004-03, 5-3-2004; Ord. 95-3, 3-6-1995; Ord. 77-6, 3-28-1977, eff.
4-14-1977)
10-4-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application: Upon completion of the preapplication procedures, the
subdivider shall file with the administrator sufficient copies of the completed
subdivision application form and preliminary plat data as required in this
title and a letter requesting that the preliminary plat be placed on the
commission's agenda for consideration. The applicant shall have the burden of
persuasion as to compliance with each of the applicable standards in chapter 5
of this title or any other standards of this title. The county shall choose a
legally qualified surveyor or engineer to check the plat and comment on whether
the requirements of this code have been met prior to the administrator's
certification of the application for completeness and any subsequent public
hearings. The county shall collect from the applicant a fee related to the cost
of performing such services prior to noticing a hearing.
In the event the data required for the administrator to certify the application
as complete, pursuant to subsection B of this section, is not filed with the
county within one hundred eighty (180) days from the date the application was
filed with the Blaine County planning office, the application shall be null and
void. One time only, the administrator, at his/her discretion, may approve one
extension of the time within which materials may be submitted upon receipt of a
written request by the applicant giving in detail the reason additional time is
required to file said data. When the administrator approves an extension to
submit materials under this section, said approval shall be in writing and for
a specific period of time not to exceed forty five (45) days.
   B.   Certification: Upon receipt of the preliminary plat and all other
required data, the administrator shall certify the application as complete and
affix the date of application acceptance thereon. The applicant shall be
entitled to the application being processed and evaluated by the county under
the regulations in effect on the date of certification. Allowing sufficient
time to conduct a site visit and write staff reports, the administrator shall
then schedule the preliminary plat application for the commission's next
available, adequately noticed, hearing time. If no regular meeting time is
available within one hundred eighty (180) days of certification, the
administrator shall call a special commission meeting, to be held not more than
three (3) weeks after the end of the one hundred eighty (180) days, to hear the
application.
   C.   Review By Agencies:
      1.   Transmission Of Application: The applicant shall transmit a
preliminary plat application to other departments of the county and to such
agencies that have jurisdiction over or interest in the proposed development
for their review in order to get recommendations on possible adverse impacts or
design modifications that could help alleviate such impacts. At this time, the
applicant shall also provide the planning office a copy of the preliminary plat
application sent to the agencies and a sample transmittal letter. Written
agency recommendations shall be received prior to certification by the
administrator. If recommendations have not been received within six (6) weeks
from delivery of all the required substantive information, then the
administrator shall consider this to be a nonresponse. Departments and agencies
that may receive such applications may include, but are not restricted to, the
following:
         a.   County departments.
         b.   Public health district.
         c.   Idaho public utilities commission.
         d.   Commissions of other governing bodies having joint jurisdiction.
         e.   Utility companies.
         f.   Superintendent of the school district.
         g.   Soil conservation district.
         h.   U.S. forest service.
         i.   Bureau of land management.
         j.   Fish and game department.
         k.   Applicable rural fire district.
         l.   Recreation district.
         m.   Blaine County housing authority.
         n.   Idaho department of environmental quality and affected public
water system owners when the project is located within a wellhead protection
area.
      2.   Compilation Of Recommendations: The administrator shall compile the
recommendations received and shall advise the developer of any administrative
recommendations for plat changes. Further, the administrator shall advise the
developer that staking or otherwise identifying on site may be required for
boundary lines, corners, centroids, centerlines, etc., of property boundaries,
proposed lots, building envelopes, streets, and other elements of the proposal
in order for the staff, commission and board to better understand the design,
neighborhood impact, and other features of the proposal.
   D.   Commission Action:
      1.   Public Hearing: The commission shall hold a public hearing after
giving notice at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county, mailing notice to owners of land within
three hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundaries of the subdivision,
mailing notice to affected public water system owners when the project is
located within a wellhead protection area, mailing notice to all political
subdivisions providing services including the school district at least fifteen
(15) days prior to the hearing, posting the site at least seven (7) days prior
to the hearing. The commission shall make a finding that the notice which has
been provided is adequate and shall approve, disapprove, conditionally approve
or continue the preliminary plat. The application and associated data and
materials submitted therewith shall be available for public inspection from and
after the date the notice of hearing is published in the newspaper. If the
applicant introduces new, modified, or supplemental written materials after the
notice of hearing is published, the commission may, if it determines that the
additional information materially changes the application, continue the
proceedings and give notice, at the applicant's expense, of a subsequent
hearing where the application will be considered together with the additional
information. Any continuance resulting from the introduction of such additional
information shall be deemed continued at the applicant's request pursuant to
subsection D2 of this section. Applicants are advised that preliminary plats
sent to the board may be approved, modified or denied by the board of
commissioners.
      2.   Continued Hearings And Commission Disposition: Hearings may be
continued by the commission due to lack of sufficient time after the public
hearing to adequately evaluate the application, consider the public comment,
and decide on the application. Hearings may be continued at the request of the
applicant for the purpose of responding to the public comment or commission's
questions or for the purpose of entering new, modified or supplemental
information as part of the application into the record. Continued hearings
shall be held within one hundred twenty (120) days and if no regular meeting
time is available within this time, the administrator shall call a special
commission meeting to be held not more than three (3) weeks after the end of
the one hundred twenty (120) days. Notice for continued hearings for which new,
modified or supplemental information has been submitted or those scheduled more
than thirty one (31) days or forty five (45) days for concurrent community
housing planned unit development plat applications after the initial public
hearing for which notice was found to be adequate shall be provided as required
in subsection D1 of this section. The planning and zoning commission shall
review and make recommendations on concurrent community housing planned unit
development plat applications to the board within forty five (45) days from the
date of the first public hearing. If the preliminary plat is disapproved or
conditionally approved, or continued, the reasons shall be stated in writing,
attached to a copy of the plat and returned to the applicant within fourteen
(14) days of the final commission disposition. No more than two (2)
continuations at the request of the applicant may take place.
      3.   Transmittal To Board: Upon approval or disapproval by the
commission, the plat, together with a complete copy of the commission findings
and report of action, shall be transmitted to the board and written notice of
this action shall be sent to the subdivider.
   E.   Board Action:
      1.   Submission And Consideration: The preliminary plat and commission
recommendations shall be submitted to the board within fourteen (14) days of
the commission's final written findings of fact. The board shall consider the
recommendations of the commission at its next available hearing time following
receipt of that report. The board's first public hearing on concurrent
community housing planned unit development plat applications shall be scheduled
within forty five (45) days of receiving the commission recommendations. Notice
for said hearing shall be the same as that required for commission hearings
pursuant to subsection D1 of this section. The board may continue the hearing,
but not for more than thirty one (31) days unless notice is again provided
pursuant to subsection D1 of this section.
      2.   Hearing: At the hearing, the board may hear testimony of the
subdivider and any representatives of the subdivider, testimony of
representatives of the commission and any witnesses in its behalf, and
additional information and comment from the public and public agencies, as well
as records of the commission hearings. The application and associated data and
materials submitted therewith and the findings and recommendation from the
commission shall be available for public inspection from and after the date the
notice of hearing is published in the newspaper. If the applicant introduces
new, modified, or supplemental written materials after the notice of hearing is
published, the board may, if it determines that the additional information
materially changes the application, either continue the proceedings and give
notice, at the applicant's expense, of a subsequent hearing where the
application will be considered together with the additional information or
remand said changed application back to the commission for further
consideration and recommendation. Any continuance resulting from the
introduction of such additional information shall be deemed continued at the
applicant's request pursuant to subsection D2 of this section.
      3.   Findings: Upon conclusion of the hearing, the board shall base its
findings upon the record and testimony produced before it, and within fifteen
(15) days declare its findings in writing. It may sustain, modify, reject or
overrule any recommendations of the commission and make such findings as are
not inconsistent with the provisions of Idaho law, this title, title 9 of this
code, other county laws and the county comprehensive plan. The time limits for
acting on the preliminary plat may be extended by mutual written consent of the
subdivider and the board.
   F.   Contents Of Preliminary Plat: Preliminary plats shall be drawn to scale
and shall show the following, on one or more sheets:
      1.   The scale at no smaller than one inch equals two hundred feet
(1"=200'), north point, date and name of proposed subdivision, (which shall not
conflict with the name of any existing subdivision in Blaine County or its
incorporated cities as determined by Assessor's Office).
      2.   The legal description of the total area to be platted and the
boundaries of the tract as determined by an accurate survey.
      3.   Lot, parcel, and block lines including dimensions, lot and parcel
areas in square feet and acres, and proposed lot and block numbering. The term
"parcel" is to be used for streets, common areas and other unbuildable or
undevelopable tracts of land.
      4.   All existing and proposed easements within the area to be platted
and any known easements on adjacent land.
      5.   The names of adjoining subdivisions and tax lots, and the location
of city corporate limit lines and lines indicating the location of the Area of
City Impact of any incorporated city.
      6.   Any zoning boundary lines within the subdivision.
      7.   Any floodway and/or floodplain lines as adopted by the County or as
determined by the federal emergency management agency.
      8.   Mean/Ordinary High Water lines of streams and required setbacks.
      9.   Delineated wetland boundaries and required setbacks.
      10.   Mountain Overlay District boundaries, including Scenic Corridor 1.
      11.   Any red (high) or blue (moderate) avalanche hazard lines.
      12.   A contour map of the subdivision, based on United States geodetic
survey datum or other datum approved by the county engineer, that shows two-
foot (2') or less contour intervals where slopes are less than twenty-five
percent (25%), and five-foot (5') contour intervals where slopes are twenty
five percent (25%) or greater. Identify twenty-five percent (25%) slope
boundaries; identify fifteen percent (15%) slope boundaries on any lands
located within the Scenic Corridor 1.
      13.   The scaled location of existing buildings, water bodies and
courses, and the location of adjoining or adjacent streets, rights-of-way, and
public access easements.
      14.   The proposed location of street rights of way and names (which
shall not conflict with the name of any existing street in Blaine County or its
incorporated cities as determined by the Assessor's Office), grade and typical
section of streets, and easements including dimensions.
      15.   The general location, layout, size, and type of any of the
following systems existing within or adjacent to the proposed subdivision:
sanitary and storm sewers, water mains, culverts, any other surface and
subsurface structures, power poles and lines (identified as transmission or
distribution lines. The general location, layout, type, and size of any
proposed: central sanitary or storm sewers, central water system mains,
sources, or storage facilities, or any other proposed utilities.
      16.   The location of all existing irrigated areas.
      17.   The location and direction of all natural or other drainageways,
and the location and size of all drainage easements located within or
immediately adjacent to the proposed plat.
      18.   Grading and drainage plan and improvements for lots and parcels.
      19.   The location, size and proposed use of all land intended to be
dedicated or reserved for public use or reserved for common use of all future
property owners within the proposed subdivision.
      20.   A legend explaining all linetypes and symbols used.
      21.   Survey narrative and notes. Notes should be organized under
headings (e.g. Utilities, Wildlife, Easements, or other logical headings) when
multiple notes are needed.
      22.   Basis of bearing and survey control points.
      23.   Line and curve tables as necessary.
      24.   Phasing boundaries, if applicable.
   G.   Other preliminary plat submittal items:
      1.   Application form with name and address of the owner of record, the
applicant, and the engineer, surveyor or other responsible party, along with
other information requested on the form.
      2.   Proof of ownership (title report or Assessor's records).
      3.   A vicinity map(s) at a scale appropriate to show the adjacent lands,
uses, streets and zoning.
      4.   An outline of the provisions of any proposed protective covenants to
be filed with the preliminary plat of the subdivision, if applicable.
      5.   Completed Information and Impact Assessment Form and attachments,
pursuant to section 10-4-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 2023-10, - -2023; Ord. 2012-
03, 4-17-2012; Ord. 2006-13, 10-26-2006; Ord. 2004-03, 5-3-2004; Ord. 2000-05,
3-27-2000; Ord. 98-8, 10-5-1998; Ord. 96-6, 7-22-1996; Ord. 95-3, 3-6-1995;
Ord. 90-8, 11-26-1990; Ord. 77-6, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-14-1977)
10-4-4: IMPACT STUDY REQUIREMENTS:
The owner or developer of a subdivision or PUD shall complete an information
and impact assessment form as furnished by the administrator and conduct
studies and submit plans as required by this section. The impact assessment
form shall be filed with the preliminary plat application. Omission or
deliberate falsification of any part of this form shall constitute grounds for
rejection of the application. Impact study requirements for community housing
planned unit development applications are found in title 9, chapter 35,
"Community Housing Overlay District (CH)", of this code.
The information and impact assessment form, adopted by resolution, covers the
following topics:
   A.   Natural environment, resource protection, and hazardous areas;
   B.   Agricultural and rural land;
   C.   Infrastructure;
   D.   Comprehensive plan; and
   E.   Impacts on public services. (Ord. 2023-10, - -2023; Ord. 2012-03, 4-17-
2012; Ord. 2006-18, 11-2-2006; Ord. 2006-16, 11-2-2006; Ord. 2006-13, 10-26-
2006; Ord. 2004-03, 5-3-2004; Ord. 90-8, 11-26-1990; Ord. 77-6, 3-28-1977, eff.
4-14-1977)
10-4-5: FINAL PLAT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Filing:
      1.   Survey And Preparation Of Final Plat: After the approval or
conditional approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider may cause the
subdivision, or the first phase thereof, to be surveyed and a final plat
prepared in accordance with the preliminary plat as approved.
      2.   Preparation And Filing: The final plat shall be prepared in
accordance with Idaho Code, section 50-1301 et seq., and the provisions of this
title, and filed with the administrator, together with a letter requesting that
it be placed on the board's agenda for consideration. In the event the final
plat does not conform substantially to the approved preliminary plat, the
administrator shall so inform the subdivider. The administrator shall then
proceed to assign the final plat to the commission agenda for their action as a
preliminary plat.
      3.   Documents Submitted: Such final plat submission shall include two
(2) drafting film plats and four (4) copies of the plat, as well as
specifications for all proposed improvements as required by this title. A title
report or other evidence of proof of ownership shall be submitted.
      4.   Certificates, Acknowledgment And Signatures: The final plat shall
bear all required certificates and acknowledgments, the signatures of the
private engineer, county engineer, administrator and the notarized signature of
the owner. Applicants may be assessed a fee by the county engineer for any
costs incurred to certify, acknowledge or sign a final plat.
   B.   Time Limitations:
      1.   Deadlines: A preliminary or short plat shall expire three (3) years
from the date of the board's approval, unless an application for final plat
approval has been submitted to the county. A final plat application, if not
certifiable pursuant to subsection C of this section, shall expire six (6)
months from the date of its submission or from the effective date hereof
whichever is later. A final plat, if not recorded, shall expire one year from
the date of the expiration of the appeal period. Only one extension of this
final plat deadline is allowed, for good cause shown, and only for a maximum of
one additional year.
      2.   Phasing Development: In the event a preliminary plat provides for
the orderly phasing of development in successive contiguous segments, final
plats for such phases may be submitted according to a predetermined schedule
without resubmission for preliminary plat approval. Any phase which is not
recorded within three (3) years of the Board's approval of the preliminary plat
or the final plat of the immediately prior phase, whichever is later, shall
expire or be required to meet any changes in this title enacted since the
original approval. Applicants are advised that subsequent phases of development
may be required to provide mitigation for additional on site and off site
impacts. Phasing and bonding may be authorized for community housing planned
unit developments through the evaluation process provided in title 9, chapter
35, "Community Housing Overlay District (CH)", of this Code.
   C.   Certification By Administrator: Upon receipt of the final plat, a
completed application and review by the County Engineer, the Administrator
shall determine whether all requirements of this title have been satisfied.
Upon an affirmative finding that the application is complete and conforms to
County regulations, the Administrator shall certify the application as
complete, affix the date thereto and place the plat on the Board's agenda for
consideration at the next available, adequately noticed, hearing time within
sixty (60) days or forty five (45) days for community housing planned unit
developments of certification.
   D.   Commission Action: The commission shall be required to act on a final
plat only if the Board finds it necessary to remand said final plat to the
commission for a recommendation.
   E.   Board Action: At its next available, adequately noticed, hearing time
following receipt of final plat application, the Board shall consider said
plat, recommendations from the commission, if any, additional information and
comment from the public and public agencies, and improvement bonding. Further,
the Board shall determine whether the final plat conforms to the conditions
required on the preliminary plat, regulations of this title and other County
laws, policies of the Comprehensive Plan and provisions for the public health,
safety and welfare. Subsequent phases of a multiphased development may be
required to provide mitigation for additional on site and off site impacts. The
Board shall then vote to approve, modify or deny the final plat application,
declare findings within fifteen (15) days and notify the subdivider of the
decision in writing within fourteen (14) days of the final disposition.
   F.   Court Appeals: The signing of any decision approving a preliminary plat
by the Board where the applicant is in a position to permanently alter the land
activates an appeal period, set out in section 67-5273 of the Idaho Code,
during which anyone aggrieved by the Board's decisions may appeal to the
District Court. In the case of a short plat or plat amendment, the decision of
the Board does not become a final, appealable decision until the Board approves
the final plat. The County will not sign any final plat for recording until the
appeal period has expired. In the event of an appeal, the County will suspend
any expiration date set out in this title. Site improvements and all other
expenditures undertaken during this period are undertaken at the applicant's
sole and exclusive risk. The Board, at its discretion and with specific
findings, may prohibit site alteration work prior to the expiration of the
appeal period.
   G.   Acceptance Of Dedication: At the time of approval of a final plat the
Board may accept offers of dedications shown on the plat.
   H.   Contents Of Final Plat: The final plat shall conform to Idaho Code,
section 50-1301 et seq. It shall be drawn on one sheet or sheets of stable base
drafting film (minimum base thickness of 0.003 inches) as per Idaho Code,
section 50-1304, and also provided to the County, at recordation, in a digital
format compatible with the County's system. The final plat shall also contain
the following:
      1.   A title which shall include the name of the subdivision, County and
State, and the location and description of the subdivision referenced to
township, range and section.
      2.   Scale, north arrow and date.
      3.   Point of beginning of subdivision description tied to at least two
(2) government survey corners or to monuments recognized by the County
Engineer.
      4.   Location and description of monuments.
      5.   Tract boundary lines, property lines, lot lines, lot sizes in acres,
street right-of-way and centerlines, other rights- of-way and easements; all
with accurate dimensions in feet and decimals, bearing in degrees, minutes and
seconds, radii, arcs, central angles, tangents and chord lengths of all curves
to the above accuracy.
      6.   Name and right-of-way width of each street or other right- of-way.
      7.   Name and locations of adjoining subdivisions.
      8.   The location, dimension and purpose of all easements.
      9.   Building envelopes, if required.
      10.   The blocks numbered consecutively throughout the entire subdivision
and the lots numbered consecutively throughout each block with areas to be
excluded from platting marked clearly with the reason for exclusion.
      11.   The outline of any property, other than a street or alley, which is
offered for dedication to public use, fully dimensioned by lengths and
bearings, with the area marked "Public" and showing the proposed use.
      12.   Location, width and names of all existing or dedicated streets or
other public ways within or adjacent to the proposed subdivision.
      13.   A signed certificate of ownership, with notarization, including
dedication of those street rights-of-way and sites held for public use,
statements of nondedication for public use and responsibility for maintenance
and service to such private streets, grants of any existing or proposed
easements and a provision in this certificate referencing the County Recorder's
fee number where the protective covenants governing the subdivision are
recorded.
      14.   Certification by registered engineer or surveyor preparing the plat
certifying to accuracy of survey and plat.
      15.   Certification and signature of County Engineer (surveyor) verifying
that the accuracy of the survey complies with the requirements of the Idaho
Code.
      16.   Certification and signature of City Engineer and City Clerk, if
required, verifying that the subdivision meets the city requirements and has
been approved by the Council.
      17.   Certification by the Health Department that the sanitary
restrictions on land or premises within a plat have been lifted.
      18.   Certification and signature of the Administrator verifying that the
subdivision has met all County and commission requirements.
      19.   Any additional restrictions imposed by the Board to provide for the
public health, safety and welfare.
      20.   Certification and signature of the Chairpersonor Vice- Chairperson
of the Board verifying that the subdivision has been approved by the Board.
      21.   Certification and signature of the County Treasurer verifying that
all taxes have been paid.
      22.   Certification and signature of the owner verifying that the
requirements of Idaho Code section 31-3805 (delivery of water) and section 50-
1334 (water systems) have been met.
      23.   Plat note(s) describing all potential hazard and sensitive areas
including disclaimers. Notes shall include:
         a.   Floodway - with reference to Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
         b.   Floodplain - with reference to Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
         c.   Avalanche - with reference to site specific study.
         d.   Wetlands - with reference to site specific study.
   I.   Improvement Guarantees: If the Board finds that it is desirable that
required improvements be completed after final plat filing, a performance bond,
cash deposit, negotiable bond or other financial guarantee acceptable to the
Board shall be posted with the County. The amount shall be not less than one
hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost of improvement construction
as determined by the registered engineer on the project and shall be verified
by the County Engineer. The subdivider shall pay any County Engineer review
fees and provide a definite timetable for completion of said improvements. The
financial guarantee shall provide for forfeiture to the County upon the failure
by the developer to construct any or all of the improvements according to the
approved schedule.
   J.   Monumentation: All subdivision monuments as required by title 50,
chapter 13 of the Idaho Code, shall be found or set and certified as correct by
a licensed surveyor before any County official signs the final plat or before
the release of any financial guarantee of the monumentation costs. (Ord. 2021-
07, 5-11-2021; Ord. 2018-01, 1-23-2018; Ord. 2012-03, 4-17-2012; Ord. 2008-03,
3-4-2008; Ord. 2004-03, 5-3-2004; Ord. 98-8, 10-5-1998; Ord. 96-6, 7-22-1996;
Ord. 95-3, 3-6-1995; Ord. 79-5, 9-11-1979; Ord. 77-6, 3-28-1997, eff. 4-14-
1977; Ord. 77-6, as amended)
10-4-6: SHORT PLAT PROCEDURE:
The following procedures shall apply for short plat applications:
   A.   Application:
      1.   Regular Short Plat: Any property owner desiring to divide land into
four (4) or fewer lots may submit an application for short subdivision to the
Administrator. One or more original parcels of land must be included and
subdivided according to the terms of this chapter.
      2.   Agricultural Short Plat: Any property owner desiring to divide land
into four (4) or fewer lots may submit an application for short subdivision to
the Administrator. All or a portion of one or more original parcel(s) of land
must be included and subdivided according to the terms of this chapter. An
agricultural short plat when dividing A-20 zoned land must equal or exceed
forty (40) acres or when dividing A-40 land must equal or exceed eighty (80)
acres.
   B.   Contents:
      1.   Contents for the short plat subdivision shall be the same as the
final plat as provided in this chapter. The Administrator may waive all or
parts of the impact study requirements where size or location indicates minimal
adverse impact.
      2.   In the case of a "townhouse development", as defined herein:
         a.   The subdivision plat application containing proposed townhouse
sublots for a single duplex structure shall not be accepted by the
Administrator until construction of both proposed townhouse units has commenced
under a valid building permit issued by the County building official.
Furthermore, said application shall not be forwarded to the Board for its
consideration until such time as the final framing inspection for said single
duplex structure has been conducted by and the outcome of said inspection is
satisfactory to the building official.
         b.   Owner's documents adequately address party wall concerns in the
case of a townhouse development and provide for adequate control and
maintenance of all commonly held facilities, garages, parking areas and/or open
spaces.
         c.   The applicant may elect to submit an application for preliminary
plat either to the commission or to the Board for its consideration prior to
applying for and obtaining the requisite building permit for the subject duplex
townhouse development. The application shall be subject to the procedures for
approval of a short plat subdivision.
   C.   Process:
      1.   Regular Short Plat: The Board may refer the plat to the commission
for recommendation and in any case shall review the proposed plat along with
the Administrator's recommendation, any public or agency comment and that of
the commission, if applicable.
      2.   Agricultural Short Plat: The Administrator shall determine whether
all provisions of subsection D2 of this section are met within sixty (60) days
of receiving the certified application. The Administrator shall notify the
applicant in writing and schedule a public hearing before the Board of County
Commissioners within thirty (30) days of the approval or denial of the
administrative action, stating any conditions of approval or reasons for
denial.
   D.   Requirements:
      1.   Regular Short Plat: Short plat applications are subject to all of
the subdivision requirements of this title, including, but not limited to, the
standards of evaluation for preliminary plats.
      2.   Agricultural Short Plat: Short plat applications are subject to all
of the subdivision requirements of this title, including, but not limited to,
the standards of evaluation for preliminary plats and the following:
         a.   No lot shall be less than 2.5 acres in size. The base density is
not modified by the smaller lot size and is based on the acreage within the
proposed subdivision.
Example: For an original parcel of land of one hundred sixty (160) acres, which
plats one lot of 2.5 acres, the remaining base density in A-40 zoned land is
three (3) units.
         b.   Eighty percent (80%) of the productive agricultural land (A-20 or
A-40 land) platted under this section shall be encumbered by: 1) a conservation
easement executed in force and effect simultaneously with the recordation of
the final plat; or 2) a deed restriction. Said encumbrance shall specify that
the conservation tract is limited to agricultural purposes and businesses as
permitted by County ordinance or open space. This limitation shall be also
noted on the plat.
         c.   In addition to the acreage requirement of subsection A2 of this
section, at least fifty percent (50%) of the acreage of each agricultural short
plat must be A-20 or A-40 zoned land.
   E.   Board Approval: The Board may approve, deny or modify the application
and require street improvements to be constructed prior to final acceptance of
the dedication or require a financial guarantee to ensure construction. The
owner shall furnish to the Board a deed describing and conveying such lands to
the Board for filing with the Recorder.
   F.   Appeal To The Board: Repealed.
   G.   Recording Final Plats: The final plat shall conform to Idaho Code
section 50-1301 et seq., and be filed with the County Recorder along with any
covenants and restrictions. A hard copy, mylar and four (4) copies of the plat
shall be required for recording.
   H.   Resubdivision Of Short Plats: Land previously subdivided by a short
plat may be further subdivided by a new short plat if the total number of lots
for both short plats does not exceed four (4) and all other applicable
requirements of this Code have been met. Applications for resubdivision of a
previously approved short plat that exceeds four (4) lots total shall be
reviewed using the regular subdivision process. (Ord. 2012-03, 4-17-2012; Ord.
2009-04, 5-21-2009)
10-4-7: VACATION, DEDICATION AND OTHER PLAT APPROVAL PROCEDURES:
These provisions shall not apply to dedications of streets, rights-of-way,
parks or easements to be shown on a recorded subdivision plat. Except for the
vacation of any public street, alley, road or highway, an application under
this section may be made only by the property owner(s) or purchaser(s) of
record.
   A.   Vacation: When a person or entity desires to vacate any lot, tract,
street, alley, road, highway, common plot or any part thereof, such person
shall follow the procedures found in Idaho Code section 50-1301 et seq., or 40-
203.
   B.   Dedication: Any property owner desiring to dedicate a street, easement,
public area or open space, except as noted in this chapter, shall complete and
file an application with the Administrator.
      1.   Administrative Action: Upon receipt of the completed application and
such additional information as the Administrator may require, the Administrator
shall affix the date of application acceptance and place the application on the
commission agenda for consideration at its next regular meeting.
      2.   Commission Action: The commission shall review the request and make
a recommendation to the Board for either approval, conditional approval or
denial within thirty (30) days of the meeting at which it was first discussed.
      3.   Board Action: Upon receipt of an application, the Board shall
establish a date for a hearing and give public notice of same in a newspaper of
general circulation prior to the hearing. The Board shall keep a record of the
proceedings and make written findings of action on the application. When a
dedication is approved, the required improvements shall be constructed or a
bond furnished assuring the construction prior to acceptance of the dedication.
To complete the acceptance of any dedication of land, the owner shall furnish
to the Board a deed describing and conveying such lands to be recorded with the
County Recorder.
   C.   Resubdivision: After any subdivision has been duly authorized, approved
and recorded it shall be unlawful for any person or organization to redivide
any portion of any lot of any such platted subdivision without first having
filed for record an approved final plat of resubdivision of that portion,
indicating thereon the proposed redivision pursuant to the provisions of this
title.
The procedure for resubdivision of an already platted parcel of land shall be
the same as that described in sections
10-4-1 through
10-4-6 of this chapter.
   D.   Plat Amendment And Correction:
      1.   Administrative Review: A minor correction of a mistake on a final
plat or a minor amendment that does not create a new lot, sublot, condominium
unit or dwelling unit, and which does not reduce the lot area, width, or
building setback lines below the minimum zoning requirements may be made by
application to the Administrator who shall determine compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. In the case of existing nonconforming lots, an
amendment that does not increase the degree of nonconformity may be approved.
         a.   A minor correction of a mistake on a final plat includes but is
not limited to grammatical corrections to plat notes, corrections to line or
curve lengths, corrections on the signature page, and similar such corrections
as determined by the Administrator.
An owner or subdivider requesting a minor correction of a mistake shall be
required to file an application and one copy of the plat with the
Administrator. The Administrator may require additional information reasonably
required for thorough review of the application. Upon a finding by the
Administrator that the application is in compliance with the provisions of this
Code, the applicant may record the corrected plat.
         b.   A minor amendment includes only: The modification of boundary
lines between existing platted lots, or a combination of platted lots and other
parcels of land, in which buildable areas are not located within or farther
within a natural resource overlay district or hazard area, or the removal of
platted lot lines.
An owner or subdivider requesting a minor amendment shall be required to file
an application with the Administrator. The Administrator may require additional
information reasonably required for thorough review of the application. The
Administrator shall provide written notice of such application to all property
owners within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundary of the lots
proposed for plat amendment. Such notice shall inform owners that they may
comment on the application during a period of not less than fifteen (15) days
after mailing of the notice and prior to final action on such application.
Following expiration of the comment period and upon a finding by the
Administrator that:
         a.   The application is in compliance with the provisions of this
Code, the Administrator shall recommend approval or approval with conditions to
the Board for final action;
         b.   The application is not in compliance with this chapter, the
Administrator shall recommend denial and state the reasons in writing to the
Board for final action; or
         c.   Further review is warranted, the Administrator shall notify the
applicant and schedule a public hearing before the Board on the next available
agenda.
Upon approval of an application and satisfaction by the applicant of any
attached conditions, the applicant may then record the amended plat.
      2.   Board Approval: Any other requested amendment to a plat that does
not create a new lot shall be acted upon by the Board after not less than one
public hearing for which each record holder of property within the subdivision,
and all property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior
boundary of the lots proposed for plat amendment were sent notice by mail. The
Board may approve an application if the applicant has demonstrated that the
proposed amendment:
         a.   Does not alter the existing character of the subdivision or
adjacent subdivided properties; and
         b.   Satisfies to the extent practical all the applicable requirements
of this Code, including Chapter 5, Design and Improvement Standards, of this
Title, as amended.
      3.   Modifications To Building Envelope Or Centroid: If the amendment
involves any modification to a building envelope or centroid, the applicant, in
addition to meeting the requirements of subsection D2 of this section, must
demonstrate that:
         a.   The proposed location is not within or farther within a natural
resource overlay district or hazard area, and;
         b.   Where practicable, view corridors of surrounding properties are
maintained.
   E.   Modification Of An Original Parcel Of Land:
      1.   Modification By Deed Or Survey: An owner may modify the boundary of
an "original parcel of land", as defined in section
10-2-1 of this title, by a new, recorded deed description or a record of survey
with a property description if an administrative determination has been made
that:
         a.   More than fifty percent (50%) of the land area of each original
parcel of land or at least four (4) acres will be or is and will remain located
outside of the Floodplain Overlay District, Riparian Setback District, Mountain
Overlay District, Wetlands Overlay District or any combination of these
districts;
         b.   Each parcel is completely within the A-20 or A-40 Zoning District
or both; or each parcel is and will remain four (4) acres or larger; and
         c.   Neither parcel will become any more nonconforming in size to the
minimum lot size set out in the applicable zoning district.
      2.   Modification By Plat: If an original parcel of land cannot be
modified under subsection E1 of this section, the owner shall modify the
original parcel in compliance with the plat amendment requirements set out in
subsection D2 of this section and pursuant to the platting procedures set out
in sections
10-4-1 and
10-4-5 of this chapter.
   F.   Platting Of An Original Leasehold Parcel:
      1.   An owner, pursuant to the platting procedures set out in sections
10-4-1, "General Platting Procedure", and
10-4-5, "Final Plat Procedure", of this chapter, may apply to plat land that
includes one or more original leasehold parcels; and
      2.   May file said plat with the County Recorder upon a Board finding
that:
         a.   The plat complies with requirements set out in subsections D2a
and D2b of this section; and
         b.   The size, density and location of any proposed original leasehold
parcel shall be satisfactorily addressed in the plat or a development agreement
if necessary. Where any original leasehold parcel is undersized to the zoning
district, if it is located within a residential zoning district, the Board
shall consider 1 the applicable requirements of chapter 6, "Planned Unit
Developments", or 7, "Mobile/Manufactured Home Subdivisions, Parks, And PUDs",
of this title; or if it is located within the A-20, A-40, R-10 or RR-40
Districts consider, as applicable, requirements of chapter 9, "Cluster
Developments", of this title. (Ord. 2023-10, - -2023; Ord. 2018-01, 1-23-2018;
Ord. 2012-07, 10-9-2012; Ord. 2012-03, 4-17-2012; Ord. 2011-01, 1-18-2011; Ord.
2008-15, 11-10-2008; Ord. 2007-05, 8-28-2007; Ord. 2006-10, 8-17-2006; Ord. 98-
8, 10-5-1998; Ord. 77-6, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-14-1977)
 
Notes
  1. To "consider" means to "take into account", or "give thought to". "[S]hall
  consider" is distinct from "shall find" or "shall determine". The best
  example of this distinction is in section
  9-26-4 of this Code where the board "shall determine" compliance with the
  Comprehensive Plan but only needs to "consider" the other criteria except
1 where the criteria language requires more such as under subsection 9-26-4B10a
  of this Code where the Board "shall find" as opposed to subsection 9-26-4B10b
  of this Code where the board "shall consider" factors favoring or not
  favoring a rezone application. The Code includes a couple dozen other
  instances of the word "consider" or "consideration" and all can be
  interpreted as reasonably consistent with this explanation.
   
CHAPTER 5
DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Minimum Standards
10-5-2: Compliance With Other Regulations
10-5-3: Design Standards
10-5-4: Infrastructure Improvement Standards
10-5-5: Comprehensive Plan
10-5-6: Impacts On Services
10-5-1: MINIMUM STANDARDS:
Pursuant to
10-3-3, this title sets forth the minimum standards for land subdivision.
Compliance with the minimum standards does not automatically ensure approval of
a preliminary plat application by the County. Minimum lot areas and maximum
densities prescribed by title 9 of this Code are minimum standards only and do
not create an entitlement to the subdivision of land at the minimum lot areas
and maximum densities under title 9 of this Code. Compliance with the standards
of evaluation and criteria in this Code may limit the amount of land available
for development. Additional conditions of approval may be recommended by the
Commission (if applicable) and added by the Board before acceptance to
implement the Comprehensive Plan or provide for the general public health,
safety and welfare. (Ord. 2023-10, - -2023)
10-5-2: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER REGULATIONS:
To the extent applicable, all subdivision proposals shall comply with the
ordinances and regulations of Blaine County including:
   A.   The Blaine County Right-of-Way Management Plan.
   B.   Title 3, Health and Safety.
   C.   Title 7, Building Regulations.
   D.   Title 8, Chapter 3, Local Public Interest Water Policy.
   E.   Title 9, Zoning Regulations. (Ord. 2023-10, - -2023)
10-5-3: DESIGN STANDARDS:
Compliance with all of the applicable following standards is required for
approval of a preliminary plat. The Board may impose conditions of approval to
ensure compliance with these standards, which would allow for a finding of
conditional compliance.
   A.   Lots and Blocks:
      1.   Lots shall meet the dimensional standards for the district in which
they are located (modifications may be granted through a Planned Unit
Development [PUD], Cluster Development [CD], or Transfer of Development Rights
[TDR] subdivision).
      2.   No single lot shall be divided by a street, existing right- of-way,
or other lot or parcel.
      3.   No single lot shall be divided by a municipal or County boundary
line, or by an Area of City Impact boundary line.
      4.   Each lot shall have a minimum twenty-foot (20') wide frontage or
platted easement for access to a public or private street.
      5.   Each lot shall contain a buildable site which is located outside any
Floodplain Overlay, Wetlands Overlay, Mountain Overlay and Scenic Highway
Overlay district. Buildable sites shall comply with all required setbacks,
including natural resource overlay setbacks except as may be allowed pursuant
to
10-5-3.B.3 or
10-5-3.B.4 of this chapter.
      6.   On lots located adjacent to public lands, all buildings and other
structures (except for perimeter fencing) shall have a minimum thirty-foot
(30') setback from federally managed and state endowment lands. Buildings and
structures on lots of five (5) or more acres shall have a minimum fifty-foot
(50') setback from public lands.
      7.   Calculation of lot area shall not include any land below the
Ordinary High Water Mark of any navigable stream (as defined by Idaho Code
section 36-1601), and subject to the public trust doctrine.
      8.   Lots should have access to an internal street, where practical, to
provide for safer neighborhoods and to reduce the number of approaches onto
existing county or state roads. The Blaine County Right-of-Way Management Plan
includes approach spacing standards.
      9.   Applicants may be required to arrange lot and blocks in anticipation
of future resubdivision and provide for future streets where necessary in any
of the following instances:
         a.   Proposed lots are more than double the minimum acreage required
for residential zoning districts R-1 through R-2 ½.
         b.   Proposed lots equal or exceed the minimum acreage required in the
Residential/Agricultural District (R-5).
         c.   The subject property lies within an Area of City Impact. Within
an Area of City Impact, lots and streets shall be configured with due regard to
the potential for redevelopment of property to higher densities when urban
public facilities are available.
      10.   Blocks shall allow for two (2) tiers of lots unless topography or
other factors indicate irregularly shaped blocks. Avoid double-fronted lots. If
unavoidable, one of the frontages shall be restricted from access.
      11.   Building envelopes shall not encroach into the American Association
of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) safety sight distance
triangle.
   B.   Natural Environment, Resource Protection, and Hazardous Areas:
      1.   Floodway Areas: Floodways, as determined by adopted floodplain
studies, shall be left undeveloped except as permitted by title 9, chapter 17
of this Code.
      2.   Floodplain Areas: Each new lot shall have an adequate buildable
site, septic site, drain field area, and alternate drain field area outside of
the external boundaries of the floodplain, except as permitted by title 9,
chapter 17 of this Code. In new subdivisions, future meander of rivers,
streams, and floodplain areas shall be considered in the size and shape of each
proposed lot. All structures shall be governed by the regulations in title 9,
chapter 17 of this Code.
      3.   Riparian Areas: Riparian areas shall be preserved and undisturbed to
support a diverse and productive aquatic and terrestrial habitat, to protect
water quality, and to allow for natural streams to meander and migrate over
time. All structures and landscaping including maintained yardscape shall be
subject to the following setbacks as measured from the "ordinary high water
mark" along "streams" defined in section
9-17-5 of this Code:
      Class 1 stream: Two hundred foot (200') setback.
      Class 2 stream: One hundred twenty-five foot (125') setback.
      Class 3 and Class 4 streams: One hundred foot (100') setback.
         a.   If smaller setbacks are requested outside of floodplain areas,
then a riparian area management and mitigation plan shall be presented for
review and consideration by the Board, which may set a smaller setback based
upon the waiver process, outlined in section
10-8-5 of this Code. The Board may consider the site and plan proposed and
shall require the maximum riparian setback possible to ensure that the reduced
setbacks are not less than those defined in section
9-17-7 of this Code.
         b.   The applicant must demonstrate that smaller setbacks are
warranted. The following circumstances may support the approval of a smaller
setback: size of an existing lot does not allow for a reasonable buildable
site, existing structures are located within the setback area, or other
topographic features such as hillside slopes exist in the setback area. Prior
disturbances within the riparian setback shall be considered, and restoration
of disturbed areas may be required.
         c.   The proposed mitigation plan shall outline how the area of
riparian resource will be protected and restored or disturbed areas mitigated.
As applicable, the plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
         (1)   Proposed disturbance within the required riparian setback area;
         (2)   Riparian improvement plans;
         (3)   Planting plan of plants and species commonly found in riparian
areas and listed in the Blaine County Riparian and Wetland Plant List on file
in the Land Use department;
         (4)   Erosion control plan;
         (5)   Weed mitigation plan.
         d.   The vegetation or revegetation plan set forth in the riparian
area management and mitigation plan shall be financially guaranteed pursuant to
section
10-8-4 of this title.
      4.   Wetland Areas: Wetlands shall be preserved and undisturbed to
support a diverse and productive aquatic and terrestrial habitat and to protect
water quality. All development including maintained yardscape shall be located
seventy-five feet (75') from "wetlands" as defined in section
9-19-2 of this Code, or one-hundred feet (100') in the A-20, A-40 and RR-40
Zoning Districts.
         a.   If smaller setbacks are requested outside of floodplain areas,
then a riparian area management and mitigation plan shall be presented for
review and consideration by the Board, which may set a smaller setback based
upon the waiver process, outlined in section
10-8-5 of this Code. The Board may consider the site and plan proposed and
shall require the maximum wetland setback possible to ensure that the reduced
setbacks are not less than those defined in section
9-19-6 of this Code.
         b.   The applicant must demonstrate that smaller setbacks are
warranted. The following circumstances may support the approval of a smaller
setback: size of an existing lot does not allow for a reasonable buildable
site, existing structures are located within the setback area, or other
topographic features such as hillside slopes exist in the setback area. Prior
disturbances within the wetland and setback areas shall be considered, and
restoration of disturbed areas may be required.
         c.   The proposed mitigation plan shall outline how the area of
riparian resource will be protected and restored or disturbed areas mitigated.
As applicable, the plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
         (1)   Proposed disturbance within the required wetland setback area;
         (2)   Wetland improvement plans;
         (3)   Planting plan of plants and species commonly found in wetland
areas and listed in the Blaine County Riparian and Wetland Plant List on file
in the Land Use department;
         (4)   Erosion control plan;
         (5)   Weed mitigation plan.
         d.   The vegetation or revegetation plan set forth in the wetland area
management and mitigation plan shall be financially guaranteed pursuant to
section
10-8-4 of this title.
      5.   Avalanche Areas: High (red) and moderate (blue) avalanche hazard
areas shall be delineated by a site-specific study, conducted by a qualified
engineer, acceptable to the Blaine County Building Official and County
Engineer.
         a.   No new buildings, streets, or driveways shall be located within a
high (red) avalanche hazard area.
         b.   Moderate (blue) avalanche hazard areas shall be avoided when
adequate areas outside such hazard areas exist on the subject property. Any
building with habitable space within the moderate (blue) avalanche hazard area
shall be engineered and constructed to withstand the avalanche forces
identified in the study.
         c.   New public streets are prohibited on land in moderate (blue)
avalanche hazard areas. Private streets and driveways are prohibited on land in
moderate (blue) avalanche hazard areas unless the hazards are mitigated or
overcome by an engineered design reviewed and as recommended by the County
Engineer.
      6.   Mountain Overlay District and Hillside Areas: These standards shall
apply to any application that includes land within the mapped Mountain Overlay
District, including the Scenic Corridor 1 (see title 9, chapter 21 of this
Code).
         a.   New subdivisions shall be designed so that no structure, building
envelope, street or driveway is located within the Mountain Overlay District,
except within the Mountain Overlay District Buffer in areas that are less than
and below fifteen percent (15%) slope.
         b.   Individual lots may be drawn that include portions of the
Mountain Overlay District; however, each lot shall include a buildable site
outside of the Mountain Overlay District.
         c.   Appearance: To preserve the appearance and resources of hillside
areas, the following natural features shall be protected:
         (1)   Skyline, ridges and knolls.
         (2)   Tree and shrub clusters.
         (3)   Rock outcroppings.
         (4)   Draws, streambeds and drainage swales visible on slopes.
         d.   If a plat amendment is proposed for an existing subdivision
within the mapped Mountain Overlay District, the Board also shall consider in
addition to the criteria in Section
10-4-7 (D)3(a), the following, if applicable:
         (1)   The location of building envelopes so that grading and site
preparation can be kept to a minimum.
         (2)   The phasing of construction so that hillside areas are not left
exposed to erosion for long periods of time.
         (3)   The visibility from any reference road of the proposed
development, including structures, streets or driveways and associated cuts and
fill, shall be minimized through lot and building envelope layout design.
         (4)   The suitability of topography, soils, geology, hydrology and
other physical conditions for streets and driveways.
      7.   Unsuitable Land: Land with conditions that may be detrimental to the
health, safety or general welfare of existing or future residents because of
potential hazards shall not be subdivided for building or residential purposes
unless the hazards or other features are eliminated by lawful permit, avoided
in the development design, or overcome by approved design and construction
plans. In addition to overlay districts identified above, unsuitable conditions
may include: debris flows, mine tailings or open adits, subsidence, high water
table, shallow depth to bedrock, overhead power transmission lines, wildland
urban interface, or other features with severe development limitations. The
applicant must provide details on the presence of these features as well as
mitigation, for which specific conditions of approval may be required.
         a.   Wildland Urban Interface: Much of Blaine County is within the
Wildland Urban Interface. Lots adjacent to public lands, in remote areas, or
other areas vulnerable to wildfire as identified by the rural fire district
shall be designed to provide defensible space to protect private property from
wildland fires and to reduce the likelihood of fires spreading from private
property to public lands. The Board may consider additional requirements
recommended by the fire district, including, but not limited to, larger
building setbacks, additional water supply systems, specific landscaping
design, resilient structure requirements, evacuation planning, or additional
vehicular egress points. Landscaping plans shall also comply with the Mountain
Overlay District and the Floodplain and Riparian Setback and Wetlands overlay
districts. The Board may also consider other options proposed by the applicant
to meet fire safety goals. If a specific landscaping plan is required, a
financial guarantee shall be provided pursuant to section
10-8-4 of this title.
         b.   Power Transmission Lines: No dwelling shall be located within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of the centerline of an overhead power transmission
line and so noted on the plat by designation of building envelope and note.
      8.   Preservation Of Natural and Historic Features: The following areas
and features shall be left undeveloped and undisturbed unless the applicant
provides clear evidence of no other practical design and of mitigation measures
to the greatest extent possible:
         a.   Unique or fragile areas such as geologic features and natural
topography of the land, with the goal of preserving the character, natural
features and configuration of land terrain.
         b.   Natural drainageways shall be maintained through the proposed
subdivision. Any alteration of drainageways are subject to Title 9, Chapter 17.
         c.   Large individual trees, and stands of trees, excluding irrigation
rights-of-way under Idaho Code 42-1101. A plan for landscape protection, tree
preservation, and tree introduction shall be evaluated to determine compliance
with this standard when applicable.
         d.   Historically significant structures or sites.
      9.   Wildlife: Title 9, chapter 20 of this Code establishes the Wildlife
Overlay District covering all lands within Blaine County.
         a.   Determination of Classified Lands and Conservation Plans:
Proposed subdivisions are subject to the specific requirements of chapter 20,
which include the following:
         (1)   Determination of classified lands on the subject property (
9-20-5) as identified by the Idaho Department of Fish and Game (IDFG) is
required.
         (2)   Where classified lands are present, preparation of a
conservation plan (
9-20-6) is required. No subdivision shall be designed until classified lands
are determined and a conservation plan has been prepared. Where classified
lands are present and 4 or fewer lots are proposed, the applicant shall engage
a consultant as described in
9-20-6.A. Where classified lands are present and 5 or more lots are proposed
(whether in an initial phase or any future phase), the conservation plan shall
be prepared by a qualified third party and paid for by the applicant. A list of
approved qualified third-party consultants who have demonstrated appropriate
expertise in the fields of resource biology, fish and wildlife management, and
similar disciplines, shall be identified by the Board and may be updated upon
request by potential qualified persons. If classified lands are not present, a
conservation plan is not required; however, subsections (b) through (f) of this
section are applicable.
         (3)   Where classified lands are present, adherence to Wildlife
Overlay District design standards (
9-20-7) is required. The applicant has the burden of demonstrating, through
their conservation plan, compliance with these wildlife-related standards of
evaluation which include criteria on the following:
            
9-20-7.A.1 Wildlife Species
            
9-20-7.A.2 Wildlife Habitat
            
9-20-7.A.3 Wildlife Movement Patterns
            
9-20-7.A.4 Uniqueness of Habitat and Species
            
9-20-7.A.5 Cumulative Impacts Assessment
            
9-20-7.A.6 Vegetation Removal and Revegetation
         b.   General Standards: Any application to subdivide land, regardless
of whether the property lies within "classified lands," shall identify in the
preliminary plat phase any natural habitat and other areas of significant value
to wildlife, including migration corridors and habitat connectivity as
identified by IDFG. Applicants shall consult with IDFG and the Land Use and
Building Services department for recommended resources providing the most
recent mapping and other scientific data for identifying these areas.
         c.   All proposed subdivisions shall be designed to avoid or mitigate
significant adverse impact to wildlife habitat, habitat connectivity and
corridors found on or adjacent to the subject property, and shall seek to
maintain functional habitat connectivity and provide corridors for the safe
movement of wildlife. (Consideration of wildlife is not limited to deer and
elk.) Potential mitigation efforts may include but are not limited to those
identified in the Wildlife Overlay District, Section
9-20-7, subsections (1.d), (2.e), (3.f), (4.f), and (6.a-c).
         d.   Wildlife migration occurs throughout the County. Perimeter
fencing is discouraged for lots within new subdivisions, and where included
shall be constructed to IDFG standards to allow for safe passage for wildlife.
         e.   The County may regulate the timing of construction or land
disturbance on classified lands, considering the recommendations of IDFG, any
other applicable agency or review professional who may be engaged by the
County.
         f.   Plats shall include a note stating that the lots are within a
Wildlife Overlay District as defined Blaine County Code, title 9, chapter 20.
Additional notes, considering the location-specific recommendations of IDFG,
shall be included on all plats to advise property owners and purchasers
regarding living proximate to wildlife. These may include, but are not limited
to, notes that address:
         (1)   Fencing, both perimeter and interior (e.g. to contain pets)
         (2)   Domestic animals
         (3)   Wildlife depredation on gardens and landscaping
         (4)   Predator depredation on pets and livestock
         (5)   Prohibiting the harassment of wildlife and the purposeful or
inadvertent feeding of wildlife, including unsecured garbage
         (6)   Prohibition of yew plants, pursuant to Blaine County Code,
Section
3-2-3.
      10.    Night Sky and Dark Sky Preserve: All existing and new outdoor
lighting in the proposed subdivision shall comply with title 9, chapter 29A of
this code.
         a.   Lighting Plan Required: All applications shall include a lighting
plan pursuant to
9-29A-8.
         b.   All non-compliant lighting shall be replaced or altered to comply
prior to recording the final plat.
      11.   Building envelopes and similar requirements: Platted building
envelopes, non-buildable areas, building size limits, increased lot line
setbacks, or a buffer between neighboring properties may be required. These may
be deemed necessary to enable development patterns that minimize the potential
impact of new development on adjacent landowners, or to preserve and protect:
         a.   Natural topographic features;
         b.   Geologic features;
         c.   Scenic vistas or view corridors;
         d.   Open space;
         e.   Vegetation;
         f.   Wildlife habitat and migration corridors; and
         g.   Other sensitive areas.
   C.   Agricultural and Rural Land Standards: Subdivisions within or adjacent
to lands zoned A-20, A-40, R-10, and RR-40 shall be designed to minimize the
impact on agricultural land, farming operations, and sensitive environmental
features. The Board shall consider the following design criteria:
      1.   Locating residential structures as far from neighboring agricultural
lands as possible.
      2.   Locating structures on the least productive agricultural land and in
such a manner as to have little impact on any environmental, agricultural or
open space resources.
      3.   Grouping land uses as much as practical, such that agricultural
lands abut neighboring agricultural lands and residential structures are
located contiguous with other residential uses.
      4.   Placing residential structures nearest to utilities and streets to
minimize the amount of infrastructure and the loss of agricultural land.
      5.   A yardscape or open space buffer between different types of uses
(e.g., residential and agricultural) may be required.
      6.   Plats containing and adjacent to agricultural uses shall include a
note stating: This property includes and is adjacent to active agricultural
uses, which may involve activities occurring during the day or night. These
activities may result in the production of noise, odors, and dust and may
involve lights, aerial spraying, machinery and other inconveniences. All deeds
conveying title to such property will contain a restriction prohibiting
property owners from challenging lawfully conducted agricultural operations
occurring within the County.
   D.   Other Design Standards:
      1.   Adjacency To Public Lands and Water and Trails. Where a proposed
subdivision adjoins public lands, streams, rivers, lakes, and/or reservoirs,
existing access shall not be impeded, removed, or otherwise compromised. Where
no public access currently exists, provision should be made for public access
with due consideration for wildlife corridors, habitat connectivity, and
proximity to other trails, and including protective restrictions for wildlife
habitat as recommended by IDFG. Public access shall be noted on the plat by a
permanent access easement. Improvements such as signage, fencing, gates, and
parking for public access may be installed by the County or other agency within
rights-of-way and easements.
      2.   Adjacency To Public Trails. Where a proposed subdivision is adjacent
to the Wood River Trail or other trail identified in the Blaine County
Community Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plan, a pathway connection should be
provided and if provided, properly noted on the plat by a permanent access
easement.
      3.   Landscaping And Grading:
         a.   Landscaping and grading plans, when proposed, shall minimize lot
disturbance, maintain existing topography to the greatest extent possible,
maintain or restore natural landscapes, emphasize drought tolerant species, and
include an irrigation plan that shows how disturbed areas will be restored.
         b.   Landscaping or other design devices to screen traffic or separate
uses may be required where a subdivision abuts or contains an arterial or major
thoroughfare or commercial or industrial uses.
         c.   Landscaping within 100' of Highway 75 shall be subject to the
regulations of Title 9, Chapter 21A, Scenic Highway Overlay District.
      4.   Gates: Gated streets or developments are prohibited within any
nonagricultural subdivision unless approved by the Board as necessary for
specific public safety reasons identified by the applicant.
      5.   Development Rights: Parcels designated as open space or recreation
areas through the subdivision or PUD processes shall be prohibited from
(re)development with any other land use. Areas so designated shall be owned and
maintained by a homeowner's association, an approved land trust, or public
agency at the discretion of the Board.
      6.   Applicant Or Landowner: If the applicant or landowner with respect
to an application for a subdivision under this chapter is the State of Idaho,
or any agency, board, department, institution, or district thereof, the Board,
in addition to all other applicable standards and criteria hereunder, shall
take into account the plans and needs of the State, or any agency, board,
department, institution or district thereof, as required by Idaho Code section
67-6528. (Ord. 2023-10, - -2023)
10-5-4: INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS:
Compliance with all of the applicable following standards is required for
approval of a preliminary plat. The Board may impose conditions of approval to
ensure compliance with these standards which would allow for a finding of
conditional compliance.
   A.   Utilities:
      1.   Applicants shall identify, all utilities to be provided in the
subdivision, which may include but are not limited to electric power,
communications, and natural gas where available. If power or communications
utilities are not installed, a plat note shall advise future property owners.
      2.   All new utility service lines shall be installed underground in all
zoning districts. Service connections to the street property line of each
platted lot shall be installed at the applicant's expense, except where
distribution lines exist on the same side of the street as proposed lots.
      3.   Where practicable, relocate underground any existing aboveground
utilities, excluding power transmission lines.
      4.   The applicant shall grant public and private utility easements as
needed to serve the subdivision. Easements shall be at least ten feet (10') in
width along lot lines adjacent to the access street right-of- way and, where
topographic or other conditions permit, five feet (5') in width adjacent to all
other lot lines.
      5.   Plats shall include a note stating that new dwellings shall be
required to install conduit for future solar power connections and conduit for
electrical outlets capable of connecting to an electric vehicle charging
station. (Exceptions to the solar requirement may be granted on properties that
have reduced solar access due to existing tree canopy or hillside shading).
   B.   Water:
      1.   Domestic water:
         a.   Domestic water shall be available in sufficient quantity to meet
foreseeable and existing demands for domestic and fire suppression uses. Where
insufficient data is available to verify water quantity, an onsite test well
and a pump test in the area of the proposed use shall be required.
         b.   All new domestic wells shall be metered as required by Idaho
Department of Water Resources.
         c.   The requirements of Idaho Code section 42-111 for domestic water
limits shall be met. In order to ensure compliance with domestic water limits,
summer month homeowner domestic water meter reporting to the homeowners
association, including availability of records for the County to inspect, or
directly to the County Land Use department or other department identified by
the Board, shall be required.
         d.   All domestic water sources shall meet State and Federal standards
for drinking water, wells, separation from sewage disposal systems and any
other related requirements.
         e.   Existing on site surface and ground water rights shall be used
for existing on site agricultural uses and domestic and landscape needs before
additional domestic rights are sought.
         f.   Plats shall include notes stating "Landscape irrigated by a
domestic well is limited to the maximum allowed per State regulations" and "All
new domestic wells shall be metered"
      2.   Public Water Systems:
         a.   A public water system acceptable to and approved by the Idaho
Department of Environmental Quality ("DEQ") shall be required for subdivisions
where any buildable lot is less than one acre in size or where necessary to
provide for the public health, safety or general welfare.
         b.   All public water systems must meet Idaho Administrative Procedure
Act (IDAPA) 58.01.08, "Idaho Rules for Public Drinking water systems."
         c.   Water supply for any public water system shall be approved as
required by Idaho Department of Water Resources.
      3.   Irrigation:
         a.   All applicants proposing to subdivide shall be required to use
surface water, where reasonably available, as defined by Idaho Code § 67-6537,
as the primary water source for irrigation.
         b.   Agricultural and domestic water delivery systems shall not be
intermingled.
         c.   All new wells shall be metered as required by Idaho Department of
Water Resources.
         d.   All subdivisions are subject to the requirements of Idaho Code
section 31-3805 for irrigation water delivery.
      4.   Water conservation measures: In order to further the goals of Blaine
County's Local Public Interest Water Policy, title 8, chapter 3 of the Blaine
County Code, the subdivider should implement water conservation measures by one
or more of the following methods:
         a.   Limiting irrigation by domestic water to one-quarter (1/4) acre
per lot.
         b.   Limiting turfgrass/lawn irrigation by domestic water to one-
eighth (1/8) acre.
         c.   Requiring drought-tolerant landscaping within individual lots and
in common area parcels.
         d.   Limiting common area irrigation by area or by use of xeriscaping.
         e.   Reducing the density within subdivisions relying solely on
domestic water for irrigation.
      5.   Water Quality:
         a.   Compliance with the standards of the South Central Public Health
District (SCPHD) and Idaho Department of Environmental Quality (IDEQ)
pertaining to water quality is required.
         b.   A nutrient-pathogen (N-P) study, as described by IDEQ shall be
conducted for subdivisions when environmental conditions warrant, including,
but not limited to, areas of high groundwater, soils with low permeability,
proximity to surface waters, or groundwater testing indicating nutrient or
pathogen contamination.
         c.   All abandoned wells shall be sealed to prevent contamination of
ground water. Abandonment must be performed by a well driller licensed in the
State of Idaho per Idaho Code 42-238 unless a waiver has been granted. The well
must be abandoned in a manner compliant with IDAPA 37.03.09 Well Construction
Standards Rules
   C.   Sewage Disposal:
      1.   All individual or community septic systems shall meet DEQ standards
as administered by the South Central Public Health District (SCPHD) and as set
forth in Idaho Code. The applicant shall provide an approved environmental
health specialist evaluation for land division, or other documentation by
SCPHD.
      2.   Septic systems shall be built to facilitate periodic inspections and
maintenance, including the installation of an access riser with lid at grade
over the septic tank manhole, effluent filters with access riser and lid at
grade, and drain field inspection ports. A requirement for periodic inspections
of the septic, as recommended by the system manufacturer, shall be noted on the
plat as the responsibility of the homeowner.
      3.   All public or private wastewater systems must meet IDAPA 58.01.16,
"Wastewater Rules."
      4.   Sanitary sewer systems and facilities shall not discharge effluent
into stormwater drainage systems.
   D.   Streets and Intersections:
       1.   Street Construction/Right-of-Way Improvements: Street construction
and right-of-way improvements shall be completed in accordance with the Blaine
County Right-of-Way Management Manual and the Blaine County Street Construction
Standards. Requested modifications to these requirements and standards, which
are approved by the applicable Fire District and the County Engineer, may be
granted through a CH-PUD application.
      2.   Street designations: Roadway functional classifications shall be
determined by the Blaine County Board of Commissioners after receiving
recommendations from the Administrator, the Blaine County Road and Bridge
Manager and the Blaine County Engineer. The arrangement, type, extent, width,
grade and location of all streets shall be in accordance with their functional
classification.
      3.   Street Design: All streets shall be designed by a licensed
professional engineer. The plans and specifications for such streets shall be
approved by the County Engineer.
      4.   Location: Streets shall be located by the following guidelines:
         a.   Streets shall be arranged in proper relation to topography to
result in usable lots, safe streets and acceptable gradients.
         b.   When an official street plan has been adopted, subdivision
streets shall conform to that plan. Streets shall be complementary to existing
street patterns and tie into existing streets where stubbed streets indicate
that intent. Streets which are a continuation of established streets shall be
aligned in accordance with American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials (AASHTO) alignment guidelines.
         c.   Streets shall interconnect with other streets where possible,
including streets within adjacent subdivisions,
         d.   Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement of
streets in new subdivisions may allow streets to extend to the tract boundary
to make provisions for the future extension of streets into adjacent areas. A
temporary fire district-approved emergency apparatus turnaround shall be
required to serve present traffic.
         e.   Cul-de-sacs and dead end streets are discouraged. They may be
allowed when topography, adjoining land uses, adjoining platted lot
configuration, or similar circumstances dictate their use. Such streets shall:
         (1)   Include a fire district-approved turnaround at the terminus.
         (2)   Include an additional snow storage easement of ten feet (10')
around the periphery.
         f.   Minor streets shall be arranged to discourage through traffic.
         g.   Streets for industrial and commercial subdivisions shall be
planned to connect with arterial or collector streets so as not to generate
traffic on local or minor streets, and shall be constructed to adopted County
standards to ensure the ability to handle heavier industrial and commercial
traffic.
      5.   Reserve strips: Reserve strips, when desired to control access to
certain streets, shall be permitted with approval of the Board.
      6.   Drainage:
         a.   Culverts and/or bridges shall be provided and installed by the
subdivider where natural drainageways intersect streets. Culverts shall be
designed to provide the typical street section identified for the established
functional classification.
         b.   Bridges shall be designed in accordance with State of Idaho and
local Fire District requirements.
         c.   The subdivider shall provide suitable drainage facilities to keep
any surface runoff from streets within the subdivision retained in the
subdivision.
      7.   Dedication: Collector and arterial streets within a proposed
subdivision shall be offered for dedication to the public. Minor streets may be
offered for dedication or proposed to be maintained privately. Streets must
provide public access where access to adjacent public lands is desired, and
such public access shall be clearly designated on the plat. Dedication or other
provision for future access to surrounding areas may be required. Subdivisions
adjacent to existing streets shall dedicate, at a minimum, one-half of the
width of right-of-way specified by the County. The Board shall have the
explicit option of accepting or rejecting any street for dedication to the
County.
      8.   Street Names: Street names on new streets aligned with existing
streets shall have the same name as the existing streets. Proposed street names
shall not duplicate or be sufficiently similar in sound or spelling to cause
confusion with existing street names, as determined by the Assessor's Office.
Side-streets, with no other intersections than the intersection with their
primary street, or with no proposed future connections to adjacent subdivisions
or public lands, shall be named "Court" or "Place" or "Circle."
      9.   Signs: Street name signs and all other traffic control signs or
devices as required by the Board shall be installed by the subdivider. Such
signage shall meet Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD) standards
and be approved by Blaine County Road and Bridge Department.
      10.   Intersection Location and Specifications: Street intersections
locations shall conform to Blaine County Roadway Functional Classification
requirements within the Right of Way Management Plan. (Ord. 2023-10, - -2023)
10-5-5: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
   A.   Land Use Classification: The proposed subdivision of land is in
accordance with the applicable subarea land use classification map of chapter 8
Land Use.
   B.   The proposed plat is in accordance with the Desired Outcomes of
chapters 1 through 9 of the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 2023-10, - -2023)
10-5-6: IMPACTS ON SERVICES:
   A.   Impact On Public Facilities and Services: The proposed subdivision
shall not adversely affect the quality of essential public services and
facilities to current residents, nor require substantial additional public
funding in order to meet the needs created by the proposed subdivision. Public
facilities and services include but are not limited to:
         Public potable water sources, for proposed subdivisions in a wellhead
protection area.
         School facilities or school bus transportation.
         Emergency services: Sheriff, fire protection, and emergency
communications.
         Public recreation facilities.
         Public transportation.
         Streets, bridges and standard road maintenance costs.
         Comments and recommendations by the relevant service providers shall
be considered by the Board.
   B.   Distance from services, the availability and capacity of paved public
streets, the potential for public transportation services, ability to comply
with fire protection systems, the availability of twenty-four (24) hour
emergency service personnel and estimated emergency response time to the
development, along with the location of other public services, shall be
considered in evaluating the potential impact on public facilities and
services.
   C.   The applicant may propose to mitigate the adverse impacts of the
proposed subdivision on services, which may include, without limitation,
contributions for additional capital improvements, dedication of land or
provision of essential facilities. Such mitigation may allow the Board to make
positive findings on applicable standards of evaluation that it may otherwise
make negative findings on. When such mitigation is proposed, the plan for,
timing of, and proposed phasing of the mitigation shall be in a form acceptable
to the Board. (Ord. 2023-10, - -2023)
CHAPTER 6
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Scope
10-6-2: Purpose
10-6-3: Definitions
10-6-4: Permitted Uses
10-6-5: Ownership Requirements
10-6-6: General PUD Development Standards
10-6-7: Simple Planned Unit Development (SPUD)
10-6-8: Public Benefit Planned Unit Development (PBPUD)
10-6-9: Standards Of Evaluation
10-6-10: Additional Preliminary Submission Requirements
10-6-11: Procedure For Approval
10-6-12: Expiration And Extension Of Approval Period
10-6-1: SCOPE:
Planned unit developments (PUDs) may be developed through the procedures
outlined in this chapter. (Ord. 2009-06, 8-26-2009)
10-6-2: PURPOSE:
The county encourages PUDs to achieve the following:
   A.   Development Pattern: A development pattern which preserves and utilizes
natural topographic and geologic features, scenic vistas, vegetation and
wildlife habitat and avoids the disruption of natural drainage patterns;
   B.   Open Space And Recreation Areas: More useful, convenient location of
open space and recreation areas for new residents;
   C.   Efficient Use Of Land: A more efficient use of land than is achieved
through straight lot subdivisions, resulting in construction and maintenance
savings through shorter utility lines and streets;
   D.   Diversity: A greater diversity of living environments by allowing a
variety of housing types and residential densities, and allowing more
flexibility with lot dimensions and building setbacks;
   E.   Development Complexes: Development complexes which are a harmonious
interrelated combination of compatible uses;
   F.   Preservation Of Character: The preservation of Blaine County's open
space and rural character;
   G.   Energy Conservation: Energy conservation and use of renewable
resources;
   H.   Community Housing: Provision of affordable, centrally located, quality
residential structures for the Blaine County work force;
   I.   Convenience: More convenient locations for accessory commercial and
industrial uses, if permitted as part of a larger project. (Ord. 2009-06, 8-26-
2009)
10-6-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms are defined for the purpose of this chapter:
COMMON OPEN SPACE: An area held for the use and benefit of the owners of
dwelling units or lots in a PUD and which is devoid of streets, parking areas
or buildings not intended for recreational or community purposes.
ELIGIBLE ACREAGE: Acreage that lies outside of the mountain overlay district,
FEMA 100-year floodplain, and red avalanche zones, which shall be used for
calculating the simple planned unit development density, the maximum PBPUD
density bonus, and determining open space requirements.
HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION: An organization formed of the owners of a subdivision
or planned unit development.
PBPUD DENSITY BONUS: A bonus awarded specifically for utilizing the PBPUD
option in order to provide incentive for quality PUDs. The bonus is a
percentage of the density derived from PUD eligible acreage.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: An area of land developed primarily for residential
use in which restriction of lot sizes, setbacks, densities and land uses may be
adjusted in return for conformity with an approved plan for the entire parcel
which provides open space, superior design, and public benefit. (See also
definition found in section
10-2-1 of this title.)
PUBLIC BENEFIT PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PBPUD): A PUD that utilizes total
acreage to establish base density and requests waivers to base district
standards.
SAME OWNERSHIP: Ownership by the same person, corporation, firm, entity,
partnership or unincorporated association in which a stockholder, partner or
associate, or member of his or her family owns an interest in each corporation,
firm, partnership, entity or unincorporated partnership.
SIMPLE PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (SPUD): A PUD that utilizes only eligible
acreage to establish base density and does not allow for density increases or
waivers beyond lot size, lot dimensions or road width. (Ord. 2009-06, 8-26-
2009)
10-6-4: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted within a PUD:
   A.   All Uses: All permitted, accessory and conditional uses specified for
the underlying zoning district.
   B.   Commercial: Commercial uses unquestionably subordinate to the
residential uses and oriented to serve the residents of the PUD rather than to
the general community, when suitably landscaped in a manner which will create a
buffer for adjoining residential uses. When a PUD contains several commercial
uses, these shall be planned as groups with common parking areas and access.
Commercial areas intended for future phases of a PUD shall be landscaped and
maintained in a neat and orderly manner. Commercial uses shall not be allowed
in any R-10 PUD or A-20 PUD in a TDR receiving area.
   C.   Light Industrial: Light industrial uses compatible with the residential
uses, particularly those which may employ residents of the PUD. Industrial uses
shall be developed in park like surroundings, utilizing landscaping and
existing woodlands as buffers to screen parking areas, loading docks and
outdoor storage of materials and products from adjacent residential areas and
shall not generate traffic through residential areas. Industrial uses shall not
be allowed in any R-10 PUD or A-20 PUD in a TDR receiving area.
   D.   Public Facilities: Public facilities.
   E.   Multi-Family Housing: Multi-family housing, except duplexes, shall not
be allowed in any A-20 PUD in a TDR receiving area. (Ord. 2009-06, 8-26-2009)
10-6-5: OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Preliminary Application: A preliminary application for a PUD shall be
filed in the name or names of the recorded owner or owners of property included
in the development. An application may be filed either by a property owner or
by the holder(s) of an equitable interest in such property or by a person
having a contractual interest in the land to be included within the basic PUD.
   B.   Final Application: Before a final application for a PUD may be filed,
the entire project shall be under the same ownership and evidence of title to
the property must be submitted with the final development plan. (Ord. 2009-06,
8-26-2009)
10-6-6: GENERAL PUD DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
All planned unit developments must comply with the standards of title 9
(zoning) of this code and chapter 5 of this title, in addition to the
requirements set forth in this chapter. PUDs within the area of city impact
shall comply with any additional requirements set forth in the applicable area
of city impact ordinance.
The PUD applicant accepts the requirements of this chapter voluntarily and
understands that they are free to apply for a development permit under other
standards of this code. The burden of proof to demonstrate superior design, as
well as compliance with all applicable standards of evaluation, always rests
with the applicant.
   A.   Gross Land Area: PUD will include a gross land area of at least five
(5) acres.
   B.   Open Space:
      1.   Minimum Area: A portion of the PUD's eligible acreage shall be
reserved for common open space or land dedicated to public use. Public utility
and similar easements are not acceptable for common open space unless it is
usable for recreation purposes by the owners. The developer may retain
ownership of all other land within the PUD from which density is transferred in
R-5, R-10 and A-20 zones only. The following minimum percentage of the PUD's
eligible gross acreage shall be reserved for common open space or land
dedicated to public use.
         a.   Twenty percent (20%) minimum for lands in the R-21/2, R-2, R-1,
R-.4, and R-1/4 zoning districts;
         b.   Thirty percent (30%) minimum for lands in the R-5 and R-10 zoning
districts;
         c.   Fifty percent (50%) minimum for lands in the TDR receiving area
in the A-20 zoning district.
      2.   Design: Common open spaces in the development should:
         a.   Be useful to the residents for open space, recreation or other
amenities;
         b.   Be integrated, rather than existing as unrelated, isolated
fragments.
      3.   Maintenance Responsibility: The owner/developer is required to
maintain common open space and facilities until sixty percent (60%) of the
proposed lots have been sold. Maintenance responsibility after this has
occurred must be specified by the developer before the final development plan
may be approved.
         a.   Failure To Maintain Adequately:
            (1)   Deficiencies: In the event that the owner or homeowners'
association shall at any time after establishment of the basic PUD fail to
maintain the common open space in reasonable order and condition in accordance
with the final development plan, the county may serve written notice upon such
individual or organization documenting the reasons for which maintenance has
been judged unsatisfactory, itemizing means by which deficiencies can be
rectified and the deadlines for doing so. Said notice shall also state the date
and place of a hearing concerning this matter.
            (2)   Maintenance By County: After the hearing, the county may
modify the terms of the original notice, and/or extend deadlines specified. If
the deficiencies cited originally or as modified by the hearing are not
rectified within thirty (30) days of the final deadline, the county may
maintain the common open space for a period of one year in order to preserve
the taxable values of the properties within the basic PUD.
            (3)   Tax Lien: The cost of such maintenance shall be assessed
ratably against the properties within the basic PUD, and shall become a tax
lien on such properties. Said entry and maintenance shall not vest in the
public any rights to use the common open space beyond those voluntarily
dedicated by the owners.
            (4)   Continued Maintenance: Before the expiration of said year,
the county shall hold a public hearing, after giving notice to the owners, to
determine whether the county shall continue its maintenance role through
private assessment or whether the owner or homeowners' association can resume
its responsibilities as enumerated in the final development plan.
   C.   Bond For Construction: The developer shall be required to provide a
surety bond, cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond or other acceptable
financial guarantee in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of
estimated construction costs of improvements for open space area. This cost
shall be provided by the project engineer and checked by the county engineer.
If the prosecuting attorney finds the bond acceptable, it shall be filed with
the county recorder. If the improvements are completed in accordance with the
approved plan, the bond shall be released. Bonds must be renegotiated every two
(2) years as long as those bonded improvements are not completed.
   D.   Superior Design Elements: The board may approve waivers of base
district standards if it determines that such waivers are warranted by the
following superior design elements incorporated into any PUD:
      1.   Water conservation techniques and strategies that significantly
decrease domestic and irrigation water use below Idaho's domestic exception
limits as identified in a water plan;
      2.   Any important on site wildlife migration corridors and habitat shall
be permanently protected to the greatest extent practicable;
      3.   Architectural and subdivision design that ensures solar access and
encourages utilization of solar energy and other renewable energy resources;
      4.   Consolidation or alteration of road design to reduce access points
and improve the safety of adjacent and established roads or trail systems;
      5.   Reduced impacts on road systems through the provision of bike and
pedestrian right of way between adjoining developments and main transportation
corridors;
      6.   If applicable, public access to public lands;
      7.   Use of natural and planted vegetation to landscape and buffer rights
of way and public spaces internally and from adjacent uses.
However, the following standards shall not be subject to modification or
waiver:
      1.   Floodplain regulations and riparian setbacks (title 9, chapter 17 of
this code).
      2.   Wetlands setbacks (title 9, chapter 19 of this code).
      3.   Wildlife protection regulations (title 9, chapter 20 of this code).
      4.   Hillside regulations (title 9, chapter 21 of this code).
      5.   Avalanche (title 9, chapter 22 of this code).
Applicants requesting waivers to other standards listed under this code beyond
lot size, lot dimensions or road width must also satisfy the superior design
elements and public benefits listed in section
10-6-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-06, 8-26-2009)
10-6-7: SIMPLE PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (SPUD):
   A.   Purpose: To promote residential clustering and open space dedication
through the provision of simplified development standards and establish public
benefit through the utilization of eligible acreage density calculations.
   B.   SPUD Developable Residential Density: Ninety percent (90%) of the
eligible acreage calculated according to the density of the underlying zoning
district.
   C.   Limitations:
      1.   Restricted to residential zones and uses.
      2.   No density bonus will be allowed. Utilization of TDRs in a SPUD
shall not be considered a bonus to the underlying zoning density limits.
      3.   Only waivers for lot size, lot dimensions and road widths may be
allowed. (Ord. 2009-06, 8-26-2009)
10-6-8: PUBLIC BENEFIT PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PBPUD):
   A.   Purpose: To ensure superior design and public benefit are incorporated
into developments requesting waivers from base district standards beyond lot
size or road widths.
   B.   PBPUD Developable Residential Density: Total acreage, including all
hazard lands, calculated according to the density of the underlying zoning
district.
   C.   Public Benefit And Superior Design: Public benefit is an essential
component of superior design. To meet the superior design standard, PBPUD
applications shall incorporate all primary public benefits listed in subsection
C1 of this section, and two (2) secondary public benefits listed under
subsection C2 of this section.
      1.   Primary public benefits:
         a.   Community housing of at least ten percent (10%) of the units
proposed or if in the ACI twenty percent (20%). Units shall be in addition to
the established base density. Unless the board determines that an alternative
community housing approach would better serve the objective of creating
community housing, housing shall be provided under Blaine County housing
authority guidelines as amended through in-lieu payment, on site construction,
off site construction, transfer of equivalent value land or existing housing
stock;
         b.   Reduced impacts on road systems through the provision of bike and
pedestrian friendly infrastructure such as bus stops, bike paths and bike
designated road sections; or a substitute financial contribution;
         c.   Road impact mitigation as quantified using the Blaine County road
mitigation fee formula.
      2.   Secondary public benefits:
         a.   Recreational amenities accessible and affordable to the general
public;
         b.   The maximum structural square footage per lot shall be limited to
four thousand (4,000) square feet, including accessory dwelling units, garages
or other accessory uses. Said floor area shall be the total of all conditioned
floor area as measured from the interior face of the exterior walls, excluding
basements;
         c.   Federal EPA Energy Star or leadership in energy and environmental
design (LEED) basic certification for all structures; residential or
commercial;
         d.   Other design elements based upon the specific attributes of the
property, which serve to promote the public benefit goals of this section and
provide a significant public benefit exceeding the requirements of other
applicable review standards.
   D.   PBPUD Density Bonus Requirements: The board may authorize PBPUD density
bonuses up to the limits specified in the zoning district. The available number
of bonus units shall be calculated according to the eligible acreage in the
underlying zoning district (not the total acreage). No density bonuses shall be
granted in any R-10 PUD or A-20 PUD located in a TDR receiving area.
The following shall be justification for such bonuses:
      1.   Accomplishing public purposes beneficial to the entire county,
beyond what is required under subsections C1 and C2 of this section. (Ord.
2009-06, 8-26-2009)
10-6-9: STANDARDS OF EVALUATION:
   A.   Evaluation Of PUD Proposals: Waivers from basic standard district
requirements limited to lot sizes, road widths and lot dimensions are warranted
by the superior design incorporated into the PUD. The following shall be used
in evaluation of planned unit development proposals. Approval of a PUD is
contingent upon the board's determination that all the following are true:
      1.   Construction of the proposed PUD can be initiated within two (2)
years of the date of approval;
      2.   Each individual phase of the development as well as the total
development can exist independently in a stable manner;
      3.   The subdivision and addition of residential uses will be compatible
in size, scale and uses with uses and operations in the surrounding area;
      4.   Transfer of density from A-20 to R-5 or R-10 land for the purposes
of a PUD will not locate residential units in close proximity to productive
agricultural fields or sensitive natural resource areas such as wetlands or
critical wildlife habitat. Adequate separation is required;
      5.   Transfer of density from A-20 to R-5 or R-10 land will not increase
the density to more than double the base density for that district;
      6.   A PUD located on R-5 or R-10 land, to which density has been
transferred from A-20 land, will not require uneconomical extension of county
services;
      7.   Any requested modification of lot size or road widths from base
district standards in title 9 (zoning) of this code and this title, is
justified after a consideration of the superior design requirements of section
10-6-6 of this chapter;
      8.   Any requested modification, beyond lot size or road widths, from
base district standards in title 9 (zoning) of this code and this title, is
justified by the provision of public benefit and superior design requirements
listed in section
10-6-8 of this chapter;
      9.   The PUD will not adversely affect potable water source(s).
   B.   Conditions Attached: The board is authorized to attach the following
conditions and any others it deems necessary to protect the public health,
safety and welfare to approval of a PUD:
      1.   Uses of least intensity and greatest compatibility with adjacent
uses must be arranged around the perimeter of the PUD. Planted buffer zones,
fences or screening may be required where no natural buffers exist.
      2.   No lot shown on the final development plan may be further
subdivided, except in an ACI where specified in a development agreement or plat
note.
      3.   Measures to protect the surface and ground water from contamination,
including, without limitation, the installation by the applicant of monitoring
wells and the granting of easements relating to such wells.
      4.   Gray water reuse for residential and commercial nonpotable purposes.
(Ord. 2009-06, 8-26-2009)
10-6-10: ADDITIONAL PRELIMINARY SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS:
The following requirements are in addition to those set forth in subsection 10-
4-3F of this title:
   A.   A tabulation of the number of acres, street rights of way, common open
space, housing units (by type) in each phase, estimated residential population
by housing type and approximate gross and net residential densities;
   B.   The proposed restrictive covenants of the homeowners' association
providing for control and maintenance of all common areas and facilities;
   C.   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the subject
land to begin the proposed development within eighteen (18) months;
   D.   A plan at a scale approved by the administrator showing the
relationship of planned open space and recreational areas to the location of
proposed structures, streets, commonly owned facilities, public facilities,
parking and utility easements and the pedestrian circulation system;
   E.   A development schedule for self-contained phases of the project. When a
preliminary application has been submitted for a property where development is
to occur in phases, the commission shall require an impact study (see section
10-4-4 of this title) and development schedule for the entire property prior to
approving the final plan for the first phase;
   F.   Architectural drawings and sketches sufficient to demonstrate the
design, dimension and character of the prospective development and its visual
impact on the neighboring lands' uses;
   G.   If applicable, a community housing plan as outlined in section 6.3 of
the Blaine County housing authority guidelines. (Ord. 2009-06, 8-26-2009)
10-6-11: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL:
All PUD developments shall require a pre-preliminary meeting with the
administrator, followed by submission of a preliminary development plan,
followed by submission of a final development plan.
   A.   Pre-Preliminary Application Meeting: The developer shall meet with the
administrator prior to the submission of the preliminary development plan. The
purpose of this meeting is to informally discuss the comprehensive plan, title
9 of this code, and this title, and to familiarize the developer with the
standards contained therein.
   B.   Application And Certification: The procedures for administrative action
are the same as specified in subsections 10-4-3A and B of this title.
   C.   Contents Of Application For Preliminary Plan: The application shall
include the requirements for regular subdivisions specified in subsection 10-4-
3F of this title, a completed impact study form, those additional requirements
listed in section
10-6-10 of this chapter, and any additional information requested by the
administrator at the pre- preliminary meeting.
   D.   Preliminary Consideration By Commission: The procedures for commission
action are the same as specified in subsection 10-4-3D of this title.
   E.   Preliminary Consideration By Board: The procedures for board action are
the same as specified in subsection 10-4-3E of this title.
   F.   Contents Of Application For Final Development Plan: Upon the board's
approval of a preliminary development plan, an application for the final
development plan may be filed with the administrator. This application shall
comply with the requirements for regular subdivisions specified in section
10-4-5 of this title. In addition, floor plans and exterior elevations for all
buildings within PUDs must be submitted at this time.
      1.   Certification By Administrator: Procedures for administrator
certification are the same as specified in subsection 10-4-5C of this title.
      2.   Commission Action: Procedures for commission action are the same as
specified in subsection 10-4-5D of this title.
      3.   Board Action: Procedures for board action are the same as specified
in subsection 10-4-5E of this title.
      4.   Acceptance Of Dedication: Procedures for acceptance of dedications
are the same as specified in subsection 10-4-5G of this title. (Ord. 2009-06,
8-26-2009)
10-6-12: EXPIRATION AND EXTENSION OF APPROVAL PERIOD:
The procedures governing the expiration and extension of PUD approval are the
same as specified in subsection 10-4-5B of this title. (Ord. 2009-06, 8-26-
2009)
CHAPTER 7
MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISIONS, PARKS, AND PUDS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Requirements And Restrictions
10-7-2: Mobile/Manufactured Home Subdivisions
10-7-3: Minimum Requirements
10-7-4: Planned Unit Development Requirements
10-7-1: REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
The development of mobile/manufactured home subdivisions and mobile/
manufactured home PUDs shall be subject to the following requirements and
restrictions. (Ord. 2020-04, 9-15-2020; Ord. 2012-05, 6-5-2012)
10-7-2: MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISIONS:
The following requirements and restrictions apply to mobile/manufactured home
subdivisions:
   A.   Minimum Lot Requirements: A mobile/manufactured home subdivision shall
satisfy the minimum lot requirements of the district in which it is located.
   B.   Review Of Application: Review of mobile/manufactured home subdivision
applications shall be in accord with the procedures and requirements specified
in chapter 4 of this title.
   C.   Hearing: The commission shall hold a public hearing on every proposed
mobile/manufactured home subdivision, after giving public notice in a newspaper
of general circulation in the county at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing. (Ord. 2012-05, 6-5-2012)
10-7-3: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
The following minimum requirements shall apply to mobile/manufactured home
subdivisions and PUDs:
   A.   Screening: Mobile/manufactured home developments shall be screened from
highways, collector roads and adjacent areas not similarly developed by a
fence, wall, hedge, screen or planted berm at least six feet (6') high.
   B.   Skirting: Skirting is required for all mobile homes.
   C.   Tie Downs: Each lot shall have a tie down and provide a solid base for
the unit.
   D.   Setbacks: Minimum front yard setbacks:
      1.   From a major arterial: One hundred feet (100');
      2.   From collector streets: Twenty five feet (25');
      3.   From minor streets: Twenty feet (20').
   E.   Minimum Side And Rear Yard Setback: The minimum side and rear yard
setback is ten feet (10'). (Ord. 2020-04, 9-15-2020; Ord. 2012-05, 6-5-2012;
Ord. 77-6, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-14-1977)
10-7-4: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
The following requirements pertain to mobile/manufactured home planned unit
developments:
   A.   Base Density And Maximum PUD Density Bonus: The base density and
maximum PUD density bonuses are those established for the underlying district.
   B.   Minimum Size: A minimum of five (5) acres is required for a PUD.
   C.   Maximum Units: A maximum of four (4) units per acre overall and six (6)
units on any single acre is allowed.
   D.   Common Open Space: A minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the gross
acreage shall be retained as common open space. Rights of way and parking area
shall not be considered open space.
   E.   Lot Size: Lots for individual mobile/manufactured homes shall not be
smaller than five thousand (5,000) square feet when clustered with central
sewage treatment. Minimum lot area for mobile/manufactured homes with
individual septic tank systems shall be sixteen thousand (16,000) square feet.
   F.   Storage And Parking: Storage space and parking area adequate for each
unit are required.
   G.   Drawings And Sketches: Architectural drawings and sketches for
community facilities shall be required.
   H.   Covenants: Covenants for control and maintenance of open space and
other common areas are required.
   I.   Standards: The standards of evaluation, submission requirements,
procedures for review and other requirements contained in chapter 6 of this
title shall be followed, as well as the requirements of this chapter. (Ord.
2012-05, 6-5-2012; Ord. 77-6, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-14-1977)
CHAPTER 8
ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY
SECTION:
10-8-1: General
10-8-2: Violations And Penalties
10-8-3: Civil Enforcement
10-8-4: Conditions
10-8-5: Waiver
10-8-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Duty Of Administrator: It shall be the duty of the administrator to
enforce these regulations and to bring to the attention of the prosecuting
attorney any violations or lack of compliance herewith.
   B.   Sales Before Approval: No owner or agent of the owner of a parcel of
land located in a proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any such parcel
before a plat of such subdivision has been approved by the planning commission,
in accordance with the provisions of these regulations and filed with the
county (clerk) recorder of deeds.
   C.   Metes And Bounds Description: The subdivision of any lot or parcel of
land, by the use of metes and bounds description for the purpose of sale,
transfer or lease with the intent of evading these regulations, shall not be
permitted. All such described subdivisions shall be subject to all of the
requirements contained in these regulations.
   D.   Issuance Of Building Permit: No building permit shall be issued for the
construction of any building or structure located on a lot or plat subdivided
or sold in violation of the provisions of these regulations. (Ord. 77-6, 3-28-
1977, eff. 4-14-1977)
10-8-2: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Criminal Penalty: Any person who fails to comply with or violates any
of these regulations shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Civil Penalty: In addition to the criminal sanctions in subsection A of
this section, whenever a violation of this title occurs, the prosecuting
attorney may institute proceedings in the district court seeking civil
penalties not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day.
   C.   Withholding of Permits: The Administrator may withhold application
consideration, including but not limited to plat amendments, subdivisions,
building permits and certificates of occupancy, on lots or parcels of land
where a violation of Title 7, 9, or 10 of this Code exists, unless the permit
being requested is to resolve the violation(s). (Ord. 2024-05, 2-13-2024; 1996
Code; Ord. 79-5, 9-11-1979; Ord. 77-6, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-14-1977)
10-8-3: CIVIL ENFORCEMENT:
Appropriate actions and proceedings may be taken at law or in equity to prevent
any violation of these regulations, to prevent unlawful construction, to
recover damages, to restrain, correct or abate a violation, to prevent illegal
occupancy of a building, structure or premises, and these remedies shall be in
addition to the penalties described above. (Ord. 77-6, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-14-
1977)
10-8-4: CONDITIONS:
   A.   Performance Standards For Riparian Areas: When areas of riparian
resources are impacted and a mitigation plan is proposed, a financial guarantee
shall be required to ensure that the following conditions and performance
standards are met and to ensure that the functions, services, and values of the
mitigation plan are achieved:
      1.   Monitoring Plan: All restored and constructed areas of riparian
resource shall be monitored for a specified period or until the standards of
performance and measures of success are accomplished, whichever occurs first.
      2.   Riparian Area Management Plan: If after a three (3) year period the
measures of success are not accomplished, reasons for failure shall be
determined and corrected. If required, areas will be revegetated by methods and
materials described in the riparian area management plan.
      3.   Compliance Certification: Every permittee shall submit a signed
certification to the county regarding the completed work and any required
mitigation. The certification shall include:
         a.   A statement that the authorized work was done in accordance with
the permit and any general or specific conditions.
         b.   A statement that any required mitigation was completed in
accordance with the permit conditions.
         c.   The signature of the permittee certifying the completion of the
work and mitigation.
      4.   Return Of Financial Guarantee: Blaine County shall return the
financial guarantee upon receipt of the certificate of compliance. (Ord. 2006-
18, 11-2-2006; Ord. 77-6, 3-28-1977, eff. 4-14-1977)
10-8-5: WAIVER:
   A.   The Board, in a specific situation, may approve a waiver from strict
compliance with a design standard in section
10-5-3 or infrastructure improvement standard in section
10-5-4 of this title if an applicant can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
Board that the proposed waiver:
      1.   Is based on conditions unique to the property in question and not
applicable generally to other property;
      2.   Is not detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare;
      3.   Is not injurious to the property of others; and
      4.   Does not, in any way, vary or nullify in any way any other provision
of this code or the zoning map.
   B.   The applicant must also demonstrate that one of the following is true:
      1.   Strict compliance with the standard, because of the particular
physical characteristics, surroundings or topographic features of the property
in question, would result in an undue hardship not the result of an action by
the applicant; or
      2.   The purposes of these regulations and the intent of the
Comprehensive Plan are better served by an alternative proposal.
   C.   In granting a waiver or modification, the Board may require conditions
to substantially secure the general objectives of the standards waived or
modified.
   D.   Other federal, state or local agencies also may have jurisdiction over
the subject matter of a waiver request that will require written approval prior
to the granting of a waiver. (Ord. 2023-10, - -2023: Ord. 98-8, 10-5-1998)
CHAPTER 9
CLUSTER DEVELOPMENTS 1
SECTION:
10-9-1: Scope
10-9-2: Purpose
10-9-3: Definitions
10-9-4: Permitted, Conditional And Accessory Uses
10-9-5: Ownership Requirements
10-9-6: Density, Lot, And Development Standards
10-9-7: Additional Preliminary Submittal Requirements
10-9-8: Standards Of Evaluation
10-9-9: Additional Standards Of Evaluation
10-9-10: Conditions Attached
10-9-11: Procedure For Approval
10-9-12: Expiration And Extension Of Approval Period
 
Notes
1 1. Prior ordinance history: Ord. 96-9, 9-9-1996.
10-9-1: SCOPE:
Cluster developments (CDs) may be developed in the A-20, A-40, R-10, and RR-40
zoning districts through the procedures outlined in this chapter. (Ord. 2006-
07, 6-29-2006)
10-9-2: PURPOSE:
The county encourages CDs to achieve the following:
   A.   A development pattern which preserves agricultural lands and protects
agricultural practices, natural topographic and geologic features, rural
landscape, scenic vistas, vegetation and wildlife habitat, and avoids the
disruption of natural drainage patterns;
   B.   Perpetual preservation of large blocks of farmland and rural open
space. Reduction of the residential lot sizes in the A-20, A-40, R-10, and RR-
40 zoning districts below the established minimum lot size is encouraged for
the express purpose of maintaining the greatest amount of contiguous open
space/agricultural use of the land in perpetuity;
   C.   A more efficient use of land for agricultural purposes than is achieved
through grid subdivisions. Also, greater diversity and efficiency in land
development patterns by: 1) allowing more flexibility in establishing lot
sizes, dimensions and building setbacks; 2) lowering construction and long term
maintenance costs through shorter utility lines and streets; and 3) modifying
adopted road standards where appropriate.
   D.   Land development patterns which serve to protect surrounding landowners
engaged in agricultural practices from the potential negative impacts from the
addition of residential development;
   E.   The preservation of the county's open space and rural character; and
   F.   Energy conservation and use of renewable resource. (Ord. 2006-07, 6-29-
2006)
10-9-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms are defined for the purpose of this chapter:
CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT (CD): A type of subdivision for limited residential use
within the A-20 and A-40 productive agricultural districts, the R-10 rural
residential district, and the RR-40 rural remote district. Each cluster
development consists of: a) the cluster tract occupying not more than twenty
percent (20%) of the land area of the parent tract, and b) the conservation
tract occupying not less than eighty percent (80%) of the land area of the
parent tract.
CLUSTER TRACT: A designated location within a cluster development upon which
residential development may occur. The cluster tract(s) shall not occupy more
than twenty percent (20%) of the land area of the parent tract.
COMMON OPEN SPACE: An area held for the use and benefit of the owners of
dwelling units or lots within a cluster development, and which is devoid of
streets, parking areas, or buildings that are not intended for recreational or
community purposes.
CONSERVATION EASEMENT: An encumbrance that shall run with the land, provide for
protection of open space in perpetuity, and be granted and deeded in perpetuity
to a qualified organization such as a land trust or historic society or a
government agency. Such organization or agency shall be responsible for
enforcing the restrictions placed on the land and for any necessary management
of said open space. The conservation easement shall be given exclusively for
conservation purposes.
The donation of a conservation easement shall not, in any way, imply the right
of public access or any other right or duty not expressly set forth by the
terms of the easement.
CONSERVATION TRACT: That part of a cluster development that remains dedicated
to agriculture, open space, and/or natural resource protection and is devoid of
any structures other than those for the benefit of agricultural uses
(including, but not limited to, barns, well houses, irrigation structures, hay
sheds) or land conservation purposes, but may include a primary residential
dwelling unit (and any accessory employee housing as allowed). The conservation
tract(s) shall not occupy less than eighty percent (80%) of the land area of
the parent tract.
HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION: An organization formed of the owners of a cluster
development.
PARENT TRACT: A lot or lots of record situated within an A-20, A-40, R-10, or
RR-40 zoning district proposed to be developed either as a straight lot
subdivision or as a cluster development and used for calculating the density
allowance for said subdivisions. A parent tract shall be a minimum twenty (20)
acres in size to qualify for an R-10 cluster development, forty (40) acres in
size to qualify for an A-20 cluster development, and eighty (80) acres for an
RR-40 or A-40 cluster development.
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT EASEMENT: An easement granted by a landowner in a CD to the
owners of all property in productive agricultural use adjacent to the parent
tract of the CD as well as the owner of the conservation tract in the CD. It is
a perpetual nonexclusive easement for the purpose of protecting the
agricultural operation from interference by adjacent residential uses. Among
other elements, the easement contains an acknowledgement that the residential
property within the CD is situated in an agricultural area and may be subjected
to conditions resulting from farming operations which may conflict with
residential purposes. The easement shall be binding to the heirs, successors,
and assigns of the grantor and in no way grants a right to adjacent property
owners for ingress and egress upon or across the residential property. (Ord.
2006-07, 6-29-2006)
10-9-4: PERMITTED, CONDITIONAL AND ACCESSORY USES:
Permitted, conditional, and accessory uses within a CD shall be those allowed
in the underlying A-20, A-40, R-10, or RR-40 zoning districts.
   A.   In cases where an A-20 CD includes contiguous land regulated by a
zoning district or district(s) other than the A-20 in title 9, chapter 5 of
this code, the permitted, conditional, and accessory uses provided for in those
district(s) shall be allowed in the underlying zoning district. (Ord. 2006-07,
6-29-2006)
10-9-5: OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Preliminary Application: A preliminary application shall be filed in
the name or names of the recorded owner or owners of the parent tract. An
application may be filed either by a property owner or by the holder(s) of an
equitable interest in such property, or by a person having a contractual
interest in the parent tract or portion thereof. A consent to apply from the
owner of record shall be required to accompany an application made by parties
other than the owner of record. (Ord. 2006-07, 6-29-2006)
10-9-6: DENSITY, LOT, AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Base Density: The maximum base density of a CD for land regulated by
title 9, chapters 5, 5A, 6, and 6A of this code, shall be the base density of
the underlying zoning district. Base density is calculated on the size of the
parent tract.
   B.   Density Bonus: One primary residential dwelling unit (and any employee
housing as otherwise permitted) on the conservation tract of a CD in addition
to the base density. This density bonus shall be permitted within any parent
tract one time from the date of the adoption of this chapter.
   C.   Minimum Lot Size, Dimensions, And Setbacks: Lot sizes for residential
development proposed within the cluster tract may be modified from the minimum
lot size required in the underlying zoning district provided that on site
sewage disposal requirements of South Central district health department and
other design standards are met through the design of the CD. Lot dimensions and
setbacks may be modified from that required in the underlying zoning district
provided the modification facilitates the purposes of a CD. The minimum lot
size in a CD located in a TDR receiving area shall be one acre.
   D.   Standards For Multiple Cluster Tracts: Residential lots within a CD
shall be located in one or more cluster tracts. The board may require building
envelopes on lots, which shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   General Site Design Standard: In general, the layout of cluster
tracts shall promote the rural character of the zoning district, avoid the
creation of new rural towns or villages, support the viability of existing or
future agricultural activities on or adjacent to the site, and protect natural,
historic, cultural and scenic resources on or adjacent to the site. The siting
standards in this section are in addition to and complement the standards of
evaluation in section
10-9-8 of this chapter.
      2.   Siting Criteria For Cluster Tracts: Cluster tracts shall be located
within one mile of a paved state, federal, or county road or a paved road
constructed to county standards in existence as of July 5, 2006.
      3.   Maximum Number Of Lots Per Cluster Tract: Within a CD, the maximum
number of lots allowed in a single cluster tract shall be five (5) lots unless
the CD meets the standards listed in subsection D4 of this section.
      4.   Allowance For Larger Clusters: Cluster tracts of up to twenty (20)
lots may be allowed in the A-20, A-40, R-10, or RR-40 districts if located on
property within one-half (1/2) mile of an unincorporated platted townsite
(i.e., Picabo, Gannett), and the cluster tract(s) is located to the maximum
extent practicable as an extension of the townsite. Larger cluster tracts up to
twenty (20) lots may also be located in other areas where the applicant can
demonstrate that the cluster tract(s) meets the following standards:
         a.   Promotes the rural character of the zoning district;
         b.   Avoids interference with existing agricultural activities on or
adjacent to the parent tract;
         c.   Protects and enhances natural resources, including wildlife,
wetlands and riparian areas, native vegetative resources, and historic or
cultural resources on or adjacent to the parent tract;
         d.   To the maximum extent practicable, preserves significant views of
the rural, open character of the district as viewed from the paved road;
         e.   Provides a minimum setback of one hundred feet (100') from
adjacent properties;
         f.   Provides a minimum setback of two hundred feet (200') from
existing agricultural activities;
         g.   Avoids fragmentation of the conservation tract; and
         h.   Provides contiguity between the conservation tract and open space
on adjacent properties.
      5.   Minimum Separation Required: To avoid the creation of rural villages
and to maintain the open, rural character of the zoning districts, multiple
cluster tracts shall be noncontiguous, according to the following standards:
         a.   If the total land area within the CD parent tract is more than
three hundred twenty (320) acres, a cluster tract shall be separated from all
other cluster tracts by at least one thousand eight hundred feet (1,800').
         b.   If the total land area within the CD parent tract is three
hundred twenty (320) acres or less, a cluster tract shall be separated from all
other cluster tracts by at least one thousand feet (1,000').
         c.   Separation of multiple cluster tracts is required regardless of
whether the clusters are located within the same CD or in a different CD.
         d.   For purposes of this subsection, separation between cluster
tracts shall be measured as the shortest linear distance between the two (2)
closest building envelopes located in the different cluster tracts.
      6.   Exception To The Minimum Separation Requirement: The minimum
separation requirement in subsection D5 of this section may be reduced if the
smaller separation satisfies the general and specific site design standards and
criteria in subsections D1 and D3 of this section, and that either:
         a.   The overall site design takes advantage of the site's natural
topography to hide multiple clusters from the public's view as seen from a
paved road; or
         b.   The smaller separation is necessary to accommodate conservation
of natural resources; or
         c.   The smaller separation is necessary and desirable to support
continuation of existing agricultural operations or creation of new
agricultural operations.
In no case shall the separation between cluster tracts be less than four
hundred feet (400').
      7.   Pedestrian And Maintenance Access:
         a.   Maintenance, pedestrian, and equestrian access easements may be
required through the conservation tract with a minimum access easement of
thirty feet (30').
         b.   Access may be restricted to agricultural lands for public safety
reasons and to prevent interference with agricultural operations; access to
areas of steep slopes, wetlands, critical wildlife habitat or other sensitive
areas may also be restricted.
      8.   Review Criteria: The board may approve a cluster application upon
findings that the proposed cluster subdivision plat complies with the Blaine
County comprehensive plan and with the standards set forth in this chapter,
except where the board expressly permits exceptions and variances to such
standards.
         a.   The board retains the discretion to deny a rural cluster
application if it finds the location of the cluster(s) will have a negative
impact upon service delivery, or the subject property uniformly exhibits such
extraordinary natural and environmental value, as evidenced by the proposed
location of the rural cluster in the following districts as described in title
9, chapters 17, 19, 20, 21, 21A, 22 and 23 of this code. These include the
county's wildlife, wetlands, floodplain and riparian districts, mountain,
scenic highway, avalanche, and seasonal use overlay districts.
         b.   The board also retains the discretion to approve the proposed
cluster subdivision conditioned on the applicant agreeing to a reduced
residential density if the board finds that such condition would mitigate
potential adverse impacts related to the requested density. (Ord. 2006-07, 6-
29-2006)
10-9-7: ADDITIONAL PRELIMINARY SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
The following documentation shall be submitted in addition to that set forth in
subsection 10-4-3F of this title:
   A.   The proposed restrictive covenants of the homeowners' association
providing for control, maintenance, and management of all common areas and
facilities within the cluster development.
   B.   A plan at a scale approved by the administrator showing the
relationship of conservation tract to the cluster tract, and within the cluster
tract the relationship of the common open space and recreational areas to the
location of proposed lots, streets, commonly owned facilities, and public
facilities. Said plan shall illustrate the irrigation delivery system, if any.
   C.   Impact study pursuant to section
10-4-4 of this title.
   D.   A development schedule for self-contained phases of the project and a
development schedule for the entire property, including the installation of
utilities, irrigation delivery system and platting of residential lots in the
cluster tract.
   E.   Proposed building envelopes or other delineation for the location of
all buildings for each parcel proposed, taking into account the need for
accessory buildings.
   F.   Common open space, if any proposed, shown with planned purposes
identified.
   G.   Proposed preliminary plat and proposed plan for an irrigation water
delivery system. Said plat and plan shall also be submitted to the soil
conservation service for review and comment prior to certification by the
administrator. (Ord. 2006-07, 6-29-2006)
10-9-8: STANDARDS OF EVALUATION:
Approval of a CD is contingent upon the board's determination that all the
following are true:
   A.   The usefulness of the conservation tracts is maximized in the design of
the development.
      1.   Cluster tracts, building envelopes, roads and utilities shall be
sited to optimize productive agricultural practices, including irrigation, in
the conservation tract and to minimize interference and land use conflicts with
agricultural practices on the conservation tract, adjoining farms and normal/
historic agricultural activities in the area.
      2.   Environmentally sensitive areas, hazard areas, or wildlife habitat
of local significance, big game winter range, waterfowl nesting areas, or other
significant wildlife habitat as determined by the Idaho state department of
fish and game shall be identified and contained within the conservation tract
or open space or otherwise protected from encroachment.
   B.   Each individual phase of the development as well as the total
development can exist independently in a stable manner.
   C.   The development of residential uses proposed within agricultural areas
will not interfere with existing agricultural operations that may, at times, be
perceived as a nuisance by inhabitants of those residences.
   D.   Where off site impacts are found to result from the proposed
development of the CD, the developer has proposed improvements to mitigate said
impacts. Such improvements may include, but not be limited to, the road network
(road improvements not limited to surfacing, school bus turnarounds, widening,
intersections, bridges, culverts, and drainage facilities), fire protection
facilities, and trails/recreation.
   E.   The CD conforms to the goals, recommendations and conclusions in the
Blaine County comprehensive plan.
   F.   The CD parent tract includes a gross land area of at least twenty (20)
acres in an R-10 district, forty (40) acres in an A-20 district, and eighty
(80) acres in an RR-40 or A-40 district.
   G.   Cluster tracts and individual lots in CDs are provided safe and
convenient access to a public or private road but individual lot access onto a
highway or collector road (as listed in the county comprehensive plan) is not
permitted.
   H.   The developer has provided evidence, verified by IDWR, of water rights,
if any, appurtenant to the entire property being developed. The developer also
has provided an ongoing weed control/management plan for the entire property,
including the reclamation of disturbed or idled ground. Where a water right
exists, a water delivery plan consistent with the intended use of the water has
been submitted to ensure water delivery shall continue on the conservation
tract. If water is intended to be delivered to any proposed common open space
area(s) and/or residential lots, the plan shall include same and be found
suitable.
   I.   Soil suitability for all uses including the development of roads has
been demonstrated.
   J.   The proposal shall comply with the purpose, definitions, regulations
and conditions set forth in this title and title 9 of this code.
   K.   The proposed road design best maintains or creates a traditional rural
community design without compromising efficiency and adequacy of the roads for
use for agricultural purposes. In any case, roadway easement widths are a
minimum of forty feet (40') with a minimum of twenty four feet (24') of travel
surface. Right of way or travel surface widths greater than the minimums
specified in the Blaine County road standards ordinance may be required. The
road design has been approved by the applicable fire official and other county
departments.
   L.   Building envelopes are sited on each parcel in the CD to optimize
productive agricultural practices, including irrigation, when applicable in the
conservation tract and to minimize interference and land use conflicts with
agricultural practices on the conservation tract, adjoining farms and normal/
historic agricultural activities in the area.
   M.   Any proposed common open space or publicly dedicated land may be used
as a buffer between the conservation tract and the cluster tract(s) and is
usable, accessible and for the benefit of the residential owners in the CD and/
or the citizens of Blaine County.
   N.   Utilities for the cluster tract(s) are proposed to be installed
underground. (Ord. 2006-07, 6-29-2006)
10-9-9: ADDITIONAL STANDARDS OF EVALUATION:
The design and improvement standards contained in chapter 5 of this title shall
be applied to CD applications by the commission and board during its evaluation
of the project. Where said standards are effectively modified by the standards
set forth in section
10-9-8 of this chapter, those contained in section
10-9-8 of this chapter shall prevail. (Ord. 2006-07, 6-29-2006)
10-9-10: CONDITIONS ATTACHED:
The board shall attach to the approval of a CD certain conditions and may
attach additional conditions and any others it deems necessary to protect the
public health, safety and welfare, and to further the purposes of this chapter:
   A.   The following conditions shall be attached:
      1.   Infrastructure shall be installed by the developer and shall comply
with the standards of all applicable regulatory agencies. Infrastructure may
include, but not be limited to, roads, drainage facilities, sanitary
facilities, utilities, fire protection facilities, and improvements related to
trails/recreation.
      2.   Improvements upon subdivision shall be constructed or installed by
the developer prior to final plat or as otherwise proposed as part of a phasing
plan and accepted by the county. Such improvements may include, but not be
limited to, infrastructure, off site improvements, common open space
improvements, water delivery system, irrigation system, fencing, and weed
control program.
      3.   Further subdivision shall not be permitted unless the applicant
demonstrates that the maximum base density and density bonus has not been
previously platted or transferred from the parent tract. Further subdivision
shall require the application be processed according to the procedures for a CD
unless otherwise specified in a previously approved subdivision for the parent
tract.
      4.   The conservation tract shall be encumbered by: a) a conservation
easement executed in force and effect simultaneously with the recordation of
the final plat of the CD; or b) a deed restriction. Said encumbrance shall
specify that uses of the conservation tract are limited to agricultural
purposes and businesses as permitted by county ordinance and/or open space and
shall be noted on the plat.
      5.   Plat notes to be worded specific to the proposed CD situation may
include, but not be limited to, those addressing the following issues:
         a.   Weed control;
         b.   Conservation tract limitations;
         c.   Agricultural activities/farming practices are permitted and are a
preferred use of the land. Perceived conflicts with residential use and
enjoyment may occur, however, agricultural use of the land is dominant and
shall not be considered a nuisance;
         d.   Fire protection;
         e.   Soils limitations;
         f.   Road maintenance responsibility, if private roads;
         g.   Public access, if applicable;
         h.   Purchasers of lots within the cluster tract shall execute
resource management easement prior to obtaining building permit for residential
construction;
         i.   Density statement including the one time density bonus;
         j.   Encumbrance on conservation tract;
         k.   Domestic pet restraint (i.e., perimeter fencing) around the
cluster tract is required;
         l.   Fish, game and wildlife issues.
      6.   Resource management easement (binding to heirs, successors and
assigns of the grantor) to address the following: grantor (owner) acknowledging
property is situated within agricultural area and may be subjected to
conditions resulting from farming and ranching operations which may conflict
with residential purposes, and waives all common law rights to object to normal
and necessary farm management activities shall be presented by the developer to
potential buyers of cluster tract(s) lots.
   B.   The following conditions and any others deemed appropriate to carry out
the public health, safety and welfare and to further the purposes of this
chapter may be attached:
      1.   Limitation on the number of living quarters for employees per
conservation tract.
      2.   Limitation on the number of accessory dwelling units per cluster
tract.
      3.   Distance in feet separating any residential use from neighboring
tracts. (Ord. 2006-07, 6-29-2006)
10-9-11: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL:
A CD shall require a pre-preliminary meeting with the administrator, followed
by submission of a preliminary development plan and plat, followed by
submission of a final development plan and plat.
   A.   Pre-Preliminary Application Meeting: The developer shall meet with the
administrator prior to the submission of the preliminary development plan and
plat. The purpose of this meeting is to informally discuss the comprehensive
plan, this title and title 9 of this code, and to familiarize the developer
with the standards contained therein.
   B.   Application And Certification: The procedures for administrative action
are the same as specified in subsections 10-4-3A, B, and C of this title.
   C.   Contents Of Application For Preliminary Plan And Plat: The application
shall include the requirements for regular subdivisions specified in subsection
10-4-3F of this title, a completed impact study form pursuant to section
10-4-4 of this title, and any additional information requested by the
administrator at the pre-preliminary meeting.
   D.   Preliminary Consideration By Commission: The procedures for commission
action are the same as specified in subsection 10-4-3D of this title.
   E.   Preliminary Consideration By Board: The procedures for board action are
the same as specified in subsection 10-4-3E of this title.
   F.   Contents Of Application For Final Development Plan: Upon the board's
approval of a preliminary development plan, an application for the final
development plan may be filed with the administrator. This application shall
comply with the requirements for regular subdivisions specified in section
10-4-5 of this title.
      1.   Certification By Administrator: Procedures for administrator
certification are the same as specified in subsection 10-4-5C of this title.
      2.   Commission Action: Procedures for commission action are the same as
specified in subsection 10-4-5D of this title.
      3.   Board Action: Procedures for board action are the same as specified
in subsection 10-4-5E of this title.
      4.   Acceptance Of Dedication: Procedures for acceptance of dedications
are the same as specified in subsection 10-4-5G of this title. (Ord. 2006-07,
6-29-2006)
10-9-12: EXPIRATION AND EXTENSION OF APPROVAL PERIOD:
The procedures governing the expiration and extension of a CD approval are the
same as specified in subsection 10-4-5B of this title. (Ord. 2006-07, 6-29-
2006)
CHAPTER 10
VOLUNTARY TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS (TDR) PROGRAM
SECTION:
10-10-1: Statement Of Purposes
10-10-2: Definitions
10-10-3: Designation Of Sending Areas
10-10-4: Establishment Of Receiving Areas
10-10-5: Calculation Of Transferable Development Rights
10-10-6: Application For Certification Of Number Of Transferable Development
Rights
10-10-7: Transfer Of Development Rights From Sending Parcels
10-10-8: Responsibility
10-10-9: Intermediate Transfer
10-10-10: Permanent Transfer Of Development Rights To A Receiving Parcel
10-10-11: Effect Of The Transfer Of Development Rights
10-10-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSES:
To protect the agricultural, natural, and scenic qualities of open lands, to
enhance sites and areas of special character or special historical, cultural,
aesthetic or economic interest or value, and to enable and encourage
flexibility of design and careful management of land in recognition of land as
a basic and valuable natural resource. The preservation and maintenance of
these resources will be ensured by encouraging countywide land use planning
through the transfer of development rights from parcels suitable for
preservation to properties meeting the criteria for development as receiving
parcels. (Ord. 2006-06, 6-29-2006)
10-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS: Those development rights as calculated herein permitted to
a lot, parcel or area of land under a zoning or other ordinance respecting
permissible use, area, density, bulk or height of improvements.
RECEIVING AREA: One or more areas of land designated by the Blaine County board
of county commissioners to which development rights generated from one or more
sending areas may be transferred and in which increased development is
permitted to occur by reason of such transfer. The receiving areas shall be A-
20 zone district subareas established by Blaine County pursuant to the
procedures of section 67-6511, Idaho Code, as an area suitable to receive
transferred development rights.
RECEIVING PARCEL(S): Parcel(s) of land within a receiving area to which one or
more development rights may be or are transferred.
SENDING AREA: One or more designated areas of land in which development rights
may be designated for use in one or more receiving areas. The sending areas
shall be in A-20 or A-40 zoning districts established by Blaine County pursuant
to the procedures of section 67-6511, Idaho Code, as an area in which use or
development should be restricted.
SENDING PARCEL(S): A parcel(s) of land within a sending area from which one or
more development rights may be or are transferred.
TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS: The process by which one or more development
rights are severed from a sending parcel by the recording of a deed of transfer
and a TDR easement transferring such development rights. Any such severed
rights subsequently may become appurtenant to a receiving parcel as provided
herein. (Ord. 2006-06, 6-29-2006)
10-10-3: DESIGNATION OF SENDING AREAS:
The sending areas to be subject to development rights transfers and protected
through the application of this chapter are those designated by the board of
county commissioners from time to time and those areas designated through
intergovernmental agreements with municipalities in Blaine County. The
underlying zoning district regulations for any sending area continue to apply,
except as limited by this chapter.
   A.   The following area as depicted on attachment E (sending areas map) to
the ordinance codified herein, specified as a TDR sending area, is hereby
designated as a TDR sending area. Its boundaries shall generally be described
as follows:
Lands in the A-20 district (effective prior to July 5, 2006) including: south
of the Boise Baseline but including Sections 35 in T1N, R18E and Sections 34
and 35 in T1N, R19E, B.M.; east of the Big Wood River; north of the Timmerman
and Picabo Hills; along the Former Picabo Desert Rd. & Roberts St. to Hwy. 20
in the Picabo Townsite; north of Hwy. 20 to the Intersection of Hwy. 20 and the
southern boundary of Section 26 in T1N, R20E, B.M.; north of that southern
section boundary and west of a line from the southeast corner of that Section
26 north to the Boise Baseline.
(Ord. 2006-06, 6-29-2006)
10-10-4: ESTABLISHMENT OF RECEIVING AREAS:
   A.   The following area as depicted on attachment F (receiving areas map) to
the ordinance codified herein, specified as a TDR receiving area, is hereby
designated as a TDR receiving area. Its boundaries shall generally be described
as follows:
Lands in the A-20 district (effective prior to July 5, 2006) including: north
of the north 1/2 and the southeast 1/4 of the northeast quarter of Section 27
and the north 1/2 of the northwest quarter of Section 26, T1N, R18E, B.M.;
north of the east to west section line two miles north of the Boise Baseline
portion of which correspond with Pero Rd. to the A-10 Zoning District line;
west of that A-10 zoning line; south of the R-5 zoning district boundary; along
Glendale Rd. to Silverwood Dr. and south and east of the Glendale "bench."
   B.   Additional receiving areas are those:
      1.   Areas reclassified pursuant to the standards set out in subsection C
of this section; or
      2.   Areas designated through intergovernmental agreements with
municipalities in Blaine County.
   C.   An applicant for reclassification of property as a receiving area has
the burden of demonstrating compliance with each of the following standards, in
addition to applicable standards for rezone under sections
9-26-4 and
9-26-8, and title 9, chapter 31 of this code:
      1.   Designation of the property as a receiving area is in accordance
with the comprehensive plan.
      2.   The proposed receiving area will be located outside of the mountain
overlay district, avalanche overlay district, floodplain overlay and riparian
setback districts, wetlands overlay district and seasonal overlay district, and
outside of any environmentally sensitive lands, or critical wildlife habitats
or corridors as identified by the county in consultation with the Idaho
department of fish and game.
      3.   The proposed receiving area will be located adjacent to an existing
state or county road, or platted road, and adequately served by existing
transportation systems.
      4.   The proposed receiving area will be compatible with adjoining
development and land uses, and, if located within a designated area of city
impact, will be compatible with the land uses designated for the area in the
adopted municipal comprehensive plan and municipal and county ordinances
governing the area of city impact.
      5.   The transfer of additional densities and other uses to the proposed
receiving area will be compatible with the uses and any agricultural operations
in the area.
      6.   The transfer of additional densities and other uses to the proposed
receiving area, when considered in light of the existing or likely cumulative
effect of residential development in the area, will not materially change the
character of agricultural land, agricultural uses, or the economic viability of
existing agricultural operations in the area.
      7.   The transfer of additional densities and other uses to the proposed
receiving area will not adversely affect the quality of essential public
services and facilities to current residents, including, but not limited to,
school facilities, school bus transportation, police and fire protection,
emergency services, and shall not require substantial additional public funding
in order to meet the needs created by the creation of the proposed receiving
area.
      8.   The proposed receiving area will provide setbacks from the heavy
industrial district.
   D.   The applicant may be required by the board to mitigate the adverse
effects of the proposed transfer of additional densities and other uses to the
proposed receiving area, which may include, without limitation, entering into a
development agreement with the county, contributions for additional capital
improvements, ongoing maintenance, and labor costs. The plan for, timing of,
and proposed phasing of the mitigation shall be in a form acceptable by the
board. (Ord. 2011-01, 1-18-2011; Ord. 2006-06, 6-29-2006)
10-10-5: CALCULATION OF TRANSFERABLE DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS:
Transferable development rights within a sending area are calculated for
certification as follows:
   A.   The number of development rights for a sending parcel shall be
calculated based on a maximum density of one dwelling unit per twenty (20)
acres.
   B.   Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, in calculating the number of
development rights, the following property shall be subtracted from the total
acreage of the parcel:
      1.   Any part of said parcel that is subject to, or encumbered by, a
conservation easement, Idaho department of fish and game easement, or other
easement that restricts or prohibits development of the parcel; provided,
however, that the total number of certified TDRs may not exceed the total
number of development rights retained pursuant to any such easement.
      2.   Any part of said parcel located within a public road right of way,
or within a recorded access easement.
      3.   Any part of said parcel located within Blaine County's floodway as
defined in title 9, chapter 17 of this code.
   C.   The minimum size for any sending parcel from which development rights
will be removed and transferred shall be one hundred sixty (160) acres, except
for smaller legal parcels in existence on July 5, 2006, for which the minimum
size for a transferring parcel may be forty (40) acres.
   D.   Any fractional development right exceeding 0.5 (1/2) shall be rounded
up to the nearest whole number. (Ord. 2006-06, 6-29-2006)
10-10-6: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATION OF NUMBER OF TRANSFERABLE DEVELOPMENT
RIGHTS:
   A.   The owner of record of a sending parcel may request certification of
the number of transferable development rights on the sending parcel by
submitting a completed application to the administrator.
   B.   Following receipt of a complete application, the administrator shall
issue a certification of the number of transferable development rights on the
sending parcel and serially numbered individual certificates for each
transferable development right credited to that parcel. The owner of record of
the sending parcel shall cause all certificates issued by the administrator to
be promptly recorded in the chain of title for the sending parcel with the
Blaine County recorder.
   C.   An application shall be in the form prescribed by the administrator,
and shall contain such information as deemed necessary to verify parcel size
and applicable density, and existing uses as a basis for certifying the number
of development rights. This information shall include, but is not limited to:
      1.   A map of the proposed sending parcel based on a survey if available
or a map prepared in a professional manner on an assessor's map of the parcel
if no recent survey is available.
      2.   The legal description and parcel numbers of the sending parcel.
      3.   A copy of the deed showing that the applicant is the owner of record
of the sending parcel.
      4.   The number of single-family residences existing on the sending
parcel excluding employee housing or accessory dwelling units.
   D.   A certification fee as may be prescribed by resolution of the board.
(Ord. 2006-06, 6-29-2006)
10-10-7: TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS FROM SENDING PARCELS:
   A.   No development rights from a sending parcel may be transferred, or
offered for transfer or sale, until they have been duly certified as provided
herein.
   B.   In order to validly convey or transfer certified development rights
from a sending parcel, a TDR easement shall be recorded against the sending
parcel and the grantee of the development rights shall receive a deed of
transfer of the development right from the grantor, the owner of the sending
parcel.
   C.   A TDR easement shall be duly signed by the owner of the sending parcel
and Blaine County by and through the board, and promptly recorded by the county
with the Blaine County recorder. Nothing herein shall preclude grantees in
addition to the county being made a party to such easements. A separate TDR
easement shall be executed for each development right that is transferred, and
the administrator shall designate each such TDR easement with a distinctive
instrument or serial number and shall maintain records of all such TDR
easements.
   D.   The TDR easement shall be in a form approved by the board and shall
contain the following provisions:
      1.   All of the serial numbers of the transferable development rights
that have been certified by the administrator on the sending parcel which is
the subject of the TDR easement.
      2.   A covenant on the sending parcel, or part thereof from which
development rights have been transferred, that all residential development
rights have been removed from the parcel and that only the other permitted,
accessory or conditional uses listed in the underlying zoning district, if any,
shall be allowed.
      3.   A covenant that all provisions of the TDR easement shall run with
and bind the sending parcel in perpetuity in favor of the county and any other
grantees and may be enforced by any of said grantees.
      4.   A statement that nothing in the restrictions shall be construed to
convey to the public a right of access or use of the property and that the
owner of the property, his/her heirs, successors and assigns shall retain
exclusive right to such access or use subject to the terms of the TDR easement.
      5.   If only a portion of the transferable development rights of a
sending parcel is being transferred, then a survey map of the entire parcel
must be recorded with the Blaine County recorder. The map must show the actual
area on the sending parcel that is being protected by the transfer of
development rights. That portion of the sending parcel protected by a TDR
easement shall contain a statement that all residential development rights
except for one dwelling unit per one hundred sixty (160) acres or fraction
thereof have been removed from this portion of the parcel and that only the
other permitted, accessory or conditional uses listed in the underlying zoning
district, if any, shall be allowed.
      6.   The written consent of all lien holders and other parties with an
interest of record in the sending parcel.
   E.   The deed of transfer of development rights shall be in the form
prescribed by the board. The grantee of the deed shall promptly record the same
with the Blaine County recorder, which recordation shall appear in the chain of
title of the sending parcel.
   F.   The deed of transfer shall specify the number of transferable
development rights conveyed or transferred from the sending parcel and shall
only be valid when signed by the owner of the sending parcel, containing the
provisions established by the board for such a document, and recorded along
with the original TDR easement against the sending parcel.
   G.   A deed of transfer shall contain:
      1.   A legal description and map of the sending parcel(s);
      2.   A covenant that all provisions of the deed of transfer shall run
with and bind the sending parcel and shall be enforced by the board;
      3.   The names of the grantor and the grantee of the development right;
      4.   A covenant that the grantor grants and conveys to the grantee a
specified number of certified development rights from the sending parcel,
including the serial numbers of the individual certificates for each
development right to be transferred from the sending parcel;
      5.   Proof of ownership of the sending parcel;
      6.   If the transferor is not the owner of the sending parcel, the
recorded instrument numbers of the TDR easement and the original deed of
transfer, with the names of the grantor and grantee of such deed;
      7.   A covenant by which the grantor acknowledges that the grantor has no
further use or right of use with respect to the development rights being
transferred;
      8.   The certification of the number of transferable development rights
on the sending parcel and copies of the appropriate certificates of those
rights issued by the administrator pursuant to this chapter;
      9.   Proof of the execution and recordation of a TDR easement on the
sending parcel;
      10.   Proof of the purchase price to Administrator, not open for public
inspection (pursuant to IC Section 74-107(2)) and not to be recorded with the
Deed of Transfer; and
      11.   The signature of the administrator's staff member who has reviewed
the deed of transfer for completeness. (Ord. 2006-06, 6-29-2006; amd. Ord.
2021-15, 9-21-2021)
10-10-8: RESPONSIBILITY:
The grantor and the grantee named in a deed of transfer shall have the
responsibility to supply the information required by this chapter, to provide a
proper instrument of transfer and to pay all costs of its recordation, in
addition to any other fees required by this section. (Ord. 2006-06, 6-29-2006)
10-10-9: INTERMEDIATE TRANSFER:
Development rights may be transferred to an intermediate transferor or broker
and held for a period of time as provided by law before they are permanently
affixed or made appurtenant to a receiving parcel. All such intermediate
transfers shall be affected by a deed of transfer duly recorded with the Blaine
County recorder. (Ord. 2006-06, 6-29-2006)
10-10-10: PERMANENT TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS TO A RECEIVING PARCEL:
   A.   The transfer of a development right to a receiving area established
pursuant to section
10-10-4 of this chapter:
      1.   Shall become affixed or appurtenant to a specific receiving area
parcel upon approval by the county of a plat pursuant to the provisions of
chapter 4 of this title;
      2.   Shall result in a minimum lot size of no less than one acre;
      3.   Maximum density of no more than one unit per two and one-half (2.5)
acres;
      4.   Shall include a note on the plat describing all development rights
made appurtenant thereto, including the serial numbers of the individual
certificates for each such development right; and
      5.   Shall, once the plat is recorded, become permanently affixed to the
receiving parcel.
   B.   A deed of attachment of development right, in the form prescribed by
the board, shall be recorded with the Blaine County recorder indicating the
permanent attachment of any development rights to the receiving area plat or
lot(s) and shall include the names of the initial grantor of each development
right affixed or made appurtenant to the receiving parcel, the instrument
number of the original deed of transfer, the name of the last grantee of record
of each development right affixed or made appurtenant to the receiving parcel,
and the serial numbers of the individual certificates for each such development
right. (Ord. 2006-06, 6-29-2006; amd. Ord. 2021-15, 9-21-2021)
10-10-11: EFFECT OF THE TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS:
After development rights have been transferred from a sending parcel, the
following shall apply:
   A.   The sending parcel may be used only for the other nonresidential,
accessory or conditional uses permitted in the underlying zone district, after
transfer of development rights. TDR rights shall be retained in order to
develop on a sending parcel to match the underlying zoning (For example: 2 TDRS
shall be retained to develop one dwelling unit and associated accessory uses in
the A-40. 1 TDR shall be retained if developing one dwelling unit and
associated accessory uses in the A-20 zoning district).
   B.   All certified transferable development rights and the value of such
rights shall be deemed for all other purposes to be appurtenant to the sending
parcel until such rights are transferred by a recorded deed of transfer.
   C.   Nothing in such restrictions shall be construed to convey to the public
a right of access or use of a sending parcel; the owner of the sending parcel
and the owner's heirs, successors and assigns shall retain the exclusive right
to such access or use subject to the terms of the TDR easement.
   D.   The use of a parcel from which development rights have been transferred
remains subject to the other restrictions of the underlying zone district.
   E.   A property owner may designate only a portion of his property as a TDR
sending area. Portions that are not so designated shall retain the base density
permitted in the underlying zone district. (Ord. 2006-06, 6-29-2006; amd. Ord.
2021-15, 9-21-2021)
