BLISS, IDAHO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local Legislation current through Ord. 21-99, passed 8-18-2021
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title
   
10.02   Acceptance
   
10.03   Amendments
   
10.04   Interpretations
   
10.05   Code alteration
   
10.06   Repeal of general ordinances
   
10.07   Court proceedings
   
10.08   Definitions
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE.
   (A)   Upon adoption by the City Council, this city code is hereby declared
to be and shall hereafter constitute the official “City Code of the City of
Bliss”.
   (B)   Any reference made to the number of any section contained herein shall
be understood to refer to the position of the same under its appropriate
chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto,
as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to this city code by
title in any legal document.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-1)
§ 10.02 ACCEPTANCE.
   This city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of the state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent
effect.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-2)
§ 10.03 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Any ordinance amending this city code shall set forth the title,
chapter and section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this
shall constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement
pertaining to the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city
code.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-3)
   (B)   Any additions or amendments to this code, when passed as ordinances
amending this code, and which indicate the intention of the Council to make the
same a part hereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated in this code so that a
reference to the code shall be understood as including them.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-3)
§ 10.04 INTERPRETATIONS.
   In the determination of the provisions of each section of this code, the
following rules shall be observed.
   (A)   Intent to defraud. Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order
to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears to
defraud any person.
   (B)   Liability of employers and agents. When the provisions of any section
of this city code prohibit the commission of an act, not only the person
actually doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the
employer and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said
person shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set
forth.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-4)
§ 10.05 CODE ALTERATION.
   (A)   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace
or deface in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner
that the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement
pages may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized
by the City Council. The Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk.
   (B)   Any person having in his or her custody an official copy of this city
code shall make every effort to maintain said code in an up to date and
efficient manner. He or she shall see to the immediate insertion of new or
replacement pages when such are delivered to him or her or made available to
him or her through the office of the City Clerk. Said code books and subsequent
replacement pages are available from the office of the City Clerk at a fee set
by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.06 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adopting date of this
city code are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being
still in force or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal
(subject to the saving clauses contained in §
10.07 of this chapter), from which are excluded the following ordinances which
are not hereby repealed: sales and use tax ordinances; tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations, contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1)
§ 10.07 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment to incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding so far as practicable.
   (B)   If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision
of a new ordinance, such provision may be by the consent of the party affected,
applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
   (C)   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city
herein repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this city code.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-2)
§ 10.08 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Construction of words.
      (1)   Whenever any word in any section of this city code importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used.
      (2)   When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this
city code by words importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender,
several matters, parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies
corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided that, these rules of
construction shall not be applied to any section of this city code which
contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the subject
matter or content may be repugnant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
   (B)   Definitions, general. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a
different meaning.
      AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
      CITY. The City of Bliss, in the County of Gooding, State of Idaho, except
as otherwise provided.
      CODE. This city code.
      COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Bliss.
      COUNTY. The County of Gooding, Idaho.
      EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
City of Bliss”.
      FEE. A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a
business, profession or occupation.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      KNOWINGLY. Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which bring the
act or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
      LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
      MISDEMEANOR. Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this
code which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by state law.
      NEGLIGENT. As well as NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE and NEGLIGENTLY, imports a want
of such attention to the nature or probable consequences of the act or omission
as a prudent human ordinarily bestows in acting in his or her own concern.
      NUISANCE. Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of
the inhabitants of the city; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
      OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
      OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission
of any act required by the provisions of this code.
      OFFICERS. Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
City of Bliss”.
      OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
      PERSON. Includes the singular and the plural and shall also mean and
include any person, firm, corporation, association, partnership or any other
form of association or organization.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every description of money, goods, chattels, effects,
evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any pecuniary
obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged, transferred,
increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or interest
therein.
      RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
      STATE. The State of Idaho.
      STREET. Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
      TENANT. Applied to a building or land shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
      WHOLESALER and WHOLESALE DEALER. Unless otherwise specifically defined,
shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or
things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
      WILLFULLY. When applied to the intent with which an act is done or
omitted, implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the
omission referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to
injure another, or to acquire an advantage.
      WRITTEN, IN WRITING. May include printing and any other mode or
presenting words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is
required by law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it
shall be in proper handwriting of such person, or in case he or she is unable
to write, by his or her proper mark.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of
this code shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $300 for any one offense for
each day of occurrence and such person may be confined in the county detention
center for a period of not more than 30 days. Either or both such fine and
imprisonment may be imposed.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
   (B)   Default. Any person in default of payment of any fine imposed may be
imprisoned in the county detention center for a period of time determined by
the courts.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
   (C)   License. When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of
this code, any license previously issued to him or her by the city may be
revoked by the Court or by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
   (D)   Application. The penalty provided in this section shall be applicable
to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and
every separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of
this code, where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any act
which is of a contributing nature is forbidden or declared to be unlawful,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act
continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this code.
   (E)   Fines for said violations shall be set by resolution of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-4)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Official newspaper
   
11.02   City Seal
§ 11.01 OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER.
   The Times-News, published at Twin Falls, Idaho, is hereby appointed,
designated and constituted the official newspaper of the city, pursuant to
Idaho Code § 60-106 and all other relevant sections of the Idaho Code.
(Prior Code, § 1-16-1) (Ord. 09-61, passed 3-25-2009)
§ 11.02 CITY SEAL.
   (A)   Adoption of seal. The City Council shall adopt a Corporate Seal of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-1)
   (B)   Custodian. The Clerk/Treasurer shall be custodian of the Corporate
Seal and shall affix said seal’s imprint upon all official documents, records,
licenses, warrants and/or checks.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-2)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   ELECTIONS
      
33.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND COUNCIL
Section
Mayor
   
30.01   Election; duties
   
30.02   Contracts
   
30.03   Reward
   
30.04   Veto power
   
30.05   Accounts of officers
   
30.06   Police power
   
30.07   May require aid
   
30.08   Other powers
Council
   
30.20   Election
   
30.21   Vacancies
   
30.22   Time and place of meetings
   
30.23   President of Council
MAYOR
§ 30.01 ELECTION; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be elected for a period of four years, and he or she
shall take office at the time and in the manner provided for installation of
Council members and shall have the qualifications as prescribed by the laws of
the state.
   (B)   The Mayor shall be the chief administrative official of the city,
preside over the meetings of the City Council and determine the order of
business subject to such rules as the Council may prescribe, have a vote only
when the Council is equally divided, have the superintending control of all the
officers and affairs of the city, preserve order and take care that the
provisions of this code are complied with and enforced.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1)
§ 30.02 CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized and empowered to sign his or her name
officially for and in behalf of the municipality on all contracts, documents
and papers to which the municipality is a party and to require that the
conditions in any instrument are faithfully performed.
   (B)   He or she may borrow money on the credit of the municipality when so
authorized by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2)
§ 30.03 REWARD.
   The Mayor, whenever he or she deems it expedient, is hereby empowered to
offer a reward in the amount approved by the Council for the arrest and
conviction of any person charged with violating any of the provisions of this
code.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-3)
§ 30.04 VETO POWER.
   The Mayor shall have power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by the
Council; provided that, any ordinance vetoed by the Mayor may be passed over
his or her veto by a vote of two-thirds of the members of the Council, and
should the Mayor neglect or refuse to sign any ordinance, the same shall become
law without his or her signature after the next regular meeting of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-4)
§ 30.05 ACCOUNTS OF OFFICERS.
   The Mayor shall have the power to require any officer of the municipality to
exhibit his or her accounts or other papers and to make reports to the Council
in writing on any subject or matter pertaining to the office.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-5)
§ 30.06 POLICE POWER.
   The Mayor shall have jurisdiction over all places within five miles of the
corporate limits of the municipality for the enforcement of any health or
quarantine ordinance and regulation and shall have jurisdiction in all matters,
excepting taxation, within one mile of the corporate limits of the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-6)
§ 30.07 MAY REQUIRE AID.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to call on every male inhabitant of the
municipality over the age of 21 years to aid in enforcing the law.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-7)
§ 30.08 OTHER POWERS.
   The Mayor shall have all other powers provided by state statute or by
specific provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-8)
COUNCIL
§ 30.20 ELECTION.
   The legislative authority of the city shall be vested in a Council
consisting of four members, one-half of whom shall be elected at each general
city election and which said Council members shall be elected at large and
shall have the qualifications as prescribed by the laws of the state and each
such Council member shall hold office for a term of four years and until his or
her successor is elected and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 30.21 VACANCIES.
   In the event an office of Council member shall become vacant through death,
removal of residence or for any other cause, the Mayor shall appoint with the
approval of the Council, a resident of the city to fill the unexpired portion
of the term to serve until the next general election, at which time the
unexpired term shall be filled by regular election.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2)
§ 30.22 TIME AND PLACE OF MEETINGS.
   The Council shall hold regular sessions in the Municipal Hall to be set by
ordinance on file with the City Clerk and posted at City Hall.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3)
§ 30.23 PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
   At the time of taking office, the Council shall elect one of its members
President of the Council, who shall preside at all meetings of the Council and
perform all other duties of the Mayor in the absence of the Mayor; and, in the
absence of the President, the Council shall elect one of its members to occupy
his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled “Acting President of the
Council”, and the President and Acting President, when occupying the place of
Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members of the Council and all
actions of the President and Acting President, while so acting, shall be
binding upon the Council and the municipality as if performed by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Accounting functions; workshops
   
31.02   Appointive officers
   
31.03   Salaries
Specific Officers and Organizations
   
31.15   Attorney
Clerk/Treasurer
   
31.30   Appointment
   
31.31   Duties
   
31.32   Records of Council
   
31.33   Ordinances
   
31.34   Election records
   
31.35   Notice of term expirations
   
31.36   Official Seal
   
31.37   Copies of records
   
31.38   Licenses
   
31.39   Bonds
   
31.40   Warrants; cancellations
   
31.41   Claims
   
31.42   Accounts
   
31.43   Moneys
   
31.44   Collections
   
31.45   Monthly report
   
31.46   Annual report
   
31.47   Delivery to successor
   
31.48   Depository
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 ACCOUNTING FUNCTIONS; WORKSHOPS.
   (A)   Most accounting functions are performed by only one person. These
functions include, but are not limited to, check writing, posting, reconciling
and report.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer will prepare the deposits, then photocopy the
deposit slip. A City Council member will review initial deposit slip photocopy.
The City Clerk/Treasurer will deposit and staple the deposit receipt to the
photocopy. A different Council member will review the prepared bank
reconciliation with signature approval.
(Res. 2009-17, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 31.02 APPOINTIVE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Appointments.
      (1)   The Mayor shall appoint, subject to approval of the Council, a
Clerk/Treasurer, Attorney and Engineer.
      (2)   The Mayor may appoint, subject to approval by the Council, such
other officers as may be deemed necessary for the efficient operation of the
business of the city.
      (3)   All other employees who are not appointed shall be hired by the
Mayor and be subject to civil service rules.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1)
   (B)   Terms of office. All appointments shall be made for a specified term.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-2)
   (C)   Removal from office. Any appointed officer may be removed from office
by the same authority and in the same manner as he or she was originally
appointed.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-3)
§ 31.03 SALARIES.
   (A)   Salaries of elective officers. The salaries of the elective officers
of the city shall be set by resolution. Such salaries shall be set in
accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-1)
   (B)   Salaries of appointive officers. The Mayor, together with the approval
and consent of the Council, shall from time to time adopt a schedule and fix
the salaries and rates of compensation for all appointive officials and other
employees of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-2)
SPECIFIC OFFICERS AND ORGANIZATIONS
§ 31.15 ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Appointment. The Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to
the approval of the Council. He or she shall hold office for the duration of
his or her appointment unless sooner removed by the Mayor with the concurrence
of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-1)
   (B)   Suits and actions. The Attorney shall prosecute or defend any and all
suits or actions at law or equity to which the municipality may be a party, or
in which it may be interested, or which may be brought against, or by, any
officer of the municipality on behalf of the municipality, or in the capacity
of such person as an officer of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-2)
   (C)   Judgments. It shall be the duty of the Attorney to see to the full
enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of the
municipality, and of all similar interlocutory orders.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-3)
   (D)   Advice. The Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the municipality,
and shall render advice on all legal questions affecting the municipality
whenever requested to do so by any municipal official. Upon request by the
Mayor or by the Council, he or she shall reduce any such opinion to writing.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-4)
   (E)   Special assessments. It shall be the duty of the Attorney to see to
the completion of all special assessment proceedings and condemnation
proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-5)
   (F)   Ordinances and documents. It shall be the duty of the Attorney to
review or oversee any contract, lease or other documents or instruments, upon
the request of the Council, to which the municipality may be a party; and upon
request of the Council to review or oversee ordinances covering any subjects
within the power of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-6)
CLERK/TREASURER
§ 31.30 APPOINTMENT.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to the approval
of the Council. He or she shall hold office for the duration of his or her
appointment unless sooner removed by the Mayor, with the concurrence of the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
§ 31.31 DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   In all cases where the duty is not expressly charged to any
other department or office, the Clerk/Treasurer shall have supervision, control
and responsibility of all of the records of the municipality.
      (2)   He or she shall serve as Clerk/Treasurer of the Council and perform
such other duties of a like nature as shall be required by that body.
   (B)   (1)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall act to promote, secure and preserve
the financial and property interest of the municipality.
      (2)   He or she shall safely keep in designated depositories all funds
belonging to the municipality and all other securities in safe deposit boxes of
an approved institution designated by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-2)
§ 31.32 RECORDS OF COUNCIL.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall be responsible for the recording, filing, indexing
and safekeeping of all proceedings of the Council and shall have published all
proceedings, legal notices, ordinances and resolutions that are required to be
published by this code or by state statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-3)
§ 31.33 ORDINANCES.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall record in full, uniformly and permanently, all
ordinances and shall authenticate the same.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-4)
§ 31.34 ELECTION RECORDS.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall keep and maintain all election records and have
custody of all property used in connection with elections.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-5)
§ 31.35 NOTICE OF TERM EXPIRATIONS.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the appointing authority of the impending
expiration of the term of office of a member of any board or commission at
least 30 days before the expiration of said term.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-6)
§ 31.36 OFFICIAL SEAL.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall be the custodian of the Official Seal of the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-7)
§ 31.37 COPIES OF RECORDS.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall furnish to any member of the Council a certified
copy of any record or document in his or her custody and he or she may furnish
such a copy to any other person upon payment of a fee to be determined by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-8)
§ 31.38 LICENSES.
   In all cases where the duty is not expressly charged to any other department
or office, the Clerk/Treasurer shall issue all licenses in accordance with the
provisions of this code. A record of all licenses issued, including the name of
the person to whom issued, the amount of the license fee and the purpose of the
license shall be kept by the Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-9)
§ 31.39 BONDS.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall keep a complete record of all outstanding bonds of
the municipality and report such record regularly to the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-10)
§ 31.40 WARRANTS; CANCELLATIONS.
   (A)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall countersign all warrants and keep a “Warrant
Register and Abstract of Expenditures” showing the number and amount of
warrants issued and the person to whom issued, the date redeemed, the interest
paid and the several funds against which each of said warrants is drawn.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-11)
   (B)   Warrants shall be paid by the Clerk/Treasurer from funds available in
the order in which the warrants are presented for payment. When a warrant is
presented for payment and no funds are available, the Clerk/Treasurer shall
plainly mark the warrant “Not Paid for Want of Funds” and enter the same in a
book maintained for such purpose which shall be known as the “Warrant
Register”. Such warrants shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum from
the date of presentation until paid. Warrants shall be called for payment in
the order in which they were presented whenever sufficient funds are available
to the Clerk/Treasurer to make such payment.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-16)
   (C)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall cancel all warrants and other evidences of
debt against the municipality, whenever paid by him or her, by writing or
stamping across the face thereof the words “Paid by the Clerk/Treasurer”, with
the date of payment written or stamped thereon.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-17)
§ 31.41 CLAIMS.
   (A)   All claims against the municipality must be filed in writing with the
Clerk/Treasurer in accordance with Idaho Code Chapter 9, Title 7, and §
33.09 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Claims must present a full account of the items and must contain a
verification under oath by the claimant to the effect that the claim is
correct, reasonable and just and that no part of said claim has been paid.
   (C)   All such claims must be approved by the Council before payment can be
made.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-12)
§ 31.42 ACCOUNTS.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall keep in proper books a full and accurate account
of all the moneys received and disbursed by him or her in behalf of the
municipality, specifying the time of receipt and disbursement, from whom
received and to whom disbursed, and on what account received and disbursed, and
how paid.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-13)
§ 31.43 MONEYS.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall receive and have custody of all moneys paid to the
municipality and shall disburse moneys upon the official warrant or check of
the municipality when so ordered by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-14)
§ 31.44 COLLECTIONS.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall demand and receive all moneys and fees owing to
the municipality whenever any person is indebted to the municipality in any
manner, and the means of collection of such debt is not otherwise provided for
by law. When any claim shall not be collectible by other methods, he or she
shall report the same to the Attorney for prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-15)
§ 31.45 MONTHLY REPORT.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall make a detailed report to the Council during the
first week of each month showing the business of his or her office during the
month preceding, showing the balance on hand to the credit of the different
funds, the amounts received during the month and on what account, together with
such other information as may be required by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-18)
§ 31.46 ANNUAL REPORT.
   (A)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall cause to be published for at least one
insertion in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality a full
statement of the receipts and expenditures of the municipality, showing sources
of revenue and disposition of funds.
   (B)   This annual report shall be published before the third Monday of the
month following the end of the fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-19)
§ 31.47 DELIVERY TO SUCCESSOR.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall deliver to his or her successor in office all
materials, records and resources of the office.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-20)
§ 31.48 DEPOSITORY.
   The city, on an annual basis, shall designate by resolution the official
depositories for the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-21)
CHAPTER 32: ELECTIONS
Section
   
32.01   Election of officers
   
32.02   Term
   
32.03   Notice of appointment; declination
   
32.04   Vacancies
   
32.05   Polling places; supplies
   
32.06   Compensation
§ 32.01 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Council shall, at its first regular meeting in October, prior to
each biennial election, appoint four capable and discrete persons, possessing
the qualification of electors, for each polling place as election officers.
   (B)   Two of such persons shall be designated as judges of election and two
of such persons shall be designated as “Clerks of Election”.
(Prior Code, § 1-15-1)
§ 32.02 TERM.
   Such officials shall hold office for the period of two years and shall be
the officials of all elections, both general and special, during that period.
(Prior Code, § 1-15-2)
§ 32.03 NOTICE OF APPOINTMENT; DECLINATION.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall give such appointees notice of their appointment
and shall request each appointee to give notice of his or her acceptance or
declination of his or her appointment to the Clerk/Treasurer within ten days
thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 1-15-3)
§ 32.04 VACANCIES.
   Any vacancies arising in the office of election officials shall be filled by
the Council at any regular meeting or at any special meeting called for that
purpose. If such vacancy does not become apparent until the time of the opening
of the polls, the qualified electors present may fill such vacancies from any
electors present.
(Prior Code, § 1-15-4)
§ 32.05 POLLING PLACES; SUPPLIES.
   The Council shall designate suitable polling places and cause the same to be
provided with suitable voting compartments, supplies, official stamps, ballot
boxes and such other supplies as County Commissioners are required to provide
for state elections.
(Prior Code, § 1-15-5)
§ 32.06 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of Judges and Clerks of Election shall be such amounts as
may be from time to time fixed and determined by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-15-6)
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   County Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan
   
33.02   Excessive force policy
   
33.03   Second Amendment Sanctuary City
   
33.04   Disability non-discrimination policy
   
33.05   Grievance procedure
   
33.06   Safety restraint policy
   
33.07   Americans with Disabilities Act
   
33.08   Local emergency response authority
   
33.09   Claims and warrants
§ 33.01 COUNTY MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The City Council does hereby adopt, support and will facilitate the County
Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan’s implementation as deemed appropriate.
(Res. 2015-25, passed 9-16-2015)
§ 33.02 EXCESSIVE FORCE POLICY.
   It is policy of the city that excessive force by local law enforcement
agencies shall not be used against individuals engaged in lawful and non-
violent civil rights demonstrations within the city boundaries.
(Res. 2010-22, passed 5-19-2010)
§ 33.03 SECOND AMENDMENT SANCTUARY CITY.
   (A)   The City Council hereby declares the city to be a Second Amendment
Sanctuary City.
   (B)   The City Council does hereby oppose the enactment of any legislation
or executive action that would infringe upon the rights of the people to keep
and bear arms and consider such laws or directives to be unconstitutional and
beyond lawful governmental authority.
   (C)   The people affirm support of the county’s Police Department and all
city staff and employees and direct such, to refuse support and decline to
assist any agency attempting to enforce any of the restrictions mentioned in
the preamble of the resolution codified herein, without a duly sworn warrant
for primary criminal activity other than any unconstitutional laws or executive
actions listed, unless an immediate threat to life exists.
   (D)   The City Council will not appropriate any funds for the enforcement of
unconstitutional laws or executive actions against the people of the city.
(Res. 2021-32, passed 3-17-2021)
§ 33.04 DISABILITY NON-DISCRIMINATION POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city that all programs and activities shall be
accessible to, and usable by, qualified persons with disabilities, in
accordance with § 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA).
   (B)   The city shall conduct a self-evaluation, with the assistance of a
citizen review committee involving individuals with disabilities, of its
programs, policies, procedures and facilities to determine those areas where
discrimination may occur.
   (C)   The city shall, upon completion of the self-evaluation plan, make
revisions, modifications or other changes so as to fully comply with the letter
and intent of § 504 and the ADA.
   (D)   Further, the city shall, where building modifications are required,
develop and implement a transition plan for the timely elimination of
structural barriers to citizens with disabilities.
(Res. passed 12-19-2000)
§ 33.05 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The following grievance procedure is established to meet the
requirements of § 504 of the Rehabilitation Act as amended and with the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA).
   (B)   According to these laws, the city, as a recipient of State Community
Development Block Grant (ICDBG) funds, certifies that all citizens shall have
the right to submit a grievance on the basis of disability in policies or
practices regarding employment, services, activities, facilities or benefits
provided by the city.
   (C)   When filing a grievance, citizens must provide detailed information to
allow an investigation, including the date, location and description of the
problem. The grievance should be in writing and should include the name,
address and telephone number of the complainant. Upon request, alternative
means of filing complaints, such as personal interviews or a tape recording,
will be made available for individuals with disabilities upon request. The
complaint should be submitted by the complainant or his or her designee as soon
as possible, but no later than 60 days after the alleged violation, complaints
must be signed and sent to:
 
City Clerk
P.O. Box 102
Bliss, Idaho 83314
Telephone: (208) 352-1117 (Voice)
TTD: Available Through Idaho Relay Service 1-800-377-3529
 
   (D)   Within 15 calendar days after receiving the complaint, the Clerk will
meet with the complainant to discuss the complaint and possible resolution.
Within 15 calendar days after the meeting, the Clerk will respond in writing.
Where appropriate, the response shall be in a format accessible to the
complainant (such as large print or audio tape). The response will explain the
position of the city and offer options for resolving the complaint.
   (E)   (1)   If the response by the Clerk does not satisfactorily resolve the
issue, the complainant or his or her designee may appeal the decision of the
ADA Coordinator.
      (2)   Appeals must be made within 15 calendar days after receipt of the
response.
      (3)   Appeals must be directed to the Mayor or his or her designee.
   (F)   (1)   Within 15 calendar days after receiving the appeal, the Mayor or
his or her designee will meet with the complainant to discuss the complaint and
to discuss possible resolutions. Within 15 calendar days after the meeting, the
Mayor or his or her designee will provide a response in writing.
      (2)   Where appropriate, the response shall be in an format accessible to
the complainant. The response shall be accompanied by a final resolution of the
complaint. The 504/ADA Coordinator shall maintain the files and records of the
city pertaining to the complaints filed for a period of three years after the
grant is closed out.
   (G)   (1)   All individuals have a right to a prompt and equitable
resolution. Individuals or classes of individuals who believe they have been
subjected to discrimination based on disability have several ways to file a
grievance:
         (a)   Use the grievance procedure provided by the public entity;
         (b)   File a complaint with any agency that provides funding to the
public entity; and
         (c)   File with one of the eight federal agencies designated in the
Title II regulations.
      (2)   Under Title II, filing a grievance with the public entity’s ADA
Coordinator, filing a complaint with a federal agency, or filing a lawsuit may
be done independently of the others. Individuals are not required to file
either a grievance or complaint to bring a lawsuit. Lawsuits may be filed at
any time. The following are four of the eight agencies where a Title II
complaint can be filed:
 
Department of Justice (DOJ)
Civil Rights Division
Public Access Section
P.O. BOX 66738
Washington, DC 20035-9998
 
 
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
Community Planning and Development
451 7th Street
Washington, DC 20410-4000
 
 
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (ATBCB)
1331 F Street NW
Suite 1000
Washington, DC 20004-1111
 
 
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC)
1801 L Street NW
Washington, DC 20507
 
(Res. passed - -)
§ 33.06 SAFETY RESTRAINT POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city that all employees and passengers wear safety
restraints while riding in city vehicles so equipped. It is a condition of
employment with the city that employees comply with this policy. Employees who
violate this policy are subject to disciplinary action.
(Res. 2004-09, passed 4-21-2004)
§ 33.07 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT.
   (A)   General. In accordance with the requirements of Title II of the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the city will not discriminate against
qualified individuals with disabilities on the basis of disability in its
services, programs or activities.
   (B)   Employment. The city does not discriminate on the basis of disability
in its hiring or employment practices and complies with all regulations
promulgated by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission under Title I
of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
   (C)   Effective communication. The city will generally, upon request,
provide appropriate aids and services leading to effective communication for
qualified persons with disabilities so they can participate equally in its
programs, services and activities, including qualified sign language
interpreters, documents in Braille, and other ways of making information and
communications accessible to people who have speech, hearing or vision
impairments.
   (D)   Modifications to policies and procedures.
      (1)   The city will make all reasonable modifications to policies and
programs to ensure that people with disabilities have an equal opportunity to
enjoy all its programs, services and activities. For example, individuals with
service animals are welcomed in city offices, even where pets are generally
prohibited. Anyone who requires an auxiliary aid or service for effective
communication, or a modification of policies or procedures to participate in a
city program, service or activity, should contact the office of the City Clerk
as soon as possible, but no later than 48 hours before the scheduled event:
 
City Clerk
165 E Kentucky Street
Bliss, ID 83314
(208) 731-8501
 
      (2)   The ADA does not require the city to take any action that would
fundamentally alter the nature of its programs or services, or impose an undue
financial or administrative burden.
      (3)   Complaints that a city program, service or activity is not
accessible to persons with disabilities should be directed to the City Clerk.
      (4)   The city will not place a surcharge on a particular individual with
a disability or any group of individuals with disabilities to cover the cost of
providing auxiliary aids/services or reasonable modifications of policy, such
as retrieving items from locations that are open to the public, but are not
accessible to persons who use wheelchairs.
(Res. 2024-01, passed 2-21-2024)
§ 33.08 LOCAL EMERGENCY RESPONSE AUTHORITY.
   The city’s Volunteer Fire Department is designated as the local emergency
response authority for the city.
(Res. 1999-01, passed 1-20-1999)
§ 33.09 CLAIMS AND WARRANTS.
   (A)   Time for filing. Any person having claims against the city shall file
the same with the Clerk/Treasurer on the Friday before the next regular meeting
of the Council. Such claims or accounts shall be verified, stating the item in
detail and for what and when the same accrued, and every claim or account shall
contain all the items of account and demands which claimant has against the
city up to the time of filing the same.
(Prior Code, § 1-14-1)
   (B)   Bills allowed. No bill shall be allowed or warrants ordered drawn,
except at the first monthly meeting of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-14-2)
   (C)   Time for presentation. No claim against the city will be allowed by
the Council unless the same is presented within six months after the same
becomes due and payable.
(Prior Code, § 1-14-3)
   (D)   Warrants. All claims and accounts against the city shall be paid by a
warrant of the Clerk/Treasurer, signed both by the Mayor and the Clerk/
Treasurer and having the Seal of the city thereon.
(Prior Code, § 1-14-4)
   (E)   Payment of warrants. All warrants shall be presented to the Clerk/
Treasurer for payment. If there shall not be sufficient funds in the fund or
funds upon which the warrants have been drawn to pay this same, the Clerk/
Treasurer shall register such warrants and they shall, thereafter, be paid in
the order of their registration.
(Prior Code, § 1-14-5)
   (F)   Rate of interest. All warrants issued by authority of the Council
which are presented for payment and not paid for want of funds shall bear
interest at the rate of 6% per annum from and after their date of registration
to ten days after the date such warrants are called for payment, at which time
the interest shall cease, unless the warrants have been paid before the
expiration of the said ten days.
(Prior Code, § 1-14-6)
   (G)   Damages or injuries.
      (1)   Filing claims against the city or employee; time. All claims
against the city arising under the provisions of this act and all claims
against an employee of the city for any act or omission of the employee within
the course or scope of his or her employment shall be presented to and filed
with the Clerk/Treasurer within 180 days from the date the claim arose or
reasonably should have been discovered, whichever is later. No claim or action
shall be allowed against a governmental entity or its employee unless the claim
has been presented and filed within the time limits prescribed by this act.
      (2)   Contents of claims; filing by agent or attorney; effect of
inaccuracies. All claims presented to and filed with the city shall accurately
describe the conduct and circumstances which brought about the injury or
damage, describe the injury or damage, state the time and place the injury or
damage occurred, state the names of all persons involved, if known, and shall
contain the amount of damages claimed, together with a statement of the actual
residence of the claimant at the time of presenting and filing the claim and
for a period of six months immediately prior to the time the claim arose.
      (3)   Time for allowance or denial of claims; effect of failure to act.
Within 90 days after the filing of the claim against the governmental entity or
its employee, the governmental entity shall act thereon and notify the claimant
in writing of its approval or denial. A claim shall be deemed to have been
denied if, at the end of the 90-day period, the governmental entity has failed
to approve or deny the claim.
(Prior Code, § 1-14-7)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
   
50.01   Application for service
   
50.02   Use to be stated
   
50.03   Report required
   
50.04   Extent of service
   
50.05   Tampering or obstructing
   
50.06   Water districts
   
50.07   Waste of water
   
50.08   Contamination; cross-connections
   
50.09   Rates; charges payable to Clerk/Treasurer
   
50.10   Definitions
   
50.11   Services
   
50.12   Pollution or contamination; city water system
   
50.13   Extension of services, water mains; fees
   
50.14   Shut-off for repairs
   
50.15   Discretion provided
   
50.16   Injuring equipment
§ 50.01 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   (1)   Financial responsibility. The owners of real property being
provided potable water service or wastewater treatment services by the city
shall be ultimately responsible for all deposits, fees and charges for such
services, irrespective of whether the owner is the occupant of the real
property or the person to whom such services are provided.
      (2)   Applications and billings. All applications for potable water
service or wastewater treatment service must be made by the owner of the real
property to be provided the services. Monthly statements for potable water and
wastewater treatment services shall be made to the owner of the real property
at the address provided on the application(s).
      (3)   Termination of services. If an account becomes delinquent, the
owner of the real property to which the services has been provided will be
mailed a notice of termination of service at least ten days prior to actual
termination, which notice must also set forth the amount of all delinquent
charges and fees. All fees and charges not paid by the date of termination
shall be the responsibility of the owner of the real property to which the
services were provided at the time the services were provided.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any connection to
any water main or service pipe through which water is supplied by the city of
water consumers or to interfere or tamper in any manner with such mains or
pipes to use any water supplied by the city without first having made
application to the Water Commissioner(s) on forms furnished by the city and
having received the city’s written consent.
      (2)   Application for the use of water from the municipal waterworks
system must be made at the office of the Clerk/Treasurer on printed forms
furnished for that purpose. Every such application must be made by the owner or
tenant of the property to be benefitted, stating the lot and block on which it
is to be used, and he or she must agree to conform to the rules and regulations
established from time to time as a condition for the use of water.
      (3)   All persons applying for water service, excepting federal, state,
county, municipal, religious or charitable institutions, shall make a cash
deposit securing the credit and the payment for the water services to be
rendered by the city. Any person exempted from making the cash deposit shall,
upon 30 days’ notice, be required to make a cash deposit if their account
becomes delinquent by more than 30 days.
      (4)   The amount of the deposit to be paid shall be established by
resolution of the City Council from time to time. One deposit rate shall be
required for residential customers and another deposit amount for all other
customers. Upon a customer ceasing to be serviced by the city’s water system,
any balance remaining of the deposit shall be returned to the customer who paid
the deposit upon proof of payment of all charges and fees through the date of
final use.
      (5)   The city shall have the right to apply the deposit to the payment
of all amounts due and owing from the customer. If the customer should fail to
restore any such deposit so applied, upon ten days’ notice in writing by the
city, delivered personally or by mail, the city may without further notice
discontinue the water service until the deposit is restored.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1)
(Res. 2009-15, passed 1-21-2009; Ord. 09-59, passed 1-21-2009; Ord. 13-77,
passed 2-19-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.02 USE TO BE STATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person supplied with water from the city mains
to be entitled to use it for any purposes other than those stated in his or her
application or to supply it in any way to other persons. Should the owner or
occupant of any premises desire additional outlets or fixtures or desire to use
water for a purpose not stated in the original application, a new application
must be made and a new permit obtained from the Water Commissioner(s).
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 REPORT REQUIRED.
   Every person who shall make any connection, attachment or extension shall
make a report in writing to the Water Commissioner(s) within three days after
the same shall have been done, giving the name of the owner, the number of
hydrants, faucets, bathtubs, water closets and other connections made with the
pipes of the water system.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3)
§ 50.04 EXTENT OF SERVICE.
   The service pipes must be so arranged that the supply to each separate house
or premises may be controlled by a separate stop cock placed within or near the
curb. Where water is already supplied through one service to several houses,
families or persons, the Water Commissioner(s) may, at his, her or their
discretion, either decline to furnish water until separate services are
provided or continue the supply on condition that one person shall pay for all
on the same service.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-4)
§ 50.05 TAMPERING OR OBSTRUCTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except a firefighter in the
performance of his or her duty, to open or in any way tamper with any fire
hydrant connected with the water system unless permission first be obtained
from the Water Commissioner(s). No person shall place upon or about any water
gate connected with the water system any material substance whatsoever, which
will prevent access at all times to such hydrant or gate and no vehicle shall
be allowed to stand within eight feet of such hydrant.
   (B)   The use of private hose in time of or during an alarm of fire is
strictly prohibited unless for protection of property.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 WATER DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The Water Commissioner(s) is/are hereby authorized to divide the city
into districts for irrigation purposes and to specify the hours and conditions
for the use of water for irrigation in each district.
   (B)   The Water Commissioner(s) shall from time to time publish in a local
newspaper notice of such regulations which shall become effective ten days
after the date of publication.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-6)
§ 50.07 WASTE OF WATER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to waste water; all outlets must be kept
closed, except during the time which water is being drawn for necessary use.
Letting the water run to prevent freezing in cold weather or to keep the water
cool in warm weather is prohibited. The owner of any premises shall keep his or
her faucets, closet and other fixtures and his or her pipes to the curb line in
good repair and free from leaks.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.08 CONTAMINATION; CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to contaminate or befoul any
reservoir, stream or watershed, spring or other source from which the supply of
water for the city is obtained, nor any pipe, fountain or any other device
forming a part of the city water system.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-8)
   (B)   (1)   Cross-connections required by certain users.
         (a)   Backflow prevention device required. No water service connection
to any premises shall be installed or continued in use by the city unless the
water supply is protected by backflow prevention devices as may be required by
this division (B).
         (b)   Cross-connection endangering water quality.
            1.   The installation or maintenance of a cross-connection which
will endanger the water quality of the potable water supply of the city shall
be unlawful and is prohibited.
            2.   Any such cross-connection now existing or hereafter installed
is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and the same shall be abated at the
expense of the property owner.
            3.   The control or elimination of cross-connections shall be in
accordance with this division (B) together with the latest editions of
appropriate manuals of standard practice pertaining to the cross-connection
control approved by the state. The city shall have the authority to establish
requirements more stringent than state regulations if it deems that the
conditions so dictate. The city shall adopt rules and regulations as necessary
to carry out the provisions of this division (B).
      (2)   Use of backflow prevention devices.
         (a)   Circumstances requiring installation of device. Backflow
prevention devices shall be installed at the ties on the premises or the
materials used in connection with service installed at the ties on the premises
or the materials used in connection with service connection or within any
premises where, in the judgment of the city and/or Health Officer, the nature
and extent of the activities or materials stored on the premises, would present
an immediate and dangerous hazard to health and/or be deleterious to the
quality of the water should a cross-connection occur; even though such cross-
connection does exist at tire time the backflow prevention devices shall be
installed under circumstances including, but not limited to, the following:
            1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply;
            2.   Premises having internal cross-connections that are not
correctable, or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to
ascertain whether or not cross-connections exist;
            3.   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for
cross-connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently
short notice to assure that cross-connections do not exist;
            4.   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished;
            5.   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so
as to permit entry into the public water supply, or where a cross-connection
could reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of
process waters and cooling waters;
            6.   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are
handled in such a way that if back siphonage should occur, a serious health
hazard might result; and
            7.   The following types of facilities will fall into one of the
above categories where a backflow prevention device is required to protect the
public water supply. A backflow prevention device shall be installed at these
facilities:
               a.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics;
               b.   Laboratories;
               c.   Metal plating industries;
               d.   Sewage treatment plants;
               e.   Food or beverage processing plants;
               f.   Chemical plants using a water process;
               g.   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
               h.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
and
               i.   Others specified by the state.
            8.   Other premises, as specified by the city, where backflow
prevention devices are required to protect the public water supply.
         (b)   Type of device. The type of protective device required shall
depend on the degree of hazard which exists.
            1.   Health or system hazard. An air gap separation or reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the
public water supply may be contaminated with sewage, industrial waste of a
toxic nature or other contaminant which could cause a health or system hazard.
            2.   Objectionable but not hazardous. In the case of a substance
which may be objectionable, but not hazardous to health, a double check valve
assembly, air gap separation or a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed.
         (c)   Location. Backflow prevention devices required by this section
shall be installed at the meter, at the property line of the premises when
meters are not used, or at a location designated by the purveyor. The device
shall be located so as to be readily accessible for maintenance and testing
and, furthermore, where no part of the device will be submerged.
         (d)   Installation. Backflow prevention devices required by this
division (B) shall be installed under the supervision of and with approval of
the city.
         (e)   Model; cost. Any protective device required by this section
shall be a model approved by the state’s Department of Environmental Quality or
the South Central Public Health District. A double check valve assembly or a
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device will be approved if it
has successfully passed performance tests of the state or other testing
laboratories satisfactory to the state and the supervisor. These devices shall
be furnished and installed by and at the expense of the customer.
         (f)   Inspection; testing; maintenance. Backflow prevention devices
installed pursuant to this division (B), except atmospheric vacuum breakers,
shall be inspected and tested annually or more often if necessary. Inspections,
tests and maintenance shall be at the customer’s expense. Whenever the devices
are found to be defective, they shall be repaired, overhauled or replaced at
the customer’s expense. Inspections, tests, repairs and records thereof shall
be accomplished under the city’s supervision by the certified testers and
copies of the test results shall be submitted to the city.
         (g)   Underground sprinkling device. No underground sprinkling device
will be installed without adequate backflow prevention devices at the point
from which the water for irrigation is taken from the public water supply.
         (h)   Failure to comply. Failure of the customer to cooperate in the
installation, maintenance, testing or inspection of backflow prevention devices
required by this section shall be grounds for terminating water service to the
premises or, in the alternative, the installation of an air gap separation at
the customer’s expense.
      (3)   Cross-connection separation.
         (a)   Inspection required. No water shall be delivered to any
structure hereafter built within the city or within areas served by city water
until the same shall have been inspected by the city for possible cross-
connection and approved as being free of same.
         (b)   Hazardous facilities. Any construction for industrial or other
purpose which is classified as a hazardous facility, or where it is reasonable
to anticipate intermittent cross-connections, or as determined by the
supervisor, shall be protected by the installation of one or more backflow
prevention devices at the point of service from the public water supply or at
any other location designated by the city.
         (c)   Periodic inspections. Inspections shall be made periodically of
all buildings, structures or improvements of any nature now receiving water
through the city’s system, for the purpose of ascertaining whether cross-
connections exist. Such inspections shall be made by the city.
      (4)   Additional remedies. In the event an improper cross-connection is
not corrected within the time limit set by the supervisor or, in the event the
city is refused access to any property for the purpose of determining whether
or not cross-connections exist, delivery of water to the property shall cease
until the deficiency is corrected to the city’s satisfaction. In addition, the
city may effect the necessary repairs or modifications at the expense of the
property owner and refuse delivery of water to the property until the cost
thereof shall have been paid.
      (5)   Specifications. All taps made on said mains or laterals for
supplying water to customers hereunder shall be made no less than one-inch
pipe. All such connections to the city water mains shall be made by the city’s
Public Works Department employees. Single-family dwelling units shall not have
more than a one-inch water pipe.
(Ord. 18-86, passed 10-17-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.09 RATES; CHARGES PAYABLE TO CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   Monthly charges for the use of water supplied by the city shall be
assessed and billed to each user as follows.
      (1)   A base rate determined by the number of equivalent domestic units
estimated by the city’s consulting engineer for the type of business or other
activity conducted by users other than residential users shall be assessed to
those users. Each single-family residence shall be assessed a base rate of one
equivalent domestic unit. The term EQUIVALENT DOMESTIC UNIT shall mean the
amount of water consumed on a monthly basis by a typical single-family
residence within the city. The base rate for a single equivalent domestic unit
shall be $28 per month.
      (2)   In addition to the base rate every user of water shall pay
additional $1.50 per 1,000 gallons of usage per month, or any portion thereof.
      (3)   A connection fee of $2,400 per connection shall be assessed to each
new service connecting to the city water system.
      (4)   A reconnection fee of $50 shall be assessed to each water user that
has an existing connection to the water system, but has discontinued use.
      (5)   The monthly charges may be amended from time to time by resolution
of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-9)
   (B)   All charges will be due and payable at the office of the Clerk/
Treasurer on the first day of each month, and if any charges or rates are not
paid within ten days from the time they are due and payable the water shall be
shut off from the premises, and shall not be turned on again until such charges
or rates are paid, together with a turn-on fee as set by resolution of the City
Council, in addition to the expense of turning the water on again.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-17)
(Ord. 08-54, passed - -2008; Ord. 18-87, passed 10-17-2018; Ord. 21-99, passed
8-18-2021)
§ 50.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL WATER RATES. Those rates charged to any business conducted in the
city.
   DOMESTIC WATER RATES. Those rates charged to dwelling houses.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-10)
§ 50.11 SERVICES.
   Each property owner or water user shall maintain, in good condition, his or
her service line and curb box from the main to his or her premises.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-11)
§ 50.12 POLLUTION OR CONTAMINATION; CITY WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the owner of property or the use of city water to
introduce or permit the introduction or pollution or contamination of any kind
in the city water supply system.
   (B)   Whenever cross-connection to other water supply into the city system
is found, or whenever any other condition is found which presents the
possibility of contamination or pollution, the water supply to such premises
and/or other premises from which cross-connection is made shall be discontinued
immediately until the cross-connection is eliminated or the condition remedied.
The control or elimination of cross-connections shall be in accordance with any
manuals of standard practice pertaining to cross-connection control approved by
the city for the state, any requirements set forth by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency as authorized by the Safe Drinking Water Act, Pub. Law No.
93-523, and subsequent, applicable legislation. The city shall require a
backflow prevention device of patter, design and size which it approves as
reasonably adequate to prevent contamination, if the city determines that a
complete physical separation from the city water system is not practicable or
necessary, or that adequate inspection for cross-connection cannot readily be
made, or that such backflow prevention device is necessary because of existing
or possible backflow resulting from special conditions, use or equipment. The
city shall also regulate the location installation and testing of such device.
   (C)   Any corrective measure, disconnection or change on private property
shall be at the sole expense of the person in control of such property. The
cost of any change required in the city system outside the property or between
the meter and the supply line or distribution system and any charges for cut-
off or disconnection shall be added to the charges for water against the
premises necessitating the expenditures.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-12) (Ord. 1972-4, passed 7-1-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.13 EXTENSION OF SERVICES, WATER MAINS; FEES.
   (A)   The city will extend the water and/or sewer services outside of the
corporate limits of the city only under the following conditions:
      (1)   The landowner agrees to sign an “Agreement for Connection to the
City Water and/or Sewer System for Property Owners Outside of the Corporate
Limits of the City of Bliss”, providing for annexation of the property being
served at the option of the city;
      (2)   The landowner agrees, at his or her own expense, to extend any
water and/or sewer lines to the property in question;
      (3)   The landowner agrees to pay, prior to the extension of such
services, any and all hook-ups, capitalization, main extension or any other
appropriate fees that may be required by city code in place at the time of such
extension; and
      (4)   The landowner agrees to pay for the monthly usage of such service
at rates set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-13)
   (B)   (1)   All proposed extensions of the city water mains to serve
undeveloped areas within the existing corporate limits or newly annexed areas
shall comply with existing policies, specifications, master plans or
requirements established by the city. The plans for all extensions to the city
water mains shall be prepared under the direction of and signed by a registered
professional engineer as per the licensing requirements of the Idaho Code and
three copies of the said plans shall be filed with the city. In approving a
plan for extension to the city water mains, the city reserves the right to
stipulate other requirements such as a special permit fee, rights-of-way
limits, sequence of construction, time limits for having existing service
disrupted, the filing of a performance bond and other similar measures as may
be required to protect the public. No work shall commence on any such extension
of the city water mains until the extension project has been approved by the
City Council and a written permit has been issued. A permit shall not be issued
until all applicable fees have been paid.
      (2)   All water main extensions and appurtenances made for the purpose of
serving the development shall be constructed at the expense of the land owner
and/or developer by a qualified contractor in accordance with city
specifications and subject to conditions and fees which may be established by
the city.
      (3)   The city shall charge a water main fee on all new buildings and
developments that will be provided water service. The amount of the fee and the
methods of derivation shall be in accordance with the rate schedule adopted by
resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-14)
§ 50.14 SHUT-OFF FOR REPAIRS.
   The water may, at any time, be shut off from the mains without notice for
the purpose of making repairs, extensions or other necessary purposes and
persons having boilers supplied by direct pressure from the mains are cautioned
against danger of explosion or collapses and the city shall not be responsible
for the safety of boilers on the premises of any water consumers.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-15)
§ 50.15 DISCRETION PROVIDED.
   All provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the discretion vested in
the Water Commissioner(s) and the Clerk/Treasurer, such discretion shall be
subject to control of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-16)
§ 50.16 INJURING EQUIPMENT.
   Any person who shall interfere with, molest or injure the waterworks system
of the city or any part thereof shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Mandatory duty to connect
   
51.03   Unlawful disposals
   
51.04   Discharge of sewers into natural outlets
   
51.05   Damage or destruction of system
   
51.06   City liability for service interruption
   
51.07   Inspection duties; notifications
   
51.08   Connection permits; classifications
   
51.09   Permit required
   
51.10   Costs borne by property owner; city indemnification
   
51.11   Separate sewer required for each building; unconnected trailers
Specifications and Requirements
   
51.25   General specifications
   
51.26   Size and slope
   
51.27   Location restrictions
   
51.28   Lifting sewage by artificial means when gravity flow not practicable
   
51.29   Excavations
   
51.30   Anti-flow back valves required for certain connections
   
51.31   Manner of entering public sewer
   
51.32   Barricades; street and sidewalk restoration
   
51.33   Prohibited discharges; special agreements
   
51.34   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
51.35   Service disconnection or termination
   
51.36   Control manholes
   
51.37   Construction and easements
   
51.38   Location of user connections
   
51.39   Septage dumping
Rates and Charges
   
51.50   Monthly charges
   
51.51   Deposit charge
   
51.52   Appeal of charges; review and adjustment
   
51.53   Billing; disconnection upon non-payment; restoration fee
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic
matter under standard laboratory procedure in five days at 20C, expressed in
parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning
five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from a building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CITY. The City of Bliss, Idaho.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both sewage and surface runoff.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any place of business, manufacturing facility or other
enterprise not primarily used as a residence, connected to the city sewage
collection system and which does not meet the definition of an “industrial
user”.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL USE, USER OR USAGE (ERU). The annual sewer discharge
for all single-family residential customers, expressed as a monthly average.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user connected to the city’s wastewater treatment
facility, which meets or exceeds one or more of the following criteria:
      (1)   A flow rate of 0.025 million gallons per day during any one day or
a flow that will average over 0.025 million gallons per day for a monthly
period;
      (2)   A five-day BOD discharge rate exceeding 30 pounds in any one day;
and
      (3)   A suspended solids discharge rate exceeding 30 pounds in any one
day.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct
from sewage produced from human beings.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, corporation, limited
liability company, partnership or governmental entity.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. Any single- or multiple-dwelling unit connected to the
city sewage collection system.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEPTAGE. All liquids and solids in and removed from septic tanks, holding
tanks, cesspools or approved type of chemical toilets, including, but not
limited to, those serving private residences, commercial establishments,
institutions, industries and recreational motor vehicles.
   SERVICE AREA OF THE WASTE WATER TREATMENT SYSTEM. The legally defined
boundaries of real property from which waste water may be discharged into the
waste water treatment system. The bounds shall be established, altered,
changed, modified, enlarged, combined or consolidated by action of the City
Council.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. The arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration more than 15 minutes and more than five times the average
24-hour concentration or flow expected during normal operation.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids; and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carrying industrial waste and sewage from
residential buildings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, institutions and any other facilities, whether treated or
untreated.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM. The collection and treatment system constructed
and owned by the city, designed to collect and treat wastewater.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.02 MANDATORY DUTY TO CONNECT.
   The owner of any real property within the city limits from which wastewater
is generated shall, at the owner’s expense, within 30 days of being given
official notice to connect by the city, connect that real property to the
wastewater treatment system, such that all wastewater produced from the real
property will flow into the wastewater treatment system. All connections must
be made in compliance with the requirements of the city and shall be inspected
and approved by the city prior to use. Every owner of real property connecting
to the wastewater treatment system from and after 10-1-2011 shall pay a
connection fee, to be established by the city. Owners connecting prior to such
date shall not be required to pay a connection fee.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.03 UNLAWFUL DISPOSALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be deposited in
an insanitary manner upon public or private property within the city, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement,
wastewater, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 DISCHARGE OF SEWERS INTO NATURAL OUTLETS.
   It is unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of the city, any wastewater sanitary sewage,
industrial wastes or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION OF SYSTEM.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the city sewage works or waste water treatment
system.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 LIABILITY FOR SERVICE INTERRUPTION.
   The city shall not be liable for damage to any sewer user by reason of a
stoppage or other interruption of water supply or sewer disposal service caused
by scarcity of water, accidents to the sewage works, alterations, additions or
repairs to the sewer system, or from other unavoidable causes beyond the
control of the city.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.07 CITY INSPECTION DUTIES; NOTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A city employee or designee of the city shall perform all duties of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing required by this
chapter.
   (B)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city
employee so designated by the city when the connection is ready for inspection
and connection to the public collection system. The actual connection shall be
made under the direct supervision of the appointed city inspector.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.08 CONNECTION PERMITS; CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (A)   No permit shall be required for connection to the city’s wastewater
treatment system related to facilities required to be connected to the
wastewater treatment system prior to 10-1-2011. Thereafter, every person
required to connect a building to the wastewater treatment system shall obtain
the permit required by this chapter and pay the required connection fee.
   (B)   There shall be three classes of sewer permits:
      (1)   Residential services;
      (2)   Commercial services; and
      (3)   Industrial waste services.
   (C)   (1)   The owner of real property seeking connection or his or her
agent shall make application on a form furnished by the city which shall
indicate which class of building sewer permit is sought. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the city. A permit and inspection fee
shall be assessed for each class of permit as follows:
         (a)   Residential connection: a fee of $1,000 per ERU;
         (b)   Commercial connection: a fee of $1,000 per ERU; and
         (c)   Industrial connection: a fee of $1,000 per ERU, together with
such additional amounts as shall be determined by the city after analysis of
proposed flow, loadings and other criteria on an individual permit basis.
      (2)   An ERU shall initially consist of a discharge to the waste water
treatment system of 4,700 gallons per month. Based upon each application, the
city shall project the number of ERUs associated with the application.
Projected water use per month shall be divided by 4,700 to determine the ERUs
per connection. The ERU thus determined shall be rounded up to the next whole
number and multiplied by the single ERU connection fee of $1,000 to determine
the actual connection fee. The discharge volume for an ERU may be revised by
the City Council by resolution based on actual operations experienced.
   (D)   All fees under this section shall be paid to the city by the applicant
immediately upon notification from the city as to the amount of the fee as
determined from the filed application. No connection permit shall be issued
until the fee has been fully paid.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.09 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the city.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.10 COSTS BORNE BY PROPERTY OWNER; CITY INDEMNIFICATION.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer to the wastewater treatment system shall be borne by the owner;
provided, however, that, the actual connection of the building sewer to the
wastewater treatment system shall be made under the direct supervision of the
city’s approved inspector. Such connections shall be made in accordance with
other provisions of this chapter. The owner shall indemnify the city horn any
loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.11 SEPARATE SEWER REQUIRED FOR EACH BUILDING; UNCONNECTED TRAILERS.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer with a minimum diameter of
four inches shall be provided for every house, building and property required
to be connected to the wastewater treatment system; provided, however, that,
where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no
private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through
an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the building sewer from the front
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one
building sewer; and, provided further, however, that, when adequate piping
capacities, meeting the requirements of this chapter are provided, properties
and buildings designed for, and used as, trailer courts, parks and motels may
use one building sewer for such properties, and each trailer and building shall
be required to be connected with the building sewer provided for such
properties. Maintenance, upkeep and repair of such building sewers shall be
borne by owners of the property up to and including the connection to the
city’s collection line.
   (B)   No mobile home or manufactured home used for human occupancy shall be
permitted in the city unless it shall be connected to the wastewater treatment
system.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014) Penalty, see §
51.99
SPECIFICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 51.25 GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The building sewer shall be four-inch PVC ASTM D2729 T21 sewer and
drain pipe, or equivalent, such as ABS pipe of four-inch diameter. Joints shall
be properly cleaned and joined with a cement compatible with type of pipe used.
Any part of the building sewer that is located within ten feet of a water
service pipe shall be encased within at least schedule 40 ABS pipe with proper
seals and plugs at each end.
   (B)   If installed in filled or unstable ground, the building sewer shall be
schedule 40 ABS pipe ASTM F 628-88 up on a suitable concrete bed or cradle as
approved by inspector. All building sewers which cross over rock outcroppings
shall be bedded with at least two inches of sand on grade.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.26 SIZE AND SLOPE.
   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the approval of
the city, but in no event shall the diameter be less than four inches. The
slope of such four-inch pipe shall be not less than one-eighth inch per foot.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.27 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to
or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be weakened. The
depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The building sewer
shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible.
Changes in direction shall be made only with properly curved pipe and fittings.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.28 LIFTING SEWAGE BY ARTIFICIAL MEANS WHEN GRAVITY FLOW NOT PRACTICABLE.
   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity
flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall be lifted
by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.29 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer shall be
open trench work unless otherwise approved by the city. Pipe laying and
backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM specification (C-12-19);
except that, no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.30 ANTI-FLOW BACK VALVES REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All plumbing installations for sewer service lines of the city which
require openings into the sewer service lines within the same elevations as the
main sewer line, or which are basement sewer line connections, or which are
from single level buildings which may be determined to be within a critical
distance of any lift station on such main sewer line of the city, such distance
to be determined by the city, shall be required to have installed on such sewer
connection line, an anti-flow back valve on such effluent line prior to entry
into the city main sewer connection line, and such anti-flow back valve shall
be located in an accessible location for cleaning and repair by the premises
owner.
   (B)   The city shall inspect all building permit applications to determine
whether or not such building sewer connection to the wastewater treatment
system is within a category above specified and, if so, the owner of such
premises shall be notified of the requirements hereof, prior to completion of
such sewer line connection. The line shall be inspected and approved by the
Building Inspector or authorized agent of the city.
   (C)   No premises hereafter erected or to be hereafter connected to the
wastewater treatment system shall be allowed to connect the sewer effluent line
to the main connection system prior to installation of the anti-flow back valve
as herein provided and inspection by the proper official of the city.
   (D)   All residences and premises hereinbefore connected to the wastewater
treatment system, which have had two or more incidents of sewage backup, shall
be required to install, at their own expense, an anti-flow back valve as
hereinbefore described. The city will not be responsible for any damage
incurred after such anti-flow back valve is required to be installed, pursuant
to this section. All anti-flow back valves to be installed as required in this
section shall be of sufficient size and capacity to insure operation and shall
be maintained at all times in operable condition by the owner of the premises.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.31 MANNER OF ENTERING PUBLIC SEWER.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made no
closer than two inches from the bell or joint of the public sewer, a neat hole
may be cut, chiseled, topped or drilled to receive the building sewer. Such
holes shall be placed at approximately 10:00 or 2:00 depending on side of
entry, with a diameter just in excess of the pipe being used, but small enough
to prevent entry of a joining collar or fitting. A twenty two and one-half-
degree or 45-degree ell may be used with the spigot end cut so as not to extend
past the inner surface of the public sewer. This may also be accomplished with
a coupler and a short section of pipe. A smooth, neat joint shall be made, and
the connection made secure and water-tight by encasement in concrete. Special
fittings or saddles may be used for the connection only when approved by the
city’s appointed inspector.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.32 BARRICADES; STREET AND SIDEWALK RESTORATION.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets and
other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in
a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.33 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Certain discharges prohibited into sanitary sewer. No person shall
discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface water, ground
water, irrigation water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage discharge. Storm water
and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are
specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the city. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged, upon approval of the city, to a storm sewer, combined
sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   Prohibited discharges.
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the city, that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream,
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance.
In forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the city will
give consideration to such factors as to quantities of subject wastes in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, nature of the wastewater treatment system, degree of treatability
of wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The
substances prohibited are:
         (a)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
         (b)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
         (c)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per
million, by weight, of fat, oil or grease;
         (d)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
         (e)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Installation
and operation of any garbage grinder with a motor of 0.75 horsepower or greater
shall be subject to review and approval by the city;
         (f)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass,
hair, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch material, manure or any other
solid or viscous substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers
or other interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
         (g)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than
9.0, or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard
to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
         (h)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance
in sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
         (i)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle
such materials at the city’s wastewater treatment facilities;
         (j)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance;
         (k)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the city for such materials;
         (l)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the city as necessary after the treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies
of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
         (m)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
         (n)   Materials which exert or cause:
            1.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
            2.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);
            3.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant issue with the city’s
wastewater treatment facilities; and/or
            4.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs”, as defined in this chapter.
         (o)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters;
         (p)   1.   Any of the following substances in amounts exceeding the
limits stated per day:
Ammonia              50 mg/l
Oil and grease       50 mg/l
POD                  300 mg/l
Suspended solids     300 mg/l
Arsenic              0.2 mg/l
Cadmium              0.2 mg/l
Chromium, hexavalent 0.25 mg/l
Total chromium       2.0 mg/l
Copper               1.0 mg/l
Cyanide              1.0 mg/l
Lead                 0.2 mg/l
Molibdenum           0.8 mg/l
Mercury              0.01 mg/l
Nickel               2.0 mg/l
Selenium             0.5 mg/l
Silver               0.2 mg/l
Zinc                 2.0 mg/l
 
            2.   Limits in this section apply to the point where waste water is
discharged to the wastewater system.
      (2)   If any waters or wastewaters are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in this section, and which, in the judgment of
the city, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment facility,
processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to
life or constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
wastes not covered by sewer charges.
   (D)   Special agreement on discharge of certain waste. No statement
contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any special
agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern whereby an
industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city
for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.34 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Required; construction specifications.
      (1)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the city, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand
and other harmful ingredients; except that, such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the city and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      (2)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, water-tight and equipped with easily
removable covers which when bolted in place shall be gas-tight and water-tight.
   (B)   Maintenance. Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors
shall be maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously
efficient operation at all times.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.35 SERVICE DISCONNECTION OR TERMINATION.
   (A)   Buildings restricted from use by the city may be required to
disconnect from the waste water treatment system based on the circumstances of
the property and its redevelopment. Any property owner so directed to
disconnect shall do so with the use of an approved plug or other device
approved by the city that will eliminate any sewage, fill or other material
from entering the waste water treatment system at the point of disconnection.
Any property owner being required to disconnect shall notify the city when
disconnection has been made so that the city may inspect and approve tire
disconnection before any back-filling occurs.
   (B)   The circumstances under which disconnection or termination may be
required include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Buildings destroyed by fire or acts of nature, on a temporary
basis;
      (2)   Determination that the user is causing operational problems with
the waste water treatment system or any of its components, or in some way
damaging pipelines, manholes, lift gates or other equipment; or
      (3)   Causing health or safety problems to the public, including city
staff.
   (C)   Disconnection or termination shall remain in force until subsequent
notification by the city.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.36 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   (A)   When required. When required by the city, the owner of any property
served by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable
control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the city. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense,
and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
   (B)   Use generally. All measurements, tests and analyses of the
characteristics of waters and wastes required by this chapter shall be
determined in accordance with Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Sewage, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided for in division
(A) above, or upon suitable samples taken at such control manhole. In the event
that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.37 CONSTRUCTION AND EASEMENTS.
   All persons, business entities or governmental agencies, including
individuals, corporations, limited liability companies, partnership,
governmental entities or any other type of organization shall, prior to
disturbing service of or doing any construction whatsoever within an easement
of the city, obtain a permit to disturb such easement. Application for such a
permit shall be made to the City Clerk. Upon the issuance of a permit, the
authorized construction must be inspected and approved by the city prior to
back-filling the construction site. The holder of the permit shall be liable to
the city for all damage sustained to the city’s waste water treatment system or
other utilities located within the easement.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.38 LOCATION OF USER CONNECTIONS.
   Prior to extending sendee to any user within the waste water treatment
system service area but outside the city limits, any such user shall be
required to execute a user agreement with the ci tv in a form proscribed by the
city. Among other things, the user agreement shall require the user to adhere
to the terms of this chapter as modified by the provisions of the contract with
respect to user fees and similar requirements. The user agreement must be
executed by the parties and the original shall remain in the possession of the
city. No waste water treatment sendees shall be provided to any user within the
waste water treatment service area outside the city limits without such an
agreement being executed.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.39 SEPTAGE DUMPING.
   It is unlawful for any person, corporation or other entity to deposit, dump,
place or leave septage, wastewater or effluent from any septic tank or
cesspool, motor home, travel trailer or self-contained camper within the city
corporate limits.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014) Penalty, see §
51.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.50 MONTHLY CHARGES.
   (A)   There is established a system of monthly charges and fees for the
purpose of equitably imposing upon all users of the sewer system expenses of
construction, operation and maintenance, repair and replacement of the system
and wastewater treatment facilities. The charges and fees shall be in part
based upon the volume and content of wastewater discharged into the system and
the costs of constructing, operating, maintaining, repairing and replacing the
sewer system and treatment facilities of the city, the charges and fees having
been determined to benefit each building, structure or user within the system.
   (B)   (1)   The monthly wastewater collection and treatment service charges
for each property owner or user, residential, commercial or industrial in
nature, shall be determined by the gallons of water used plus a fixed fee as
follows: $31.75 per month for each residential, commercial or industrial ERU,
together with $3.75 per each 1,000 gallons of water from the city water system
received by such use for that month. Industrial and commercial users shall pay
such additional fees as may be determined by the city prior to connection to
the city wastewater treatment system on an individualized basis.
      (2)   All charges shall be due and payable on or before 30 days from the
date a billing for charges is mailed. Each delinquent bill shall be assessed a
penalty of 1.5% per month on the delinquent amount until it is paid.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.51 DEPOSIT CHARGE.
   A deposit charge shall be paid by all new users of the wastewater treatment
system. A NEW USER, for purposes of this section, shall be deemed to be any
person or entity being serviced by the wastewater treatment system for the
first time after 10-1-2011. A deposit charge as fixed from time to time by
resolution of the Council shall be collected from each new user. Upon a user
ceasing to be serviced by the system, any balance remaining of the deposit
shall be returned to the user upon proof of payment of all charges and fees
through the date of final use; provided, however, that, the deposit shall in
any event be returned to the user upon timely payment in full of all user
charges for one year.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.52 APPEAL OF CHARGES; REVIEW AND ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Any user who feels the charges imposed by the city may be in error may
appeal to the City Council. The appeal, in written form, shall be made to and
acted on by the City Council within 30 days from receipt thereof. Such an
appeal shall set forth in reasonable detail the source of error being appealed
and the appellant’s grounds for modification thereof. The grounds for appeal
may be based on actual discharge data or other relevant evidence.
   (B)   The city shall annually review the user charges for wastewater
collection and treatment. Adjustments shall be made as needed to ensure that
adequate revenue will be acquired to balance expenditures for wastewater
collection and treatment and to maintain an equitable system of user charges.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.53 BILLING; DISCONNECTION UPON NON-PAYMENT; RESTORATION FEE.
   The City Clerk shall bill each wastewater treatment system user at the same
time each such user is billed for water consumption and such charge shall be
included on such water bill and shall show the amount due for sewer service for
the preceding month. If any person neglects to pay his or her sewer charge
within the time limited for the payment of water bills, or shall fail or refuse
to pay such sewer charge the city shall cause the water supply to such person
by the city to be turned off from the premises of such delinquent, and before
the water shall be again turned on all delinquent sewage charges must be paid
in full, together with a reconnect fee of $50.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
51.05 of this chapter, shall be served by the city with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city
by reason of such violation.
   (D)   In addition to any relief obtained by the city in a civil action
undertaken for a violation of this chapter, and to any criminal penalty
assessed per other provisions of this section, the city may assess an
administrative penalty up to the amount of $1,000 per violation. For continuing
violations, each day of a violation shall be considered a separate offense and
a separate civil penalty shall apply. For any violation of this chapter, the
city may issue a notice of administrative action, which shall include the
following:
      (1)   The name and address of the person responsible for the violation;
      (2)   The street address or description of the premises or land upon
which the violation has occurred or is occurring;
      (3)   A description of the violation and a reference to the provision(s)
of this chapter which has been violated;
      (4)   The required corrective action and the date and time after which
the city may abate the unlawful condition in accordance with this ordinance and
the notice of administrative action;
      (5)   A statement indicating the right to file an appeal and a request
for a hearing before the City Council; and
      (6)   A statement indicating that the costs and expenses of abatement, if
incurred by the city, and a monetary penalty and an amount per day for each
violation specified below may be assessed against the person to whom the notice
of administrative action is directed.
   (E)   (1)   Administrative penalties for violations that do not endanger the
public health or damage the waste water treatment system shall be assessed
pursuant to the following schedule:
         (a)   For the first day of each violation: $50;
         (b)   For the second day of each violation: $100;
         (c)   For the third day of each violation: $150;
         (d)   For the fourth day of each violation: $200; and
         (e)   For each additional day of violation beyond four days: $250.
      (2)   Administrative penalties for violations that do endanger the public
health shall be assessed as follows:
         (a)   For the first day of each violation: $100;
         (b)   For the second day of each violation: $200;
         (c)   For the third day of each violation: $300;
         (d)   For the fourth day of each violation: $400; and
         (e)   For each additional day of violation beyond four days: $500.
      (3)   Payment of a monetary penalty pursuant to a notice of
administrative action shall not relieve the person to whom the notice of
administrative action is sent from the duty to correct the problem described in
the notice.
   (F)   (1)   Any person to whom a notice of administrative action has been
issued may appeal by filing a written notice of appeal with the Clerk of the
city within ten calendar days of the date of the notice of administrative
action.
      (2)   The city shall give written notice of the time, date and place of
the appeal hearing to any appellant at least seven days prior to such hearing.
      (3)   A hearing on an appeal of a notice of administrative action shall
be held before the City Council utilizing the adopted procedures for the City
Council for the conduct of public hearings.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 2-19-2014)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
      
72.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING
      
73.   BUS STOPS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Vehicle removal
   
70.03   Stopping, standing or parking
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and such ambulances and emergency vehicles as are designed or
authorized by the Commissioner of Law Enforcement or the Chief of Police.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels either of which is 20 inches or more in
diameter.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten passengers and
used for the transportation of persons.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a public
thoroughfare when within any 600 feet along such thoroughfare there are
buildings in use for business or industrial uses, including, but not limited
to, hotels, banks or office buildings, railroad stations and public buildings
which occupy at least 300 feet frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on
both sides of the thoroughfare.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street or roadway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curb, from the edges of
the traversable roadway.
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows, mowing machines and other implements of husbandry.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles,
or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at
any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. In the event such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways, 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
INTERSECTION.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular travel.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor.
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the OWNER for the purpose of this traffic code.
   PARK. When prohibited means the standing of a vehicle whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel only by the owner of by those having express or implied
permission from the owner.
   RAILROAD. The carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than street
cars, operated upon stationary rails.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal or device erected and intended to
give notice of the presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad
train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except street cars.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a public
thoroughfare not comprising a business district when the property on such
thoroughfare for a distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with
residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY, as used herein, shall
refer to any such roadway separately, but not to all such roadways
collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a SAFETY ZONE.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from school or privately
owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or
from school.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STOP, STOPPING or STANDING.
      (1)   When required, means complete cessation from movement.
      (2)   When prohibited means any stopping or standing of a vehicle,
whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-
control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH ROADWAY. Every roadway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersection roadways is required by law to yield right-of-way to
vehicles on such through roadway in obedience to either a stop sign or a yield
sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this traffic code.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, street cars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any thoroughfare for
purposes of travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed
that no part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, use or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
   VEHICLE. Every device, in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a thoroughfare, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary tracks or rails.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1)
§ 70.02 VEHICLE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Improperly parked vehicles. Any vehicle parked in violation of traffic
regulations or any vehicle parked so as to obstruct the free movement of
traffic or to cause a traffic hazard may be immediately removed upon order of a
duly authorized law enforcement officer in accordance with Idaho Code § 49-
1800.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-1)
   (B)   Wrecked or abandoned vehicles. All other vehicles believed to be
abandoned shall be removed in accordance with the provisions of Idaho Code
Title 49, Chapter 18.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-2)
§ 70.03 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING.
   (A)   Idling parked vehicles. No tractor trailer may be idling in the city
limits from 10:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m. in residential areas.
   (B)   Lights on parked vehicles. Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked at
nighttime upon any street within a business or residence district, no lights
need be displayed upon such parked vehicle. Any lighted headlamps upon a parked
vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
   (C)   Parking not to obstruct traffic. No person shall park any vehicle upon
a street, other than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to
leave available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free
movement of vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Enforcement and fines.
      (1)   If any vehicle is found stopped, standing or parked in any manner
in violation of the provisions of this chapter and the identity of the operator
cannot be determined, the owner, person, corporation or named lessee in whose
name said vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for said
violation.
      (2)   Upon the failure of the owner or operator to pay the required fine
within three business days, the person as designated by the city may, after the
giving of written notice, sign a complaint against the owner or operator of the
vehicle cited for the violation of this chapter. Written notice to the owner or
operator is deemed sufficient if mailed to the last known address of such
person. The complaint may be signed after five days from the date of the
notice.
      (3)   Any police officer or person as designated by the city observing a
violation of the provisions of this chapter shall leave upon the violating
vehicle a traffic ticket which shall provide the ticket number, date, time,
license number, parking lot location, make of vehicle and officer’s or
designated person’s name. The ticket shall notify the owner or operator of the
fine increase for failure to pay such fine within the initial three business
day period and the penalties for failure to pay the increased fine within the
notice period.
(Penalty, see §
70.99)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   There is hereby imposed a $35 fine, or a $50 fine if not paid within
three business days for violation of §
70.03(D)(1). Any owner or operator of such vehicle violating said provisions
and who fails to pay said fine within three business days shall be subject to
the penalty set forth herein.
CHAPTER 71: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
Enforcement
   
71.01   Obedience to regulations and officials
   
71.02   Push carts; animals
   
71.03   Employees to obey regulations
   
71.04   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.05   License required
Traffic-Control Devices
   
71.20   Authority to install
   
71.21   Specifications
   
71.22   Obedience to devices
   
71.23   When devices required
   
71.24   Unauthorized signs, signals and markings
   
71.25   Interference with devices
   
71.26   Crosswalks and safety zones
   
71.27   Traffic lanes
ENFORCEMENT
§ 71.01 OBEDIENCE TO REGULATIONS AND OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required herein.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to fail or refuse to
comply with any lawful order or direction of a law enforcement officer or Fire
District official.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 PUSH CARTS; ANIMALS.
   Every person propelling any push cart or driving any animal drawn vehicle or
riding an animal upon a roadway shall be subject to the provisions of this
traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those provisions
which, by their own nature, can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 EMPLOYEES TO OBEY REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned or used in the service of the United States Government, the state, county
or city and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate any of the
provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual suspected violator of the
law or when responding to, but not upon returning from a fire alarm may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand irrespective of the provisions of this traffic code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operations;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (C)   The exemption herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only the driver of any said vehicle while in motion sounds audible signal
or bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary and when the
vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying a red light
visible under normal atmospheric conditions, from a distance of 500 feet to the
front of such vehicle; except that, an authorized emergency vehicle operated as
a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red light visible from
in from of the vehicle.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from consequences of his
or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-6)
§ 71.05 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and shall constitute an offense for any person to
operate or for the owner thereof to permit the operation upon the streets of
the city of any motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer which is not registered
and which does not have attached thereto and displayed thereon the number plate
or plates assigned thereto for the current registration year which said plates
have been provided for by the laws of the state.
   (B)   The operation of any vehicle not eligible for registration and
licensing on any street of the city is hereby declared to be unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 71.20 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL.
   The city shall place and maintain traffic-control signs, signals and devices
when and as required under the traffic regulations of the city to make
effective the provisions of said regulations, and may place and maintain such
additional traffic-control devices as may be deemed necessary.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1)
§ 71.21 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the
approved specifications.
   (B)   All signs and signals, required hereunder for a particular purpose
shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location throughout the
city.
   (C)   All traffic-control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the
provisions of this traffic code shall be official traffic-control devices.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-2)
§ 71.22 OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the traffic
regulations of the city, unless otherwise erected by a police officer, subject
to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-3)
§ 71.23 WHEN DEVICES REQUIRED.
   No provisions of this traffic code for which signs are required shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged
violation an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section
does not state that signs are required, such section shall be effective even
though no signs are erected or in place.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-4)
§ 71.24 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways or signs giving useful directional information
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs. Every such prohibited
sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and the
authority having jurisdiction over the highway is hereby empowered to remove
the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.25 INTERFERENCE WITH DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without lawful authority, to attempt to
or in fact alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-
control device or any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or
insignia thereon or any part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.26 CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES.
   The city is hereby authorized:
   (A)   To designate and maintain by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in the Mayor’s
and Council’s opinion there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
roadway and at such other places as may be deemed necessary; and
   (B)   To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such
places as may be deemed necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-7)
§ 71.27 TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   The city is hereby authorized to mark traffic lanes upon the roadway
of any street or highway where a regular alignment of traffic is necessary.
   (B)   Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for
the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of such lane, except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC AND PARKING
Section
Traffic Regulations
   
72.01   Speed limits
Parking Regulations
   
72.15   Stop and yield signs
   
72.16   Stopping, standing or parking
   
72.17   Illegally stopped vehicles
   
72.18   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited
   
72.19   Additional parking regulations
   
72.20   Unattended vehicle
   
72.21   Parking in alleys
   
72.22   Parking for certain purposes
   
72.23   Parking adjacent to schools
   
72.24   Parking on narrow streets
   
72.25   Parking near congested places
   
72.26   Curb loading zones
   
72.27   Loading zones
   
72.28   Freight curb loading zone
   
72.29   Parking signs required
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 72.01 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Any person driving a vehicle or motor vehicle on any public street or
alley of the city shall drive the same at a careful and prudent speed not
greater than is reasonable and proper, having due regard to the traffic,
surface and width of the street or alley and any other conditions then
existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle or motor vehicle upon any street
or alley of the city at such speed as to endanger the life, limb or property of
any person.
   (B)   Subject to the foregoing provisions the maximum speed limit of
vehicles and motor vehicles on all of the public streets and alleys of the city
shall be 25 mph, with the exception: where specific maximum speed limits are
fixed by the Mayor and Council and posted on the streets or alleys, such posted
speeds shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 72.15 STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   The city may designate through roadways and erect stop signs or yield signs
at specified entrances thereto or may designate any intersection as a yield
intersection and erect stop signs or yield signs at one or more entrances to
such intersection.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-1)
§ 72.16 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING.
   (A)   Upon any highway outside of a business or residence district, no
person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle whether attended or
unattended, upon the paved or main traveled part of the highway when it is
practicable to stop, park or so leave such vehicle off such part of said
highway, but in every event an unobstructed width of the highway opposite a
standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles and a
clear view of such stopped vehicles shall be available from a distance of 200
feet in each direction upon such highway.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or main traveled portion of a highway in such
manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in such position.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.17 ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES.
   Whenever any law enforcement officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street
in violation of any of the provisions of this traffic code, such officer is
hereby authorized to move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person
in charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or main
traveled part of such street.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-3)
§ 72.18 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions
of a police officer or traffic-control device in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
   (G)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (H)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless the
traffic authority indicates a different length by signs or markings;
   (I)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (J)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station, on the side
of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75 feet of said
entrance when properly sign-posted;
   (K)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (L)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
   (M)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within a
highway tunnel; and/or
   (N)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.19 ADDITIONAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, every vehicle stopped
or parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to and within 18
inches of the right-hand curb.
   (B)   The Council may permit parking of vehicles with the left-hand wheels
adjacent to and within 18 inches of the left-hand curb of a one way roadway.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.20 UNATTENDED VEHICLE.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing
the key and effectively setting the brake thereon and when standing upon any
grade turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.21 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle within an alley in
such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet
of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and it
shall be unlawful for a person to stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley
in such a position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.22 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle upon any roadway for
the principal purpose of displaying such vehicle for sale or for washing,
greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs necessitated by an
emergency.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.23 PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   (A)   The city is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating no parking
upon either or both sides of any street adjacent to any school property when
such parking would, in the opinion of the Mayor and Council, interfere with
traffic or create a hazardous situation.
   (B)   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either side
of a street adjacent to any school property as authorized herein, it shall be
unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in any such designated place.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.24 PARKING ON NARROW STREETS.
   (A)   The city is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating no parking
upon any street when the width of the roadway does not exceed 20 feet or upon
one side of a street as indicated by such signs when the width of the roadway
does not exceed 30 feet.
   (B)   When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow
streets as authorized herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to park a
vehicle upon any such street in violation of any such sign.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.25 PARKING NEAR CONGESTED PLACES.
   (A)   The city is hereby authorized to determine and designate by proper
signs, places not exceeding 100 feet in length in which the stopping, standing
or parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous condition or would
cause unusual delay in traffic.
   (B)   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as
authorized herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a
vehicle in any such designated place.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.26 CURB LOADING ZONES.
   The city is hereby authorized to determine the location of passenger and
freight curb loading zones and shall place and maintain appropriate signs
indicating the same and stating the hours during which the provisions of this
subchapter are applicable.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-12)
§ 72.27 LOADING ZONES.
   The city shall not hereafter designate or sign any curb loading zone upon
special request of any person unless such person makes application for a permit
for such one and for two signs to indicate the ends of each such zone. Said
permit fee shall be set and designated by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-13)
§ 72.28 FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a vehicle for any
purpose of length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery
or pick and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading
zone during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect.
In no case shall the stop for loading or unloading of materials exceed 30
minutes.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.29 PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Whenever any parking time limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on
designated streets, it shall be the duty of the city to erect appropriate signs
giving notice thereof and such regulations shall not be effective unless said
signs are erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-15)
CHAPTER 73: BUS STOPS
Section
   
73.01   Authority to designate
   
73.02   Operation; stopping at undesignated locations
   
73.03   Stopping, standing and the like at bus stops
§ 73.01 AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE.
   The city shall have the authority to designate bus stops at such locations
and in such manner and number as may be necessary and of the greatest benefit
and convenience to the public. Every such bus stop shall be designated by
appropriate signs.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-1)
§ 73.02 OPERATION; STOPPING AT UNDESIGNATED LOCATIONS.
   The operator of a bus shall not stop such bus at any place for the purpose
of taking on or discharging passengers other than at a bus stop so designated,
except in case of emergency.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.03 STOPPING, STANDING AND THE LIKE AT BUS STOPS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a vehicle at an
authorized bus stop so designated or between the right curb and any such stop;
except that, the operator of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop thereat
for the purpose and while actually engaged in the discharge or the pick-up of
passengers then in readiness at the curb.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   License required; fee
   
90.02   Tag issuance
   
90.03   Running at large
   
90.04   Dogs to be impounded; reclamation
   
90.05   Dogs in kennels
   
90.06   Frequent barking
   
90.07   Dead animals
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   Every owner, harborer or keeper of any dog within the corporate limits of
the city shall procure a license for each dog owned, harbored or kept by him or
her for any part of a calendar year. Said license shall be obtained from the
City Clerk/Treasurer, who shall keep an accurate record of all such licenses
issued. The fee for said licenses shall be set by resolution of the City
Council. The license above must be purchased by January 30 of every year or
within ten days after a resident of the city comes into possession of a dog or
dogs.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-1)
§ 90.02 TAG ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon payment of the license fee, the Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a tag
which shall be attached to the dog by a collar. There shall be stamped upon the
tag the words “City of Bliss, Idaho”, the year and the identification number.
Said tag shall be attached to the dog at all times. Any dog found without a tag
shall be considered to be without an owner and shall be treated as described
herein.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2)
   (B)   Duplicate dog tags shall be issued upon payment of $10 for each tag so
issued to replace the original tag that was lost or destroyed.
   (C)   Dog tags shall not be transferable from one dog to another, and no
refunds shall be made on any dog license fee for any reason whatsoever.
§ 90.03 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or suffer any dog or dogs
owned by him or her or under his or her custody or control to be at large at
any time or place in the city. All dogs must be either on a leash or confined
in such a way as to prevent their running at large. Any dog upon any street or
public ways within the corporate limits of the city must be on a hand-held
leash. All dogs not so confined or on a leash shall be considered a public
nuisance and impounded.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 DOGS TO BE IMPOUNDED; RECLAMATION.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of such officer as may be delegated the
responsibility by the Mayor and Council to seize and impound all dogs wandering
at large. If the owner, harborer or keeper of the dog so impounded can be
ascertained, then notice will be promptly given said owner, harborer or keeper
that unless the dog is reclaimed within 72 hours after such notice the dog will
be destroyed.
      (2)   If a dog seized and impounded is without a license and the owner
cannot be ascertained, such dog will be destroyed after 72 hours.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-4)
   (B)   A dog may be reclaimed by payment of the fees and costs incurred in
impounding and keeping the dog and, if the dog does not have a license, by
payment of the license fee.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-5)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 DOGS IN KENNELS.
   (A)   Any person owning, keeping or harboring more than three dogs within
the limits of the city shall keep the same in a kennel which must be enclosed
by a fence at least six feet high, which fence must be constructed in such a
manner that the dogs cannot see through. Kennel dogs must not become a nuisance
by excessive noise.
   (B)   Kennels are required to procure a license from the City Council. Such
license shall extend to each animal in the kennel. License fees shall be set by
resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-6)
§ 90.06 FREQUENT BARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep any dog which by loud,
continued or frequent barking, howling or yelping shall annoy or disturb any
person or neighborhood. Any complaint made hereunder shall be made by an
aggrieved person, that is a person who is disturbed by such dog.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-7) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Owner to bury. Every person in charge of any animal which dies shall
remove or cause to be removed the body of such animal within three hours after
death; to be buried in some place designated, by the Mayor and Council, and all
such animals shall be covered and concealed from public view while being
removed.
   (B)   Time for removal. Every person in charge of any animal which dies
shall remove or cause to be removed the body of such animal within three hours
after death.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-8) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to the fees in §
90.04 of this chapter, charges for the following offenses as set by resolution
of the City Council shall be paid to the Clerk/Treasurer:
         (a)   For dog running at large, first occurrence: $50;
         (b)   For dog running at large, second occurrence: $150; and
         (c)   For impounding any dog without license: $300.
      (2)   The harboring or owning of any dog found to be running at large a
third time, or more, shall constitute a misdemeanor and complaint may be filed
in the proper court.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-5)
   (C)   Violations of §
90.06 of this chapter shall constitute an infraction.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-7)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
Section
   
91.01   Burning in city limits
   
91.02   Following fire apparatus; interference
   
91.03   Conduct of spectators at fire
   
91.04   Crossing fire hose
§ 91.01 BURNING IN CITY LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn or cause to be burned any
household trash or any other combustible material outside of any building in
any street, alley, vacant lot or vacant portion of any lot located within the
city limits. Before burning allowable items, the person shall notify either
CIRCOMM or the local fire chief when such burning shall be done and under such
proper safeguards as the Council may direct.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS; INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle other than on
official business, to follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire
alarm, closer than 500 feet, or to drive into or park such vehicle within the
block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-3)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or driver of any vehicle to leave
such vehicle on any street in such a manner as to interfere with or obstruct
any fire apparatus or the workings thereof at a fire when an alarm has been
sounded.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-4)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 CONDUCT OF SPECTATORS AT FIRE.
   It shall be unlawful for any onlooker, bystander or spectator to knowingly
or wilfully handle, stand upon or otherwise interfere with any fire apparatus
while the same is being used to extinguish any fire or to approach nearer than
100 feet to the building or fire; provided, this section shall not apply to the
owner or occupant of said building or any person assisting in removing articles
of property therefrom at the request and by the permission of the owner or the
Chief of the Fire District or the representative of any insurance company
having insurance thereon or the contents thereof, or to any person assisting in
extinguishing said fire upon the request of the Chief of the Fire District or
persons in charge of fire apparatus.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or permit any vehicle to be
driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire District when laid down on any
street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of fire without the
consent of the Fire District official in command.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Policy
   
92.02   City assistance
   
92.03   Encouragement to owners, real estate brokers and the like
   
92.04   Program; minimum regulations
§ 92.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city to encourage equal opportunity in housing for
all persons regardless of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap
or familial status.
(Res. 2020-30, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 92.02 CITY ASSISTANCE.
   Within available resources, the city will assist all persons who feel they
have been discriminated against because of race, color, religion, gender,
national origin, handicap or familial status to seek equity under federal and
state laws by referring them to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, Compliance Division.
(Res. 2020-30, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 92.03 ENCOURAGEMENT TO OWNERS, REAL ESTATE BROKERS AND THE LIKE.
   The city shall publicize the resolution codified herein and, through this
publicity, shall encourage owners of real estate, real estate brokers and
sellers, rental owners, rental property manager, lenders, developers, builders,
home buyers and renters to become aware of their respective responsibilities
and rights under the Federal Fair Housing Law and amendments and any applicable
state or local laws or ordinances.
(Res. 2020-30, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 92.04 PROGRAM; MINIMUM REGULATIONS.
   The fair housing program will at a minimum include:
   (A)   Publicizing the resolution codified herein;
   (B)   Posting applicable fair housing information in prominent public areas;
   (C)   Providing fair housing information to the public;
   (D)   Preparing a fair housing assessment; and
   (E)   Declaring April as “Fair Housing Month”.
(Res. 2020-30, passed 11-18-2020)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSING PROCEDURES
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
CHAPTER 110: LICENSING PROCEDURES
Section
   
110.01   Applications
   
110.02   Person subject to license
   
110.03   Forms
   
110.04   Signatures
   
110.05   Investigations
   
110.06   Termination of license
   
110.07   Building and premises
   
110.08   Change of location
   
110.09   Frontage consents
   
110.10   Nuisances
   
110.11   Inspections
   
110.12   Revocation
   
110.13   Posting of license
   
110.14   Fees
§ 110.01 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for all licenses and permits required by this code shall be
made in writing to the Clerk/Treasurer, unless otherwise specifically provided
by law. Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or
license desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee
to be paid; and each application shall contain such additional information as
may be required by the issuing official.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 110.02 PERSON SUBJECT TO LICENSE.
   A license is required for the maintenance, operation or conduct of any
business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging in any activity or
occupation, including temporary sales, soliciting or peddling. Any person or
corporation shall be subject to the requirement if by himself or herself or
through an agent, employee or partner, he or she holds himself or herself forth
as being engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits patronage therefor,
actively or passively; or performs or attempts to perform any part of such
business or occupation in the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2)
§ 110.03 FORMS.
   Forms for all licenses and permits and application therefor shall be prepare
and kept on file by the Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3)
§ 110.04 SIGNATURES.
   Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of the Mayor and the
Clerk/Treasurer in the absence of any provision to the contrary.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4)
§ 110.05 INVESTIGATIONS.
   Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where laws of the
city necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such
permit or license, the Clerk/Treasurer shall refer such application to the
proper officer for making such investigation within 48 hours of the time of
such receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the investigation or
inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten days
after receiving the application or a copy thereof. For the protection of
health, the Building Inspector shall make or cause to be made any such
inspections relative to the construction of buildings or other structures. All
other investigations, except where otherwise provided, shall be made by some
officer as designated by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5)
§ 110.06 TERMINATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal year
of the city where no provision to the contrary is made.
   (B)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall mail to all licensees of the city a
statement of the time of expiration of the license held by the licensee, if an
annual, three weeks prior to the date of such expiration; provided that,
failure to send out such notice or failure of the licensee to receive it shall
not excuse the licensee from failure to obtain a new license or a renewal
thereof, nor shall it be a defense in an action for operation without a
license.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-6)
§ 110.07 BUILDING AND PREMISES.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no permit
shall be issued for any thing or act if the premises and building to be used
for the purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the city. No such
license or permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business or
performance of any act which would involve a violation of the provisions of
this city code.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-7)
§ 110.08 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any
licensed business or occupation or of any permitted act, may be changed;
provided, the building requirements of this code are complied with and the City
Council has approved of the change in location.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-8)
§ 110.09 FRONTAGE CONSENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the consent of the adjoining or neighboring owners is
required as a prerequisite to the conduct of any business or occupation, or the
location of any establishment, such consent must be obtained by securing the
necessary signatures to a written consent petition.
      (2)   Such petition shall be filed with the Clerk/Treasurer when signed.
   (B)   Consents once given and filed shall not be withdrawn; and such
petitions need not be renewed for the continuous conduct of the same business,
whether by the same proprietor or not.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to forge any name to such a petition or to
represent falsely that the names thereon have been properly placed thereon if
such is not the fact.
   (D)   Each consent when filed shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the
person securing the signatures that each signature appearing thereon was
properly secured and written on; and that the petition contains the necessary
number of signatures required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.10 NUISANCES.
   No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount
to a nuisance in fact.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.11 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required
by code, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any code
provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit
thereto for the purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee of the
city who is authorized or directed to make such inspection of any reasonable
time that admission is requested.
   (B)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to secure conformance with any code provision or to detect violations
thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee of the city whose business is
governed by such provision to give to any authorized officer or employee of the
city requesting the same sufficient samples of such material or commodity for
such analysis upon request.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Mayor may
revoke the license of any licensed proprietor of any licensed business in the
municipality who refuses to permit any such officer or employee who is
authorized to make such inspection or take such sample to make the inspection
or take an adequate sample of the said commodity, or who interferes with such
officer or employee while in the performance of his or her duty in making such
inspection; provided that, no license shall be revoked for such cause unless
written demand is made upon the licensee or person in charge of the premises,
in the name of the city, stating that such inspection or sample is desired at
the time it is sought to make the inspection or obtain the sample.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-11)
§ 110.12 REVOCATION.
   Any license or permit for a limited time may be revoked by the Mayor at any
time during the life of such license or permit for any violation by the
licensee or permittee of the code provisions relating to the license or permit,
or to the premises occupied; such revocation may be in addition to any fine
imposed.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-12)
§ 110.13 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
city to keep his or her license posted in a prominent place on the premises
used for such business at all times.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-13)
§ 110.14 FEES.
   Fees for any license required under this or other sections of the code shall
be set annually by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-14)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Liquor Generally
   
111.001   Liquor license
   
111.002   Application
   
111.003   Requirements
   
111.004   Fees
   
111.005   License non-transferable
   
111.006   Licenses limited
   
111.007   Revocation and hearing
   
111.008   Access to premises
   
111.009   Premises requirements
   
111.010   Sale to minors
Beer Sales
   
111.025   Definitions
   
111.026   License required
   
111.027   Application
   
111.028   Qualifications for license
   
111.029   Fees
   
111.030   Hours of sale
   
111.031   Regulations
   
111.032   Revocation
   
111.033   Transfer of beer licenses
Wine Sales
   
111.045   Definitions
   
111.046   License required
   
111.047   License application
   
111.048   Qualifications
   
111.049   License fee
   
111.050   License issuance
   
111.051   License restrictions
   
111.052   Consumption on premises
   
111.053   Possession
   
111.054   Misrepresentation of age
   
111.055   License revocation
Alcohol Beverage Catering Permit
   
111.070   Beer and wine catering permit
LIQUOR GENERALLY
§ 111.001 LIQUOR LICENSE SALES.
   It shall be lawful to sell liquor by the drink as provided in Idaho Code
Title 23, Chapter 9, as amended; provided, a license shall first be obtained as
provided in this subchapter and the rules and regulations and provisions
concerning the licensing and operation of a place of business for the sale of
liquor are adhered to as provided.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.002 APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Before there shall be any lawful sale of liquor by the drink, an
application by the proposed licensee must be made for such license and filed
with the Clerk/Treasurer in form and manner herein provided. Such application
shall provide for the name of the applicant, the location of the proposed
business and such other information as may be prescribed and required by the
Council.
      (2)   At the time said application is filed, the applicant shall also
present a copy of an application for a state license and also the license
issued by the state for the sale of liquor by the drink at retail and no
license will be issued until a license is first obtained from the state and the
county.
   (B)   All applications filed with the Clerk/Treasurer shall be referred to
the Council for final approval. The Clerk/Treasurer shall receive the license
fee hereinafter provided at the time of filing of the application and upon
approval of the application by the Council the license will be issued an
delivered to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-2)
§ 111.003 REQUIREMENTS.
   No license shall be issued for the sale of liquor by the drink to any person
not qualified for a license under Idaho Code Chapter 9, as amended, nor upon
any premises in any neighborhood which is predominately residential, nor within
300 feet of any school, church or other place of public worship.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-3)
§ 111.004 FEES.
   (A)   The license fee required of an applicant for the sale of liquor by the
drink shall be in the sum of $225 per calendar year or portion thereof payable
in advance. The first payment shall be made with said application for the
balance of the calendar year in which the license is issued. All licenses
issued shall expire at midnight on December 31 of each calendar year.
   (B)   Renewals may be granted upon application, if the record of the
applicant is satisfactory to the Council and in accordance with the provisions
of the law and this subchapter and upon payment of $225 for the ensuing year.
Any operation under an expired license shall constitute a violation of this
code for each day of operation.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-4)
§ 111.005 LICENSE NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   Any license issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall be
non-transferable, and if the licensee named in said license shall cease to
personally supervise, conduct and operate said business described in said
license, the sale shall terminate and no part of the fee paid shall be
refunded.
   (B)   The licensee may, however, with the consent of the Council, move from
the place of business to some other place which may meet the requirements of
this subchapter; provided, application therefor be made to the Council and
permitted by it; and, if such transfer of the place of business shall be made,
the fee paid shall be operative with like effect as if no change had been made.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-5)
§ 111.006 LICENSES LIMITED.
   Licenses issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall be limited to
not more than two according to the provisions and restrictions contained in
Idaho Code § 23-903; provided, however, that, any licenses now existing may be
continuously renewed each year upon compliance with all of the other provisions
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-6)
§ 111.007 REVOCATION AND HEARING.
   If any licensee or employee of a liquor by the drink establishment violates
any of the provisions of this subchapter or is convicted of the violation of
any of the provisions of Idaho Code Chapter 9, as amended, the Council is
hereby authorized and empowered to revoke the license issued to said licensee;
provided, however, that, in the event it is brought to the attention of the
Council that a violation has taken place, before revoking such license, the
Council shall cause notice to be served upon the licensee, setting forth in
general terms the violation or violations claimed to have been committed and
such notice shall provide a time for hearing thereon by the Council which date
of hearing shall not be less than five days, nor more than ten days, from the
date of the service of the provisions of this subchapter or the provisions of
the laws of the state or county have been violated, shall revoke such license
theretofore issued and no refund of any unused portion of the license fee shall
be made to the licensee. A revocation by the Director of Law Enforcement of the
state of any license theretofore issued said licensee shall automatically
revoke the license issued by the city and no refund of any fee therefor paid
shall be made.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-7)
§ 111.008 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   All peace officers appointed by the state or the city or the county shall
have free access at all times to the licensed premises, and any information
touching the manner and method of the operation of said premises or the sale of
said liquor may be submitted to the Council upon any investigation made of said
licensee.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-8)
§ 111.009 PREMISES REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every licensee must conform to all regulations and laws of the state
and the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Full and unobstructed view of the inside of the premises where liquor
by the drink is sold shall always be maintained by said licensee and no
obstructions whatever shall be placed upon the windows or the doors that are
located on said premises and no coloring shall be placed upon the glass in
order that a full view from the sidewalk or street may be had into the interior
of said premises.
   (C)   All premises shall be adequately lighted and subject to periodic
sanitary inspection.
   (D)   No gambling of any kind or character shall be operated upon said
premises and no gambling devices shall be maintained thereon.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.010 SALE TO MINORS.
   No sale of liquor shall be made to any minor, nor to any intoxicated person
who may engage in disorderly or improper conduct, and no disorderly or improper
entertainment shall be permitted upon said premises and any violation of the
provisions of this subchapter shall be considered and shall likewise be grounds
for the cancellation of the license.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
BEER SALES
§ 111.025 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BEER. Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt and/or other ingredients in drinkable water of not
more than 4% of alcohol by weight.
   RETAILER. Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of beer to the
consumer.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1)
§ 111.026 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of beer without first
obtaining a proper license. Upon application of such license, the applicant
must produce proof of state and county licenses.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.027 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a retail beer license shall be made under oath to the
Clerk/Treasurer and the application shall show that the applicant possesses all
of the qualifications required by this code.
   (B)   Each application shall be forwarded, after proper and adequate
investigation by the designated representative of the city, to the Council for
approval of disapproval.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-3)
§ 111.028 QUALIFICATIONS FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   No retail license shall be issued to any applicant who:
      (1)   Is not the bona fide owner of such business, or is not a citizen of
the United States, or has not been a bona fide resident of the state for a
period of one year prior to the date of application; provided that, if the
applicant is a partnership all partners shall be such citizens, and at least
one thereof, or the actual manager therefor, shall have been such resident and
if the applicant is a corporation, such corporation shall be qualified to do
business in the state, and the manager of such business place shall be such
citizen and shall have been such resident;
      (2)   Has, or any partner or actual manager or officer or employee or
spouse of which has, been convicted of the violation of any laws of the state
or of the United States regulating, governing or prohibiting the sale of
alcoholic beverages or intoxicating liquor, or has within two years forfeited
or suffered the forfeiture of a bond for his appearance of answer charges of
any such violation; and/or
      (3)   Has, or any partner or actual manager or officer of which has, been
convicted of any felony within five years or has paid any fine or completed any
sentence of confinement therefor within five years.
   (B)   A retailer licensee must continue throughout the license period to
have all of the foregoing qualifications and none of the foregoing
disqualifications, and for failure therein, upon proof thereof to an issuer of
a license, such issuer shall revoke the license issued, and in writing sent by
United States registered mail notify each of the other issuers of a retailer’s
license to such licensee, stating sufficient facts for identification of the
licensee and the grounds and date of revocation.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-4)
§ 111.029 FEES.
   The fee for the sale of beer shall be as follows:
   (A)   Twenty-five dollars for the sale of bottled or canned beer not
consumed on the premises;
   (B)   Seventy-five dollars for the sale of bottled or canned beer consumed
on the premises; and
   (C)   One hundred dollars for the sale of bottled, canned or draft beer
consumed on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-5)
§ 111.030 HOURS OF SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell beer between the hours of 1:00
a.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any day.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.031 REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer beer to any person under the
age of 21 years and it shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21
years to frequent, loiter in or about or patronize any beer dispensary and it
shall likewise be unlawful for any owner of such beer dispensary or his or her
employees to permit any such person under the age of 21 to be in or to be
employed in such dispensary.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.032 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall retain the right at all times to revoke and cancel
any license for just cause. When any license is revoked, the licensee shall
have the privilege of appearing before the governing body to appeal such
revocation.
   (B)   Any conduct or act on the part of the licensee which may be sufficient
cause for revocation of the license must be brought to the attention of the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-8)
§ 111.033 TRANSFER OF BEER LICENSES.
   (A)   No license transferred by process of law or otherwise shall authorize
the transferee, including any executor, administrator or trustee in bankruptcy
of the estate of the license, to retail beer thereunder until the transferee
shall have filed under oath applications therefor containing substantially the
same information required of an applicant for a license, and if the transferee
possesses the qualifications and none of the disqualifications for a license as
herein provided, the city shall approve such transfer and amend the license so
to show.
   (B)   Such transferee shall accompany each such application for transfer
with and shall pay, the sum of $15.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-9)
WINE SALES
§ 111.045 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Law Enforcement of the State of Idaho.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, firm, copartnership, association,
corporation or any group or combination acting as a unit, and includes the
plural as well as the singular unless the intent to give to a more limited
meaning is disclosed by the context in which it is used.
   RETAIL WINE LICENSE. A license issued by the Director, authorizing a person
to sell wine at retail.
   RETAILER. A person to whom a retail wine license has been issued.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 14% alcohol by volume
obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar content of fruits or other
agricultural products containing sugar.
(Prior Code, § 4-8-1)
§ 111.046 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be lawful for any person to sell wine at retail within the
corporate limits of the city after having first procured a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 4-8-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.047 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for license shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by
the applicant upon application forms furnished by the Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   Such application shall be filed by the Clerk/Treasurer along with
proof of equivalent state and county licenses, and presented to the Mayor and
Council at the next meeting of the Council for its approval, rejection or
further consideration.
(Prior Code, § 4-8-3)
§ 111.048 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The applicant for license shall possess all of the qualifications necessary
to obtain a license from the Director of Law Enforcement of the state, as
prescribed by the laws of the state, and maintain such qualifications
throughout the period for which such license is issued. The possession of
licenses regularly issued by the Department of Law Enforcement and the county,
in addition to a city beer license, shall be prima facie evidence of the
applicant’s qualifications to receive a license hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 4-8-4)
§ 111.049 LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee imposed and collected shall be the sum of $100 per year.
Such license year shall be from 12:01 a.m., January 1 through December 31. Such
fee shall be imposed and collected for all or any portion of the year.
(Prior Code, § 4-8-5)
§ 111.050 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   Upon filing the application for a license and production of evidence, as
required by §
111.048 of this chapter, as to the qualifications of the applicant and by
payment of the required license fee, the Clerk/Treasurer shall, upon approval
of the Council, issue to the applicant a license to sell wine at retail within
the municipality for such calendar year or the remainder thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4-8-6)
§ 111.051 LICENSE RESTRICTIONS.
   The assignment or transfer of a wine license shall be the same as provided
by city ordinance providing for the assignment or transfer of a beer license.
(Prior Code, § 4-8-7)
§ 111.052 CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES.
   (A)   Retailers who do not possess a valid license for the retail sale of
liquor by the drink shall not permit consumption of wine on the licensed
premises and may sell the wine only in its original unbroken, sealed container.
   (B)   Wine sold for consumption on the retailer’s premises may be sold only
during hours that liquor by the drink may be sold pursuant to the laws of the
state. Wine sold by the retailer for consumption off the premises of the
retailer may be sold only during the hours that beer may be sold pursuant to
the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 4-8-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.053 POSSESSION.
   No person may, while operating in or upon a motor vehicle upon a public
street of the city, have in his or her possession any wine in an open or
unsealed container of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 4-8-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.054 MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years may purchase, consume or possess
wine.
   (B)   No person shall give, sell or deliver wine to any person under the age
of 21 years.
   (C)   No person under the age of 21 years shall, by any means, represent to
any retailer or distributor or to any agent or employee of such retailer or
distributor that he or she is 21 years or more of age for the purpose of
inducing such retailer or distributor, or his or her agent or employee, to
sell, serve or dispense wine to such person.
   (D)   No person shall, by any means, represent to any retailer or
distributor, or the agent or employee of such retailer or distributor, that any
other person is 21 years or more of age, when in fact such other person is
under the age of 21 years, for the purpose of inducing such retailer or
distributor, or the agent or employee of such retailer or distributor, to sell,
serve or dispense wine to such other person,
(Prior Code, § 4-8-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.055 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   The right shall be and remain at all times vested in the Mayor and Council,
and the Mayor and Council may, as hereinafter provided, revoke or cancel any
license for fraud or misrepresentation in its procurement, or for a violation
of any of the provisions of this subchapter, or for any conduct or act of the
licensee or his or her employees or any conduct or act permitted by him, her or
them on the premises where such business is conducted, or in connection
therewith, or adjacent thereto, tending to render such business or such
premises where the same is conducted as a public nuisance or a menace to the
health, peace, safety or general welfare of the city; provided that, revocation
or suspension of the state license by the Director of Law Enforcement shall be
deemed prima facie evidence for revocation or suspension of the license issued
herein.
(Prior Code, § 4-8-11)
ALCOHOL BEVERAGE CATERING PERMIT
§ 111.070 BEER AND WINE CATERING PERMIT.
   (A)   Legal authority. Idaho Code §§ 23-934A through 23-934C authorizes the
city to issue catering permits.
   (B)   Purpose. This section provides the procedures and guidelines to obtain
an alcoholic beverage catering permit pursuant to Idaho Code Title 23.
   (C)   Catering permit required. No person shall serve and sell any alcoholic
beverage by the drink at an event, without first obtaining a catering permit
issued by the City Clerk’s office.
   (D)   Application for permit.
      (1)   Application for a catering permit shall be made to the City Clerk’s
office in such form and manner as may be prescribed.
      (2)   The written application for a catering permit shall include, at a
minimum, the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant; and if a partnership, the
name and address of the general partner; and if a corporation or association,
the name and address of the agent for service of process; and such other
information as may be required;
         (b)   The number and a photocopy of the applicant’s state retail beer
or wine license, or permit issued pursuant to Idaho Code § 23-1007A;
         (c)   The dates and hours requested during which the permit will be
effective, which shall not exceed:
            1.   Two consecutive days for a party; or
            2.   Five consecutive days for festivals and conventions, with an
option to request one extension on the same terms and conditions as the
original permit. Extension on a festival or convention catering permit may be
issued or denied at the sole and absolute of the City Clerk’s office.
         (d)   The name of the organization, group or person sponsoring the
party, festival or convention; and if applying pursuant to a planned special
event permit, the name and number of the planned special event permit;
         (e)   If not the applicant, then the name, phone number, physical and
mailing address, and e-mail address of the applicant’s designee who will be
present at the premises for the duration of the event;
         (f)   The address at which the catering permit is to be used; and if a
public building or private building is open to the public, the rooms in which
the alcoholic beverages are to be served;
         (g)   A detailed description or diagram of the location where the
alcoholic beverages are to be served and sold, including a detailed scale
drawing of the area; and
         (h)   The number of people anticipated to attend the event, including
all hosts, employees, sponsors, agents, consumers and security personnel.
      (3)   Upon receipt of an application for a permit, the City Clerk’s
office shall cause the application to be forwarded to the Police Chief and Fire
Chief. In addition, the City Clerk’s office shall cause an investigation to be
made to the extent necessary to determine whether the applicant is qualified to
receive a catering permit.
      (4)   Every application for a catering permit shall be accompanied by a
nonrefundable permit fee in an amount established by the state and listed on
the most current City Clerk license fee schedule. An applicant shall pay a fee
for each day the catering permit is to be in effect.
      (5)   The application must be made to the City Clerk’s office no less
than five business days prior to the event. In the event an applicant submits
an application within five business days of the event, the applicant may
request an expedited review. The request for expedited review must be in
writing and must explain the reasons for requesting the expedited review. Upon
good cause shown, in the City Clerk’s sole discretion, the City Clerk may waive
the application filing deadline. If the City Clerk fails to find good cause for
an expedited review, the City Clerk shall provide such a decision to the
applicant in writing. The application deadline may also be waived if an
applicant is applying to use the catering permit at a preapproved event venue
and the number of persons attending the event is less than 200. In either
waiver situation, the application shall be submitted no later than 12:00 p.m.
(noon) the day before the event.
   (E)   Disqualifying circumstances. No person shall be issued a catering
permit if the person:
      (1)   Does not possess a valid retail liquor license, state retail beer
or wine license or permit issued pursuant to Idaho Code § 23-1007A;
      (2)   Has been convicted of, or received a withheld judgment for, any
disqualifying crime;
      (3)   Is required to obtain a planned special event permit as provided by
this code and has not obtained approval of said permit;
      (4)   Has requested a catering permit for more than the allowed maximum
number of days permitted pursuant to this chapter; or
      (5)   The Police Chief or Fire Chief recommends denial of the catering
permit.
   (F)   Police and fire application review. Upon receipt of an application
from the City Clerk’s office, the Police and Fire Chiefs, or their designees,
may recommend approval of the application, approval of the application with
conditions, or denial of the application, for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   To carry out the policies of the city, including to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the public, or to prevent an unlawful disturbance
or nuisance, the Police Chief may recommend the catering permit be issued with
conditions. The Police Chief may consider such factors as the anticipated
number of participants, the location of the venue, pedestrian and vehicular
traffic, the occurrence of other events in the area at the same time, ingress
or egress of customers to the business and surrounding businesses, the presence
of minors, and any other relevant factors. The conditions the Police Chief may
impose include, but are not limited to, posting signs, hiring additional
security personnel at the applicant’s expense, hiring trained alcohol servers,
reducing the number of dates or times of the event or maintenance of the event
venue in a specified manner, including restricted area and access points.
      (2)   The Fire Chief shall review the application to confirm that the
proposed size, configuration, location and number of people attending the event
is consistent with the Fire Code, and to determine if the event will impede the
access of emergency vehicles or emergency personnel to the area. The Fire Chief
may recommend that the event venue be maintained in a specified manner as a
condition of the catering permit to ensure compliance with the Fire Code and
access of emergency vehicles and personnel.
   (G)   Event venue. A proposed event venue shall meet all of the following
conditions:
      (1)   The event venue abuts or is contiguous to or has sufficient
sanitation services;
      (2)   The boundaries of the event venue are identified by the placement
of one or more continuous physical barriers with a minimum height of three
feet;
      (3)   Any conditions required by the Police Chief or Fire Chief that
establish and limit access of the public to and from the area where alcoholic
beverages are served and sold;
      (4)   The proposed placement or description of any required signs is
satisfactory to the Police Chief;
      (5)   None of the event venue’s furnishings, tables, chairs or barriers
encroach on any sidewalk, and are not closer than eight feet from a roadway,
alley or edge of the payment used for motor vehicle traffic, not including
private parking areas; and
      (6)   The event venue obtains and maintains in good standing all required
state, county and city licenses, and is in compliance with all applicable
federal, state and local statutes, rules and regulations.
   (H)   Issuance or denial of catering permit. The City Clerk’s office shall
issue a catering permit if all of the following are met:
      (1)   The applicant is not disqualified for any reason set forth in
division (E) above;
      (2)   The Police Chief and Fire Chief recommend issuance of a catering
permit either with or without conditions, and, if with conditions, the
applicant accepts any such conditions; and
      (3)   The event venue meets all of the requirements of division (G)
above.
   (I)   Pre-approved event venue.
      (1)   An event venue that routinely hosts catering permit events may be
pre-approved as an event venue (“pre-approved event venue”), provided the event
venue meets all of the following conditions:
         (a)   The event venue hosts at least 20 events each year at which a
catering permit is required;
         (b)   The event venue obtains and maintains in good standing all
required state, county and city licenses, and is in compliance with all
applicable federal, state and local statutes, rules and regulations; and
         (c)   The event venue shall not, within 120 days of its request to be
on the preapproved event venue list, have any violations of its state, county
and city licenses, or any criminal violations regarding the serving of
alcoholic beverages.
      (2)   Despite meeting the above qualifications, the City Clerk’s office
may deny pre-approval status to an event venue if the city deems that inclusion
on the pre-approval list is contrary to public safety or inconsistent with the
purpose for which catering permits should be used.
      (3)   A venue must re-submit its request to be a pre-approved event venue
each January, or at the time of the first catering permit application to use
that venue for the year.
      (4)   The City Clerk, Police Department or Fire Department may remove a
venue from the preapproved event venue list at any time for any violation of
this code, or any civil or criminal violation. Both inclusion on the pre-
approved event venue list and removal from the list is within the discretion of
the City Clerk’s office, and no right of appeal exists for failure to be
included on the list, or removal from the list.
   (J)   Multi-day planned special event. If a planned special event is
scheduled for more than three days, two or more separate applicants may apply
for and receive two or more separate catering permits, which may run
consecutively to each other and last the duration of the planned special event;
provided, however, that no individual applicant may receive two catering
permits that run consecutively or receive a catering permit that exceeds three
consecutive days.
   (K)   Catering permit event.
      (1)   At the event for which the catering permit was obtained, the
applicant or applicant’s designee listed on the application shall be personally
present at the event venue for the duration of the permit.
      (2)   The catering permit shall be displayed in a conspicuous location at
the event venue for the duration of the event.
   (L)   Grounds for revocation. The City Clerk, Police Chief or Fire Chief may
revoke a catering permit for the following reasons:
      (1)   When, subsequent to issuance of the catering permit, the City
Clerk’s office finds that the permittee failed to meet the qualifications and
none of the disqualifications of this section;
      (2)   The permittee obtained the permit by fraud or misrepresentation;
      (3)   The permittee fails to comply with any of the minimum standards,
requirements, policies or procedures set forth in this title;
      (4)   The catering permit is being exercised contrary to the conditions
of the catering permit; or
      (5)   The permittee is operating the catering permit in such a manner as
to be detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare.
   (M)   Revocation due to exigent circumstances.
      (1)   Where there exists a clear danger to the health, safety or welfare
of the public resulting from the use of the catering permit, or where the
permittee or his or her agents fail to perform in conformance with the
conditions and terms set forth on the catering permit, the City Clerk, Police
Chief or Fire Chief may revoke the catering permit by immediately demanding and
seizing the permit.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the revoked permit, or where the permit cannot be
seized due to the unavailability of the permittee or his or her designee, or
where the permittee or his designee refuses to surrender the permit, the Chief
of Police may direct the seizure and removal of all alcoholic beverages. The
Chief of Police shall keep the alcoholic beverages as evidence and, upon
conviction of the person for violation of the provisions of this chapter or any
other local, county or state law, forfeit the alcoholic beverages, including
all packages and bottles, to the state.
   (N)   Violations.
      (1)   A person who fails to display or surrender a catering permit as
provided in this section shall be guilty of an infraction for a first-time
offense. A second or subsequent offense shall be a misdemeanor.
      (2)   A person holding a catering permit, or any person employed or
acting on the behalf of a person holding a catering permit, who permits, allows
or fails to correct conduct in violation of the conditions or terms of a
catering permit is guilty of an infraction for a first-time offense. A second
or subsequent offense shall be a misdemeanor.
      (3)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to obtain multiple
catering permits for the sole purpose of circumventing state or local laws and
regulations.
      (4)   (1)   Every infraction is punishable as provided in §
10.99
         (2)   Every misdemeanor is punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(Penalty, see § 10.99)
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
   
112.01   Pool halls, billiard halls and card rooms
§ 112.01 POOL HALLS, BILLIARD HALLS AND CARD ROOMS.
   (A)   License required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, maintain or conduct
a billiard, pool or bagatelle or pigeonhole table open to the public without
having first obtained a license therefor as is herein required.
      (2)   All applications for such licenses shall state thereon the intended
location of the place of business and the number of tables to be used therein.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-1)
   (B)   Fees. Before a license shall be issued to any person to operate or
open a billiard, pool or card hall or room, said person shall pay to the Clerk/
Treasurer a license fee. Fees shall be set by resolution of the City Council on
an annual basis. Such license shall expire on the last day of each quarter. The
license issued under this section shall be non-transferable.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-2)
   (C)   Minors. Minors under the age of 18 years shall under no circumstances
frequent, loiter, go or remain in any hall licensed hereunder at any time
unless it be upon some lawful errand and sent under the direction and the
consent and knowledge of the parent, guardian or other person having lawful
custody of such minor; and it shall be unlawful for the proprietor of any hall
so licensed to allow or permit any such minor to frequent, loiter or remain
within the hall in violation of this division (C).
(Prior Code, § 4-6-3)
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   CURFEW
      
132.   EXPLOSIVES; FIREWORKS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   General offenses; prohibited behavior
   
130.02   Offense, aid
   
130.03   Police officers; assistance
   
130.04   Resisting an officer
Offenses Against Public Peace and Morals
   
130.15   Admission fees, fraudulently avoiding payment of
   
130.16   Assembly, unlawful
   
130.17   Disorderly conduct
   
130.18   Disturbing the peace
   
130.19   Drunkenness
   
130.20   Escapes; aiding in escapes
   
130.21   Expectorating
   
130.22   False pretenses
   
130.23   False representation
   
130.24   Indecent exposure
   
130.25   Loud speakers or sound trucks
   
130.26   Obscene conduct
   
130.27   Prostitution
   
130.28   Riot
Offenses Against Persons and/or Property
   
130.40   Assault
   
130.41   Barbed wire, electric fences
   
130.42   Battery
   
130.43   Burglar tools
   
130.44   Tobacco products or electronic smoking devices, sale to minors
   
130.45   Collecting crowds
   
130.46   Concealing knowledge
   
130.47   Injurious material on thoroughfares
   
130.48   Junk, keeping of restricted
   
130.49   Letting premises for unlawful purposes
   
130.50   Lug wheels prohibited
   
130.51   Mufflers; unnecessary noise
   
130.52   Obstructing streets
   
130.53   Petit theft
   
130.54   Playing ball on streets
   
130.55   Picnics
   
130.56   Posting bills
   
130.57   Property, malicious injury to
   
130.58   Swindling
   
130.59   Trespassing
   
130.60   Vehicles, injury to
   
130.61   Water flowing upon streets
   
130.62   Window peeping
   
130.63   Window sills to be kept clear
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 GENERAL OFFENSES; PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any act or fail to perform any
requirement which is prohibited or required by state law, insofar as such laws
are applicable to municipal government.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 OFFENSE, AID.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any way or manner, to aid, abet,
counsel, advise or encourage any other person in the commission of any of the
acts mentioned herein or in any manner encourage the commission of such offense
hereby defined.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-28) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 POLICE OFFICERS; ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any male citizen over the age of 18 years to refuse
or neglect to render assistance to any police officer when called upon for such
assistance or aid in the suppression of riot or other unlawful assemblage or in
the arrest of any person who has committee an offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-32) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 RESISTING AN OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere willfully with, resist,
delay, obstruct, molest or threaten to molest any officer of the law in the
exercise of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-37) Penalty, see §
10.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND MORALS
§ 130.15 ADMISSION FEES, FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT OF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person fraudulently to enter, without payment
of the proper admission fee, any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert or other
place where admission fees are charged; provided, however, that, nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of police
officers engaged in the performance of police duties to any place of public
entertainment or amusement.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.16 ASSEMBLY, UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for two or more persons to assemble together for the
purpose of disturbing the peace or for the purpose of committing an unlawful
act and not to disperse upon the command of an officer so to do.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.17 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any illegal or improper
diversion or to use insulting, indecent or immoral language, or to be guilty of
any indecent, insulting or immoral conduct or behavior.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.18 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, willfully, maliciously, intentionally
or unnecessarily, to disturb the peace and quiet of another or of any
neighborhood or family or religious congregation or other assembly by loud or
unusual noises or indecent behavior or by offensive or unbecoming conduct or
for any person to threaten, quarrel, fight or provoke an assault or battery or
curse or swear or utter any obscene or vulgar or indecent language in the
presence of another.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.19 DRUNKENNESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be found drunk, intoxicated or under
the influence of intoxicating liquor upon any public thoroughfare or other
public place.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.20 ESCAPES; AIDING IN ESCAPES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to aid or assist any person to
escape from lawful confinement or to assist any person to escape from the
custody of any peace officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-13)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person convicted of any offense or in
lawful custody to escape or attempt to escape from custody.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-14)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.21 EXPECTORATING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to expectorate or spit upon any sidewalk
or upon the floor of any public building or room used for public assemblies.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.22 FALSE PRETENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain any food, drink, goods, wares
or merchandise under false pretenses, or to enter any public place and call for
refreshments or other articles and receive and refuse to pay for same, or
depart without paying for or satisfying the person from whom he or she received
the food, goods, wares and merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.23 FALSE REPRESENTATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to represent falsely himself or herself
to be an officer of the city or to attempt to impersonate any such officer or
to, without authority, perform any official act therein on behalf of an
officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.24 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a state of nudity or in any
indecent or lewd dress of condition in any public place or in any such place to
make any indecent exposure of his or her person or private parts thereof or the
private parts of another or to conduct himself or herself in a lewd or
lascivious manner or to appear in any such place in a dress not belonging to
his or her sex.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.25 LOUD SPEAKERS OR SOUND TRUCKS.
   It shall be unlawful to play, operate or use any device known as a sound
truck, loud speaker or sound amplifier, radio or phonograph, with loud speaker
or sound amplifier or any instrument of any kind or character which emits loud
and raucous noises and is attached to and upon any vehicle unless such person
in charge of such vehicle shall have first applied to and received permission
from the city to operate any such vehicle so equipped.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.26 OBSCENE CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or stool in any place open to
the pubic view, or to be guilty of any lewd, lascivious or obscene conduct or
to sing any lewd or obscene song, ballad or other words in any public place or
any other place where other persons are present or indecently to exhibit any
animal.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-26) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.27 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to pursue or advertise in any
manner his or her vocation as a prostitute or for any person to advertise the
profession of a prostitute or solicit for a prostitute.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-35)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or assist in the keeping
of a house of ill-fame or prostitution or knowingly to reside therein or
knowingly to rent, lease or permit any person to occupy any house or room
owned, leased or controlled by him or her for this purpose.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-36)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.28 RIOT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse immediately to
disperse upon an order to do so by a police officer, when two or more persons
are assembled for the purpose of disturbing the peace or for the purpose of
committing any unlawful act.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-38) Penalty, see §
10.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS AND/OR PROPERTY
§ 130.40 ASSAULT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit ASSAULT, which is hereby
defined as any conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of
receiving a battery.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.41 BARBED WIRE, ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any electric fence
or any fence constructed in whole or in part or barbed wire or to use barbed
wire as a guard to any parking lot, stairway, entrance to a building or parcel
of land.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.42 BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit battery. A person commits
battery if he or she intentionally or knowingly without legal justification and
by any means causes bodily harm to an individual or makes physical contact of
an insulting or provoking nature with an individual.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.43 BURGLAR TOOLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession any
nippers of any description known a burglar’s nippers, pick-lock, skeleton key,
jimmy or other burglar’s instrument or tool of any description, unless it be
shown that the possession is innocent or for a lawful purpose.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.44 TOBACCO PRODUCTS OR ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICES, SALE TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or give away, directly or
indirectly, to a minor as stated in Idaho Code § 39-5703.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.45 COLLECTING CROWDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect within the city a crowd of
people to the annoyance of the citizens thereof or to the annoyance or injury
of the public.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.46 CONCEALING KNOWLEDGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conceal knowledge of the commission
of any offense or to conceal knowledge of any unlawful act as defined in this
code.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.47 INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON THOROUGHFARES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place or allow to remain in
or upon any public thoroughfare any material or substance injurious to person
or property.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.48 JUNK, KEEPING OF RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or keep any old articles or
materials which may be classified as junk adjacent to or in close proximity to
any schoolhouse, church, public parks, public grounds, business buildings or
residences without first providing proper and tight buildings for the storage
of the same.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.49 LETTING PREMISES FOR UNLAWFUL PURPOSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to rent, use or allow to be used any
building or property owned by him or her, for any purpose whereby riotous or
disorderly persons are gathered.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.50 LUG WHEELS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for tractors with wheels injurious to pavement to be
permitted upon the public thoroughfares unless the operator of such vehicle
shall first plank such streets.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.51 MUFFLERS; UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle which
shall not at all times be equipped with a muffler upon the exhaust thereof in
good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual
noise.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating any motor vehicle to use
a cutout, by-pass or similar muffler elimination appliance.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.52 OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or cause to be obstructed
any of the sidewalks, streets or alleys without first having obtained
permission to do so from the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.53 PETIT THEFT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit PETIT THEFT, which is hereby
defined as a theft when the property taken is of a value of less than $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-29) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.54 PLAYING BALL ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play ball or throw any ball to and
fro upon any public thoroughfare in the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.55 PICNICS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to rent, use or allow to be used any
yard, ground or grave or other real estate within the city for public picnics
or open air dances, to be conducted in such manner as to be an annoyance or
injury to the public.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.56 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, post, paint, print or nail any
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind on any curbstone,
flagstone or any other portion or part of any sidewalk or upon any tree,
lamppost, hitchpost, telegraph pole, hydrant or upon any private wall, door or
gate, without the consent in writing of the owner of the wall, door or gate;
provided, however, that, this section shall not prevent posting by proper city
and county officials of election signs, polling place signs and other signs or
placards necessary under the law to the conduct of elections.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-33) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.57 PROPERTY, MALICIOUS INJURY TO.
   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully and maliciously to injure,
deface, mutilate, remove, pull down, break or in any manner interfere with or
molest or secrete or destroy any real or personal property belonging to or
under the control of any person.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-34) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.58 SWINDLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who by color, or aid of any trick or
sleight of hand performance or by fraud or by fraudulent scheme, cards, dice or
device to win for himself, herself or for another any money or property or a
representative of either.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-39) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.59 TRESPASSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take down any fence or to let down
any bars or to open any gate in or on the property of another without the
consent of the owner, occupant or person in charge thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-40) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.60 VEHICLES, INJURY TO.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to individually, or in association with
one or more others, wilfully break, injure, tamper with or remove any part or
parts of any vehicle for the purpose of injuring, defacing or destroying such
vehicle, or temporarily or permanently preventing its useful operation, or for
any purpose against the will or without the consent of the owner of such
vehicle or to in any other manner willfully or maliciously interfere with or
prevent the running or operation of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-41) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.61 WATER FLOWING UPON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any water to flow into or upon
any public thoroughfare.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-42) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.62 WINDOW PEEPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to look, peer or peep into, or to be
found loitering around or within view of any window not on his or her own
property with the intent of watching or looking through said window.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-43) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.63 WINDOW SILLS TO BE KEPT CLEAR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or keep on any window sill,
porch or other projection above the first story of any building abutting on any
sidewalk any article which might do injury by falling upon any person on the
sidewalk in front of such building, unless said article be securely fastened or
protected by screens.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-44) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: CURFEW
Section
   
131.01   Establishment
   
131.02   Exceptions
§ 131.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to be or
remain and it shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or other adult person
having the care and custody of any person under the age of 16 years to allow or
permit such person to be or remain in or upon any street, alley or public place
or ground between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. during the months of
October, November, December, January, February, March and April, or between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. during the months of May, June, July, August
and September.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of §
131.01 of this chapter shall not apply to any person who is accompanied by his
or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of
such person, nor to any person who is in the performance of an errand or duty
directed by such person, parent, guardian or other adult person having the care
and custody of such person (which direction must be in writing, signed and
bearing the date of such errand or duty), nor to any person who is actually at
the time engaged in legitimate employment for profit.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2)
CHAPTER 132: EXPLOSIVES; FIREWORKS
Section
General Provisions
   
132.01   Explosives; location
Fireworks
   
132.15   Definitions
   
132.16   Permits
   
132.17   Application; form
   
132.18   Investigation; power to deny
   
132.19   Term of permit
   
132.20   Time of filing
   
132.21   Liability insurance
   
132.22   Time of sale
   
132.23   Stands
   
132.24   Records
   
132.25   Bond
   
132.26   Compliance
 
   
132.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.01 EXPLOSIVES; LOCATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, process, store or keep
any gunpowder, nitroglycerin or other similar highly explosive substance for
commercial purposes within 500 feet of any home or substantial building
belonging to another, with the exception of black gunpowder used for reloading
and sporting purposes.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-1) Penalty, see §
132.99 
FIREWORKS
§ 132.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS FIREWORKS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Firecrackers, cannon crackers, giant crackers, salutes, silver tube
salutes, cherry bombs, mines, ground bombardment, grasshoppers and other
explosive articles of similar nature;
      (2)   Blank cartridges;
      (3)   Skyrockets and rockets, including all similar devices employing any
combustible or explosive material and which ride in the air during discharge;
      (4)   Roman candles, including all devices which discharge balls of fire
into the air;
      (5)   Chasers and whistles, including all devices which dart or travel
about the surface of the ground during discharge;
      (6)   Snakes and hats containing bichloride of mercury;
      (7)   Sparklers more than ten inches in length or one-quarter inch in
diameter or made with other than iron wires;
      (8)   All articles for pyrotechnic display such as aerial shells,
salutes, flash shells, sky battles, parachute shells, mines and similar
fireworks devices, including cracker balls;
      (9)   All torpedoes which explode by means of friction, or which contain
arsenic, and all other similar fireworks devices including cracker balls; and
      (10)   Fire balloons or balloons of any type which have burning material
of any kind attached thereto.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2)
   FIREWORKS. Blank cartridges, toy cannons, toy canes or toy guns in which
explosives are used, fire balloons (balloons of a type which have burning
material of any king attached thereto or which require fire underneath to
propel them), firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, fountain
wheels, sparklers and other fireworks of like construction and any fireworks
containing any combustible or explosive substance for the purpose of producing
a visible or audible effect or combustion, deflagration, explosion or
detonation. Exempted from this part are all toy pistols, toy cannons, toy guns
and toy canes, and similar devices such as party poppers or party favors, in
which paper caps containing not more than 0.25 grain of explosive compound per
cap are used, and such caps whether single, roll or tape type.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-1)
   SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Cone fountains with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding 50 grams
each;
      (2)   Cylindrical fountains, whether base, spike or handle with
pyrotechnic composition not exceeding 75 grams each and inside tube diameter
not exceeding three-quarters inch;
      (3)   Sparklers and dipped sticks not more than ten inches in length or
one-quarter inch in diameter made of steel or iron wire and Suzuki and morning
glories with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding four grams each;
      (4)   Snakes which do not contain bichloride of mercury and pyrotechnic
composition not exceeding two grams each;
      (5)   Wheels with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding 60 grains for
each driver unit or 240 grains for each complete wheel. The inside tube
diameter of driver unit shall not exceed one-half inch; and
      (6)   Whistles, without report and which do not dart or travel about the
ground during discharge with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding six grams
and containing no picric or gallic acid.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-3)
§ 132.16 PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to import, export,
offer for sale, sell, possess, keep or store, or permit the keeping or storing
of any dangerous fireworks for any use or purpose; except that, a person
holding a dangerous fireworks permit issued pursuant to the terms and
conditions of this subchapter may use dangerous fireworks for a safely
supervised and conducted public display of fireworks, and said fireworks may be
stored for a period not exceeding four days immediately preceding the date of
said public display.
   (B)   No person, without having a valid safe fireworks permit issued
pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in this subchapter shall import,
export, possess for the purpose of sale, offer for sale or sell any safe and
sane fireworks for any use of purpose.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.17 APPLICATION; FORM.
   (A)   Any reputable person in reasonable pursuit or furtherance of any
legitimate personal business or charitable purpose, desiring to engage in the
sale of safe and sane fireworks or desiring to make a public display of
dangerous fireworks within the city, shall first make written application to
the Clerk/Treasurer for a safe and sane fireworks permit or a dangerous
fireworks permit. Each applicant shall pay to the Clerk/Treasurer a fee set by
resolution of the City Council at the time he or she files his or her
application, in the event no such permit is issued by the city by June 15 in
the year during which the application is made, the Clerk/Treasurer shall refund
the application fee. At the time and as a condition of such filing, and with
each application, each applicant shall pay an additional fee to defray cost of
preliminary investigations required hereunder and to be conducted by the city,
which fee shall be set by resolution of the City Council, per site applied for,
and shall not be refundable in any event.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-5)
   (B)   Each applicant for a safe and sane fireworks permit or a dangerous
fireworks permit shall file his or her application with the Clerk/Treasurer.
Each application shall show the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   The purpose for which the applicant is primarily existing and for
which it was organized;
      (3)   The names and addresses of the officers, trustees and/or directors,
if any, of the applicant;
      (4)   The location where the applicant requests permission to sell safe
and sane fireworks or display dangerous fireworks;
      (5)   When and where the applicant was organized and established, or, if
a natural person, the applicant’s age;
      (6)   The location of the applicant’s principal and permanent meeting
place or places, or principal place or places of business;
      (7)   The applicant’s state sales tax permit number;
      (8)   If the applicant is an entity other than a sole proprietorship, the
name and a general description of the business activities of each parent or
subsidiary company, business or entity, and a general description of the
ownership organization of each parent or subsidiary, if any; and
      (9)   Such other information as the Clerk/Treasurer may require on a
standard form, submitted to all applicants and which is reasonably necessary to
protect the public health, safety and morals.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-6)
§ 132.18 INVESTIGATION; POWER TO DENY.
   (A)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall cause an investigation to be made of each
application and applicant and shall submit a written report of his or her
findings and recommendations for or against the issuance of the permit,
together with his or her reasons therefor, to the Mayor and Council of the
city, which report shall not be public information, except on request of the
applicant or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-7)
   (B)   The Mayor and Council of the city shall have the power, in its
discretion, to grant or deny any application, subject to such reasonable
conditions, if any, as it shall prescribe so long as the denial of the
application is reasonably necessary for protection of the public health, safety
and morals.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-8)
§ 132.19 TERM OF PERMIT.
   A safe and sane fireworks permit, or a dangerous fireworks permit issued
pursuant to this subchapter shall be valid only within the calendar year in
which issued. A permit shall be valid only for the specific premises or
location designated in the permit. However, subject to reasonable conditions
necessary for protection of the public health, safety and morals, an applicant
may be granted permits for more than one site or location within the city. No
permit shall be transferable or assignable.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-9)
§ 132.20 TIME OF FILING.
   Each application for a permit to sell safe and sane fireworks at retail
shall be filed with the Clerk/Treasurer on or before June 1 of the calendar
year for which the permit is sought.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-10)
§ 132.21 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   Each applicant for a safe and sane fireworks permit or for a dangerous
fireworks permit shall have filed with the Clerk/Treasurer prior to the
issuance and validity of any permit a policy, or a certified true copy thereof,
of public liability and products liability insurance, including both accident
and occurrence coverage. The insurance coverage limits for both public
liability coverage and products liability coverage limits shall be at least
$100,000 per person per occurrence bodily injury, $300,000 per occurrence
aggregate bodily injury and $100,000 per occurrence aggregate property damage.
Each policy of insurance shall be in form and substance acceptable to the city
and shall name as insured parties under the terms of the policy the city in
performance of official functions regarding all operations under or pertaining
to said permit and licensee or licensor of the applicant, and all vendors of
the fireworks covered by the permit to be issued to the applicant. Said policy
of insurance shall be so written that it cannot be cancelled without at least
ten days’ prior written notice to the city from the underwriting insurance
company. The policy of insurance shall be underwritten through or by a
qualified and duly licensed insurance company or companies doing or authorized
to do insurance business in the state.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-11)
§ 132.22 TIME OF SALE.
   Safe and sane fireworks, as now defined by Idaho Code Title 39, Chapter 26,
and as the same may hereafter be defined by amendment, may be possessed, sold,
given away, displayed and used between and including June 25 and July 5 of each
year.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-12)
§ 132.23 STANDS.
   (A)   Temporary fireworks stands from which safe and sane fireworks are to
be sold shall be subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   The stand in which the fireworks shall be stored or sold shall not
be located within 25 feet of any other building, nor within 100 feet, of any
gasoline station or flammable liquid dispensing device or installation.
      (2)   All such stands shall meet the structural stability requirements of
the building regulations of the city and all lighting circuits and other
electrical equipment shall meet the requirements of the electrical regulations
of the city.
      (3)   The stand shall have exit doors at least 30 inches wide at both
ends of the structure and one additional door for each 25 feet of rear wall in
excess of 25 feet. All doors shall open outward from the stand and all doorways
shall be kept free and clear from all supplies and materials at all times.
      (4)   Each stand shall be provided with a minimum of two two-and-one-
half-gallon soda and acid- type fire extinguishers, in good working order, and
easily accessible for use in case of fire, which shall be kept in immediate
proximity to the location where the fireworks are retailed.
      (5)   There shall be at least one supervisor, 21 years of age or older,
on duty at all times. All fireworks shall be effectively kept away from any
kind of self-service by the public, and shall be placed in a location which is
unavailable and inaccessible to members of the public in capacities other than
as legal customers. No person under 18 years of age shall be allowed inside the
temporary stand at any time, nor shall any person under 18 years of age work at
or about any stand where safe and sane fireworks are sold or offered for sale.
      (6)   No person employed as a watchman shall be permitted to remain
inside of any stand when it is not open for business.
      (7)   “NO SMOKING” signs shall be prominently displayed both inside and
outside the stand. No smoking shall be permitted within the stand or within 15
feet of the stand.
      (8)   No temporary stand shall be erected before June 10 of any year. The
premises on which the stand is erected shall be cleared of all structures and
debris not later than noon on July 26.
      (9)   No fireworks shall be discharged in or within 20 feet of any
fireworks stand.
      (10)   No person shall allow any rubbish to accumulate in or around any
fireworks stand or permit a fire nuisance to exist.
      (11)   No fireworks shall remain unattended at any time regardless of
whether the fireworks stand is open for business or not. If any fireworks are
stored, they shall only be stored at places such as are approved for storage of
fireworks by the city.
      (12)   No stand shall have a floor area in excess of 750 square feet.
   (B)   Permanent business structures from which safe and sane fireworks are
to be sold shall be subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   All such buildings shall meet the structural stability requirements
of the building regulations of the city and all lighting circuits and other
electrical equipment shall meet the requirements of the electrical regulations
of the city.
      (2)   (a)   The building shall have exit doors at least 30 inches wide at
both ends of the structure and shall otherwise conform to the exit regulations
established by the city building regulations for structures of the size and
nature of said building.
         (b)   All doors shall open outward and all doorways shall be kept free
and clear from all supplies and materials at all times.
      (3)   (a)   Each building shall be provided with such number of fire
extinguishers as the city shall deem adequate, but in all cases the number
shall not be less than two.
         (b)   The fire extinguishers shall be two-and-one-half-gallon soda and
acid type extinguishers or other types approved by the Fire Chief of the city.
         (c)   The fire extinguishers shall be kept in good working order,
easily accessible for use in case of fire and kept in immediate proximity to
the location where the fireworks are retailed.
      (4)   (a)   There shall be at least one supervisor, 21 years of age or
older, on duty at all times. All fireworks shall be screened or otherwise
effectively segregated from any kind of self-service by the public, and shall
be placed in a location which is unavailable and inaccessible to members of the
public in capacities other than as legal customers.
         (b)   No person under 18 years of age shall be allowed at any time
inside the screened or otherwise segregated area where the fireworks are
located.
      (5)   No person employed as a watchman shall be permitted to remain
inside the screened or otherwise segregated area when it is not open for
business.
      (6)   “NO SMOKING” signs shall be prominently displayed both inside and
outside the screened or otherwise segregated area. No smoking shall be
permitted within the screened or otherwise segregated area or within 15 feet of
such area.
      (7)   No fireworks shall be discharged in or within 25 feet of the
screened or segregated area where fireworks are kept.
      (8)   No person shall allow any rubbish to accumulate, or permit a fire
nuisance to exist in or around the area where fireworks are sold.
      (9)   If fireworks are stored, they shall only be stored in such places
as are approved for storage of fireworks by the city.
      (10)   No building where alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption on
the premises shall be used for the retail sale of safe and sane fireworks.
      (11)   The city may establish other regulations for permanent structures
where fireworks are to be sold so long as said regulations are reasonably
necessary to protect the public health, safety and morals and apply uniformly
to all applicants.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-13) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.24 RECORDS.
   Each permittee shall be required to retain at the licensed premises while
said premises are open, and at his or her principal place of business for a
year thereafter, copies of all invoices, receipts and orders evidencing the
source from which he or she acquired the fireworks which he or she handled.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-14) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.25 BOND.
   In those cases where the applicant conducts the sale of fireworks from a
temporary fireworks stand, he or she shall post with the Clerk/Treasurer a case
bond or cash deposit in the amount of not less than $50 (or such other security
as may be acceptable to the city) conditioned upon the prompt removal of the
temporary fireworks stand and cleaning up of debris from the site of the
temporary fireworks stand, which deposit or security shall be returned to the
applicant only in the event he removes said temporary fireworks stand and
cleans up all debris to the satisfaction of the city. In the event of the
applicant’s failure to so remove the stand and debris, said cash bond or cash
deposit shall be forfeited to the city. In no event shall the applicant be
entitled to the return of said cash bond of cash deposit if he or she has
failed to remove said temporary fireworks stand and clean up all debris by noon
on July 26 of any year.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-15)
§ 132.26 COMPLIANCE.
   It shall be the duty of every person issued a fireworks permit to comply
with all the provisions of the state’s Fireworks Act and this subchapter. The
conviction of violation of the aforesaid state’s Fireworks Act or any of the
provisions of this subchapter by the permittee, or by any of its agents,
employees or officers shall constitute a cause, in and of itself, to deny any
subsequent application for a permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-16)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   It shall be the legal duty of each permittee to clear such sites and
remove all debris therefrom on or before July 26 of the year in which the
permit is granted, and failure to do so shall be punishable by a $250 fine and/
or 60 days confinement in the city jail.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-15)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   SIGNS
      
152.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
153.   TREES
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOMES
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
150.01   Building Code
   
150.02   Plumbing Code
   
150.03   Electrical Code
   
150.04   Uniform Fire Code
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODE.
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition, equipment,
use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and structures, that
certain Building Code known as the “Uniform Building Code”, copyrighted by the
International Conference of Building Officials, and the same is hereby adopted
and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein and the provisions
thereof shall be controlling in the construction of all buildings and other
structures.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 150.02 PLUMBING CODE.
   The Uniform Plumbing Code of the city establishing rules and regulations for
the installation of plumbing shall be and consist of a pamphlet entitled
“Report of the Co-Ordinating Committee for a National Plumbing Code”, and the
said pamphlet is hereby adopted as the Plumbing Code of the city and is hereby
adopted and ratified and shall be in effect the same as if set forth in full
herein.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1)
§ 150.03 ELECTRICAL CODE.
   All electric wiring, installation of electrical fixtures apparatus or
electrical appliances for furnishing light, heat or power, or other electrical
work introduced into or placed in or upon, or in any way connected to, any
building or structure within the limits of the city shall be in conformity with
the provisions set forth in the Electrical Code for electrical wiring and
apparatus, which is hereby adopted and incorporated as a part of this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1)
§ 150.04 UNIFORM FIRE CODE.
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, that certain
code known as the “Uniform Fire Code”, and the same is hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-1)
CHAPTER 151: SIGNS
Section
   
151.01   Awnings
   
151.02   Billboards; bill posting
§ 151.01 AWNINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, have, keep, maintain or
place an awning on buildings and structures abutting on the streets in any
manner so that any part or such awning attached to said building and structure
shall be less than seven feet above the top surface of the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.02 BILLBOARDS; BILL POSTING.
   (A)   Billboards kept orderly. All persons engaged in the business or
occupation of bill posting, bill distributing, sign tacking, sign, wall or
bulletin painting shall keep all billboards, sign or bulletin boards or outdoor
advertising contrivances or devices free and clean or loose paper or other
rubbish and not suffer or permit any paper or any other material from any such
billboard, sign or bulletin board or outdoor advertising contrivance or device
to become scattered, blown or deposited in or about any street or alley or
other public place.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-1)
   (B)   Throwing advertising. The throwing of any form of advertising matter,
such as dodgers, handbills, circulars, samples or like matter or any lawn or
parking is strictly prohibited. All such advertising matter must be placed
inside the screen or immediately under the door, or in the jamb of the door or
in a receptacle provided for the receipt of such advertising matter.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-2)
   (C)   Non-compliance. If the inspecting officer shall find that any
billboard, sign or bulletin board or other structure for advertising now or
hereafter erected is erected or maintained in an unsafe, insecure or
unsatisfactory manner, he or she may order the same repaired and, if not so
repaired within ten days from the date of said order, he or she must report
such facts to the Council who shall, if it finds the report of the inspecting
officer correct, order the permit of the person owning or operating such
unsafe, unsecure or unsatisfactory or unsightly billboard, sign or bulletin
board or other contrivance for advertising purposes revoked. All such
billboards, signs or bulletin boards or other contrivances for outdoor
advertising purposes, must have placed and maintained on the top of each, the
name of the person owning same or who is in possession or control thereof.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-3)
   (D)   Advertising signs. No signs, tags, sheet display or bulletin painting
shall be placed on any walls, fences, roofs or buildings or other structures
other than billboards, sign or bulletin boards constructed and erected
according to the provisions of division (E) below; provided that, nothing in
this section shall be construed to apply to the posting of regular notices by
public officers, nor the right of any newspaper of regular issue to distribute
its papers throughout the city, nor to any merchant advertising his own
business by the distribution of circulars, nor the placing as required by law
of wood, lettered, painted, metal or electric signs over, upon or in front of
business buildings, offices, houses and the like, for advertising the name or
business of any person occupying same, or the goods sold therein or the sign of
real estate firms, advertising the property on which said signs are located for
sale or rent.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-4)
   (E)   Specifications. All billboards, signs or bulletin boards shall not
exceed 11 feet in height, clear posting, painting or display surface, and shall
be constructed in a good substantial and workmanlike manner, and kept and
maintained in a safe and secure condition at all times. All billboards, sign or
bulletin boards hereafter erected shall be constructed of galvanized iron or
some other equally non- combustible material; except that, the stringers,
uprights and braces may be of Oregon fir or some other equally strong or
durable material, and all such billboards, signs or bulletin boards shall be
wholly within the property lines. No billboard, sign or bulletin board shall
hereafter be placed, affixed to nor upon the roof of any building, except such
as are constructed of well-braced iron or steel and property equipped with
electric lights in a manner directed by the Building Inspector or some other
designated person.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-5)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
Sidewalk Obstructions
   
152.01   Snow; occupants to remove
   
152.02   Rubbish removal
   
152.03   Obstructing sidewalk
   
152.04   Carts and wagons on sidewalks
Sidewalk Construction and Maintenance
   
152.15   Council authority
   
152.16   Contents of order
   
152.17   Notice; service
   
152.18   Advertising for bids
   
152.19   Notice of delinquency
   
152.20   Extending time
   
152.21   Permit required
   
152.22   Cement; concrete sidewalks
   
152.23   Sidewalk lines
   
152.24   Forms
   
152.25   Preparing concrete; laying concrete
   
152.26   Finish
   
152.27   Protection
   
152.28   Cleaning sidewalks and streets
   
152.29   Curb construction
Streets
   
152.40   Heavy equipment
   
152.41   Excavations and obstructions
   
152.42   Picketing in streets
   
152.43   Trash removal
   
152.44   Gravel dumping or removal
   
152.45   Street cut permits
Ditches
   
152.60   Ditches to be kept clean
   
152.61   Injuring ditches
   
152.62   Culverts to be maintained
   
152.63   Permission required
   
152.64   Headgates; tampering
   
152.65   Water in streets
   
152.66   Earthen dams
   
152.67   Diversion requirements
 
   
152.99   Penalty
SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 152.01 SNOW; OCCUPANTS TO REMOVE.
   Every owner or occupant of any house or other building and the person
entitled to the possession of any vacant lot and every person having the charge
of any church, or public hall or public building shall during the time snow
shall be on the ground by 9:00 a.m. every morning, when necessary, clear the
sidewalks and gutters in front of such lot from snow, and keep conveniently
free therefrom during the day, and shall also at all times keep such sidewalks
clear and free from dirt, filth and other obstructions or encumbrances so as to
allow citizens the use of the safe sidewalks in an easy, safe and commodious
manner and every person neglecting or refusing to comply with the provisions of
this section shall be issued a fine.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02 RUBBISH REMOVAL.
   Any owner, tenant or occupant of any real property shall remove all rubbish,
brush, bushes, stones, weeds, noxious grasses, snow and other obstructions from
the sidewalks and alleys adjoining the premises or property owned or occupied
by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALK.
   Any person who shall obstruct or cause to be obstructed any of the
sidewalks, streets or alleys and shall continue such obstruction for a period
of two hours after written notice from the City Clerk to remove the same shall
be issued a fine.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 CARTS AND WAGONS ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to haul, push, convey or propel in any
manner over or upon the sidewalks any push cart, wagon or cart of any kind,
size or description; provided that, nothing in this section shall apply to any
such cart, wagon or push cart used for the carrying or conveying of hauling of
infants.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4) Penalty, see §
152.99
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
§ 152.15 COUNCIL AUTHORITY.
   The Council may, at any regular meeting, or at any special meeting called
for that purpose by a vote of three-fourths of the members of the Council, or
by a vote of a majority of the Council when there has been filed with the
Clerk/Treasurer a petition signed by a majority of the property owners of not
less than one side of a block, by an order entered on the minutes of such
meeting direct the construction of sidewalks on any street, block or part of a
block assessing the cost thereof on the property in front of which the same
shall be laid, directing the owner thereof to construct the same at his or her
expense; and the Council may, in like manner, order the alteration or repair of
any sidewalks now or hereafter constructed.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1)
§ 152.16 CONTENTS OF ORDER.
   When the construction or repair of any sidewalk is ordered, the order
therefor shall state the material of which the same shall be constructed or
repaired, the date on or before which the same shall be completed, and in case
any sidewalks are to be constructed, the order shall contain complete
specifications thereof as to width, position, material and so forth, and
whether or not a curb shall be constructed.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2)
§ 152.17 NOTICE; SERVICE.
   Whenever any sidewalks are to be constructed or repaired, the Clerk/
Treasurer shall prepare a notice to be served upon the owner of the property
abutting upon the sidewalks to be repaired or constructed, directing such
owners to construct or repair such sidewalk within 15 days from the date of the
notice and report the completion thereof to the Clerk/Treasurer or Street
Commissioner. Such notice shall be served by the Street Commissioner by
delivering a copy thereof to the owner of the abutting property, or his or her
agent, if such owner or agent can be found within the city, but if not to be
found within the city, then, if his or her place of residence be known, by
sending a copy of the order by registered mail to his or her place of
residence, but if such owner or agent cannot be found within the city and his
or her place of residence in unknown, such notice shall be served by the
publication of a copy thereof for two successive weeks in the official
newspaper of the city, the last publication of which must be at least 20 days
before the time mentioned in the notice for the completion of the construction
or repair of the sidewalks herein mentioned.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3)
§ 152.18 ADVERTISING FOR BIDS.
   If, at the expiration of 15 days from the time of person service, mailing or
the first publication of said notice, any sidewalk ordered to be constructed or
repaired is not completed, according to the order thereof, the Council shall
proceed to advertise by sealed bids for the construction or repair thereof, by
publication for as least one week in the official newspaper, stating in such
notice the particular pieces of the sidewalk to be constructed or repaired and
referring to the original order for such construction or repair, for the
specifications thereof and to proceed to let the contract for such construction
or repair to the lowest bidder, unless in the judgment of the Council such bid
is too high; provided, however, that, whenever the estimated costs of the
construction of any piece of sidewalk or the repair thereof does not exceed
$500 the same may be constructed under the direction of the Street Commissioner
without advertising for bids.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4)
§ 152.19 NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY.
   After any sidewalk or portion of any sidewalk has been constructed or
repaired as provided in this subchapter, the Council shall declare the owner of
the abutting property delinquent, and the Clerk/Treasurer shall be instructed
to give such delinquent owner notice, in the same manner as provided for the
service of notice for the construction or repair, that he or she is delinquent
stating the amount and that unless the same is paid together with cost of
service if served by publication, within 30 days of the notice, that 25% will
be added to the amount of delinquency as a penalty. At the expiration of 30
days from the date of the service of the notice, provided the same has been
served personally or by mail or 30 days after the time of the first publication
if served by publication, the Council shall proceed to add 25% of the amount of
such delinquency as a penalty to the actual cost of construction or repair of
such sidewalks, charges for publication, if any, and penalty against the
property abutting thereto, and the Clerk/Treasurer shall forthwith certify the
action of the Council, together with a description of the property with the
assessments and the amount of such delinquency to the amount of state and
county taxes assessable against such property, and if such property is not
liable for state and county taxes he or she shall enter the name of the
delinquent owner for the amount of such delinquent sidewalk taxes only, and he
or she shall collect such delinquent taxes at the time and in the manner
provided by law for the collection of state and county taxes.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-5)
§ 152.20 EXTENDING TIME.
   The Council may for good cause shown extend the time within which any
sidewalk shall be constructed or repaired, but no such extension of time shall
exceed 60 days.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-6)
§ 152.21 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before building any sidewalk under the provisions of this subchapter,
the owner of abutting property shall make application for and secure a permit
from the Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   Fee for said permit shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-7)
§ 152.22 CEMENT; CONCRETE SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   All cement to be used for the construction of sidewalks or curbs shall
be of some well-known and reliable brand, and shall conform to the standard
specifications of the American Society for Testing Materials.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-8)
   (B)   (1)   Sidewalks shall be constructed in lengths not to exceed 50 feet
with a joint one-half inch thick and four inches wide across the width of the
walk, and at a right angle with the line of the walk. The finished walk shall
be four inches in depth.
      (2)   (a)   All walks shall be at least five feet wide, except where
otherwise ordered by the city.
         (b)   The slope thereof shall correspond to a fall of three-fourths
inch for each five feet of width of the sidewalk; provided that, in strictly
residential districts sidewalks need not be sloped.
         (c)   Edges of all sidewalks shall be finished and rounded to a one-
inch radius.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-9)
§ 152.23 SIDEWALK LINES.
   (A)   (1)   Stakes for lines and grade will be set by the city.
      (2)   The upper edge of the finished walk shall be built to true lines
conforming with the grade and property lines as set and irregularities in the
line of surface shall be straightened.
   (B)   The line of the walk may be shifted on the order of the city to avoid
valuable trees or other obstacles.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-10)
§ 152.24 FORMS.
   Lumber used for forms shall be sound, unwarped materials not less than one
and three-fourths inches in thickness.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-11)
§ 152.25 PREPARING CONCRETE; LAYING CONCRETE.
   (A)   (1)   The concrete shall be made as follows: one part Portland cement
to two and one-half parts sand, and four and one-half parts gravel by measure.
      (2)   The material may consist of river run or gravel if it fulfills the
following requirements: it shall all pass a two and one-half inch screen and
shall be of such proportions of sand and gravel that 33-1/3% shall pass through
a sieve having 16 meshes per square inch.
      (3)   All proportions shall be by measure and for each cubic yard of
concrete five sacks of cement shall be used, a sack to contain one cubic foot.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-12)
   (B)   (1)   Upon the foundation prepared shall be laid a bed of concrete
four inches in thickness of the same mix throughout. The concrete shall be
placed as expeditiously as possible in the forms.
      (2)   Retempering of concrete will not be permitted. All concrete which
has begun to set before ramming is completed shall be removed from the work.
      (3)   Before adding any new concrete mixture to that which had already
been laid for one hour or more, the surface of the old work shall be thoroughly
cleaned and coated with a thin grout of equal parts of Portland cement and sand
before the new mixture is added. No concrete shall be laid when the temperature
at any time of the day or night falls below 36°F.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-13)
§ 152.26 FINISH.
   (A)   (1)   After being poured and struck off, the concrete shall be worked
and puddled until the coarse aggregate is a mixture of one part cement to two
parts fine screened sand.
      (2)   This is to be floated into the surface and the walk left with a
fine sand float finish.
   (B)   (1)   The walk must be creased into squares, a crease every six feet.
      (2)   The edges are to be rounded to a radius of one inch.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-14)
§ 152.27 PROTECTION.
   It shall be covered with canvas, sand, earth, straw or other material to
thoroughly protect it from the elements, and must be kept wet for at least 48
hours when it may be allowed to set thoroughly with frequent sprinklings for
four days.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-15)
§ 152.28 CLEANING SIDEWALKS AND STREETS.
   (A)   The earth or other covering shall be removed and the sidewalk shall be
thoroughly cleaned.
   (B)   All excess materials and all rubbish shall be removed from the area.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-16)
§ 152.29 CURB CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All curbs that are constructed shall be 16 inches deep, six inches in
width at the top and batter out at the rate of one inch in one foot, and shall
be beveled or rounded on the upper or outer edge and at the intersection of
streets the comer shall be a quadrant with three-foot radius.
   (B)   Expansion joints one-half inch in thickness shall be placed every 50
feet, and at the tangent points on curves, extending entirely through the curb,
and at right angles thereto.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-17)
STREETS
§ 152.40 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to run or otherwise move any traction or
similar engine across or over any culvert or bridge in any of the streets or
alleys without first covering such bridge or culvert with good substantial
plank of not less than four inches in thickness so placed and arranged as to
prevent the right of such engine from resting on or being sustained by such
bridge or culvert.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.41 EXCAVATIONS AND OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Any person who shall make any excavation or cause any excavation to be made
in any public place, or bordering on any public place, or who shall obstruct
any street or alley, or cause any street or alley to be obstructed in any
manner, shall each night before dark cause a red light danger signal, or as
many such lights as may be necessary to properly warn the public of such
excavation or obstruction, and which lights shall be by such party kept burning
until daylight the next morning.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.42 PICKETING IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tie, picket or fasten any animal in
the streets or alleys of the city for the purpose of feeding or grazing, or to
tie, fasten or picket any such animals in such manner that they will feed or
graze in or upon any of the streets or alleys.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.43 TRASH REMOVAL.
   Whenever any person who is the owner or proprietor or entitled to the
possession of any house, building lot or tract of land shall fail or neglect to
remove the rubbish, snow, weeds, filth or any obstruction to the streets,
alleys or sidewalks, the same shall be done at the expense of the city and the
amount thereof charged against the property, which amount shall be added to the
taxes against the said property and certified by the Clerk/Treasurer to the
County Assessor and Tax Collector.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-4) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.44 GRAVEL DUMPING OR REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pile, dump, deposit, lay or place any
gravel, sand, rocks, dirt or clay upon any of the streets, avenues, alleys or
sidewalks or to remove any of said substances from any of the streets, avenues
or alleys thereof, without first obtaining the consent of the Mayor and Council
so to do.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-5) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.45 STREET CUT PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person to cut or make
cuts in any street or in any paved alley for the purpose of making sewer
connections, water connections or otherwise without first obtaining a street
cutting permit.
   (B)   Restoration of paved streets and paved alleys. Where a paved street or
alley is cut, the restoration of the pavement shall be made by and at the
expense of the person cutting the street or alley.
Franchised utilities may at the approval of the engineer contract with others
within the city to restore pavement. All costs of pavement restoration shall be
at the expense of the utility.
   (C)   Specifications. All street and alley cuts shall be made in accordance
with the specifications hereby adopted as “Regulations for Cutting Streets and
Alleys”, copies of which shall be on file at all times in the office of the
Clerk/Treasurer.
   (D)   Fees.
      (1)   A permit fee shall be charged at the time a permit is issued.
      (2)   The applicant shall also obtain a performance bond sufficient to
cover cost of the cut to insure compliance with this subchapter which will be
returned after restoration is properly made, as determined by the city.
      (3)   The cost of the permit fee and deposit shall be set by resolution
of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-6) Penalty, see §
152.99
DITCHES
§ 152.60 DITCHES TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   Any owner, agent, tenant or occupant of any real property shall at all times
keep gutters or ditches in front of or adjoining such property in a clean
condition, free from the obstruction of weeds and of sufficient depth and width
to at all times readily convey irrigating or surface water without any overflow
upon streets, alleys, sidewalks or private property.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.61 INJURING DITCHES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure any irrigation ditch that may
be located on any street within the corporate limits of the city or to drive
any stock through or over any such ditch unless he or she drives over some
bridge or culvert, or to tie any stock out so they will walk into such ditch or
on the banks thereof, or to do any other act that will result in injury to said
ditch or ditches.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-2) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.62 CULVERTS TO BE MAINTAINED.
   It is hereby made the duty of any person who shall run water for irrigation
or for any other purpose across any of the streets, alleys or sidewalks, to
construct and keep in repair a good and substantial culvert of sufficient
capacity for carrying said water and to cover such culvert where the same
crosses any street, alley or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-3) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.63 PERMISSION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dig or construct any ditch, lateral
or culvert or to lay any pipe on or across any street or alley without first
obtaining permission from the Water Commissioner or the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-4) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.64 HEADGATES; TAMPERING.
   No person, except the Water Commissioner, shall obstruct or dam up any ditch
or culvert or shall remove or change any headgate or check in any ditch without
the consent of the owner thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-5) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 153.65 WATER IN STREETS.
   No person shall cause or permit any water used by him or her for the purpose
of irrigation or for any other purpose to flow in or upon or across any public
highway, street or alley or upon the premises of another, in any manner not
authorized by law of the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-6) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.66 EARTHEN DAMS.
   No person shall cause any earthen dam or any other obstruction in any of the
irrigating ditches, and all persons entitled to the use of water from any such
ditch shall place therein for his or her use and for the purpose of diverting
his or her water, a wooden or cement headgate or check.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-7) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.67 DIVERSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No land shall be entitled to receive or shall receive irrigation water
from the ditches and distribution system located in and operated by the city
unless and until such land be leveled and graded in such manner and to such
extent that irrigation water can be diverted from the nearest ditch of the
irrigation system so being operated by the city in a feasible manner, and in
such manner as not to unreasonably impede the flow of water in such ditch, and
in such manner as not to require the water in such ditch to be backed up to an
unreasonable extent or forced onto lands not then being irrigated.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to lands which have
been actually receiving irrigation water from and through the said city system.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-8) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Fines for said violations shall be set by resolution of the City
Council.
CHAPTER 153: TREES
Section
   
153.01   Trees to be trimmed
   
153.02   Trees outside property line
   
153.03   Cutting trees
§ 153.01 TREES TO BE TRIMMED.
   Any owner, agent, tenant or occupant or any real property shall trim all
trees on property owned or occupied by him, her or them overhanging the
sidewalks, streets or alleys, so that the branches thereon will not interfere
with pedestrians or public travel.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.02 TREES OUTSIDE PROPERTY LINE.
   The Mayor and Council are hereby given full and complete control over all
trees growing within the confines of the city; namely, growing outside of the
property line of the respective lots and acreages.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-2)
§ 153.03 CUTTING TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any property or anyone else to remove,
cut or otherwise mutilate any trees growing outside of the property lines of
the various lots and acreage tracts, without the consent of the Street
Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
154.01   Subdivision regulations adopted by reference
§ 154.01 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s subdivision regulations, and any and all amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 08-56, passed 9-17-2008)
CHAPTER 155: MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOMES
Section
   
155.01   Definitions
   
155.02   Requirements
   
155.03   Permits required
   
155.04   Permit application
   
155.05   Permit issuance
   
155.06   Retention of plans
   
155.07   Permit validity
   
155.08   Permit expiration
   
155.09   Permit suspension or revocation
   
155.10   Construction permit fee
   
155.11   Inspection
   
155.12   Mobile home parks
   
155.13   Unsafe conditions
   
155.14   Organization and enforcement
   
155.15   Non-conforming uses
   
155.16   Access to public street
   
155.17   Access and inspection
   
155.18   Age requirement for mobile homes and manufactured homes
   
155.19   RV parks
   
155.20   Recreational vehicles on residential lots
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. Approval by the Building Official as the result of investigation
for compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
   GRADE. The average of the finished ground level of the premises.
   INSPECTOR. The Building Official or any legally designated representative of
the city.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, constructed according to HUD/FHA mobile home
construction and safety standards, transportable in multiple sections, which,
when erected on site, shall be 1,000 or more square feet, and which is built on
a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing,
heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein, except that
such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this
definition, except the size requirements and with respect to which the
manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development and complies with the standards established under
42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
   MOBILE HOME. All vehicles used, or so constructed as to permit being
conveyed upon the public streets or highways as such and constructed in such a
manner as will permit occupancy thereof for human habitation, constructed prior
to 1976.
   MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any area, tract, plot or site of land
whereupon mobile homes, as defined in this chapter, are placed, located and
maintained for dwelling purposes only, either on a permanent or semi-permanent
basis and for which a fee, rental or contract for payment for such use is
collected of collectible to the person holding the land.
   MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. A plot of ground within a mobile home park,
or any plot of ground which is designed for or designated as the location for a
mobile home and manufactured home.
   MOBILE STRUCTURES. All vehicles designed for human habitation.
   OFFICIAL. A person who has either been duly elected or appointed to a public
office and who represents the city government for a prescribed duty or
capacity.
   PERMITTEE. Any individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation, whether tenant, owner, lessee, licensee, permittee, agency, heirs
or assigns.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation, whether tenant, owner, lessee, licensee, permittee, agency, heirs
or assigns.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any
kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined in
some definite manner.
   TRAILER. See MOBILE HOME.
   YARD. An open space within a lot unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground
upward.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1) (Ord. 09-62, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 155.02 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Manufactured homes not located within a mobile home park must be
located on a legal city lot. Each manufactured home must have been manufactured
after the year 1976, and may not be occupied until approved by the Building
Inspector.
   (B)   Each manufactured home not in a manufactured home park must meet the
following requirements.
      (1)   The manufactured home shall be placed on an excavated and
backfilled foundation and enclosed at the perimeter such that the home is
located not more than 12 inches above grade.
      (2)   The manufactured home shall have a pitched root; except that, no
standards shall require a slope of greater than a nominal three feet in height
for each 12 feet in width.
      (3)   The manufactured home shall have exterior siding and roofing which
in color, material and appearance is similar to the exterior siding and roofing
material commonly used on residential dwellings within the community or which
is comparable to the predominant materials used on surrounding dwellings as
determined by the local permit approval authority.
      (4)   If the manufactured home has a garage or carport, it shall be
constructed of like material.
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain two or more occupied mobile/
manufactured homes on a single legal building site, other than in a
manufactured home park. Replacement of an existing mobile/manufactured home due
to fire and the like shall not be without a permit.
      (5)   The manufactured home shall be multisectional and enclose a space
of not less than 1,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-2) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.03 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to build, establish, maintain, operate or
permit to be built, established, maintained or operated, any recreational
vehicle park, manufactured home or mobile home park, within the bounds of the
city without first having secured a permit. Pre-1976 mobile homes shall not be
accepted, unless already on-site prior to July 1995.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-3) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.04 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   To obtain a permit for the construction or alteration of a manufactured home
park or the placement of a manufactured home outside a manufactured home park,
the applicant shall:
   (A)   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for which
the application is made;
   (B)   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by legal
description, street address and physical location;
   (C)   Show the use and occupancy for such lot, block and tract;
   (D)   State the true valuation of the proposed improvements;
   (E)   Be signed by the permittee or his or her authorized agent; and
   (F)   Give such other information as may reasonably be required by the
Building Official.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-4)
§ 155.05 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   The application with a sketch will be filed by the applicant for a permit.
If the Building Official is satisfied that the proposal, as submitted, subject
to corrections, meets the requirements as set forth in this chapter, he or she
shall then issue the permit therefor to the applicant. The septic system must
be installed and approved by the South Central Public Health District, unless
connection to a public sewage system is accessible.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-5)
§ 155.06 RETENTION OF PLANS.
   One set of approved plans, specifications and computations shall be retained
by the Building Official for a period of not less than 180 days from date of
completion of the work covered therein, and one set of approved plans and
specifications shall be returned to the applicant, which set shall be kept on
such building or work during the time the work authorized thereby is in
progress.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-6)
§ 155.07 PERMIT VALIDITY.
   The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans and specifications
shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-7)
§ 155.08 PERMIT EXPIRATION.
   Every permit issued by the Building Official under the provisions of this
chapter shall expire by limitation and become null and void, if the building or
work authorized by such permit is not commenced within 180 days from the date
of such permit. Also, such permit shall become null and void if the building or
work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of 180
days any time after the work is commenced.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-8)
§ 155.09 PERMIT SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   The Building Official may, in writing, suspend or revoke a permit issued
under provisions of this chapter whenever the permit is issued on the basis of
incorrect information supplied, or in violation of any ordinance or regulations
or any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-9)
§ 155.10 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE.
   The permit fee for each manufactured home park shall be set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-10)
§ 155.11 INSPECTION.
   All construction or work for which a permit is required shall be subject to
inspection by the Building Official.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-11)
§ 155.12 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Density for mobile home parks. In no event shall the density exceed
eight mobile homes per gross acre. Density requirements shall be established as
the minimum square footage or gross site area for each mobile home. If it is
determined by the City Council that a street widening or terminating dedication
is necessary, the amount of land dedicated shall be subtracted from the gross
site area when calculating the proposed density.
   (B)   Application to existing mobile home parks. A mobile home, a
manufactured home and a mobile home park, lawfully existing and in use at the
time of the adoption of this city code may be continued although such mobile
home park, mobile home or manufactured homes may not conform to the provisions
of the code as herein set forth. Exception: when conditions exist that affect
the health, safety and public welfare, the Building Official or his or her duly
appointed representative shall cause such condition or conditions to be abated
as provided in this chapter.
   (C)   Manufactured home parks.
      (1)   Every manufactured or mobile home park that conforms to any of the
standards listed below, shall not abandon any of the standards listed below
without obtaining approval from the City Council.
      (2)   Central facilities such as toilets, baths or laundry rooms are not
required.
      (3)   All spaces shall abut upon a roadway not less than 20 feet in width
which shall have unobstructed access to a public street or highway, as set
forth in
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances. Dead-end roadways shall provide
adequate vehicle turning space or cul-de-sac with not less than a 60-foot
radius exclusive of parking. Roads to service areas or storage yards shall be
not less than 20 feet wide. Directory and regulation signs shall be provided as
required to assure maximum safety and convenience to occupants and visitors,
consistent with accepted safety standards.
      (4)   Minimum requirements for each manufactured home space: each space
shall be not less than 40 feet wide and 100 feet long.
      (5)   Any manufactured home park existing at the time of the adoption of
the city code that increases the number of manufactured home spaces must bring
the entire manufactured home park up to the specifications contained in this
section.
      (6)   All such parks shall conform to the following requirements:
         (a)   Shall be located on a well-drained site with all roadways and
spaces properly graded to ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools
of water; and
         (b)   All roadways and walks within a recreational vehicle or
manufactured home park shall be all-weather surfaced, maintained and adequately
lighted.
   (D)   Water supply. The park shall connect to the city water system. The
water supply shall be easily accessible to each manufactured home space, shall
provide not less than 25 pounds of pressure at all times and not less than 125
gallons per unit per day. All water supplies must be approved by the Building
Official. Manufactured home parks shall meet existing State Fire Code
regulations.
   (E)   Plumbing. All plumbing within the standards set forth in the Uniform
Building Code and shall be subject to inspection and approval by the designated
officials.
   (F)   Sewage disposal. All sewage shall be collected and disposed of in a
sanitary manner, either in a public sewage system or in conformance with
standards set forth in 1DAPA 58 - Idaho Department of Environmental Quality.
   (G)   Electricity. All installations of electrical wiring and equipment in
recreational vehicle and manufactured home parks shall conform to the minimum
requirements of the state.
   (H)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   Manufactured home parks shall set back at least ten feet from any
interior property line. The setback from any abutting public street shall be at
least 20 feet from the property line.
      (2)   In any required yard through which automobile access is taken
between a public or private parking area and a street, no fence, wall, hedge or
other vegetation shall be permitted which materially impedes vision from a
public sidewalk to automobiles back from said parking area(s) across said
public sidewalk.
   (I)   Parking requirements.
      (1)   There shall be one vehicle parking space at least nine feet by 20
feet in size for each manufactured home space, with clear and unobstructed
access to an accessway. Any parking in the accessway shall not fulfill this
requirement.
      (2)   Guest parking shall be provided on the manufactured home parking
site (but not in the accessway), at the rate of one vehicle parking space of
the dimensions set forth in division (I)(1) above for each manufactured home
space.
   (J)   Skirting and support structure.
      (1)   All manufactured homes not set on a permanent foundation shall have
compatible skirting of moisture resistant, non-combustible material or fire-
retardant wood, which must be maintained and not provide a harborage for
rodents.
      (2)   All spaces shall be provided with pedestals or blocking supports.
Such systems shall insure adequate support and be in compliance with the HUD
and manufacturer’s specifications as to setup procedures and conform to the
city’s Building Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-12) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.13 UNSAFE CONDITIONS.
   All manufactured home parks, mobile homes and manufactured homes, building
or premises, which constitute a hazard to health, safety or fire, by reason of
inadequate maintenance, insanitation, dilapidation, obsolescence or abandonment
are nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or
removal, according to state laws.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-13)
§ 155.14 ORGANIZATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The Building Official of the city of his or her duly authorized
representative shall be charged with the enforcement of the code and shall keep
a permanent, accurate account of all fees and other moneys collected, the
amount, purpose and person from whom it was received, together with the
location of the premises to which they relate.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-14)
§ 155.15 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A non-conforming use is a use existing at the time of adoption of this
or any earlier land use ordinance that is not permitted by provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   A non-conforming use may be not be expanded in regard to actual land
use or in regard to building space used, except through an appropriate
conditional use permit. A non-conforming use may not be changed to another non-
conforming use without compliance with the terms of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-15)
§ 155.16 ACCESS TO PUBLIC STREET.
   A manufactured home park, mobile home or manufactured home shall not be
established on any site that does not have access to a public street with less
than 50 feet of right-of-way. No manufactured home space or manufactured home
shall be located in such a manner that a public street must be used to maneuver
the manufactured home into that space.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-16) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.17 ACCESS AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   Occupant and owner. It shall be the duty of every occupant to give the
park owner or his or her agent access, at reasonable times, to any part of the
park or its premises for the purpose of making such repairs or alterations as
are necessary to effectuate compliance with this chapter, or any lawful order
issued.
   (B)   Owners and city. It shall be the duty of the owners or occupants of
manufactured home parks and mobile home and manufactured home contained
therein, or of the person in charge thereof, to give the Building Inspector and
the City Council or their duly authorized assistants free access to such
premises, upon notice to the management, at reasonable times, for the purpose
of inspection.
   (C)   City inspection. The Building Inspector and City Council or their duly
authorized assistants are authorized and directed to inspect and determine the
condition of manufactured home parks, mobile homes and manufactured homes
within the city, in performance of their duty to enforce the provisions of this
and other applicable ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-17)
§ 155.18 AGE REQUIREMENT FOR MOBILE HOMES AND MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   No building permit may be issued for the placement of a mobile home or
manufactured home in the city and no building permit may be issued to move a
mobile home or manufactured home to another location within the city limits of
the city if the mobile home or manufactured home was manufactured during a
calendar year which was more than 15 years prior to the calendar year in which
the permit is requested. Exception, if a mobile home or a manufactured home is
replacing an older existing mobile home or manufactured home (by at least one
calendar year). A swap out will be allowed after age has been verified that it
is newer than current one and has been inspected by a state licensed inspector
and a copy of inspection provided. If the swapped out mobile home or
manufactured home (one being replaced) is more than 15 years old the owner will
be required to remove it from the city limits within 30 days. Violators of this
section will be subject to fines and penalties in §
155.99.
   (B)   A copy of a mobile home or manufactured home title confirming the age
of the manufactured home or mobile home is required to obtain the building
permit. In addition to the title, a copy of the inspection from a state
licensed inspector is required. All deficiencies found by the inspector must be
repaired within 90 days and then re-inspected to meet code requirements at the
expense of the owner.
(Penalty, see § 155.99)
§ 155.19 RV PARKS.
   City Council approval to issue RV parks with submitted complete application.
§ 155.20 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES ON RESIDENTIAL LOTS.
   Motor homes, camp trailers, campers and other similar recreational vehicles
may be stored, maintained, loaded or unloaded (but not occupied otherwise or
connected to sewer, water or cable services, except in approved RV parks) on
residential lots. The zoning administrator may approve a temporary RV usage
(not to exceed 6 months) for on-site construction on residential lots.
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who willfully violates any provision of this chapter or who
willfully violates any provision of the codes enumerated herein shall be issued
a fine.
   (B)   A separate violation is deemed to have occurred with respect to each
building not in compliance with this chapter. Each day such violation continues
constitutes a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-18)
   (C)   Fines for said violations shall be set by the resolution of the City
Council.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS, EASEMENTS AND VACATIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
R. 2007-12    - -2007     Adopting the Thousand Springs Scenic Byway Corridor
                          Management Plan of 2007
13-71         8-21-2013   Granting a franchise to Idaho Power Company
                          Entering into a professional services agreement with
R. 2020-28    7-8-2020    Region IV Development Association, Inc., to provide
                          grant writing and project administration services
                         
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS, EASEMENTS AND VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
R. 2000-05    2-16-2000   Authorizing the grant of an easement to Idaho Power
                          Company
R. 2008-14    7-16-2008   Authorizing the grant of an easement to Brent Corp.
08-58         11-19-2008  Annexing real property to the city (12.92 acres more
                          or less)
                          Annexing 70 acres of real property owned by Bliss Rim
11-65         4-20-2011   View Estates, LLC., located in a portion of Section
                          8, Township 6 South, Range 13 East, Boise Meridian
13-72         10-16-2013  Vacating an alley located in Block 41 of the First
                          Addition to the city
13-73         10-16-2013  Vacating an alley located in Block 41 of the First
                          Addition to the city
13-78         4-16-2014   Amending Ord. 13-72, vacating an alley
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Idaho Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO IDAHO CODE
Idaho Code Cites Code Section
Idaho Code Cites     Code Section
Title 7, Chapter 9   31.41
Chapter 9            111.003;
                     111.007
Title 23             111.070
Title 23, Chapter 9  111.001
23-934A—23-934C    111.070
23-903               111.006
23-1007A             111.006;
                     111.070
Title 39, Chapter 26 132.22
39-5703              130.44
Title 49, Chapter 18 70.02
49-1800              70.02
60-106               11.01
                     
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2024 Code
Prior Code 2024 Code
1-1-1      10.01
1-1-2      10.02
1-1-3      10.03
1-1-4      10.04
1-1-5      10.05
1-2-1      10.06
1-2-2      10.07
1-2-3      10.03
1-3-1      10.08
1-3-2      10.08
1-4-1      10.99
1-4-2      10.99
1-4-3      10.99
1-4-4      10.99
1-5-1      30.01
1-5-2      30.02
1-5-3      30.03
1-5-4      30.04
1-5-5      30.05
1-5-6      30.06
1-5-7      30.07
1-5-8      30.08
1-6-1      30.20
1-6-2      30.21
1-6-3      30.22
1-6-4      30.23
1-7-1      31.02
1-7-2      31.02
1-7-3      31.02
1-8-1      31.30
1-8-2      31.31
1-8-3      31.32
1-8-4      31.33
1-8-5      31.34
1-8-6      31.35
1-8-7      31.36
1-8-8      31.37
1-8-9      31.38
1-8-10     31.39
1-8-11     31.40
1-8-12     31.41
1-8-13     31.42
1-8-14     31.43
1-8-15     31.44
1-8-16     31.40
1-8-17     31.40
1-8-18     31.45
1-8-19     31.46
1-8-20     31.47
1-8-21     31.48
1-9-1      31.15
1-9-2      31.15
1-9-3      31.15
1-9-4      31.15
1-9-5      31.15
1-9-6      31.15
1-12-1     31.03
1-12-2     31.03
1-13-1     11.02
1-13-2     11.02
1-14-1     33.09
1-14-2     33.09
1-14-3     33.09
1-14-4     33.09
1-14-5     33.09
1-14-6     33.09
1-14-7     33.09
1-15-1     32.01
1-15-2     32.02
1-15-3     32.03
1-15-4     32.04
1-15-5     32.05
1-15-6     32.06
1-16-1     11.01
2-3-1      50.01
2-3-2      50.02
2-3-3      50.03
2-3-4      50.04
2-3-5      50.05
2-3-6      50.06
2-3-7      50.07
2-3-8      50.08
2-3-9      50.09
2-3-10     50.10
2-3-11     50.11
2-3-12     50.12
2-3-13     50.13
2-3-14     50.13
2-3-15     50.14
2-3-16     50.15
2-3-17     50.09
2-3-17     50.16
3-1-1      150.01
3-2-1      150.02
3-3-1      150.03
3-4-1      150.04
3-6-1      151.01
3-7-1      151.02
3-7-2      151.02
3-7-3      151.02
3-7-4      151.02
3-7-5      151.02
4-1-1      110.01
4-1-2      110.02
4-1-3      110.03
4-1-4      110.04
4-1-5      110.05
4-1-6      110.06
4-1-7      110.07
4-1-8      110.08
4-1-9      110.09
4-1-10     110.10
4-1-11     110.11
4-1-12     110.12
4-1-13     110.13
4-1-14     110.14
4-3-1      111.025
4-3-2      111.026
4-3-3      111.027
4-3-4      111.028
4-3-5      111.029
4-3-6      111.030
4-3-7      111.031
4-3-8      111.032
4-3-9      111.033
4-4-1      111.001
4-4-2      111.002
4-4-3      111.003
4-4-4      111.004
4-4-5      111.005
4-4-6      111.006
4-4-7      111.007
4-4-8      111.008
4-4-9      111.009
4-4-10     111.010
4-5-1      155.01
4-5-2      155.02
4-5-3      155.03
4-5-4      155.04
4-5-5      155.05
4-5-6      155.06
4-5-7      155.07
4-5-8      155.08
4-5-9      155.09
4-5-10     155.10
4-5-11     155.11
4-5-12     155.12
4-5-13     155.13
4-5-14     155.14
4-5-15     155.15
4-5-16     155.16
4-5-17     155.17
4-5-18     155.99
4-6-1      112.01
4-6-2      112.01
4-6-3      112.01
4-8-1      111.045
4-8-2      111.046
4-8-3      111.047
4-8-4      111.048
4-8-5      111.049
4-8-6      111.050
4-8-7      111.051
4-8-8      111.052
4-8-9      111.053
4-8-10     111.054
4-8-11     111.055
5-1-1      130.15
5-1-2      130.40
5-1-3      130.16
5-1-4      130.41
5-1-5      130.42
5-1-6      130.43
5-1-8      130.45
5-1-9      130.46
5-1-10     130.17
5-1-11     130.18
5-1-12     130.19
5-1-13     130.20
5-1-14     130.20
5-1-15     130.21
5-1-16     130.22
5-1-17     130.23
5-1-18     130.01
5-1-19     130.24
5-1-20     130.47
5-1-21     130.48
5-1-22     130.49
5-1-23     130.25
5-1-24     130.50
5-1-25     130.51
5-1-26     130.26
5-1-27     130.52
5-1-28     130.03
5-1-29     130.53
5-1-30     130.54
5-1-31     130.55
5-1-32     130.03
5-1-33     130.56
5-1-34     130.57
5-1-35     130.27
5-1-36     130.27
5-1-37     130.04
5-1-38     130.28
5-1-39     130.58
5-1-40     130.59
5-1-41     130.60
5-1-42     130.61
5-1-43     130.62
5-1-44     130.63
5-2-1      131.01
5-2-2      131.02
5-3-1      90.01
5-3-2      90.02
5-3-3      90.03
5-3-4      90.04
5-3-5      90.04;
           90.99
5-3-6      90.05
5-3-7      90.06;
           90.99
5-3-8      90.07
5-4-1      132.01
5-5-1      132.15
5-5-2      132.15
5-5-3      132.15
5-5-4      132.16
5-5-5      132.17
5-5-6      132.17
5-5-7      132.18
5-5-8      132.18
5-5-9      132.19
5-5-10     132.20
5-5-11     132.21
5-5-12     132.22
5-5-13     132.23
5-5-14     132.24
5-5-15     132.25;
           132.99
5-5-16     132.26
5-6-1      153.01
5-6-2      153.02
5-6-3      153.03
5-7-1      91.01
5-7-3      91.02
5-7-4      91.02
5-7-5      91.03
5-7-6      91.04
8-1-1      152.01
8-1-2      152.02
8-1-3      152.03
8-1-4      152.04
8-2-1      152.15
8-2-2      152.16
8-2-3      152.17
8-2-4      152.18
8-2-5      152.19
8-2-6      152.20
8-2-7      152.21
8-2-8      152.22
8-2-9      152.22
8-2-10     152.23
8-2-11     152.24
8-2-12     152.25
8-2-13     152.25
8-2-14     152.26
8-2-15     152.27
8-2-16     152.28
8-2-17     152.29
8-3-1      152.40
8-3-2      152.41
8-3-3      152.42
8-3-4      152.43
8-3-5      152.44
8-3-6      152.45
8-4-1      152.60
8-4-2      152.61
8-4-3      152.62
8-4-4      152.63
8-4-5      152.64
8-4-6      153.65
8-4-7      152.66
8-4-8      152.67
8-5-1      73.01
8-5-1      73.02
8-5-1      73.03
9-1-1      70.01
9-2-1      71.01
9-2-2      71.01
9-2-3      71.02
9-2-5      71.03
9-2-6      71.04
9-2-7      71.05
9-3-1      71.20
9-3-2      71.21
9-3-3      71.22
9-3-4      71.23
9-3-5      71.24
9-3-6      71.25
9-3-7      71.26
9-3-8      71.27
9-4-1      72.01
9-7-1      72.15
9-7-2      72.16
9-7-3      72.17
9-7-4      72.18
9-7-5      72.19
9-7-6      72.20
9-7-7      72.21
9-7-8      72.22
9-7-9      72.23
9-7-10     72.24
9-7-11     72.25
9-7-12     72.26
9-7-13     72.27
9-7-14     72.28
9-7-15     72.29
9-8-1      70.02
9-8-2      70.02
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         33.05
1999-01  1-20-1999   33.08
2000-05  2-16-2000   TSO Table II
-        12-19-2000  33.04
2004-09  4-21-2004   33.06
2007-12  - -2007     TSO Table I
2008-14  7-16-2008   TSO Table II
2009-15  1-21-2009   50.01
2009-17  8-19-2009   31.01
2010-22  5-19-2010   33.02
2015-25  9-16-2015   33.01
2020-28  7-8-2020    TSO Table I
2020-30  11-18-2020  92.01—
                     92.04
2021-32  3-17-2021   33.03
2024-01  2-21-2024   33.07
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1972-4   7-1-1980    50.12
08-54    - -2008     50.09
08-56    9-17-2008   154.01
08-58    11-19-2008  TSO Table II
09-59    1-21-2009   50.01
09-61    3-25-2009   11.01
09-62    6-17-2009   155.01
11-65    4-20-2011   TSO Table II
13-71    8-21-2013   TSO Table I
13-72    10-16-2013  TSO Table II
13-73    10-16-2013  TSO Table II
                     51.01—
                     51.11;
                     51.25—
13-75    2-19-2014   51.39;
                     51.50—
                     51.53;
                     51.99
13-77    2-19-2014   50.01
13-78    4-16-2014   TSO Table II
18-86    10-17-2018  50.08
18-87    10-17-2018  50.09
21-99    8-18-2021   50.09
                    
 
 
