CITY CODE
of
BUHL, IDAHO
2010
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-9, passed 6-9-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Buhl, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 2025-9, passed June 9, 2025. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-11
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BUHL, IDAHO, AMENDING TITLE 9, CHAPTER 8 OF THE
CITY OF BUHL, IDAHO, CODE, 2010, RELATING TO THE ZONING SCHEDULE OF LAND USE
CONTROLS, TO PROVIDE THAT SUBDIVISIONS BE ARE A PERMITTED USE IN IN ALL ZONING
DISTRICTS LISTED IN THE AGRICULTURAL, RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, AND PUBLIC/
SEMIPUBLIC TABLES; AMENDING TITLE 9, CHAPTER 24, RELATING TO SUBDIVISION
REGULATIONS, TO CLARIFY AND UPDATE SUBDIVISION STANDARDS, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY REQUIREMENTS, APPLICATION PROCEDURES, AND OPEN
SPACE STANDARDS; REPEALING ALL ORDINANCES OR CODE SECTIONS IN CONFLICT
HEREWITH; AND PROVIDING THAT THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BE IN FULL FORCE AND EFFECT
UPON ITS PASSAGE, APPROVAL, AND PUBLICATION.
 
   WHEREAS, the Buhl Planning & Zoning Commission (the “Commission”) held a
public hearing on the proposed amendments to Title 9, Chapters 8 and 24 of the
Buhl City Code, and, as a result of said hearing, recommended the amendments to
the City Council for adoption; and
WHEREAS, the City Council held a duly noticed public hearing on said proposed
amendments and determined that the Commission’s recommendations should be
adopted; and
WHEREAS, all hearings were held after proper notice was given in accordance
with Idaho law; and
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the public
health, safety, and welfare of the City of Buhl to enact the proposed
amendments;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of
Buhl, Idaho, as follows:
Section 1. That Title 9, Chapter 8 of the City of Buhl, Idaho, Code (2010),
relating to the Zoning Schedule of Land Use Controls, is hereby amended to
provide that subdivisions are a permitted use in all zoning districts listed in
the Agricultural, Residential, Commercial, and Public/Semipublic tables.
 
Section 2. That Title 9, Chapter 24 of the City of Buhl, Idaho, Code, relating
to subdivision regulations, is hereby amended to clarify and update the
subdivision standards, including but not limited to traffic impact study
requirements, application procedures, and open space standards, as follows:
 
CHAPTER 24
SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
9-24-1: General Provisions
9-24-2: Rules; Definitions
9-24-3: Application For Subdivision Approval Generally
9-24-4: Pre-application Procedure
9-24-5: Fees
9-24-6: Record Of Lot, Plat Approval
9-24-7: Sale Of Lot, Plat To Be Recorded
9-24-8: Amendment Procedures
9-24-9: Variances
9-24-10: Vacations And Dedications
9-24-11: Exceptions Made To Avoid Hardships
9-24-12: Detection Of Violation, Enforcement And Penalties
 
9-24-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The following general provisions are applicable in connection with this
chapter:
   A.   Title: This chapter shall be known as the SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE OF
BUHL, IDAHO.
   B.   Authority: These regulations are authorized by Idaho Code title 50,
chapter 13; title 67, chapter 65; and the Idaho Constitution, Article 12,
section 2, as amended or subsequently codified.
   C.   Jurisdiction: The subdivision regulations as contained in this chapter
shall apply to the subdividing of land within the corporate limits of city, the
city's legal jurisdiction outside of the city limits and within the "area of
impact" as established pursuant to state law and agreement with the county of
Twin Falls and the city.
   D.   Minimum Requirements: The provisions herein shall be held to be the
minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, and
general public welfare.
   E.   Relationship With Other Laws: Where the conditions imposed by any
provisions herein upon the use of land or buildings or upon the bulk of
buildings are either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable
conditions imposed by any other provision herein or any other law, ordinance,
resolution, rule or regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more
restrictive or which impose higher standards or requirements shall govern.
   F.   Intent; Purpose: The purpose of these regulations is to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare, and to provide for:
      1.   The harmonious development of the area;
      2.   The coordination of streets and roads within the subdivision with
other existing or planned streets and roads;
      3.   Adequate open space for travel, light, air, and recreation;
      4.   Adequate transportation, water drainage, and sanitary facilities;
      5.   The avoidance of scattered subdivision of land that would result in
either of the following:
         a.   The lack of water supply, sewer service, drainage,
transportation, or other public services; and
         b.   The unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of public
funds for the supply of such services.
      6.   The requirements as to the extent and the manner in which:
         a.   Roads shall be created and improved; and
         b.   Water and sewer, and other utility mains, piping connections, or
other facilities shall be installed;
      7.   The manner and form of making and filing of any plat; and
      8.   The administration of these regulations by defining the powers and
duties of approval authorities. (1974 Code § 4-2801)
 
9-24-2: RULES; DEFINITIONS:
The rules and definitions as set forth in sections 9-2-2 and 9-2-3 of this
title shall apply to this chapter. (1974 Code § 4-2802)
 
9-24-3: APPLICATION FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL GENERALLY:
Any person desiring to create a "subdivision" as herein defined shall submit
all necessary applications to the planning and zoning clerk. (1974 Code § 4-
2803)
 
9-24-4: PREAPPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Submission of Preapplication: The subdivider shall submit a
preapplication to enable the planning and zoning clerk to review and comment on
the proposed subdivision.
   B.   Sketch Plan: The preapplication shall include at least one copy of a
sketch plan. The sketch plan shall include the entire developmental scheme of
the proposed subdivision, in schematic form, and include the following:
      1.   The general layout and approximate dimensions of streets, blocks,
and lots in sketch form;
      2.   The existing condition and characteristics of the land on and
adjacent to the proposed subdivision site; and
      3.   The areas set aside for schools, parks, and other public facilities.
   C.   Action By Planning and Zoning Clerk: The planning and zoning clerk
shall notify the subdivider within fifteen (15) days from the date of receipt
of an acceptable preapplication as to the general conformance or nonconformance
of the proposal with this chapter, shall provide the necessary forms and
checklists and shall comment on the following:
      1.   Compliance of the proposed development with existing local or state
governmental goals and objectives of the comprehensive plan;
      2.   Determination of whether additional conditional use permits or
ordinance conflicts, such as rezoning, special development permit, or variance,
are needed and the manner of coordinating such permits;
      3.   Consideration of any unique environmental features or hazardous
concerns that may be directly or indirectly associated with the subject
property, such as areas that have been designated by the state of Idaho as
areas of critical environmental concern, unique plant or animal life,
floodplain, airport flight pattern, and the like; and
      4.   Consideration of other local and state governmental agencies that
the subdivider should contact before preparing a preliminary plat. (1974 Code §
4-2804)
   5. Consideration of traffic impacts due to the proposed development on
existing infrastructure.
 
9-24-5: FEES:
At the time of submission of an application for a preliminary plat and
application for a final plat application(s), the fee, as established in the
official fee schedule of the city, shall be paid. There shall be no additional
fee for a pre-application. (1974 Code § 4-2807)
 
9-24-6: RECORD OF LOT, PLAT APPROVAL:
No final plat shall be filed with the county recorder or improvements made on
the property until the plat has been acted upon by the commission and approved
by the governing board. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
 
9-24-7: SALE OF LOT, PLAT TO BE RECORDED:
No lots shall be sold until the plat has been recorded in the office of the
county recorder. (1974 Code § 4-2809)
 
9-24-8: AMENDMENT PROCEDURES:
The council may, from time to time, amend, supplement, or repeal the
regulations and provisions of this chapter upon recommendation from the
commission or upon its motion in the following manner:
   A.   Commission Action:
      1.   Hearing; Notice: The commission, prior to recommending an amendment,
supplement, or repeal of the provision, shall conduct at least one public
hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard. At
least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time and place and
a summary of the amendment, supplement, or repeal to be discussed shall be
published in the official newspaper or paper of general circulation within the
jurisdiction.
      2.   Material Change: Following the commission hearing, if the commission
makes a material change in this chapter other than that published for the
present hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided before the
commission forwards its recommendation to the council.
      3.   Record: A record of the hearings, findings made, and actions taken
shall be maintained.
   B.   Council Action:
      1.   Hearing; Notice: The council, prior to adopting an amendment,
supplement, or repeal of this chapter, shall conduct at least one public
hearing using the same notice and hearing procedures as the commission. The
council shall not hold a public hearing, give notice of a proposed hearing, or
take action until recommendations have been received from the commission.
      2.   Material Change Not Included In Notice: Following hearing of the
council, if the council makes a material change in this title other than that
published for the present hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided
before the council adopts the amendment, supplement, or repeal. (1974 Code § 4-
2810)
 
9-24-9: VARIANCES:
See chapter 19 of this title. (1974 Code § 4-2816)
 
9-24-10: VACATIONS AND DEDICATIONS:
   A.   Application Procedure:
      1.   Application: Any property owner desiring to vacate an existing
subdivision, public right of way, or easement, or desiring to dedicate a street
right of way or easement, shall complete and file an application with the
commission. These provisions shall not apply to the widening of any street or
the dedication of streets, rights of way, or easements to be shown on a
recorded subdivision.
      2.   Commission Action: Upon receipt of the completed application, the
commission or its representative shall affix the date of application acceptance
thereon. The commission shall place the application on the agenda for
consideration at its next regular meeting. (1974 Code § 4-2817)
   B.   Action:
      1.   Commission Recommendation: The commission shall review the request
and all agency responses and make a recommendation to the governing board for
either approval, conditional approval, or denial.
      2.   Governing Board Action:
         a.   Vacation: When considering an application for vacation
procedures, the governing board shall establish a date for a public hearing and
give such public notice as required by law. The governing board may approve,
deny, or modify the application. Whenever public rights of way or lands are
vacated, the governing board shall provide adjacent property owners with a
quitclaim deed for the vacated rights of way in such proportions as are
prescribed by law.
         b.   Dedication: When considering an application for dedication
procedures, the governing board may approve, deny, or modify the application.
When a dedication is approved, the required street improvements shall be
constructed or a bond furnished assuring the construction, prior to acceptance
of the dedication. To complete the acceptance of any dedication of land, the
owner shall furnish to the governing board a deed describing and conveying such
lands to be recorded with the county recorder.
         c.   Acceptance: The governing board's acceptance of such vacation or
dedication shall be in writing. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
 
9-24-11: EXCEPTIONS MADE TO AVOID HARDSHIPS:
   A.   Whenever the tract to be subdivided is, in the opinion of the governing
board, of such unusual shape or size, or is surrounded by such development or
unusual conditions, that the strict application of the requirements contained
herein would result in real difficulties and substantial hardships or
injustices, the governing board may vary or modify such requirements by an
official entry in the minutes of the governing board proceedings so that the
subdivider is allowed to develop his property in a reasonable manner, but so
that at the same time, the public welfare and interests of the city and
surrounding area are protected and the general intent and spirit of this
chapter are preserved. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
   B.   The fact that an owner could realize a greater financial return from
his property by subdividing said property contrary to these regulations is not
sufficient reason for hardship. Hardship cannot be proved where it can be shown
that property was purchased with the knowledge of existing restrictions, nor
can hardship be claimed in terms of prospective sales or potential customers.
(1974 Code § 4-2818)
 
9-24-12: DETECTION OF VIOLATION, ENFORCEMENT, AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement: No subdivision plat required by this chapter or the Idaho
Code shall be admitted to the public land records of the county, or recorded by
the county recorder, until such subdivision plat has received final approval by
the council. No public board, agency, commission, official, or other authority
shall proceed with the public improvements required by this chapter until the
final plat has received the approval of the council. The city attorney shall,
in addition to taking whatever criminal action deemed necessary, take steps to
enjoin any violation of this code.
   B.   Penalties: See section 9-3-4 of this title. (1974 Code § 4-2819)
 
ARTICLE A. PRELIMINARY PLAT
SECTION:
9-24A-1: Filing Application And Data
9-24A-2: Combining Preliminary And Final Plat
9-24A-3: Required Information And Data
9-24A-4: Procedure For Approval Of Preliminary Plat
9-24A-5: Approval Period
 
9-24A-1: FILING APPLICATION AND DATA:
The subdivider shall file with the planning and zoning clerk a complete
subdivision application form and preliminary plat data as required in this
chapter. (1974 Code § 4-2805)
 
9-24A-2: COMBINING PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLAT:
The applicant may request that the subdivision application be processed as both
a preliminary and final plat if all the following exist:
   A.   The proposed subdivision does not exceed ten (10) lots;
   B.   No new street dedication or street widening is involved;
   C.   No major special development considerations are involved, such as
development in a floodplain, hillside development, or the like;
   D.   All required information for both preliminary and final plats is
complete and in an acceptable form; and
   E.   The proposed subdivision is not in conflict with the comprehensive plan
or any provision of this title.
A request to combine both preliminary and final plats into one application
shall be acted upon by the commission upon recommendation of the planning and
zoning clerk. (1974 Code § 4-2805)
 
9-24A-3: REQUIRED INFORMATION AND DATA:
   A.   Form: The contents of the preliminary plat and related information
shall be in such a form as stipulated by the city council; however, any
additional maps or data deemed necessary by the planning and zoning clerk may
also be required.
   B.   Submitted With Application: The subdivider shall submit to the planning
and zoning clerk at least the following:
      1.   Preliminary Plat: The required number of copies of the preliminary
plat as determined by the planning and zoning clerk, with the approval of the
city council, drawn in accordance with the requirements hereinafter stated:
each copy of the preliminary plat shall be on good quality paper, shall have
the dimensions of not less than twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x
36"), shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one inch to one hundred feet
(1" = 100'), shall show the drafting date, and shall indicate thereon, by
arrow, the generally northerly direction;
      2.   Engineering Plans: The required number of copies of the engineering
plans, as determined by the planning and zoning clerk, with the approval of the
city council (not meant to be cross sections or detailed designs) for streets,
water, sewers, sidewalks and other required public improvements; however, such
engineering plans shall contain sufficient information and detail to make a
determination as to conformance of the proposed improvements to applicable
regulations, ordinances and standards;
      3.   Written Application: A written application requesting approval of
the preliminary plan; and
      4.   Information Regarding Special Development Area: Appropriate
information that sufficiently details the proposed development within any
special development area, such as hillside, planned unit development,
floodplain, cemetery, mobile home park, large-scale development, hazardous, and
unique areas of development.
   C.   Submitted Separately: The following shall be submitted separately:
      1.   Name of Subdivision: The name of the proposed subdivision, which
does not duplicate the name of any other subdivision in Twin Falls County;
      2.   Name Of Subdivider And Engineer Or Surveyor: The names, addresses,
and telephone numbers of the subdivider or subdividers and the engineer or
surveyor who prepared the plat, and any other professional persons involved in
the subdivision;
      3.   Name And Address Of Adjoining Owners Of Property: The name and
address of all adjoining owners of property and residents within three hundred
feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being considered, whether or
not bisected by a public right of way as shown on record in the county
assessor's office;
      4.   Legal Description: The legal description of the subdivision by
section, township, and range;
      5.   Statement Of Intended Use: The statement of the intended use of the
proposed subdivision, such as: residential single-family, two-family and
multiple-family housing, commercial, industrial, recreational or agricultural,
and a designation of any sites proposed for open spaces, parks, playgrounds,
schools, churches, or other public uses;
      6.   Map of Entire Area Scheduled For Development: A map of the entire
area scheduled for development if the proposed development is a portion of a
larger holding intended for subsequent development. A map shall be submitted
showing the location of existing buildings, water bodies or courses, and the
location of currently dedicated streets at the point where they adjoin and/or
are immediately adjacent; provided that actual measured distances shall not be
required.
      7.   Vicinity Map: A vicinity map showing the relationship of the
proposed plat to the surrounding area of a one-half (1/2) mile radius to scale,
scale optional;
      8.   Land Use and Existing Zoning: The land use and existing zoning of
the proposed subdivision and the adjacent land.
      9.   Streets: Existing streets, street names, rights of way and roadway
widths, including adjoining streets or roadways, along with type of surface and
existence of any curb-gutter and/or sidewalks;
      10.   Lot Lines And Blocks: Lot lines and blocks showing the dimensions
and numbers of each; Location and length of the boundary lines of each lot,
parcel, or site, and the proposed lot and block numbers. Approximate acreage
enclosed by subdivision.
      11.   Contour Lines: Contour lines, shown at five foot (5') intervals,
where land slope is greater than ten percent (10%) and at two foot (2')
intervals where land slope is ten percent (10%) or less, referenced to an
established bench mark, including location and elevation;
      12.   Site Report: A site report as required by the appropriate health
district where individual wells or septic tanks are proposed;
      13.   Proposed Or Existing Utilities: Location, size, and direction of
flow of any proposed or existing utilities, including, but not limited to,
storm and sanitary sewers, irrigation laterals, ditches, drainages, bridges,
culverts, water mains, fire hydrants, and their respective profiles;
      14.   Dedications And/Or Easements: Any dedications to the public and/or
easements, both public and private, together with a statement of location,
dimensions, and purpose of such on both the subject property and surrounding
properties.
      15.   Additional Required Information: Any additional required
information for specific developments as defined in this chapter; and
      16.   Statement Regarding Variance: A statement as to whether or not a
variance, as specified in this chapter, will be requested with respect to any
provision of this chapter describing the particular provision, the variance
requested, and the reasons therefor. (1974 Code § 4-2805)
17. Location, right-of-way width, and name of all public or private traffic
ways, the location, right-of-way width, and use of any proposed public or
private pedestrian ways or special ways, and a statement of intended
improvements to be made thereto.
18. A copy of any proposed restrictive covenants and/or deed restrictions.
19. A traffic impact study approved by the City Engineer based on the Institute
of Transportation Engineers' "Trip Generation Handbook" (current edition) will
be required. A traffic impact study may be waived by the public works
department upon receipt of an approved traffic analysis to be included with the
application.
A traffic impact study (TIS) shall be performed by a professional engineer
licensed in the state of Idaho and employed by the developer when one or more
of the following apply:
   A.   Full TIS: A full TIS shall be required for any development that will
generate:
      1.   One hundred (100) or more added (new) peak direction trips to or
from the site during the adjacent roadway's peak hours or the development's
peak hours;
      2.   One thousand (1,000) or more added (new) vehicle trips per day;
      3.   The proposed development will add fifteen thousand (15,000) square
feet or more of retail space;
      4.   The proposed development will add thirty thousand (30,000) square
feet or more of office space;
      5.   The proposed development will add fifty thousand (50,000) square
feet or more industrial space;
      6.   The proposed development will have a significant impact on the
roadway, as determined by the city transportation engineer.
A full TIS shall be completed in accordance with the city's "Traffic Impact
Study Requirements" for any development meeting these thresholds.
B.   Modified TIS: A modified TIS shall be required for any development that
will generate:
      1.   Fifty (50) to ninety-nine (99) added (new) peak direction trips to
or from the site during the adjacent roadway's peak hours or the development's
peak hours;
      2.   Five hundred (500) to nine hundred ninety-nine (999) added (new)
vehicle trips per day.
The developer shall meet with the city engineer prior to completing the TIS.
The purpose of this meeting will be to identify the requirements for TIS. If
the Area of Impact affects adjacent state and local roadway jurisdictions, they
may participate in the review and acceptance of the TIS.
C.   City Authority to Require: The city reserves the right to require a TIS
for any and all new development or redevelopment, regardless of the thresholds
previously listed.
 
9-24A-4: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Administrative Review:
      1. Certification By Planning And Zoning Clerk, Public Hearing: Upon
receipt of the preliminary plat and all other required data as provided for
herein, the planning and zoning clerk, after review by the City Engineer, shall
certify the application is complete and shall affix the date of application
acceptance thereon. The planning and zoning clerk shall schedule a public
hearing before the planning and zoning commission, which hearing shall be held
within forty-five (45) days of the date of certification of a complete
application.
      2.   Review By Other Agencies: The planning and zoning clerk shall refer
the preliminary plat and application to as many governmental agencies as deemed
necessary. Such agencies may include the following:
         a.   Other governing bodies having joint jurisdiction;
         b.   The appropriate utility companies, irrigation companies or
districts and drainage districts;
         c.   The superintendent of the school district; and
         d.   Other agencies having an interest in the proposed subdivision.
      3.   Recommendation By Planning And Zoning Clerk: The planning and zoning
clerk shall provide that any transmittal as provided in subsection A2 of this
section will be returned within fifteen (15) days. At the end of the fifteen
(15) day period, the planning and zoning clerk shall prepare a recommendation
to the commission. All agency responses shall be supplied by the planning and
zoning clerk to the planning and zoning commission.
   B.   Public Notice: The planning and zoning clerk shall notify all adjoining
property owners whose names and addresses have been provided by the subdivider.
Such written notice shall be mailed by first-class mail at least fifteen (15)
days prior to the commission meeting. The planning and zoning clerk's failure
to comply with the notice provision shall not invalidate the commission's
action, provided the spirit of the procedure is observed.
   C.   Action By Commission:
      1.   Hearing By Commission: The commission shall review the preliminary
plat, comments from the concerned persons and agencies, and the report from the
planning and zoning clerk to arrive at a decision on the preliminary plat.
      2.   Commission Findings: In determining the acceptance of a proposed
subdivision, the commission shall consider the objectives of this article and
at least the following:
         a.   The conformance of the subdivision with the comprehensive plan;
         b.   The availability of public services to accommodate the proposed
subdivision;
         c.   The continuity of the proposed development with the capital
improvement program;
         d.   The public financial capability of supporting services for the
proposed development; and
         e.   The other health, safety, and environmental problems that may be
brought to the commission's attention.
      3.   Action On Preliminary Plat: The commission may recommend approval,
conditional approval, disapproval, or tabling for a period not to exceed forty-
five (45) days. Such action shall occur within forty-five (45) days of the date
of the regular meeting at which the plat is first considered by the commission.
The action and the reasons for such action shall be stated in writing by the
planning and zoning clerk and forwarded to the applicant. The planning and
zoning clerk shall also forward a statement of the action taken and the reasons
for such action together with a copy of the preliminary plat to the commission
for its action. Upon granting or denying a preliminary plat, the commission
shall specify:
         a.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
         b.   The reason for recommending approval or denial; and
         c.   The actions if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
approval of the preliminary plat. (1974 Code § 4-2805)
      4.   Action On Combined Preliminary And Final Plat: If the commission's
conclusion is favorable to the subdivider's request for the subdivision to be
considered as both a preliminary plat and final plat, then a recommendation
shall be forwarded to the governing board in the same manner as herein
specified for a final plat. The commission may recommend that the combined
application be approved, approved conditionally or disapproved.
   D.   Action By Governing Board: Within thirty (30) days after receipt of the
commission's recommendation and following the notice and hearing requirements
as set forth in this chapter, the governing board shall make findings as
required in this chapter. The governing board shall approve, approve
conditionally or disapprove the preliminary plat within thirty (30) days of the
hearing conducted to consider the commission's recommendation. (Ord. 929, 5-14-
2007)
   E.   Appeals: See chapter 3, article D of this title for appeals procedure.
(1974 Code § 4-2805)
 
9-24A-5: APPROVAL PERIOD:
   A.   Failure To File And Obtain Certification: Failure to file with and
obtain the certification of the acceptance of the final plat application by the
planning and zoning clerk within one year after action by the governing board
shall cause all approvals of said preliminary plat to be null and void, unless
an extension of time is applied for by the subdivider and granted by the
governing board. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
   B.   Development In Segments: In the event that the development of the
preliminary plat is made in successive, contiguous segments in an orderly and
reasonable manner, and conforms such segments, if submitted within successive
intervals of one year, it may be considered for final approval without
resubmission for preliminary plat approval. (1974 Code § 4-2805)
 
ARTICLE B. FINAL PLAT
SECTION:
9-24B-1: Filing Of Final Plat
9-24B-2: Contents
9-24B-3: Procedure For Approval
9-24B-4: Conditional Approval
9-24B-5: Approval Period
9-24B-6: Required Certificates
9-24B-7: Record Of Final Plat
 
9-24B-1: FILING OF FINAL PLAT:
After the approval or conditional approval of the preliminary plat, the
subdivider may cause the total parcel or any part thereof to be surveyed and a
final plat prepared in accordance with the approved preliminary plat. The
subdivider shall submit to the planning and zoning clerk the following:
   A.   Three (3) copies of the final plat; and
   B.   Three (3) copies of the final engineering construction drawings for
streets, water lines, sewers, sidewalks and other public improvements. (1974
Code § 4-2806)
 
9-24B-2: CONTENTS:
The final plat shall include and be in compliance with all items required under
Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13, and shall be prepared in accordance with the
specifications set forth in Idaho Code section 50-1304. The final plat shall
include at least the following: (1974 Code § 4-2806)
   A.   Written Application: A written application for approval of such final
plat as stipulated by the governing board; (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
   B.   Proof Of Current Ownership: Proof of current ownership of the real
property included in the proposed final plat; (1974 Code § 4-2806)
   C.   Other Information: Such other information as the planning and zoning
clerk or governing board may deem necessary to establish whether or not all
proper parties have signed and/or approved said final plat; (Ord. 929, 5-14-
2007)
   D.   Conformance With Preliminary Plat: Conformance with the approved
preliminary plat and meeting all requirements of conditions thereof;
   E.   Conformance With Chapter: Conformance with all requirements and
provisions of this chapter;
   F.   Engineering Practices And Standards: Acceptable engineering practices
and standards; and
   G.   Building Sites: The plat shall show building sites on each lot adjusted
to setback requirements. (1974 Code § 4-2806)
 
9-24B-3: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL:
   A.   Review By Planning And Zoning Clerk:
      1.   Acceptance: Upon receipt of the final plat, and compliance with all
other requirements provided for herein, the planning and zoning clerk shall
certify the application as complete and shall affix the date of acceptance
thereon. (1974 Code § 4-2806)
      2.   Resubmission Of Final Plat: The planning and zoning clerk shall
review the final plat for compliance with the approved or conditionally
approved preliminary plat. If the planning and zoning clerk determines that
there is substantial difference in the final plat from that which was approved
as a preliminary plat or conditions which have not been met, the planning and
zoning clerk may require that the final plat be submitted to the commission and
the governing board in the same manner as required in the preliminary process.
      3.   Submission To The Governing Board: Upon the determination that the
final plat is in compliance with the preliminary plat and all conditional
requirements have been met, the planning and zoning clerk shall place the final
plat on the governing board agenda within thirty (30) days from the date that
an acceptable final plat application was received and acknowledged by the
planning and zoning clerk. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
   B.   Agency Review: The planning and zoning clerk may transmit one copy of
the final plat, or other documents submitted for review and recommendation to
the departments and agencies as he deems necessary to ensure compliance with
the preliminary approval and/or conditions of preliminary approval. Such agency
review shall also include the construction standards of improvements,
compliance with health standards, the cost estimate for all improvements and
the legal review of the performance bond. (1974 Code § 4-2806)
   C.   Governing Board Action: The governing board, at its next regular
meeting following receipt of the planning and zoning clerk report, shall
consider the commission findings and comments from concerned persons and
agencies to arrive at a decision on the final plat. The governing board shall
approve, approve conditionally, disapprove or table the final plat for
additional information within thirty (30) days of the date of the first regular
meeting at which the plat is considered. A copy of the approved plat shall be
filed with the planning and zoning clerk. Upon granting or denying the final
plat, the governing board shall specify: (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the plat;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
approval of the final plat. (1974 Code § 4-2806)
   
9-24B-4: CONDITIONAL APPROVAL:
With respect to financial guarantees, the approval of all final subdivision
plats shall be conditioned on the accomplishment of one of the following:
   A.   Construction Of Improvements Completed: The construction of
improvements required by this chapter shall have been completed by the
subdivider and approved by the governing board; or
   B.   Acceptable Surety: Surety acceptable to the governing board shall have
been filed in the form of a cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond,
irrevocable bank letter of credit or surety bond. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
 
9-24B-5: APPROVAL PERIOD:
The final plat shall be filed with the county recorder within one year after
written approval by the governing board. Otherwise, such approval shall become
null and void unless the subdivider, prior to said expiration date, applies for
an one extension of time and such extension is granted by the governing board.
(Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
 
9-24B-6: REQUIRED CERTIFICATES:
The following certifications and signatures shall be included on the final plat
prior to recording by the county recorder:
   A.   Certification And Signature of Governing Board: Certification and
signature of the governing board verifying that the subdivision has been
approved;
   B.   Certification And Signature of City Clerk-Treasurer and City Engineer:
Certification and signature of the city clerk-treasurer and city engineer
verifying that the subdivision meets the requirements of the city and has been
approved by the governing board; and (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
   C.   Certification Of Sanitation Restriction: Certification of the
sanitation restriction on the face of the plat in accordance with the
provisions of Idaho Code section 50-1326. (1974 Code § 4-2806)
 
9-24B-7: RECORD OF FINAL PLAT:
Plans And Specifications: Prior to recording the final subdivision plat, the
subdivider shall submit to the planning and zoning clerk:
      1.   Approved copies of the final plans and specifications for streets,
water, sewer, stormwater, parks, gravity irrigation and pressure irrigation
systems. All plans and specifications shall have sufficient detail, written
information, vertical and horizontal dimensions to accurately locate the
proposed improvements in the field and determine their relationship to other
improvements. The city engineer shall establish standards.
      2.   Financial guarantee of improvements pursuant to 9-24E-3 of this
chapter.
      3.   Certification of water and sewer plan approval from the Idaho
Department of Environmental Quality.
4. An approved weed management plan.
      5.   Street and utility plan approval from the Idaho Transportation
Department, as required.
      6.   Street and utility plan approval from the Buhl Highway District, as
required.
      7.   Gravity irrigation system plan approval from the Twin Falls Canal
Company, as required.
      8.   An executed improvement agreement for developers.
      9.   Certification of the notice of intent and stormwater pollution
prevention plan filed with the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality.
      10. Fees: At the time of submittal of plans and specifications, a fee to
defray costs and expenses of plan checking as provided for by resolution of the
city council shall be paid.
Upon approval of the final plat by the governing board, the subdivider's
prepaying of recording fees, posting of surety bond or other acceptable
guarantee and the inclusion of those certifications and signatures on the final
plat as set forth in section 9-24B-6 of this article, the subdivider shall
furnish proof to the planning and zoning clerk that the final plat has been
recorded. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
 
ARTICLE C. IRRIGATION WATER
SECTION:
9-24C-1: Subdivision Outside City Limits
9-24C-2: Subdivisions Inside City Limits
9-24C-3: Tiling Of Ditches
 
9-24C-1: SUBDIVISION OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
The subdivider of lands located outside the corporate limits of the city but
within the "area of impact" shall ensure an adequate means of irrigation for
all lands within the proposed subdivision. In the absence of alternative means
of irrigation the subdivider shall leave as appurtenant to the lands within the
proposed subdivision all water rights, including rights represented by shares
of stock in the Twin Falls Canal Company. Upon said subdivision being annexed
into the city limits, all of said water rights shall be held in the manner
provided for in section 9-24C-2 of this article. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
 
9-24C-2: SUBDIVISIONS INSIDE CITY LIMITS:
Subdivisions within the corporate limits of the city shall be connected to the
public water system as hereafter provided. All Twin Falls Canal Company water
shares or stock and domestic well permits or licenses shall be transferred to
the city and not to the purchaser of any one or more of the lots, tracts or
parcels of land included in the subdivision. However, Twin Falls Canal Company
irrigation water may be retained by a homeowners'/water users' association that
maintains and operates an irrigation system under the provisions of a duly
recorded water users' association agreement as approved by the city attorney.
(Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
 
9-24C-3: TILING OF DITCHES:
   A.   Tiling Of Irrigation Ditches, Laterals Or Canals: All irrigation
ditches, laterals or canals, exclusive of natural waterways, intersecting,
crossing or lying adjacent and contiguous, or which canals, ditches or laterals
touch either or both sides of the area being subdivided, shall be covered and
enclosed with tiling or other covering equivalent in ability to detour access
to said ditch, lateral or canal. The city may waive this requirement for
covering such ditch, lateral or canal, if it finds that the public purpose
requiring such will not be served in the individual case. Any covering program
involving the distribution system of any irrigation company or district shall
have the prior approval of that affected company or district. No subdivision
plat shall be approved where the subdivision is arbitrarily or artificially
laid out to avoid being adjacent to any waterway, irrigation ditch, lateral or
canal to which it would otherwise be naturally adjacent or which it would
otherwise naturally include.
   B.   Ditch Not Within Jurisdiction: The tiling of any irrigation or drainage
ditch not within the jurisdiction of an irrigation or drainage district or
company shall be completed so as not to impede the movement of the amount of
water crossing the property in the open ditch prior to development and the
tiling of the ditch or canal. The pipeline shall have a sloped bar grated inlet
structure made of bars and access/cleanout boxes at a maximum of four hundred
feet (400') spacing and at all angle points of the pipeline.
   C.   Ditch On Boundary Between Land Being Developed And Adjacent Land: Where
the ditch under consideration is on the boundary between the land being
developed and adjacent land not owned by the developer or the owner of the land
being developed, or is in fact the boundary, the ditch shall still be tiled.
The developer shall attempt to obtain the permission of the adjacent landowner
to tile the ditch and attempt to have the adjacent landowner share in the cost
of the tiling. If the adjacent landowner is unwilling to cooperate in sharing
the cost of the tiling but willing to allow the use of his land for tiling, the
developer shall tile the ditch at his sole cost. If the adjacent landowner is
unwilling to allow his land to be used for purposes of tiling the ditch, the
developer may request the city to condemn that part of the adjacent land
necessary to tile the waterway, but the developer shall be required to pay all
of the cost of condemnation and pay all of the costs of obtaining the adjacent
land and all of the cost of tiling the ditch, lateral or canal. (1974 Code § 4-
2806)
 
ARTICLE D. DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-24D-1: Minimum Design Standards
9-24D-2: Dedication
9-24D-3: Location
9-24D-4: Specifications
9-24D-5: Street Names
9-24D-6: Intersections
9-24D-7: Pedestrian Walkways
9-24D-8: Easements
9-24D-9: Linear Open Space Corridors
9-24D-10: Blocks
9-24D-11: Lots
9-24D-12: Planting Strips And Reserve Strips
9-24D-13: Public Sites And Open Spaces
9-24D-14: Protective Covenants
 
9-24D-1: MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Design Standards Required: All plats submitted pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, and all subdivisions, improvements and facilities
done, constructed or made in accordance with said provisions, shall comply with
the minimum design standards set forth in this article; The current version of
the Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction, together with any
amendments, changes, modifications, appendices or successor Codes thereto,
however, that any higher standards adopted by the city, any highway district,
state highway department, or health agency shall prevail over those set forth
herein. (1974 Code § 4-2812)
 
9-24D-2: DEDICATION:
Within a proposed subdivision, arterial and collector streets shall be
dedicated to the public in all cases; in general, all other streets shall also
be dedicated to public use. (1974 Code § 4-2812)
 
9-24D-3: LOCATION:
Street and road location shall conform to the following:
   A.   Street Location And Arrangements: When an official street plan or
comprehensive development plan has been adopted, subdivision streets shall
conform to such plans.
   B.   Minor Streets: Shall be so arranged as to discourage their use by
through traffic.
   C.   Stub Streets: Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement
of streets in new subdivisions shall be such that said streets extend to the
boundary line of the tract to make provisions for future extension of said
streets into adjacent areas. A reserve strip may be required and held in public
ownership. Temporary cul-de-sacs shall be required.
   D.   Relation To Topography: Streets shall be arranged in proper relation to
topography so as to result in usable lots, safe streets and acceptable
gradients.
   E.   Alleys: Alleys shall be provided in multiple-dwelling or commercial
subdivisions unless other provisions are made for service access and off street
loading and parking. Dead end alleys shall be prohibited in all cases.
   F.   Cul-De-Sac Streets: Cul-de-sac streets shall not be more than six
hundred feet (600') in length and shall terminate with an adequate turnaround
having a minimum radius of fifty feet (50') for right of way.
   G.   Driveways: Driveways providing access to no more than two (2) dwelling
units, which area is a minimum of twenty feet (20') wide, shall be allowed.
Driveways to three (3) or more dwelling units may be allowed, but only if the
width and length of the proposed driveway is approved before construction by
the city engineer after conferring with the city public works superintendent,
fire and police chiefs, and such other agency as may be affected by such a
driveway. A driveway may not be used as a private street.
   H.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited except where unusual
circumstances make such necessary to the reasonable development of a tract in
conformance with this chapter and where satisfactory assurance for dedication
of the remaining part of the street is provided. Whenever a tract to be
subdivided borders on an existing half or partial street, the other part of the
street shall be dedicated within such tract.
   I.   Loop Streets: The maximum length of a loop street shall be one thousand
feet (1,000') and a loop street over this length shall be required to conform
to the standards of a minor street in its subdivision type; provided, however,
that a loop street of up to one thousand two hundred feet (1,200') in length
containing frontage of no more than twenty four (24) building lots may be
permitted.
   J.   Private Streets: Private streets and roads shall be prohibited except
within planned unit developments. (1974 Code § 4-2812)
 
9-24D-4: SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Street Right Of Way Widths: Street and road right of way widths shall
conform to the adopted major street plan or comprehensive development plan and
the rules of the state department of highways and the highway district or
department having jurisdiction; minimum right of way standards are as follows:
 
 
Highway And Street Types  Minimum Widths
Alley                     20 feet
Collector street          60 feet
Local street              50 feet
Minor arterial street     70 feet
Principal arterial street 80 feet
Section line roads        80 feet
 
   B.   Street Grades: Street grades shall not exceed ten percent (10%) on
either minor or collector streets, and six percent (6%) for arterial streets.
   C.   Street Alignment: Street alignment shall be as follows:
      1.   Horizontal Alignment: When street lines deflect from each other by
more than ten degrees (10°) in alignment, the centerline shall be connected by
a curve having a minimum radius of five hundred feet (500') for arterial
streets, three hundred feet (300') for collector streets, and one hundred fifty
feet (150') for residential streets. Between reverse curves on collector and
arterial streets, there shall be a minimum tangent distance of two hundred feet
(200'); and
      2.   Vertical Alignment: Minimum stopping sight distances shall be two
hundred feet (200') for minor streets and designed in accordance with design
speed for collector and arterial streets. (1974 Code § 4-2812)
 
9-24D-5: STREET NAMES:
Street names shall not duplicate any existing street name within the city or
area of impact, except where a new street is a continuation of an existing
street; street names that may be spelled differently but sound the same as
existing streets shall not be used. Street names shall be subject to the
approval of the council and shall conform to the street names and patterns
established by the city. (1974 Code § 4-2812)
 
9-24D-6: INTERSECTIONS:
Intersections shall conform to the following:
   A.   Angle Of Intersection: Streets shall intersect at ninety degrees (90°)
or as closely thereto as possible, and in no case shall streets intersect at
less than seventy degrees (70°).
   B.   Sight Triangles: Minimum clear sight distance at all minor street
intersections shall permit vehicles to be visible to the driver of another
vehicle when each is one hundred feet (100') from the center of the
intersection.
   C.   Number Of Streets: No more than two (2) streets shall cross at any one
intersection.
   D.   "T" Intersections: "T" intersections may be used wherever such design
will not restrict the free movement of traffic.
   E.   Vertical Alignment Of Intersection: A nearly flat grade with
appropriate drainage slopes is desirable within intersections. This flat
section shall be extended a minimum of one hundred feet (100') each way from
the intersection. An allowance of two percent (2%) maximum intersection grade
in rolling terrain, and four percent (4%) in hilly terrain, will be permitted.
(1974 Code § 4-2812)
   F.   Centerline Offsets: Street centerlines shall be off-set by a distance
of at least one hundred twenty-five feet (125')
F. G.  Number of Intersections: The number of intersections per linear section
of principal and minor arterial streets shall be limited by standards as
adopted by the city. The standards shall address the safety of the public as
regards interactions of traffic at street, alley, and driveway intersections.
(Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
 
9-24D-7: PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS:
Right of way for pedestrian walkways in the middle of long blocks may be
required where necessary to obtain convenient pedestrian circulation to
schools, parks or shopping areas; the pedestrian easement shall be at least ten
feet (10') wide. (1974 Code § 4-2812)
 
9-24D-8: EASEMENTS:
Unobstructed utility easements shall be provided along front lot lines, rear
lot lines and side lot lines when deemed necessary; total easement width shall
not be less than fifteen feet (15'). Unobstructed drainageway easements shall
be provided as required by the council. (1974 Code § 4-2812)
 
9-24D-9: LINEAR OPEN SPACE CORRIDORS:
The extent and location of lands designed for linear open space corridors
should be determined largely by natural features and, to a lesser extent, by
manmade features such as utility easements, transportation rights of way or
water rights of way. Landscaping, screening or linear open space corridors may
be required for the protection of residential properties from adjacent arterial
streets, waterways, railroad rights of way or other features. As improved areas
(landscaped), semi-improved areas (a landscaped pathway only), or unimproved
areas (left in a natural state), linear open space corridors serve:
   A.   To preserve openness;
   B.   To interconnect park and open space systems within rights of way of
trails, walkways, bicycleways;
   C.   To play a major role in conserving area scenic and natural values,
especially waterways, drainageways and natural habitat;
   D.   To buffer more intensive adjacent urban land uses;
   E.   To enhance local identification within the area due to the internal
linkages; and
   F.   To link residential neighborhoods, park areas and recreation
facilities.
Subdivision plats or development plans shall show the location of any linear
open space corridors. (1974 Code § 4-2812)
 
9-24D-10: BLOCKS:
Every block shall be so designed as to provide two (2) tiers of lots, except
where lots back onto an arterial street, natural feature or subdivision
boundary; blocks shall not be longer than one thousand feet (1,000'), nor less
than five hundred feet (500') long in all cases. (1974 Code § 4-2812)
 
9-24D-11: LOTS:
Lots shall conform to the following:
   A.   Zoning: The lot width, depth and total area shall not be less than the
requirements of any applicable zoning provision;
   B.   Future Arrangements: Where parcels of land are subdivided into
unusually large lots (such as when large lots are approved for septic tanks),
the parcels shall be divided, where feasible, so as to allow for future
resubdividing into smaller parcels. Lot arrangements shall allow for the
ultimate extension of adjacent streets through the middle of wide blocks.
Whenever such future subdividing or lot splitting is contemplated, the plan
thereof shall be approved by the commission prior to the taking of such action;
and
   C.   Sufficient Area For Septic Tank: Where individual septic tanks have
been authorized, sufficient area shall be provided for a replacement sewage
disposal system.
   D.   Zero Lot Line Building Lots:
      1.   Yard Setbacks: In no case shall a zero lot line be allowed adjacent
to a property line which is not part of the development application. Only one
zero lot line interior side yard per lot may be permitted in the R-6 zone. A
minimum distance of ten feet (10') shall be maintained between buildings or
potential buildings on separate lots.
      2.   Easements: A perpetual six foot (6') wide maintenance/drainage
easement shall be provided on the lot adjacent to the zero lot line property
line which shall be kept clear of structures with the exception of fences,
patios and slabs at grade. Roof overhangs and below grade foundation footings
may penetrate the easement on the adjacent lot a maximum of twelve inches
(12"), but shall be so designed that runoff from the dwelling placed on the lot
line is limited to the easement area. The easement shall be shown on the
development plan/plat and incorporated into each deed transferring the title to
the property. (1974 Code § 4-2812)
 
9-24D-12: PLANTING STRIPS AND RESERVE STRIPS:
Planting strips and reserve strips shall conform to the following:
   A.   Planting Strips: Planting strips shall be required to be placed next to
incompatible features such as highways, principal and minor arterial streets,
railroads, commercial or industrial uses, to screen the view from residential
properties. Such screening shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') wide, and
shall not be a part of the normal street right of way or utility easement; and
shall include a landscaped six foot (6') berm topped with a six foot (6') solid
screen, or combination of structural elements, approved by the city. Said
structure may include public fixtures such as bike and/or pedestrian paths. The
landscaping shall be maintained by the developer until accepted by the city.
(Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
   B.   Reserve Strips:
      1.   Reserve Strips, Private: Privately held reserve strips controlling
access to streets shall be prohibited; and
      2.   Reserve Strips, Public: A one foot (1') reserve strip may be
required to be placed along half streets which are within the subdivision
boundaries and shall be deeded in fee simple to the county/city for future
street widening. (1974 Code § 4-2812)
 
9-24D-13: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
1.   Open Space requirement.
A.   Developments with a gross acreage of 0—1.99 acres. At least five percent
(5%) of the total gross parcel area shall be retained as qualified open space.
Residential lots that are 32,000 square feet or greater within a development
are not required to contribute to the gross parcel area utilized to calculate
the required qualified open space.
B.   Developments with a gross acreage of 2—4.99 acres. At least ten percent
(10%) of the total gross parcel area shall be retained as qualified open space.
Residential lots that are 32,000 square feet or greater within a development
are not required to contribute to the gross parcel area utilized to calculate
the required qualified open space.
C.   Developments with a gross acreage of five acres or greater. At least 15
percent (15%) of the total gross parcel area shall be retained as qualified
open space. Residential lots that are 32,000 square feet or greater within a
development are not required to contribute to the gross parcel area utilized to
calculate the required qualified open space.
D.   Common open space. Open space and landscaped areas which is not Qualified
Open Space and held in common and maintained by all property owners in the
subdivision.
E.   All open space areas shall be landscaped with trees, shrubs and at least
50 percent (50%) in turf groundcover to the extent that it can be landscaped.
F.   Common open space lots or parcels provided in a standard subdivision shall
be 6,000 square feet or more and 30 feet or more in their smallest width or
depth dimension unless:
1.   The parcel or lot is part of a pathway system.
2.   The parcel or lot is part of a contiguous system of smaller common lots
with recreational elements, such as a play area, sitting area with a bench, or
picnic tables, that in the aggregate, create a functional recreational open
space area that is 6,000 square feet or larger.
3.   The area needs to be reduced due to the need to make them into odd shapes
as approved by the City of Buhl.
G.   All open space land shall be held in common by all property owners in the
subdivision and shall therefore be both legally and physically available and
accessible to all occupants of dwelling units in the subdivision.
H.   Qualified open space shall include land area that:
1.   Is not covered by buildings, parking structures, or accessory structures
(except commonly held recreational structures).
2.   Is not enclaved inside individual, privately held building lots.
3.   Is not part of any proposed or existing street, common driveway, private
driveway or parking pad, alley, or exclusive easement.
4.   Is not proposed to be platted into lots arranged in such oddly
dimensioned, unusable shapes, as to be considered realistically unusable, as
determined by the City Engineer or his/her designee.
5.   Is not unsuitable land or in an inaccessible easement
6.   Is not sloped such that it creates a dangerous or hazardous condition.
I.   All open space areas with active recreational elements shall be sloped per
industry standards for those activities and shall provide accommodation for ADA
access.
J.   Qualified open space calculation.
1.   Drainage basins, retention ponds, or portions thereof qualify as open
space.
2.   Drainage basins or portions thereof that have a surface suitable for
recreational use shall count towards the total percentage of qualified open
space. Suitable surfaces include turf, hardscape, and others as approved by the
City Engineer and Public Works Department. Filter sand is not considered a
suitable surface. Vegetation (plants, grasses, shrubs, trees) shall be selected
appropriately to withstand the periodic or frequent inundation with water.
Mulch, if used, shall be a non-floatable material.
3.   Multi-use facilities that provide other benefits beyond active recreation
and that integrate into the character of the planned development and complement
the surrounding open space and corresponding amenities may also count towards
the total percentage of qualified open space. Inclusion of these areas is
subject to the review and approval of the City Engineer, Planning and Zoning
Department, and Public Works Department. Examples include, but are not limited
to:
a.   Permanent pools for active/passive recreation.
b.   Constructed wetland/wildlife habitat areas.
c.   Other landscape features designed to mimic natural spaces.
 
2. Public sites and open spaces shall conform to the following:
A.   Public Uses: Where it is determined that a proposed park, playground,
school, or other public use is located, in whole or in part, within a proposed
subdivision, the commission shall notify the appropriate public agency
concerning the land proposed to be acquired. Within thirty (30) days of the
date of notice, the public agency may request the governing body to suspend
consideration on the subdivision for sixty (60) days. If an agreement is not
reached within sixty (60) days, the commission shall resume consideration of
the subdivision.
B.   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add value to residential
development and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such as trees,
watercourses, historic spots, and similar irreplaceable assets) shall be
preserved in the design of the subdivision;
C.   Special Developments: In the case of planned unit developments and large-
scale developments, the commission may require sufficient park or open space
facilities of acceptable size, location, and site characteristics that may be
suitable for the proposed development; and
D.   Solar Easements: Solar easements are strongly encouraged between adjoining
property owners to protect access to sunlight for solar energy systems. Such
easements may address building height limits, vegetation, and the hours or
seasons of unobstructed sunlight. Easements should be recorded with the Twin
Falls County recorder to ensure long-term enforceability. (1974 Code § 4-2812)
 
9-24D-14: PROTECTIVE COVENANTS:
A.   Protective covenants, also known as restrictive covenants, may shall be
adopted by the developer and/or lot owners. Such covenants and all amendments
or changes thereto shall be recorded with the Twin Falls County recorder and a
copy thereof, with recording data set forth thereon, shall be filed with the
planning and zoning clerk.
B.   Homeowners' Association: The homeowners' association bylaws and other
similar protective covenants or deed restrictions, which provide for the
control and maintenance of all common areas, recreation facilities or open
space shall be established for the purpose of protecting the best interests of
the owners involved and of the general public.
C.   Enforcement of Protective Covenants: In cases of conflict between the
requirements of this code and the covenants, the most restrictive requirements
shall prevail. Covenants shall be enforced by private civil suits between
property owners, unless the governing board, in its sole discretion, deems that
enforcement of a covenant to be in the governing board's best interest. (1974
Code § 4-2812; amd. 2010 Code)
 
ARTICLE E. IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-24E-1: Responsibility For Plans
9-24E-2: Required Public Improvements
9-24E-3: Guarantee Of Completion
 
9-24E-1: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PLANS:
It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed subdivision
to have prepared by a registered engineer, a complete set of construction
plans, including profiles, cross sections, specifications and other supporting
data, for all required streets, utilities and other facilities. Such
construction plans shall be based on preliminary plans which have been approved
with the preliminary plat, and shall be prepared in conjunction with the final
plat. Construction plans are subject to approval by the responsible public
agencies. All construction plans shall be prepared in accordance with the
public agencies' standards or specifications. (1974 Code § 4-2813)
 
9-24E-2: REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Every subdivider shall be required, at the subdivider's expense, to install the
following public and other improvements in accordance with city conditions,
standards and construction specifications as follows:
   A.   Monuments: Monuments shall be set in accordance with Idaho Code section
50-1303.
   B.   Streets And Alleys: All streets and alleys shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the city.
   C.   Curbs And Gutters: Vertical or rolled curbs and gutters shall be
constructed on all streets and service roads.
   D.   Bicycle Pathways: A bicycle pathway may be required within a
subdivision as part of the public right of way or separate easement.
   E.   Installation Of Public Utilities: Underground utilities shall be
required in all new subdivisions.
   F.   Driveways: All driveway openings, approaches and curb cuts shall be as
specified by city construction standards and specifications of the city, the
highway district, or state highway department.
   G.   Storm Drainage: An adequate storm drainage system shall be required in
all subdivisions. The requirements for each particular subdivision shall be
established by the council. (1974 Code § 4-2813)
   H.   Public Water Supply And Sewer Systems: All public water supply or sewer
systems shall be constructed in accordance with any adopted local plans and
specifications. All new public water supply or sewer systems shall be an
extension of an existing public system whenever possible. In the event that the
proposed public water supply or sewer system is not an extension of an existing
public system, the water and sewer systems shall be installed dry, if the city
superintendent determines connection to the municipal system shall be available
within five (5) years. All water and sewer plans shall be submitted to the
proper city, state and federal agencies for approval.
   I.   Fire Hydrants And Water Mains:
      1.   Fire Protection: Adequate fire protection shall be required in
accordance with standards established by the city fire officials.
      2.   Minimum Standards: The minimum standard shall be that the hydrant
pumper nozzle shall be of one piece design, compatible with five inch (5")
Storz hose couplings. The nozzle shall be an integral part of the fire hydrant
and must be furnished by the manufacturer or authorized distributor designated
by the manufacturer. Storz adapters will not be accepted. Hydrants shall be
Waterous Paccer Model WB67-250. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
   J.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall be installed in the
appropriate locations at each street intersection in accordance with the local
standards established by the city. (1974 Code § 4-2813)
   K.   Sidewalks And Pedestrian Walkways: Sidewalks shall be required on both
sides of the street in zones exceeding a residential density of dwellings per
acre. Pedestrian walkways, when required, shall have easements at least ten
feet (10') in width and include a paved walk at least five feet (5') in width.
Sidewalks and crosswalks shall be constructed in accordance with the standards
and specifications as adopted by the city. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
   L.   Greenbelt: Greenbelts or landscaping screening may be required for the
protection of residential properties from adjacent major arterial streets,
waterways, walkways, railroad rights of way or other features. Subdivision
plats shall show the location of any greenbelt areas.
   M.   Street Lighting: Streetlights shall be required to be installed at
intersections throughout the subdivision. A subdivider shall conform to the
requirements of the city and the public utility providing such lighting. (1974
Code § 4-2813)
   N.   Information Technology: Two (2) conduits and junction boxes at each lot
shall be provided for information technology connections including, but not
limited to, fiber optic and coaxial cable. The conduit and junction boxes shall
be as specified by the city engineer. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
O. Mailboxes: Mailbox locations shall be reviewed and approved by the U.S.
Postal Service.
 
9-24E-3: GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION:
   A.   Financial Guarantee Arrangements: In lieu of the actual installation of
required public improvements before recording the final plat, the council shall
require the subdivider to provide a financial guarantee of performance in one
or a combination of the following arrangements for those requirements which are
over and beyond the requirements of any other agency responsible for the
administration, operation and maintenance of the applicable public improvement.
   B.   Surety Bond:
      1.   Accrual: The bond shall accrue to the city covering construction,
operation and maintenance of the specific public improvement;
      2.   Amount: The bond shall be in an amount equal to one hundred percent
(100%) of the total estimated cost for completing construction of the specific
public improvement, as estimated by the city engineer and approved by the
council;
      3.   Term Length: The term length in which the bond is in force shall be
for a period to be specified by the council for the specific public
improvement; and
      4.   Bonding For Surety Company: The bond shall be with a surety company
authorized to do business in the state of Idaho, acceptable to the council.
   C.   Cash Deposit, Certified Check, Negotiable Bond, Or Irrevocable Bank
Letter Of Credit:
      1.   Escrow Agent Or Trust Company: A cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond or an irrevocable bank letter of credit acceptable by the
council shall be deposited with an escrow agent or trust company;
      2.   Dollar Value: The dollar value of the cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be equal to one
hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost of construction for the specific
public improvement, as estimated by the city engineer and approved by the
council;
      3.   Escrow Time: The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be for a period to
be specified by the council; and
      4.   Progressive Payment: In the case of cash deposits or certified
checks, an agreement between the council and the subdivider may provide for
progressive payment out of the cash deposit or reduction of the certified
check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit to the extent of
the cost of the completed portion of the public improvement, in accordance with
a previously entered into agreement.
   D.   Subdivision Improvement Agreement: The developer shall enter into a
subdivision improvement agreement with the city prior to commencing development
of the subdivision.
   E.   Bonding And One Year Guarantee: The owner and/or subdivider shall
guarantee all improvements within the public right of way for a one-year period
following the date of final inspection and acceptance by the city. Any defects,
repairs or maintenance during the one-year guarantee period due to faulty
workmanship or materials shall be corrected at the expense of the owner and/or
subdivider. In order to secure the guarantee, a bond shall be provided to the
city for said one year period. (1974 Code § 4-2813)
 
Section 3. That all ordinances, resolutions, or code provisions in conflict
herewith are hereby repealed.
 
Section 4. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon its passage,
approval, and publication as provided by law.
 
   PASSED by the Buhl City Council on the 8th day of September, 2025.
   APPROVED by the Mayor of the City of Buhl, the 8th day of September, 2025.
                        CITY OF BUHL, IDAHO
                        ________________________________
                        Pamela McClain, Mayor
ATTEST:
 
___________________________________
Chelsea Popplewell, City Clerk-Treasurer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 948
   AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BUHL, IDAHO, FOR REVISING, CODIFYING AND
COMPILING THE GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF BUHL, IDAHO.
   WHEREAS, Numerous changes, additions, deletions and corrections have been
made to the general ordinances of the city of Buhl, Idaho, since the
publication of the last codification made by ordinance no. 583, November 5,
1974; and,
   WHEREAS, It is necessary that such ordinances be revised, codified and
compiled with such changes, alterations, modifications and additions as are
necessary to replace all of the ordinances of a general and permanent character
in one easily accessible and ready reference manual.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY
OF BUHL, IDAHO:
   Section 1. ADOPTION OF CODE.
   The Buhl city code, 2010, perpetual looseleaf volume, consisting of all of
the ordinances of the city of Buhl of a permanent and general character, with
all errors, inconsistencies, repetitions and ambiguities eliminated therefrom,
is hereby adopted as a code of general ordinances to be known as the Buhl city
code, 2010, said ordinance or code, and all of its chapters, articles and
sections are as set forth in the said code.
   Section 2. CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a general and permanent character in force and effect as
of the 8th day of February, 2010, and in conflict with the said revision,
compilation and codification, adopted in section 1 hereof, are hereby repealed,
subject to the following:
   (a)    All ordinances now in force and effect shall continue in force and
effect for the purpose of all rights acquired, fines, penalties, forfeitures
and liabilities incurred and actions therefor;
   (b)    This revised compilation and codification relates solely to the
general and permanent ordinances in force and effect through ordinance no. 946
as of the 8th day of February, 2010, relating to municipal administration and
ordinances enacted under the police power of said city and shall not be deemed
or construed to include or to affect ordinances of a special or temporary
nature, building, electric or plumbing ordinances, or codes, ordinances
affecting a particular district or locality within the city limits, annexation,
franchises, contract ordinances, or other ordinances of a like nature.
   Section 3. PERPETUAL LOOSELEAF CODIFICATION.
   The city of Buhl does hereby adopt as a method of perpetual codification the
looseleaf ready reference manual method, each new amendment, change, addition,
alteration or deletion to the Buhl city code, 2010, shall be made by the
reproduction of the necessary pages for insertion in the said code within
thirty (30) days after the passage of any ordinances changing said Buhl city
code, 2010. The city attorney and the city clerk are hereby instructed to make
such required changes as from time to time are necessitated by the passage of
ordinances of a general and permanent nature. The city may keep and update the
code on computer or internet accessible for the general public.
   Section 4. CODE TO BE AVAILABLE TO GENERAL PUBLIC.
   At least two copies of the code shall be kept at the city clerk's office.
Said copies shall be available to the general population for reading, research
and copying. The clerk shall charge the cost of copies on a per page basis
adopted by the clerk to meet the city's cost of such copies.
   Section 5. EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Buhl city code, 2010, shall be in full force and effect from and after the
16th day of July, 2010.
   PASSED BY THE CITY COUNCIL, August 9, 2010.
   APPROVED BY THE MAYOR, August 9, 2010.
   /s/
   Mayor
Attest:
/s/
   City Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
BUHL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-5: General Powers Of City
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of Buhl. This code of ordinances
shall be known and cited as the BUHL CITY CODE, 2010, and is hereby published
by authority of the city council and shall be supplemented to incorporate the
most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2010 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2010 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its
proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the city
code. (2010 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code books,
while in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be
and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the
city clerk-treasurer when directed so to do by order of the city council. (2010
Code)
1-1-5: GENERAL POWERS OF CITY:
The city shall have all the powers provided for in Idaho Code title 50, chapter
2, as it now exists or is hereafter amended and Idaho Code title 50, chapter 2,
is hereby adopted by reference as though set forth fully herein. (1974 Code §
1-101)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; all special ordinances. (2010 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances with respect to such provisions only. (2010 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2010 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof or any portion adopted by reference therein is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof or
any portion adopted by reference therein. The city council hereby declares that
it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or
phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2010 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only,
or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the opposite
gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that
these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this code
which contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the
subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2010 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The city of Buhl, county of Twin Falls, state of Idaho.
CLERK-TREASURER: The city clerk-treasurer of the city of Buhl.
CODE: The city code of the city of Buhl.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the council of the city of Buhl.
COUNTY: The county of Twin Falls, state of Idaho.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Buhl".
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the city shall commence on October 1 of each
year 1 .
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
INFRACTION: A civil public offense, not constituting a crime, punishable by a
penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) and for which no
incarceration may be imposed 2 .
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAYOR: The mayor of the city of Buhl, Idaho.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense not defined as a felony or infraction under state law
3 .
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Buhl".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER, WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, these
terms shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles
or things to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-1001.
2 2. IC §§ 18-111, 18-113A.
3 3. IC §§ 18-111, 18-113; see section
  1-4-1 of this title.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2010
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor 1 :
      1.   Definition: When an act or omission is declared by ordinance to be a
public offense, or to be unlawful, said act or omission is hereby declared to
be a misdemeanor, and the act or omission is punishable as a misdemeanor.
      2.   Penalty: Every person who shall be convicted of a misdemeanor,
shall, unless a different punishment be prescribed by the ordinance, be
punished by paying a fine of not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00),
and/or confinement in jail for a period not to exceed six (6) months for any
one offense, recoverable with costs, and in default of payment of the fine,
shall be confined in jail at the rate of one day for each thirty five dollars
($35.00) of such fine and costs until the same, by such rate per day, shall
equal the amount of the fine and costs. (1974 Code § 1-1704; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Infraction 2 : When the offense is designated as an infraction by any
section or provision of this Code or by State law, it is punishable only by a
penalty not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) plus court costs and
fees, and no incarceration may be imposed. If not otherwise set forth in this
Code or by ordinance or State law, any person found guilty of an infraction
shall be subject to a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus court costs
and fees. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
   C.   Federally Mandated Programs: When this City is participating in a
Federally mandated program, wherein penalties or enforcement remedies are
required by the terms of participation in the program, the City may enforce
such requirements by ordinance, to include a criminal or civil monetary penalty
not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or imprisonment for criminal
offenses not to exceed six (6) months, or to include both a fine and
imprisonment for criminal offenses. (2010 Code)
   D.   Failure To Appear Or Obey: The failure of any person to appear at the
time indicated on an infraction citation, or failure to otherwise obey an
infraction citation, shall be a misdemeanor and subject to the penalty provided
in subsection A of this section. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§ 18-111B, 18-113, 50-302.
2 2. IC § 18-113A.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty Provisions:
      1.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
Code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in
this Code. (1974 Code § 1-1704; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   B.   One Recovery For Same Offense: In all cases where the same offense is
made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this Code,
the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced. (2010 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2010
Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Mayor
1-5-2: City Council
1-5-3: Meetings
1-5-4: Ordinances And City Records
1-5-5: Corporate Seal
1-5-6: Care Of Public Funds
1-5-7: Quarterly Statement, Publication
1-5-8: Examination Of Accounts Of Fiscal Officers
1-5-1: MAYOR:
   A.   Qualifications, Duties And Powers: The qualifications, duties and
powers of the mayor of the city shall be governed by Idaho Code title 50,
chapter 6, as it now exists or is hereafter amended, and Idaho Code title 50,
chapter 6, is hereby adopted by reference as though set forth fully herein.
(1974 Code § 1-201)
   B.   Authority To Call Special Meetings: The mayor may call a special
meeting of the city council by filing a request therefor with the city clerk-
treasurer. The clerk-treasurer shall notify each council person and the mayor
at least twenty four (24) hours in advance by depositing such notice, which
will explain the purpose of the meeting, in the post office, with postage
prepaid. Such special meeting may be lawfully held by the convening of all
members and the signing of waivers of notice by the members. (1974 Code § 1-
202)
   C.   Authority To Call For Accounts And Reports Of Officers: The mayor shall
have the power, when he deems it necessary, to require any officer of the city
to exhibit his accounts or other papers and make reports to the city council,
in writing, touching any subject or matter he may require pertaining to his
office. (1974 Code § 1-203)
1-5-2: CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Composition; Powers: The legislative authority of the city is hereby
vested in a council consisting of four (4) members, one-half (1/2) of whom
shall be elected at each general city election. Said council shall have such
powers and duties as are now or may hereafter be provided under the general
laws of the state of Idaho. (1974 Code § 1-204)
   B.   Election: Each precinct of the city shall have two (2) council persons,
who shall be chosen by the electors of the entire city from the qualified
electors of their respective precincts. (1974 Code § 1-205)
   C.   Qualifications; Terms; Installation:
      1.   Qualifications: Any person shall be eligible to hold the office of
council person, who is, at the time of election, and remains a qualified
elector under the constitution and laws of the state of Idaho.
      2.   Term: Each council person elected at a general city election, except
as otherwise specifically provided, shall hold office for a term of four (4)
years, and until his successor is elected and qualified.
      3.   Installation: Council persons elected at each general city election
shall be installed at the first meeting in January following election. The
manner of conducting that meeting shall be as herein set forth and not
otherwise; the incumbents shall meet and conduct such business as may be
necessary to conclude the fiscal matters of the preceding year; the newly
elected shall then subscribe to the oath of office, be presented certificates
of election, assume the duties of their position, and conduct such business as
may be necessary, one item of which shall be the election of a member as
president of the council. (1974 Code § 1-206)
   D.   Vacancies; Appointment: A vacancy on the council shall be filled by
appointment, made by the mayor with the consent of the council, which appointee
shall serve only until the next general city election, at which such vacancy
shall be filled for the balance of the original term. (1974 Code § 1-207)
1-5-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings:
      1.   Day And Time: The council of the city shall meet at six-thirty
o’clock (6:30) P.M. on the second and fourth Monday’s of each and every month
in the city council chambers of the city hall, so long as there is one or more
items on the agenda. Any meeting may not be canceled when there is one or more
items on the agenda. Any meeting may be canceled when there is no item on the
agenda.
   B.   Agenda: The mayor, a city council person and the city clerk-treasurer
are authorized to place items on the agenda. A citizen of the city, by a
request to the city clerk-treasurer, may have an item placed on the agenda for
consideration by the city council. Once an item has been placed on the agenda
only the person who has placed the item(s) on the agenda shall have the
authority to remove such item(s) from the agenda. The deadline for placing all
items on the agenda shall be five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the Tuesday prior to
the Monday meeting.
   C.   Quorum: At all meetings of the council, a majority of the full council
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business; unless otherwise
provided by law, a question before the council shall be decided by a majority
of the members present.
   D.   Compel Attendance: For the purpose of holding regular or special
meetings, a number less than a majority may compel the attendance of absent
members in such manner and under such penalties as the council may, by
ordinance, having previously prescribed. Regular or special meetings of the
council may be recessed until further notice. (1974 Code § 1-208)
   E.   Special Meetings:
      1.   Power To Call: One-half (1/2) plus one of the members of the full
council shall have the power to call special meetings of the city council, the
object of which shall be submitted to the council, in writing; the call and
object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the journal
of the clerk-treasurer.
      2.   Notice: The clerk-treasurer shall notify each council person and the
mayor at least twenty four (24) hours in advance by depositing such notice,
which will explain the purpose of the meeting, in the post office with postage
prepaid. Such special meeting may be lawfully held by the convening of all
members and the signing of waivers of notice by the members. (1974 Code § 1-
209; amd. Ord. 1008, 2-14-2022)
1-5-4: ORDINANCES AND CITY RECORDS:
   A.   Statute Adopted: All ordinances and city codes shall be passed and all
records kept in the manner provided for in Idaho Code title 50, chapters 6 and
9, as they now exist or may hereafter be amended, and Idaho Code title 50,
chapters 6 and 9, are hereby adopted by reference as though set forth fully
herein. (1974 Code § 1-1701)
   B.   Passage Over Mayor's Veto Or Failure To Sign: When any ordinance has
been passed over the mayor's veto or has become law without the signature of
the mayor, as provided in subsection A of this section, the city clerk-
treasurer shall annex a certificate to the ordinance stating that the same was
vetoed by the mayor, giving date of such veto, and that on its reconsideration
by the council, it received the required vote of the members of the council,
together with the date of such action. In those instances where the ordinance
becomes law without the signature of the mayor, the certificate need merely
show that the mayor has failed to sign or veto the same, and it has, therefore,
become a law without his signature. (1974 Code § 1-1702)
1-5-5: CORPORATE SEAL:
   A.   Design: The corporate seal of the city shall be circular in form with
inner and outer circles. It shall bear upon the space between the inner and
outer circles the words, "CITY OF BUHL, IDAHO", and upon the space within the
inner circle the words "Corporate Seal". (1974 Code § 1-213)
   B.   Adopted: The seal described in subsection A of this section shall be,
and the same is, hereby adopted as the corporate seal of the city. (1974 Code §
1-214)
1-5-6: CARE OF PUBLIC FUNDS:
The city council shall provide, by ordinance, for the care and safekeeping of
all the public funds of the city and for the deposit of the same 1 . The
provisions of Idaho Code title 57, chapter 1, relative to the deposit of public
funds, shall apply to the making of such deposits and security to be taken for
the protection of the same. (1974 Code § 1-210)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-9-1 of this title for depository.
1-5-7: QUARTERLY STATEMENT, PUBLICATION:
The city council shall cause to be published quarterly a statement of the
receipts of the city and source thereof, and an itemized account of
expenditures, with a statement of the financial condition of the city. (1974
Code § 1-211)
1-5-8: EXAMINATION OF ACCOUNTS OF FISCAL OFFICERS:
At least once in each quarter of each year, the council shall examine, either
in open session or by committee, the accounts and doings of all officers or
other persons having the care, management or disposition of monies, property or
business of the city. (1974 Code § 1-212)
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Bonds Of Officers
1-6-2: General Personnel/Work Policy Manual
1-6-3: Salaries Of Officers
1-6-1: BONDS OF OFFICERS:
   A.   Bond Required: The following officers of the city, before entering upon
the duties of their respective offices, shall file good and sufficient surety
bonds, to be approved by the mayor and city council for the faithful
performance of their respective offices in the following amounts:
 
City clerk               $500,000.00
City treasurer           500,000.00
Deputy city clerks, each 500,000.00
 
The bonds of the deputy city clerks shall be filed with the city clerk-
treasurer. The bond of the city clerk-treasurer shall be filed with the city
mayor. The premium on said bonds to be paid by the city. (1974 Code § 1-314;
amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Other Officers Or Employees: The mayor and council of the city may,
whenever they deem it advisable, require any other officer or employee of the
city to furnish bonds in such amounts as may be set by the mayor and council.
(1974 Code § 1-315; amd. 2010 Code)
1-6-2: GENERAL PERSONNEL/WORK POLICY MANUAL:
The general personnel/work policy manual adopted by the city, by resolution, as
it now exists and as it may hereafter be amended by resolution is hereby
designated as the official general personnel/work policy manual between the
city and its employees and the salary, fringe benefits, grievances and such
other items as are contained in said work policy manual as it now exists and
may hereafter be amended. (1974 Code § 1-316)
1-6-3: SALARIES OF OFFICERS:
   A.   Commencing January 1, 2022, the salaries of the Mayor and members of
the Buhl City Council shall be as follows:
      1.   The Mayor shall receive an annual salary in the sum of twelve
thousand dollars ($12,000.00).
      2.   Each member of the Council shall receive an annual salary in the sum
of six thousand dollars ($6,000.00).
      3.   The Mayor and Council shall receive the same employee benefits as
any full-time city employee except for accrual of paid time off (PTO).
   B.   Appointive Officers: The salaries of all appointive officers of said
city, including the city treasurer, city attorney, city clerk, chief of police,
city engineer, fire chief, and any other appointive officers or employees of
said city, shall be determined by resolution duly passed by the city council
and mayor. Such resolution shall be considered duly passed by a two-thirds (2/
3) majority of the city council at any regular meeting thereof. (1974 Code § 1-
317; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 1005, 8-9-2021)
ARTICLE A. SPECIFIC OFFICERS
SECTION:
1-6A-1: City Clerk
1-6A-2: City Treasurer
1-6A-3: City Attorney
1-6A-4: City Engineer
1-6A-5: Director Of Public Works
1-6A-1: CITY CLERK:
   A.   Journal, Record Of Outstanding Bonds:
      1.   Journal: The city clerk shall have the custody of all laws and
ordinances and shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the city
council.
      2.   Outstanding Bonds: The clerk also shall keep a record of all
outstanding bonds against the city, showing the number and amount of each, for
and to whom the said bonds were issued, and when any bonds are purchased or
paid or cancelled, said record shall show the fact. In the clerk's annual
report, he shall describe particularly the bonds issued and sold during the
year, and the terms of the sale, with each and every item of expense thereof.
      3.   Transcripts: The clerk shall furnish the city attorney with the
necessary documents of transcripts, taking a receipt therefor.
      4.   Publication Of Ordinances: The clerk shall cause all new ordinances
to be published as required by state law.
      5.   Other Duties: The clerk shall also perform such other duties as may
be required by the ordinances of the city. (1974 Code § 1-301)
   B.   Keep Seal And Records:
      1.   Seal: In addition to the powers and duties provided by the statutes
of the state of Idaho, the city clerk shall have the power and it shall be his
duty to keep the seal of the city, and affix it to all instruments and papers
which by law or by ordinance are required to be attested by the city clerk.
      2.   Records: The clerk shall have the custody of and safely keep all
public papers, records, documents in which the city is interested as may be
delivered into his custody for safekeeping. (1974 Code § 1-302)
   C.   Attend Council Meetings; Countersign Warrants: It shall be the duty of
the city clerk to attend all meetings of the city council, keep all the minutes
of all their proceedings and record the same in his office. The clerk shall
fill out and countersign all warrants and checks drawn on the city treasury and
deliver the same when called for by the proper parties. The clerk shall also,
at the close of each fiscal year, and as often as required by the council, make
out and submit to said council a complete statement of receipts and
expenditures and all the financial affairs of the city during such years. (1974
Code § 1-303)
   D.   Certify Monies To Treasurer: It shall be the duty of the city clerk,
when monies are to be paid to the city, to certify the same to the city
treasurer, and the city treasurer shall receive no monies except on certificate
of the city clerk. The certificate shall state the source from which said
monies are received and shall apportion the said monies so received to the
proper funds.
   E.   Copies Of Records: Upon demand and payment of such fees therefor as the
county recorder of any county of the state of Idaho might receive for similar
services, the city clerk shall furnish to any person applying therefor, a copy
of any record, paper or document of any kind in his possession, which copies
shall be certified under his hand and seal of office, and all fees for such
certified copies shall be accounted for and paid to the treasurer in the same
manner as other receipts of the clerk are paid in and accounted for. (1974 Code
§ 1-305)
   F.   Bookkeeping System, Audits: The city clerk shall keep, according to
some established system of bookkeeping, all accounts between the city and its
officers and other persons, and shall keep an official record of all demands on
the treasury, audited and allowed, showing the number, date, amount, name of
original holder, on what account allowed, out of what fund payable, and he
shall do and perform such other duties as may from time to time be enjoined on
him by ordinance or resolution of the council. (1974 Code § 1-306)
1-6A-2: CITY TREASURER:
   A.   Duties: The city treasurer shall be the custodian of all monies
belonging to the city; shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation, and the debits and credits belonging thereto; shall give to
every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid; shall also file copies of such
receipts with his monthly reports; shall, at the end of each and every month
and as often as may be required, render an account to the city council, under
oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of such account and the
balance of money in the treasury; the treasurer shall also accompany such
accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements, together with all
warrants redeemed and paid by him; which said warrants, with any and all
vouchers held by him, shall be filed with his said account, in the clerk's
office, and if said treasurer neglects or fails for the space of ten (10) days
from the end of each and every month, to render his said account, his office
shall be declared vacant, and the city council shall fill the vacancy by
appointment.
   B.   Payment By Personal Check: The city treasurer is authorized to accept
payment in the form of a check from any person or entity indebted unto the
city. Likewise, the city treasurer, in his discretion, may refuse to accept
payment from any person or entity by personal check and may insist upon payment
from such person or entity in cash, money order, certified check, cashier's
check, or other acceptable medium of exchange.
   C.   Insufficient Funds Checks; Bad Check Fee: The city treasurer shall
maintain a record of each person or entity making full or partial payment of
any obligation owing unto the city by check or other negotiable instrument
which subsequently is dishonored by the banking institution upon which it is
written. The city treasurer is authorized and directed to assess a bad check
fee to the maker or drawer of any such check returned by any banking
institution to the city. Such bad check fee shall be set by resolution of the
city council. The city treasurer shall, if necessary, add that bad check fee to
the account or bill on which the check was initially received. Said fee shall
thereupon become a part of the balance owing on that account and the city shall
have all rights under law for the payment of the same, including the right to
terminate applicable utility service in the event the account becomes
delinquent. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the rights, courses of
action, or remedies available to the city upon receipt of a check which
subsequently is dishonored by a banking institution and returned to the city.
(1974 Code § 1-307)
   D.   Report To Council: The city treasurer shall be constantly acquainted
with the financial operations of the city treasury and each demand thereon, and
shall furnish to the city council any desired information as to the condition
of such treasury, or any fund thereof, whenever required to do so by such
council. (1974 Code § 1-308)
   E.   Publication Of Financial Statements:
      1.   Required: It shall be the duty of the city treasurer to cause to be
published quarterly, during each fiscal year for at least one insertion, in the
official newspaper of the city, a full statement of the receipts and
expenditures of the city, giving the source from whence received, to what
purpose applied, and to whom paid. Such statement shall be published thirty
(30) days from the end of each quarter of the fiscal year and shall relate to
receipts and expenditures made during the last completed quarter immediately
preceding. (1974 Code § 1-309; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Noncompliance: Failure upon the part of the city treasurer to comply
with the requirements of subsection E1 of this section shall be deemed a
misdemeanor. (1974 Code § 1-310)
   F.   Deposit Of Municipal Funds: The city treasurer may be required to keep
all money in his hands belonging to the city in such place or places as may be
provided by ordinance, but no such ordinance shall be passed by which the
custody of such money shall be taken from the city treasurer and deposited
elsewhere than in some regularly organized bank, nor without a bond to be taken
from such bank in such penal sum and with such securities as the city council
shall direct and approve, sufficient to save the city from any loss, but such
penal sum shall not be less than the estimated maximum amount on deposit at any
one time from taxes and special assessments levied and to be levied by the
city; provided, however, the city treasurer is directed and empowered to
invest, with the consent of the mayor and city council, any money in his hands,
not currently required for municipal purposes, in securities of the United
States government or of the state of Idaho, county bonds, highway bonds, local
improvement district bonds or in the general security of the city or such other
investment as allowed by the laws of the state of Idaho. (1974 Code § 1-311)
1-6A-3: CITY ATTORNEY:
The city attorney shall be the legal advisor of the council. He shall commence,
prosecute and defend all suits and actions necessary to be commenced,
prosecuted or defended on behalf of the city, or that may be ordered by the
council. When requested, he shall attend meetings of the council and give them
his opinion upon any matters submitted to him, either orally or in writing, as
may be required. (1974 Code § 1-312)
1-6A-4: CITY ENGINEER:
The city engineer shall make estimates of the costs of all labor and materials
which may be done or furnished by contract with the city, and make all surveys,
estimates and calculations necessary to be made for the establishment of
grades, building of culverts, sewers, bridges, curbings, and gutters, and the
improvement of streets and the erection of and repair of buildings, and shall
perform such other duties as the council may require. (1974 Code § 1-313)
1-6A-5: DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS:
   A.   Appointment: A director of public works shall be appointed by the mayor
and approved by the city council.
   B.   Duties: The director of public works shall have the direct supervision
and management of the city public works including, but not limited to, water,
sewer, sanitation, streets and parks. The mayor and council shall employ such
assistants to the director as they deem necessary for the efficient operation
of the city public works. The city council and mayor will, from time to time,
create a job description for the director of public works and assistants to the
director as they deem appropriate. (1974 Code § 1-318)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Precincts
1-7-2: Elections
1-7-1: PRECINCTS:
   A.   City One Precinct: The city shall consist of one precinct. (1974 Code §
1-1101)
   B.   Name Of Precinct: The name of said precinct shall be the "first
precinct". (1974 Code § 1-1102)
   C.   Boundaries: The first precinct shall consist of all territory embraced
within the city limits. (1974 Code § 1-1103)
1-7-2: ELECTIONS:
   A.   Elections: All general and special elections and the nominations of
candidates for offices of the city shall be conducted in accordance with Idaho
Code title 50, chapter 4, as it now exists or is hereafter amended and that
Idaho Code title 50, chapter 4, is hereby adopted by reference as though set
forth fully herein. (1974 Code § 1-1201)
   B.   Hours Of Polling Places For City Elections: The polls for all general
and special city elections shall be open from twelve o'clock (12:00) noon,
mountain time and remain open until eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. mountain time.
(1974 Code § 1-1202)
CHAPTER 8
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
SECTION:
1-8-1: Creation Of Right
1-8-2: Number Of Petitioners Required
1-8-3: Form Of Petition
1-8-4: Time For Filing Petitions
1-8-5: Printing Of Petition; Sheets For Signatures
1-8-6: Verification On Sheets For Signatures
1-8-7: Examination And Certification Of Signatures
1-8-8: Sufficiency Of Petition; Notification; Effect Of Council; Action;
Election
1-8-9: Form Of Ballot
1-8-10: Conduct Of Election
1-8-11: Costs Of Election
1-8-12: Canvass Of Returns
1-8-13: Prohibited Acts; Penalties
1-8-1: CREATION OF RIGHT:
The people of this city shall have the right to enact ordinances through the
initiative process, and to repeal ordinances through the referendum process,
according to the procedures set forth in this chapter. (1974 Code § 1-1901)
1-8-2: NUMBER OF PETITIONERS REQUIRED:
To enact an ordinance by initiative or to repeal an ordinance by referendum,
there shall be attached or appended to the petition the signatures of the legal
voters of the city equal to at least twenty percent (20%) of the total number
of voters to vote at the last general election in the city. (1974 Code § 1-
1902)
1-8-3: FORM OF PETITION:
The initiative petition shall be in substantially the following form:
Initiative petition to the mayor and council of the city of Buhl, Idaho: "We,
the undersigned citizens and legal voters of the city of Buhl, Idaho,
respectfully demand that the following proposed ordinance, to-wit, (setting out
full text of measure proposed) shall be submitted to the legal voters of the
city of Buhl, Idaho, for their approval or rejection at an election to be
called in accordance with the Idaho Code subsection 50-501(3) and each for
himself says: I have personally signed this petition; I am a legal voter of the
city of Buhl, Idaho; my residence and post office are correctly written after
my name.
Name          Street and Number          Post Office
                               
(Here follow numbered lines for signatures)
The petition for referendum on any ordinance passed by the city council shall
be in substantially the same form with appropriate title and changes, setting
out in full the text of the ordinance to be referred to the people for their
approval or rejection. (1974 Code § 1-1903)
1-8-4: TIME FOR FILING PETITIONS:
Referendum petitions with the requisite number of signatures attached shall be
filed with the city clerk-treasurer not less than sixty (60) days following the
final adoption of the ordinance to be subject to referendum. (1974 Code § 1-
1904)
1-8-5: PRINTING OF PETITION; SHEETS FOR SIGNATURES:
The time limits for perfecting a petition shall be as follows:
   A.   Specifications For Petition: Before or at the time of beginning to
circulate any petition for initiative or referendum, the person or persons,
organization or organizations under whose authority the petition is to be
circulated, shall send or deliver to the city clerk-treasurer a copy of such
petition duly signed by at least twenty (20) electors eligible to sign such
petition. The clerk-treasurer shall immediately examine the petition and
specify the form and kind and size of paper on which the petition shall be
printed and circulated for further signatures. All petitions and sheets for
signatures shall be printed on a good quality bond or ledger paper, on pages
eight and one-half inches (81/2") in width by eleven inches (11") in length,
with a margin of one and three-fourths inches (13/4") at the top for binding,
and the sheets for signatures shall have numbered lines thereon from 1 to 20
for signatures. The petition shall be prepared in sections, with each section
numbered consecutively. Each section of a petition must have a printed copy of
the petition as the first page, and each section shall have attached to it not
more than ten (10) sheets for signatures.
   B.   Clerk-Treasurer’s Approval Of Form: The city clerk-treasurer shall
indicate, in writing, on the petition that he or she has approved it as to
form, the clerk-treasurer shall inform the person or persons, organization or
organizations under whose authority the petition is to be circulated, in
writing, that the petition must be perfected with the required number of
certified signatures within sixty (60) days following the date of approval as
to form. Any petition that has not been perfected with the required number of
certified signatures within the sixty (60) days allowed shall be declared null
and void ab initio in its entirety. (1974 Code § 1-1905)
1-8-6: VERIFICATION ON SHEETS FOR SIGNATURES:
Each and every signature sheet of each petition containing signatures shall be
verified on the face thereof in substantially the following form by the person
who circulated said sheet of the petition, by his or her affidavit thereon, as
a part thereof:
   STATE OF IDAHO    )
          ) ss.
   County of Twin Falls    )
I,                         , swear, under penalty of perjury, that every person
who signed this sheet of the foregoing petition signed his or her name thereto
in my presence. I believe that each has stated his or her name and the
accompanying required information on the signature sheet correctly, and that
the person was eligible to sign this petition.
            Signature                                  
               Post Office address                    
Subscribed and sworn to before me this             day of                     ,
20       .
(Notary Seal)         Notary Public                             
                  Residing at                                
(1974 Code § 1-1906)
1-8-7: EXAMINATION AND CERTIFICATION OF SIGNATURES:
   A.   Examination: All petitions with attached signature sheets shall be
presented on the same day to the city clerk-treasurer, who shall make a cursory
examination of them to determine whether the petitions apparently contain the
necessary number of signatures.
      1.   If the total number of signatures on the petitions is not sufficient
to satisfy the number required by section
1-8-2 of this chapter, all petitions with attached signature sheets shall be
retained by the city clerk-treasurer who shall notify, in writing, the person
filing the petition of the number of signatures needed, and further signatures
may be gathered, if within the time limit of section
1-8-5 of this chapter.
      2.   If the cursory examination of the signature sheets reveals:
         a.   Erasures on any signature;
         b.   Illegible or undecipherable signatures;
         c.   Signatures not properly identified by all of the information
required on the sheet;
         d.   Duplicate signatures;
         e.   Signatures of persons who have requested, in writing, to have
their names removed from the petition;
the city clerk-treasurer shall summarily reject such signatures and they shall
not be counted. Each rejected signature shall be drawn through with ink and
initialed by the clerk-treasurer. If the total number of signatures not
rejected is not sufficient to satisfy the number required by section
1-8-2 of this chapter, all petitions with attached signature sheets shall be
retained by the clerk-treasurer who shall notify, in writing, the person filing
the petition of the number of signatures needed, and further signatures may be
gathered, if within the time limit of section
1-8-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Certification: All petitions presented to the city clerk-treasurer
found to apparently contain the necessary number of signatures, after the
cursory examination provided for above, shall be filed with the city clerk-
treasurer and become public records of the city not to be returned. The city
clerk-treasurer shall examine each such signature purported to be that of a
registered elector of the city, and compare each such signature with the
registration documents available to the city clerk-treasurer. The city clerk-
treasurer shall summarily reject all signatures which are not the signatures of
a registered elector of the city; and such rejected signatures shall not be
counted. Each rejected signature shall be drawn through with ink and initialed
by the city clerk-treasurer. The city clerk-treasurer may take not to exceed
ten (10) days after filing of the petition to complete his or her examination.
The city clerk-treasurer shall certify each signature found to comply with all
of the requirements of this chapter by an appropriate mark following each
signature. The city clerk-treasurer shall total the number of certified
signatures, and if found to total the number of signatures required by section
1-8-2 of this chapter, shall proceed as provided in section
1-8-8 of this chapter. (1974 Code § 1-1907)
1-8-8: SUFFICIENCY OF PETITION; NOTIFICATION; EFFECT OF COUNCIL; ACTION;
ELECTION:
   A.   Defective For Lack Of Certified Signatures: In the event that a
petition filed with the city clerk-treasurer does not contain the required
number of certified signatures, the city clerk-treasurer shall inform the
person or organization under whose authority the petition was circulated that
the petition is defective for lack of certified signatures, and specify the
number of additional signatures required to make the petition valid. The
petition must be perfected within thirty (30) days of the date that the city
clerk-treasurer finds the petition defective for lack of certified signatures.
If the petition is not perfected within the thirty (30) day period, the clerk-
treasurer shall declare the petition null and void ab initio in its entirety.
   B.   Petition In Proper Form: In the event that a petition filed with the
city clerk-treasurer is found by the city clerk-treasurer to contain the
required number of certified signatures, the city clerk-treasurer shall
promptly, by certified mail, inform the petitioners, and shall also notify the
city council at its next meeting, that the initiative or referendum petition is
in proper form.
      1.   Referendum Petition: If the petition is for a referendum, the city
council shall have thirty (30) days from the date of certification of the
petition to repeal the ordinance being referred to the voters. In the event the
council repeals the ordinance, the referendum petition shall be declared null
and void.
      2.   Initiative Petition: If the petition is an initiative petition, the
city council shall have thirty (30) days to pass an ordinance substantially as
proposed by the petition. In the event the council passes such an ordinance,
the initiative petition shall be null and void.
      3.   No Action By Council; Election: In the event the city council
neither repeals the ordinance which is the subject of a referendum petition,
nor enacts an ordinance which is the subject of an initiative petition, an
election shall be ordered by the city clerk-treasurer to be conducted citywide.
A special election for initiative or referendum shall be held on the first
Tuesday in February, May, August or on the Tuesday following the first Monday
of November which falls more than forty five (45) days after the city clerk-
treasurer orders that such initiative or referendum election be held. (1974
Code § 1-1908)
1-8-9: FORM OF BALLOT:
The city council shall prepare a ballot for an initiative or referendum
election in one of the following ways:
   A.   Less Than Two Hundred Fifty Words: If the full text of the ordinance or
proposed ordinance to be voted upon does not exceed two hundred fifty (250)
words in length, it may be set out in full on the election ballot; or
   B.   More Than Two Hundred Fifty Words: If the full text of the ordinance or
proposed ordinance to be voted upon exceeds two hundred fifty (250) words in
length, and the council votes not to have it printed at length on the election
ballot, it shall, with the assistance of the city attorney, prepare a short
title and description of the ordinance or proposed ordinance which shall
clearly and impartially state its purpose and effect, which short title and
description shall be printed on the election ballot. (1974 Code § 1-1909)
1-8-10: CONDUCT OF ELECTION:
Initiative or referendum elections, whether special or general, shall be
conducted and the results thereof canvassed and certified in all respects as
near as practicable, in like manner as general elections, except as otherwise
provided. (1974 Code § 1-1910)
1-8-11: COSTS OF ELECTION:
Upon the filing of any initiative or referendum petition with the city clerk-
treasurer, petitioners shall post bond with the clerk-treasurer in an amount
sufficient to offset the estimated expense of conducting the election, unless
such election is to be held at the time of a regular general municipal
election. As near as practicable after the election, the total actual expenses
of the election shall be tabulated by the city clerk-treasurer. The petitioners
shall be jointly and severally liable for payment into the city treasury of the
whole amount of the expenses of such election. (1974 Code § 1-1911)
1-8-12: CANVASS OF RETURNS:
The mayor and council shall meet within five (5) days after the said election
to canvass the votes cast at such election, and the city clerk-treasurer shall
immediately announce the results. Any initiative measure approved by a majority
of the votes cast shall be in full force and effect from the date of such
announcement. Any ordinance which is the subject of a referendum receiving less
than a majority of the votes cast shall be repealed, effective on the date of
such announcement. (1974 Code § 1-1912)
1-8-13: PROHIBITED ACTS; PENALTIES:
A person is guilty of a misdemeanor who:
   A.   Signs any name other than his own to any initiative or referendum
petition;
   B.   Knowingly signs his name more than once on the same initiative or
referendum petition;
   C.   Knowingly signs his name to any initiative or referendum petition if he
is not a registered city elector;
   D.   Wilfully or knowingly circulates, publishes or exhibits any false
statement or representation concerning the contents, purports or effects of any
initiative or referendum petition for the purpose of obtaining any signature to
any such petition, or for the purpose of persuading any person to sign any such
petition;
   E.   Presents to any officer for filing any initiative or referendum
petition to which is attached, appended or subscribed any signature which the
person so filing such petition knows to be false or fraudulent, or not the
genuine signature of the person purporting to sign such petition or whose name
is attached, appended or subscribed thereto;
   F.   Circulates or causes to circulate any initiative or referendum
petition, knowing the same to contain false, forged or fictitious names;
   G.   Makes any false affidavit concerning any initiative or referendum
petition or the signatures appended thereto;
   H.   Offers, proposes or threatens, for any pecuniary reward or
consideration:
      1.   To offer, propose, threaten or attempt to sell, hinder or delay any
initiative or referendum petition or any part thereof or any signatures
thereon;
      2.   To offer, propose or threaten to desist from beginning, promoting or
circulating any initiative or referendum petition;
      3.   To offer, propose, attempt or threaten in any manner or form to use
any recall petition or any power of promotion or opposition in any manner or
form for extortion, blackmail or secret or private intimidation of any person
or business interest. (1974 Code § 1-1913)
CHAPTER 9
MISCELLANEOUS ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Official Depository
1-9-2: Official Newspaper
1-9-1: OFFICIAL DEPOSITORY:
First Federal Bank, Buhl, Idaho, is hereby authorized by the Mayor and Council
to be designated as the official depository for the funds of the City. The City
Clerk or City Treasurer is hereby ordered, required and directed to keep monies
belonging to or in the care of the City Clerk and/or City Treasurer in the
above-named depositories; provided, however, when so authorized by the Mayor
and council, said funds may be invested by said Clerk-Treasurer in securities
authorized by law. (1974 Code § 1-1501; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 1020, 7-24-2023)
1-9-2: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The Times-News newspaper, Twin Falls Idaho, be and the same is hereby
designated the official newspaper of the City, and such ordinances, notices and
publications as are required by law to be given publication in a newspaper
shall be published in the said Times-News newspaper. (Ord. 985, 2-27-2017; amd.
Ord. 1000, 9-28-2020)
CHAPTER 10
PUBLIC HEARING PROCEDURES
SECTION:
1-10-1: Public Hearings
1-10-2: Public Hearing Procedures
1-10-1: PUBLIC HEARINGS:
All public hearings held by the city or any of its departments will be
advertised and/or posted as required by this code and/or the laws of the state
of Idaho. (1974 Code § 1-901)
1-10-2: PUBLIC HEARING PROCEDURES:
The procedures for holding a public hearing are as follows:
   A.   Purpose Of Hearing: The purpose of the public hearing process is to
provide the following:
      1.   An opportunity for citizens to present their views on an issue which
may affect them.
      2.   A definition of the issues upon which a decision is to be made.
      3.   Essential evidence upon which a decision can be made. To further
this process, all material contacts received by public officials outside of the
public hearing shall be disclosed prior to the commencement of the public
hearing. “Material contacts” shall be defined as those contacts received
outside the public hearing process which shall have a significant effect on the
opinion of a public official on a given issue.
      4.   An understanding of whether or not the proposal is in harmony with
local ordinances and regulations. City staff reports shall be entered as a part
of the public record.
   B.   Conflict Of Interest: If there is a question of "conflict of interest",
as defined by Idaho Code section 67-6506, for any public official, it shall be
disclosed prior to the commencement of the hearing.
   C.   Pros And Cons Prior To All Testimony And Evidence: Public officials
shall not bring up the pros and cons of the subject of the hearing prior to all
testimony and evidence being submitted.
   D.   Time Limit For Speakers: At the commencement of the hearing, the
chairperson may establish a time limit to be observed by all speakers. Persons
representing groups may be given more time than individuals presenting their
own views.
   E.   Opening Statement: The chairperson conducting the hearing shall present
an opening statement setting forth the purpose of the hearing and the rules
under which it shall be conducted.
   F.   Recognition By Chairperson: No person shall be permitted to speak at a
public hearing until such person has been recognized by the chairperson.
   G.   Record: A transcribable, verbatim record of hearings shall be made and
kept in accordance with Idaho Code section 67-6536. In order to assure accuracy
of the record, each person shall speak before the microphone in an orderly and
constructive fashion, giving their full name and address and stating their view
as briefly as possible.
   H.   Interruption Of Speakers: Speakers shall not be interrupted by the
audience, public officials or city staff until their time limit has expired or
until they have completed their comments.
   I.   Question Speaker: At the conclusion of the speaker's comments, public
officials, when recognized, shall be allowed to question the speaker and the
speaker shall be limited to answers to the questions asked. The question and
answer period shall not be included in the speaker's time limit.
   J.   Rebuttals: Rebuttals shall only be allowed if they provide new,
relevant, and factual information.
   K.   Hearing Recessed To Later Time: If all sides of the issue cannot be
heard in the time allotted, the hearing may be recessed to a later time stated
by the chairperson. Persons not having had an opportunity to be heard may sign
a roster in order to secure their opportunity to speak at the time stated.
   L.   Conformance Required: Any person not conforming to these procedures may
be prohibited from speaking during a public meeting. Should any person refuse
to comply with such prohibition, they may be removed from the room by order of
the chairperson. (1974 Code § 1-902)
CHAPTER 11
LOCAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Districts Established
1-11-2: Valuation
1-11-3: Procedure For Valuation
1-11-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
All local improvement districts established within the city shall be created in
accordance with Idaho Code title 50, chapter 17, as it now exists or is
hereafter amended. (1974 Code § 1-1301)
1-11-2: VALUATION:
The actual value of the real estate within the local improvement districts
shall be the full cash valuation. The term "full cash value" means the value at
which the property would be taken in payment of a just debt from a solvent
debtor or the amount the property would sell for at a voluntary sale made in
the ordinary course of business, taking into consideration its earning power
when put to the same use to which property similarly situated is being used.
(1974 Code § 1-1302; amd. 2010 Code)
1-11-3: PROCEDURE FOR VALUATION:
The city council shall appoint not less than three (3) nor more than five (5)
disinterested persons who are residents and taxpayers within the city, to
investigate, determine and establish the full cash value of each lot, block and
parcel of land or any unplatted area lying within the local improvement
districts. (1974 Code § 1-1303)
CHAPTER 12
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-12-1: Right To Sell
1-12-2: Notice Of Sale
1-12-3: Sale
1-12-4: Disposition Of Proceeds
1-12-1: RIGHT TO SELL:
Any personal property which is unclaimed and which remains in the custody of
the city for more than sixty (60) days may be sold by the city at public
auction as provided herein. (1974 Code § 1-1401)
1-12-2: NOTICE OF SALE:
Before holding such public sale, the city shall publish notice of such sale in
the official newspaper for two (2) times and post a notice of such sale in
three (3) public places in the city for a like period. Said notice stall
contain a list of the property to be sold and briefly describe each article or
piece of personal property to be sold and give the time and place of holding
such sale, which time must be at least seven (7) days after the date of the
last publication of the said notice in the newspaper. (1974 Code § 1-1402; amd.
2010 Code)
1-12-3: SALE:
The city may ask for written bids or sell the property at auction to the
highest bidder, and shall have the right to reject any and all bids and sell
the property at any one sale to one individual; and, it may do that which it
deems to be most advantageous and of the greatest financial benefit to the city
in selling the said personal property. (1974 Code § 1-1403)
1-12-4: DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS:
Immediately after such sale, all proceeds of the sale shall be delivered to the
city clerk-treasurer and shall be credited by the city clerk-treasurer to the
general fund. (1974 Code § 1-1404)
TITLE 2
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Applications
2-1-2: Persons Subject To License
2-1-3: Forms
2-1-4: Signatures
2-1-5: Inspections Or Investigations
2-1-6: Term Of License
2-1-7: Building And Premises
2-1-8: Change Of Location
2-1-9: Nuisances
2-1-10: Posting Of License
2-1-11: Revocation Of License Or Permit; Hearing
2-1-12: Appeal Procedure
2-1-1: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by this code shall be made
in writing to the city clerk-treasurer, unless otherwise specifically provided
by law. Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or
license desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee
to be paid; and each application shall contain such additional information as
may be required by the issuing official. (2010 Code)
2-1-2: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to the
requirement if, by himself or through an agent, employee or partner, he holds
himself forth as being engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits
patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs or attempts to perform
any part of such business or occupation in the city. (2010 Code)
2-1-3: FORMS:
Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept on file by the city clerk-treasurer. (2010 Code)
2-1-4: SIGNATURES:
Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of the mayor and the
city clerk-treasurer in absence of any provision to the contrary. (2010 Code)
2-1-5: INSPECTIONS OR INVESTIGATIONS:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where laws of the
city necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such
permit or license, the city clerk-treasurer shall refer such application to the
proper officer for making such investigation within forty eight (48) hours of
the time of such receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the
investigation or inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or
otherwise, within ten (10) days after receiving the application or a copy
thereof. For the protection of health, the building inspector shall make or
cause to be made any such inspections relative to the construction of buildings
or other structures. All other investigations, except where otherwise provided,
shall be made by the chief of police or by some other officer designated by the
mayor. (2010 Code)
2-1-6: TERM OF LICENSE:
All annual licenses shall terminate on June 30 of each year where no provision
to the contrary is made. (2010 Code)
2-1-7: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no permit shall
be issued for any thing or act if the premises and building to be used for the
purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the city. (2010 Code)
2-1-8: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any licensed
business or occupation or of any permitted act may be changed, provided ten
(10) days' notice thereof is given to the city clerk-treasurer; provided, the
building requirements of this code are complied with. (2010 Code)
2-1-9: NUISANCES:
No business, licensed or not, shall be conducted or operated as to amount to a
nuisance in fact. (2010 Code)
2-1-10: POSTING OF LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the city
to keep his license posted in a prominent place on the premises used for such
business at all times. (2010 Code)
2-1-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT; HEARING:
Any license or permit, for a limited time, may be revoked by the mayor and city
council during the life of such license or permit for the violation by the
licensee or permittee of any provision relating to the license or permit, the
subject of the license or permit, or the premises occupied; such revocation may
be in addition to any fine imposed. The mayor and the city council shall be
authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the closing of the
premises, and the suspension of any business license or permit for a period not
to exceed fifteen (15) days.
   A.   Hearing: Within ten (10) days after the city officials have so acted,
the mayor shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not
the license or permit should be revoked.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing for revocation of a license or
permit shall be given, in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of
the complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be sent to
the licensee or permittee by certified mail at his last known address or
personally served at least five (5) days prior to the date of the hearing.
   C.   Hearing Procedures: At the hearing, the licensee or permittee shall be
permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross examine
witnesses. The mayor shall preside and shall render the decision and
recommendation.
   D.   Causes For Revocation: Business licenses and permits issued under the
ordinances of the city, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the mayor
and city council after notice and hearing as provided in subsections B and C of
this section for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit;
      2.   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of ordinance provisions
or state law relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the
license or permit, or the premises occupied;
      3.   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      4.   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owing to the city;
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or investigation or any interference
with a duly authorized city officer or employee while in the performance of his
duties in making such inspections, as provided in this code. (2010 Code)
2-1-12: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the city to
issue a license or permit or by the revocation of a license or permit shall
have the right to appeal the city's decision to the city council. Such appeal
shall be requested by submitting a written request to the mayor within five (5)
days of the action of the city which is appealed.
   B.   Council Consideration: The city council shall consider the appeal at
its next regularly scheduled meeting, at which time the applicant shall be
entitled to present his appeal orally or in writing. The council shall act on
the appeal within seven (7) days of the hearing and shall either uphold the
action of the city or shall direct the issuance of a license or permit which
the city has denied or the reissuance of a license or permit which the city had
revoked. (2010 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
2-2-1: Restriction On Sales
2-2-2: Legal Authority
2-2-3: Purpose
2-2-4: Scope
2-2-5: Definition Of Terms
2-2-6: License Required
2-2-7: Application For License
2-2-8: Qualification
2-2-9: Location Restrictions; Exceptions
2-2-10: Licensing Fee
2-2-11:    Consumption On And Off Premises
2-2-12:    Liquor Catering Permit
2-2-13:    Transfer Of License; Change Place Of Business
2-2-14:    Unlawful Practices
2-2-15:    Closing Hours And Days
2-2-16:    Premises Requirement
2-2-17:    Police And Fire Department Access To Premises
2-2-18:    Right Of Revocation
2-2-19:    Violation; Penalty
2-2-1: RESTRICTION ON SALES:
No person licensed pursuant to Idaho Code Title 23 or his or its employed
agents, servants, or bartenders shall sell, deliver or give away, or cause or
permit to be sold, delivered, or given away, or allowed to be consumed, any
alcohol beverage, including any distilled spirits, beer or wine, to:
   A.   Any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years, proof of which shall
be a validly issued state, district, territorial, possession, provincial,
national, or other equivalent government driver’s license, identification card
or military identification card bearing a photograph and date of birth, or a
valid passport.
   B.   Any person actually, apparently or obviously intoxicated.
   C.   A habitual drunkard.
   D.   An interdicted person. Any person under the age of twenty-one (21)
years, or other person, who knowingly misrepresents his or her qualifications
for the purpose of entering licensed premises or for obtaining alcohol
beverages from such licensee shall be equally guilty with such licensee and
shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(2010 Code; amd. Ord. 1017, 1-9-2023)
2-2-2: LEGAL AUTHORITY:
Idaho Code sections 50-301 and 50-307 authorize the City to regulate
occupations and businesses within the City.
(Ord 1017, 1-9-2023)
2-2-3: PURPOSE:
The City of Buhl finds that public health, safety, and welfare require that
certain occupations and businesses within the City be regulated without
restraining, burdening, or over-regulating the businesses or occupations. The
buying and selling of alcohol is an industry that requires astute ownership in
order to maintain compliance with all of the laws and regulations designed to
protect society. The licensing process is one step in assisting in compliance
with those laws. However, the issuance of a license pursuant to this chapter
does not constitute a representation or an affirmance to any person who
transacts business with a person that said licensee is free from risk. The City
shall not be liable for, nor shall a cause of action exist for, any loss or
damage based upon the failure of any person licensed under this chapter to meet
the standards contained herein.
(Ord. 1017, 1-9-2023)
2-2-4: SCOPE:
This chapter establishes minimum standards and procedures for licensing and
operating a business which serves, sells, distributes, or is otherwise involved
in the supply of alcoholic beverages within the City.
(Ord. 1017, 1-9-2023)
2-2-5: DEFINITION OF TERMS:
The definitions of terms set forth in Idaho Code section 23-902, as it now
exists or is hereafter amended, are hereby adopted by the city by reference as
if set forth fully herein; (1974 Code § 2-301) and,
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future tense, words in
the plural number include the singular number and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely
a directory.
ALCOHOLIC   Any beverage containing alcohol that is a product of distillation of any
BEVERAGE:   fermented liquor or synthetic ethyl alcohol, including beer, wine, spirits, or
            any liquid containing alcohol, beer, wine or spirits.
BEER:       Any beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or decoction of
            barley, malt or other ingredients in drinkable water.
            A geographically designated or enclosed area surrounded by fencing, with posted
BEER        signage restricting consumption, approved by the City Council upon
GARDEN:     recommendation of the Police Chief and Fire Chief, where persons twenty-one (21)
            years of age or older may consume or possess alcoholic beverages in compliance
            with the provisions of this chapter and State law.
BOTTLED     Beer sold or disposed of while securely, tightly, and adequately sealed in a
BEER:       glass, metal or other container of a capacity not to exceed two (2) gallons.
            A permit issued by the City Council to serve and sell alcoholic beverages, which
            is valid for no more than two (2) consecutive days for parties, or five (5)
CATERING    consecutive days, with an option to request one extension for festivals or
PERMIT:     conventions. Said permits, however, may be designated for less time, and
            requests for extension may be denied at the sole and absolute discretion of the
            City Council.
CITY        The City Council of Buhl, Idaho.
COUNCIL:
CONVENTION: A formal meeting of members, representatives, or delegates, including a
            political party, fraternal society, profession or industry.
EVENT:      A convention or a party.
EVENT       The physical location where an event occurs.
VENUE:
FESTIVAL:   A period or program of festive activities, cultural events or entertainment
            lasting three (3) or more consecutive days.
FIRE CHIEF: The Fire Chief of Buhl City, Idaho, or designee.
FIRE        The Buhl City Fire Department.
DEPARTMENT:
LIQUOR:     All kinds of liquor sold by and in a State liquor store of the State of Idaho.
OFF
PREMISES    A license authorizing a person to sell beer or wine at retail for consumption
BEER OR     off of the licensed premises.
WINE
LICENSE:
ON PREMISES
BEER OR     A license to sell beer or wine by the individual glass or opened bottle at
WINE        retail for consumption on the premises only.
LICENSE:
            A social gathering especially for pleasure or amusement and includes, but is not
PARTY:      limited to, such social events as weddings, birthdays, and special holiday
            celebrations to include, but not be limited to, New Year’s celebrations, Super
            Bowl Sunday, St. Patrick’s Day, the Fourth of July and Labor Day.
PLACE OF    The location where business is carried on by the owners or agents of owners and
BUSINESS:   under the control of those owners or agents.
POLICE      The Chief of Police for Buhl City, Idaho, or designated agent.
CHIEF:
POLICE      The Buhl City Police Department.
DEPARTMENT:
            The business building in or grounds on which the service and sale of any
PREMISES:   alcoholic beverage is authorized under this chapter and pursuant to Idaho
            Statute.
RETAILER:   Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages, with the
            exception of keg beer sold by Idaho State licensed wholesalers.
            Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation mixed with
SPIRITS:    drinkable water or other substances in solution, including, among other things,
            brandy, rum, whiskey, vodka, and gin.
STATE:      The State of Idaho.
            Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar content
WINE:       of fruits (grapes, apples, etc.) or other agricultural products containing sugar
            (honey, milk, etc.) containing not more than fourteen percent (14%) alcohol by
            volume.
 
(Ord. 1017, 1-9-2023)
2-2-6: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful, within the city, to sell liquor by the drink as provided
by in Idaho Code title 23, chapter 9, unless a state of Idaho, a Twin Falls
County, and a city liquor by the drink license shall first be obtained, as
herein provided. The rules, regulations, and provisions concerning the license
and operation of a place of business for the sale of liquor by the drink as set
forth in Idaho Code section 23-903 must be complied with at all times. Such
license shall be signed by the licensee and prominently displayed in the place
of business at all times.
(Ord. 1017, 1-9-2023)
2-2-7: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Before the issuance of a license as herein provided, the applicant shall file
with the city an application, in writing, signed by the applicant and
containing such information and statements relative to the applicant and the
premises where the liquor is to be sold as may be required by the city. The
application shall be verified by the affidavit of the person making the same
before a person authorized to administer oaths and shall be accompanied with
the license fee herein required. In addition to the qualifications required by
other provisions of this chapter, the application must show:
   A.   Owner Consent: A certified copy of a document showing that the owner
consents to the sale of alcoholic beverages on the premises if the premises to
be licensed is not owned by the applicant.
   B.   State License: A license issued by the State Police, Alcohol Beverage
Control, for the premises and for the time for which the application is made.
   C.   County License: A license issued by the Board of County Commissioners
for the premises and for the time for which the application is made.
   D.   Display of License: Upon issuance of a license to the applicant for the
particular premises, the license shall at all times be prominently displayed in
the place of business of the licensee.
   E.   A detailed description of the premises for which a license is sought
and its location.
   F.   A detailed statement of the assets and liabilities of the applicant.
   G.   The names and addresses of all persons who will have any financial
interest in any business to be carried on, in, or upon the licensed premises.
   H.   The name and address of the applicant, which shall include all members
of a partnership or association.
   I.   Investigation: The city shall forthwith advise the mayor and city
council of the application. The mayor shall then cause a thorough investigation
to be made of said applicant, pertaining to the qualifications for a license.
If it is determined that said applicant complies with all requirements and
qualifications for a license, and premises requirements are met, a license may
be issued to the applicant.
(Ord. 1017, 1-9-2023)
2-2-8: QUALIFICATION:
   A.   No city license shall be issued to any person or business entity who
lacks the qualifications or has any of the disqualifications set forth in Idaho
Code title 23, chapter 9. The licensed premises must be inspected by the Buhl
police and fire department and approved by the city council. They must not be
in violation of the city zoning code or safety codes, or laws of the state of
Idaho, which relate to the location of a licensed premises. (1974 Code § 2-304)
   B.   Prohibited Persons: No person shall sell or dispense alcoholic
beverages at retail until licensed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, and no retailer’s license shall be issued to any applicant, or such
license transferred to any person, including the executor, administrator or
trustee in bankruptcy of the estate of the holder of a retail license, when
that person:
      1.   Is under the age of nineteen (19) years;
      2.   Is not the bona fide owner of such business;
      3.   Is not a citizen of the United States or has not been a bona fide
resident of the State for at least thirty (30) days next preceding the date of
application for a license; provided that if the applicant is:
         a.   A partnership, all members thereof shall be citizens of the
United States and have been residents of the State for at least thirty (30)
days preceding the date of application for a license; or
         b.   A corporation or association, it must be organized under the laws
of the State or qualified under the laws of the State to do business in the
State and the principal officers and the members of the Governing Board must be
citizens of the United States and residents of the State for at least thirty
(30) days next preceding the date of application for such license.
(Ord. 1017, 1-9-2023)
2-2-9: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS; EXCEPTIONS:
No license shall be issued for any premises in any neighborhood that is
predominantly residential or within three hundred feet (300') of any public or
parochial school, church, or other place of worship, measured in a straight
line to the nearest entrance of said premises, except with the approval of the
mayor and city council. This limitation shall not apply to any duly licensed
premises that at the time of licensing did not come within the restricted area
but subsequent to licensing came therein. (1974 Code § 2-314) This limitation
shall not apply to any duly licensed premises that, at the time of licensing,
did not come within the restricted area but subsequent to licensing, came
therein.
(1974 Code § 2-314; amd. Ord. 1017, 1-9-2023)
2-2-10: LICENSING FEE:
   A.   Fee: Term: The license fee hereby imposed and hereby required to be
paid to the city shall be a sum equal to seventy five percent (75%) of the
state license fee paid to the state of Idaho. All licenses for a fiscal year
commencing on July 1 and ending June 30 of the following year shall be subject
to renewal upon proper application.
   B.   Refund: No refund of license fees shall be allowed.
   C.   Renewal Applications: Renewal applications, accompanied by the required
fee, must be filed with the city between June 15 and June 30 of each year.
Renewals may be granted upon application if the record of the applicant is
satisfactory to the mayor and city council and has been in accordance with all
provisions hereof, and upon payment of the license fee for the ensuing fiscal
year.
   D.   Operation Under Expired License: Any operation under an expired license
shall constitute a violation hereof.
   E.   Prorated Fee: Any licensee who operates for only a portion of a year
may have his license fee prorated from the date he commences operation to the
end of the fiscal year on a quarterly basis.
(1974 Code § 2-305; amd. Ord. 1017, 1-9-2023)
2-2-11: CONSUMPTION ON AND OFF PREMISES:
Retailers holding valid licenses for the retail sale of liquor may sell wine
for consumption on or off the licensed premises. Retailers holding a valid on-
premises wine license may sell wine for consumption on the premises only.
Retailers who do not possess a valid license for the retail sale of liquor or
retailers who do not have a valid on-premises wine license shall not permit
consumption of wine on the licensed premises and may sell the wine only in its
original unbroken container. Wine sold for consumption, on or off the licensed
premises, may be sold only during hours and on the days beer can be sold.
(Ord. 1017, 1-9-2023)
2-2-12: LIQUOR CATERING PERMIT:
   A.   Legal Authority: Idaho Code sections 23-934A through 23-934C authorize
the City to issue catering permits.
   B.   Purpose: This section provides the procedures and guidelines to obtain
an alcoholic beverage catering permit pursuant to Idaho Code title 23.
   C.   Catering Permit Required: No person shall serve and sell any alcoholic
beverage by the drink at an event, without first obtaining a catering permit
issued by the City Clerk’s Office.
   D.   Application For Permit:
      1.   Application for a catering permit shall be made to the City Clerk’s
Office in such form and manner as may be prescribed.
      2.   The written application for a catering permit shall include, at a
minimum, the following:
         a.   The name and address of the applicant; and if a partnership, the
name and address of the general partner; and if a corporation or association,
the name and address of the agent for service of process; and such other
information as may be required.
         b.   The number and a photocopy of the applicant’s State retail liquor
license, State retail beer or wine license, or permit issued pursuant to Idaho
Code section 23-1007A.
         c.   The dates and hours requested during which the permit will be
effective, which shall not exceed:
            (1)   Two (2) consecutive days for a party; or
            (2)   Five (5) consecutive days for festivals and conventions, with
an option to request one extension on the same terms and conditions as the
original permit. Extension on a festival or convention catering permit may be
issued or denied at the sole and absolute of the City Clerk’s Office.
         d.   The name of the organization, group or person sponsoring the
party, festival or convention; and if applying pursuant to a planned special
event permit, the name and number of the planned special event permit.
         e.   If not the applicant, then the name, phone number, physical and
mailing address, and e-mail address of the applicant’s designee who will
present at the premises for the duration of the event.
         f.   The address at which the catering permit is to be used; and if a
public building or private building open to the public, the rooms in which the
alcoholic beverages are to be served.
         g.   A detailed description or diagram of the location where the
alcoholic beverages are to be served and sold, including a detailed scale
drawing of the area.
         h.   The number of people anticipated to attend the event, including
all hosts, employees, sponsors, agents, consumers and security personnel.
      3.   Upon receipt of an application for a permit, the City Clerk’s Office
shall cause the application to be forwarded to the Police Chief and Fire Chief.
In addition, the City Clerk’s Office shall cause an investigation to be made to
the extent necessary to determine whether the applicant is qualified to receive
a catering permit.
      4.   Every application for a catering permit shall be accompanied by a
nonrefundable permit fee in an amount established by the State and listed on
the most current City Clerk license fee schedule. An applicant shall pay a fee
for each day the catering permit is to be in effect.
      5.   The application must be made to the City Clerk’s Office no less than
five (5) business days prior to the event. In the event an applicant submits an
application within five (5) business days of the event, the applicant may
request an expedited review. The request for expedited review must be in
writing and must explain the reasons for requesting the expedited review. Upon
good cause shown, in the City Clerk’s sole discretion, the City Clerk may waive
the application filing deadline. If the City Clerk fails to find good cause for
an expedited review, the City Clerk shall provide such a decision to the
applicant in writing. The application deadline may also be waived if an
applicant is applying to use the catering permit at a preapproved event venue
and the number of persons attending the event is less than two hundred (200).
In either waiver situation, the application shall be submitted no later than
twelve o’clock (12:00) noon the Wednesday before the event.
   E.   Disqualifying Circumstances: No person shall be issued a catering
permit if the person:
      1.   Does not possess a valid retail liquor license, State retail beer or
wine license, or permit issued pursuant to Idaho Code section 23-1007A; or
      2.   Has been convicted of, or received a withheld judgment for, any
disqualifying crime.
      3.   Is required to obtain a planned special event permit as provided by
this Code and has not obtained approval of said permit; or
      4.   Has requested a catering permit for more than the allowed maximum
number of days permitted pursuant to this chapter; or
      5.   The Police Chief or Fire Chief recommends denial of the catering
permit.
   F.   Police And Fire Application Review:
      1.   Upon receipt of an application from the City Clerk’s Office, the
Police and Fire Chiefs, or their designees, may recommend approval of the
application, approval of the application with conditions, or denial of the
application, for any of the following reasons:
         a.   To carry out the policies of the City, including to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the public, or to prevent an unlawful disturbance
or nuisance, the Police Chief may recommend the catering permit be issued with
conditions. The Police Chief may consider such factors as the anticipated
number of participants, the location of the venue, pedestrian and vehicular
traffic, the occurrence of other events in the area at the same time, ingress
or egress of customers to the business and surrounding businesses, the presence
of minors, and any other relevant factors. The conditions the Police Chief may
impose include, but are not limited to, posting signs, hiring additional
security personnel at the applicant’s expense, hiring trained alcohol servers,
reducing the number of dates or times of the event, or maintenance of the event
venue in a specified manner, including restricted area and access points.
         b.   The Fire Chief shall review the application to confirm that the
proposed size, configuration, location and number of people attending the event
is consistent with the Fire Code, and to determine if the event will impede the
access of emergency vehicles or emergency personnel to the area. The Fire Chief
may recommend that the event venue be maintained in a specified manner as a
condition of the catering permit to ensure compliance with the Fire Code and
access of emergency vehicles and personnel.
   G.   Event Venue: A proposed event venue shall meet all of the following
conditions:
      1.   The event venue abuts or is contiguous to or has sufficient
sanitation services;
      2.   The boundaries of the event venue are identified by the placement of
one or more continuous physical barriers with a minimum height of three feet
(3');
      3.   Any conditions required by the Police Chief or Fire Chief that
establish and limit access of the public to and from the area where alcoholic
beverages are served and sold;
      4.   The proposed placement or description of any required signs is
satisfactory to the Police Chief;
      5.   None of the event venue’s furnishings, tables, chairs, or barriers
encroach on any sidewalk and are not closer than eight feet (8') from a
roadway, alley, or edge of the pavement used for motor vehicle traffic, not
including private parking areas; and
      6.   The event venue obtains and maintains in good standing all required
State, County and City licenses, and is in compliance with all applicable
Federal, State and local statutes, rules and regulations.
   H.   Issuance Or Denial Of Catering Permit: The City Clerk’s Office shall
issue a catering permit if all of the following are met:
      1.   The applicant is not disqualified for any reason set forth in
subsection E of this section;
      2.   The Police Chief and Fire Chief recommend issuance of a catering
permit either with or without conditions, and, if with conditions, the
applicant accepts any such conditions; and
      3.   The event venue meets all of the requirements of subsection G of
this section.
   I.   Pre-Approved Event Venue:
      1.   An event venue that routinely hosts catering permit events may be
pre-approved as an event venue (“pre-approved event venue”), provided the event
venue meets all of the following conditions:
         a.   The event venue hosts at least twenty (20) events each year at
which a catering permit is required;
         b.   The event venue obtains and maintains in good standing all
required State, County and City licenses, and is in compliance with all
applicable Federal, State and local statutes, rules and regulations; and
         c.   The event venue shall not, within one hundred twenty (120) days
of its request to be on the pre-approved event venue list, have any violations
of its State, County, and City licenses or any criminal violations regarding
the serving of alcoholic beverages.
      2.   Despite meeting the above qualifications, the City Clerk’s Office
may deny pre-approval status to an event venue if the City deems that inclusion
on the pre-approval list is contrary to public safety or inconsistent with the
purpose for which catering permits should be used.
      3.   A venue must re-submit its request to be a pre-approved event venue
each January, or at the time of the first catering permit application to use
that venue for the year.
      4.   The City Clerk, Police Department or Fire Department may remove a
venue from the pre-approved event venue list at any time for any violation of
this Code, or any civil or criminal violation. Both inclusion on the pre-
approved event venue list and removal from the list is within the discretion of
the City Clerk’s Office, and no right of appeal exists for failure to be
included on the list, or removal from the list.
   J.   Multi-Day Planned Special Event: A planned special event is scheduled
for more than three (3) days, two (2) or more separate applicants may apply for
and receive two (2) or more separate catering permits, which may run
consecutively to each other and last the duration of the planned special event;
provided, however, that no individual applicant may receive two (2) catering
permits that run consecutively or receive a catering permit that exceeds three
(3) consecutive days.
   K.   Catering Permit Event:
      1.   At the event for which the catering permit was obtained, the
applicant or applicant’s designee listed on the application shall be personally
present at the event venue for the duration of the permit.
      2.   The catering permit shall be displayed in a conspicuous location at
the event venue for the duration of the event.
   L.   Grounds For Revocation: The City Clerk, Police Chief or Fire Chief may
revoke a catering permit for the following reasons:
      1.   When, subsequent to issuance of the catering permit, the Clerk’s
Office finds that the permittee failed to meet the qualifications and none of
the disqualifications of this section.
      2.   The permittee obtained his permit by fraud or misrepresentation.
      3.   The permittee fails to comply with any of the minimum standards,
requirements, policies or procedures set forth in this title;
      4.   The catering permit is being exercised contrary to the conditions of
the catering permit; or
      5.   The permittee is operating the catering permit in such a manner as
to be detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare.
   M.   Revocation Due To Exigent Circumstances:
      1.   Where there exists a clear danger to the health, safety, or welfare
of the public resulting from the use of the catering permit, or where the
permittee or his agents fail to perform in conformance with the conditions and
terms set forth on the catering permit, the City Clerk, Police Chief or Fire
Chief may revoke the catering permit by immediately demanding and seizing the
permit.
      2.   Upon receipt of the revoked permit, or where the permit cannot be
seized due to the unavailability of the permittee or his designee, or where the
permittee or his designee refuses to surrender the permit, the Chief of Police
may direct the seizure and removal of all alcoholic beverages. The Chief of
Police shall keep the alcoholic beverages as evidence and, upon conviction of
the person for violation of the provisions of this chapter or any other local,
County or State law, forfeit the alcoholic beverages, including all packages
and bottles, to the State.
   N.   Procedure Upon Denial, Revocation; Appeal: Except as otherwise provided
in this title, the procedures for denial, revocation, and appeal shall be as
set forth by Buhl City Code.
   O.   Violations:
      1.   A person who fails to display or surrender a catering permit as
provided in this section shall be guilty of an infraction for a first-time
offense. A second or subsequent offense shall be a misdemeanor.
      2.   A person holding a catering permit, or any person employed or acting
on the behalf of a person holding a catering permit, who permits, allows or
fails to correct conduct in violation of the conditions or terms of a catering
permit is guilty of an infraction for a first-time offense. A second or
subsequent offense shall be a misdemeanor.
      3.   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to obtain multiple catering
permits for the sole purpose of circumventing State or local laws and
regulations.
(Ord. 1017, 1-9-2023)
2-2-13: TRANSFER OF LICENSE; CHANGE PLACE OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Application; Investigation; Approval; Transfer Fee; Exemptions: An
application to transfer a license issued shall be made to the mayor and city
council. Upon receipt of such an application, the mayor shall make the same
investigation and determination with respect to the transferee as are required
by Idaho Code section 23-907 and if the mayor shall determine that all of the
conditions required of a licensee have been met by the proposed transferee,
then the license shall be endorsed over to the proposed transferee by said
licensee for the remainder of the period for which such license was issued and
the mayor and city council shall issue a license to the transferee. The fee for
transferring a liquor license shall be ten percent (10%) of the purchase price
of the liquor license or the cost of good will, whichever is greater.
Exemptions as set forth in Idaho Code section 23-908 shall apply.
   B.   Vested Right: Nothing in this article shall be construed to create any
vested right in any person to assignment, renewal or reissuance or continuance
of any license or the right to assign any license, or the right to issue a
power of attorney over a license. No license may be assigned or transferred
without payment of the required fee and the written consent and approval of the
mayor and city council. Application for assignment or transfer shall be made
upon forms provided by the city clerk-treasurer and the fee will not be
returned even if the assignment or transfer is denied.
   C.   Change Place Of Business: If during the period of any license issued
hereunder, the licensee seeks to move his business from one premises to another
within the city, he may do so subject to the mayor and city council’s approval
that the new premises is suitable for the carrying on of the business. Any
licensed person desiring to change his place of business from one location to
another shall file with the city clerk-treasurer an application therefor
together with a fee of ten dollars ($10.00), which shall not be refunded. The
city clerk-treasurer shall inform the police and fire department, who shall
investigate the new proposed place of business and, within thirty (30) days,
make a report thereon to the mayor and city council, who shall then act upon
the application.
(1974 Code § 2-306; amd. Ord. 1017, 1-9-2023)
2-2-14: UNLAWFUL PRACTICES:
The violation of any restriction or the doing of any act a licensee or its
employees are prohibited from doing in Idaho Code title 23, chapter 9, as it
now exists or is hereafter amended.
(1974 Code § 2-307; amd. Ord. 1017, 1-9-2023)
2-2-15: CLOSING HOURS AND DAYS:
No liquor shall be sold, consumed, offered for sale, or given away upon any
licensed premises, and all liquor not in sealed bottles must be locked in a
separate room or cabinet during the following days and hours:
   A.   Memorial Day, Thanksgiving And Christmas: Memorial Day, Thanksgiving
and Christmas from one o’clock (1:00) A.M. to ten o’clock (10:00) A.M. of the
following day. (Ord. 952, 4-11-2011)
   B.   Any Other Day: On any other day between one o’clock (1:00) A.M. and ten
o’clock (10:00) A.M.
   C.   Day Of General Or Primary Election: On any day of a general or primary
election until after the time when the polls are closed. There is no
prohibition against the sale of liquor by the drink during city or local
elections.
   D.   Only License Holder And Employees Allowed On Premises: No person,
except the license holder and any employees of the license holder who are
actually working for the license holder, shall be allowed to remain in or on
the licensed premises from one thirty o’clock (1:30) A.M. to five o’clock (5:
00) A.M., of each day during the calendar year.
   E.   Consumption Of Beverages Already Served: Any patron present on the
licensed premises after the sale of liquor has stopped, shall have a reasonable
time, not to exceed thirty (30) minutes, to consume any beverages already
served.
   F.   Consumption After Time Limitation: Any person who consumes, or any
person who intentionally permits the consumption of any alcoholic beverage upon
a licensed premises after the time provided for in this section is reached,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   G.   Duty To Lock Up Unsealed Containers: It shall be the duty of every
person who is employed at or upon a licensed premises or who owns or manages a
licensed premises and is present upon the licensed premises during the hours
and at the time set forth in this section to lock up and keep locked in a
locked room or locked cabinet all unsealed containers of liquor during the
hours and times set forth, and any such person who fails to perform the duty
provided herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1974 Code § 2-308; amd. Ord. 1017, 1-9-2023)
2-2-16: PREMISES REQUIREMENT:
Every licensee must conform to all regulations and laws of the state of Idaho,
and the provisions of all city ordinances, relating to the sale of liquor by
the drink, zoning laws and public safety laws. Liquor by the drink shall not be
sold by any person except the one duly licensed. All premises shall be subject
to periodic inspection by authorized city officials. No gambling devices shall
be maintained or controlled by the licensee on the premises. No provisions of
any city ordinances shall be violated.
(1974 Code § 2-309; amd. Ord. 1017, 1-9-2023)
2-2-17: POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS TO PREMISES:
Buhl city police officers, other police officers, Buhl fire department
officers, health officers and authorized city officials or their duly appointed
deputies or assistants, shall have the right, at any time, to make an
examination of the premises of any licensee as to whether the laws of the state
of Idaho and the ordinances of the city are being complied with. They may also
enter in and upon any licensed premises for the purpose of police control or
regulation and inspection, and it shall be unlawful to refuse any such officer
the right to admittance or access to such premises.
(1974 Code § 2-310; amd. Ord. 1017, 1-9-2023)
2-2-18: RIGHT OF REVOCATION:
   A.   Power Of Mayor And City Council: The mayor and city council may
suspend, revoke, deny or refuse to renew a license issued pursuant to the terms
of this article for any violation of or failure to comply with the provisions
of this article.
   B.   Revocation:
      1.   Violation By Licensee Or Employee Of Licensee: The mayor and city
council shall have the right to revoke the license of any person for any
violations by the licensee or any employee of said licensee or for any
violation of the laws of the state of Idaho as contained in Idaho Code title
23, chapter 9, or any amendments thereto.
      2.   Written Or Oral Complaint; Notice: Upon any written or oral
complaint, the mayor and city council shall cause notice to be served
personally, or by mail, upon the said licensee, or by leaving said notice with
an adult person employed or apparently employed in the premises, requiring said
licensee to appear before said mayor and city council to be heard upon said
complaint.
      3.   Revocation Without Further Process: If it shall appear at said
hearing that cause exists and there has been a violation by the licensee or any
employee of said licensee of any provision of this article or any violation of
the laws of the state of Idaho as contained in Idaho Code title 23, or any
amendments thereto, or said licensee has failed to maintain any of the
qualifications for a license or has obtained any of the disqualifications, said
license shall be revoked without further process of law. No refund of any
unused portion of said license fee shall be made.
      4.   Revocation Of State License: Any revocation by the state of Idaho of
the state license for retail sale of liquor alcohol by the drink shall
automatically revoke the city license.
   C.   Automatic Suspension Or Revocation Of Beer Or Wine Licenses: The
suspension or revocation of a state or county liquor by the drink license or a
state, county or city license for the sale of beer or wine shall automatically
result in the suspension or revocation of any license for the sale of liquor
held by the same licensee and issued for the same premises or location. The
suspension or revocation shall be equal in length to and run concurrently with
the period of the original suspension or revocation.
   D.   Violation Of Obscenity Laws: Any conviction for violation of Idaho Code
title 18, chapter 41, relating to obscenity laws, by any licensee, agent or
employee, shall also result in a suspension as described in Idaho Code section
23-933A.
(1974 Code § 2-311; amd. Ord. 1017, 1-9-2023)
2-2-19: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Felony: A person who sells or keeps for sale any liquor without a city
license shall be guilty of a felony as prescribed in Idaho Code section 23-928.
   B.   Misdemeanor: A violation of any of the provisions of this article by
any agent, employee, servant, or other person in any way acting on behalf of
the licensee shall be presumed to be a violation by the licensee. Persons
violating any provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1974 Code § 2-313)
   C.   Minors: Any minor who shall violate any of the provisions of this
article shall be subject to penalty as provided in the “Idaho Criminal and
Traffic Law Manual,” latest edition.
(1974 Code § 2-316; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 1017, 1-9-2023)
ARTICLE A. UNLIMITED SALES FOR ONE PRICE PROHIBITED
SECTION:
2-2A-1: Prohibition
2-2A-2: Exceptions
2-2A-3: Penalty
2-2A-1: PROHIBITION:
On premises where alcoholic beverages are sold by the drink, a licensee or a
licensee’s agent or employee may not sell, offer to sell or deliver an
unlimited number of alcoholic beverages to a person or group of persons for a
fixed or single price.
(Ord. 1017, 1-9-2023)
2-2A-2: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Special Events: The above prohibition applies only when one price is
charged for and unlimited number of alcoholic beverages and does not apply to
the purchase of a ticket for a special event where food will also be served,
such as a wine tasting, wine or beer dinner, fund raiser, etc.
   B.   Catering Permits: The prohibition of this section shall not apply to
licenses selling or serving alcoholic beverages pursuant to a catering permit
issued by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1017, 1-9-2023)
2-2A-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating this provision shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 for this Code.
(Ord. 1017, 1-9-2023)
2-2A-4: QUALIFICATIONS; DISQUALIFICATIONS:
No city license shall be issued to any person or business entity who lacks the
qualifications or has any of the disqualifications set forth in Idaho Code
title 23, chapter 9. The licensed premises must be inspected by the Buhl police
and fire department and approved by the city council and must not be in
violation of the city zoning code or safety codes or laws of the state of Idaho
which relate to the location of a licensed premises. (1974 Code § 2-304)
2-2A-5: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS; EXCEPTION:
No license shall be issued for any premises in any neighborhood that is
predominantly residential or within three hundred feet (300') of any public or
parochial school, church, or other place of worship, measured in a straight
line to the nearest entrance of said premises, except with the approval of the
mayor and city council. This limitation shall not apply to any duly licensed
premises that at the time of licensing did not come within the restricted area
but subsequent to licensing came therein. (1974 Code § 2-314)
2-2A-6: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   Fee; Term: The license fee hereby imposed and hereby required to be
paid to the city shall be a sum equal to seventy five percent (75%) of the
state license fee paid to the state of Idaho. All licenses for a fiscal year
commencing on July 1 and ending June 30 of the following year shall be subject
to renewal upon proper application.
   B.   Refund: No refund of license fees shall be allowed.
   C.   Renewal Applications: Renewal applications, accompanied by the required
fee, must be filed with the city between June 15 and June 30 of each year.
Renewals may be granted upon application if the record of the applicant is
satisfactory to the mayor and city council and has been in accordance with all
provisions hereof, and upon payment of the license fee for the ensuing fiscal
year.
   D.   Operation Under Expired License: Any operation under an expired license
shall constitute a violation hereof.
   E.   Prorated Fee: Any licensee who operates for only a portion of a year
may have his license fee prorated from the date he commences operation to the
end of the fiscal year on a quarterly basis. (1974 Code § 2-305)
2-2A-7: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CATERING PERMIT:
An alcohol beverage catering permit is a permit that authorizes the permittee
to serve and sell liquor by the drink, beer and wine, or beer, or wine, at a
party or convention, and not to exceed three (3) consecutive days. An alcohol
beverage catering permit shall be applied for and issued or not issued in the
manner provided for in Idaho Code subsections 23-934A and 23-934B, as they now
exist or are hereafter amended and are hereby adopted by reference as if set
forth fully herein. (1974 Code § 2-315)
2-2A-8: TRANSFER OF LICENSE; CHANGE PLACE OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Application; Investigation; Approval; Transfer Fee; Exemptions: An
application to transfer a license issued shall be made to the mayor and city
council. Upon receipt of such an application, the mayor shall make the same
investigation and determination with respect to the transferee as are required
by Idaho Code section 23-907 and if the mayor shall determine that all of the
conditions required of a licensee have been met by the proposed transferee,
then the license shall be endorsed over to the proposed transferee by said
licensee for the remainder of the period for which such license was issued and
the mayor and city council shall issue a license to the transferee. The fee for
transferring a liquor license shall be ten percent (10%) of the purchase price
of the liquor license or the cost of good will, whichever is greater.
Exemptions as set forth in Idaho Code section 23-908 shall apply.
   B.   Vested Right: Nothing in this article shall be construed to create any
vested right in any person to assignment, renewal or reissuance or continuance
of any license or the right to assign any license, or the right to issue a
power of attorney over a license. No license may be assigned or transferred
without payment of the required fee and the written consent and approval of the
mayor and city council. Application for assignment or transfer shall be made
upon forms provided by the city clerk-treasurer and the fee will not be
returned even if the assignment or transfer is denied.
   C.   Change Place Of Business: If during the period of any license issued
hereunder, the licensee seeks to move his business from one premises to another
within the city, he may do so subject to the mayor and city council's approval
that the new premises is suitable for the carrying on of the business. Any
licensed person desiring to change his place of business from one location to
another shall file with the city clerk-treasurer an application therefor
together with a fee of ten dollars ($10.00), which shall not be refunded. The
city clerk-treasurer shall inform the police and fire department, who shall
investigate the new proposed place of business and, within thirty (30) days,
make a report thereon to the mayor and city council, who shall then act upon
the application. (1974 Code § 2-306)
2-2A-9: UNLAWFUL PRACTICES:
The violation of any restriction or the doing of any act a licensee or its
employees are prohibited from doing in Idaho Code title 23, chapter 9, as it
now exists or is hereafter amended. (1974 Code § 2-307)
2-2A-10: CLOSING HOURS AND DAYS:
No liquor shall be sold, consumed, offered for sale, or given away upon any
licensed premises, and all liquor not in sealed bottles must be locked in a
separate room or cabinet during the following days and hours:
   A.   Memorial Day, Thanksgiving And Christmas: Memorial Day, Thanksgiving
and Christmas from one o'clock (1:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. of the
following day. (Ord. 952, 4-11-2011)
   B.   Any Other Day: On any other day between one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and ten
o'clock (10:00) A.M.
   C.   Day Of General Or Primary Election: On any day of a general or primary
election until after the time when the polls are closed. There is no
prohibition against the sale of liquor by the drink during city or local
elections.
   D.   Only License Holder And Employees Allowed On Premises: No person,
except the license holder and any employees of the license holder who are
actually working for the license holder, shall be allowed to remain in or on
the licensed premises from one thirty o'clock (1:30) A.M. to five o'clock (5:
00) A.M., of each day during the calendar year.
   E.   Consumption Of Beverages Already Served: Any patron present on the
licensed premises after the sale of liquor has stopped, shall have a reasonable
time, not to exceed thirty (30) minutes, to consume any beverages already
served.
   F.   Consumption After Time Limitation: Any person who consumes, or any
person who intentionally permits the consumption of any alcoholic beverage upon
a licensed premises after the time provided for in this section is reached,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   G.   Duty To Lock Up Unsealed Containers: It shall be the duty of every
person who is employed at or upon a licensed premises or who owns or manages a
licensed premises and is present upon the licensed premises during the hours
and at the time set forth in this section to lock up and keep locked in a
locked room or locked cabinet all unsealed containers of liquor during the
hours and times set forth, and any such person who fails to perform the duty
provided herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1974 Code § 2-308)
2-2A-11: PREMISES REQUIREMENT:
Every licensee must conform to all regulations and laws of the state of Idaho,
and the provisions of all city ordinances, relating to the sale of liquor by
the drink, zoning laws and public safety laws. Liquor by the drink shall not be
sold by any person except the one duly licensed. All premises shall be subject
to periodic inspection by authorized city officials. No gambling devices shall
be maintained or controlled by the licensee on the premises. No provisions of
any city ordinances shall be violated. (1974 Code § 2-309)
2-2A-12: POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS TO PREMISES:
Buhl city police officers, other police officers, Buhl fire department
officers, health officers and authorized city officials or their duly appointed
deputies or assistants, shall have the right, at any time, to make an
examination of the premises of any licensee as to whether the laws of the state
of Idaho and the ordinances of the city are being complied with. They may also
enter in and upon any licensed premises for the purpose of police control or
regulation and inspection, and it shall be unlawful to refuse any such officer
the right to admittance or access to such premises. (1974 Code § 2-310)
2-2A-13: RIGHT OF REVOCATION:
   A.   Power Of Mayor And City Council: The mayor and city council may
suspend, revoke, deny or refuse to renew a license issued pursuant to the terms
of this article for any violation of or failure to comply with the provisions
of this article.
   B.   Revocation:
      1.   Violation By Licensee Or Employee Of Licensee: The mayor and city
council shall have the right to revoke the license of any person for any
violations by the licensee or any employee of said licensee, or for any
violation of the laws of the state of Idaho as contained in Idaho Code title
23, chapter 9, or any amendments thereto.
      2.   Written Or Oral Complaint; Notice: Upon any written or oral
complaint, the mayor and city council shall cause notice to be served
personally, or by mail, upon said licensee, or by leaving said notice with an
adult person employed or apparently employed in the premises, requiring said
licensee to appear before said mayor and city council to be heard upon said
complaint.
      3.   Revocation Without Further Process: If it shall appear at said
hearing that cause exists and there has been a violation by the licensee or any
employee of said licensee of any provision of this article or any violation of
the laws of the state of Idaho as contained in Idaho Code title 23, or any
amendments thereto, or said licensee has failed to maintain any of the
qualifications for a license or has obtained any of the disqualifications, said
license shall be revoked without further process of law. No refund of any
unused portion of said license fee shall be made.
      4.   Revocation Of State License: Any revocation by the state of Idaho of
the state license for retail sale of liquor by the drink shall automatically
revoke the city license.
   C.   Automatic Suspension Or Revocation Of Beer Or Wine Licenses: The
suspension or revocation of a state or county liquor by the drink license or a
state, county or city license for the sale of beer or wine shall automatically
result in the suspension or revocation of any license for the sale of liquor
held by the same licensee and issued for the same premises or location. The
suspension or revocation shall be equal in length to and run concurrently with
the period of the original suspension or revocation.
   D.   Violation Of Obscenity Laws: Any conviction for violation of Idaho Code
title 18, chapter 41, relating to obscenity laws, by any licensee, agent or
employee, shall also result in a suspension as described in Idaho Code section
23-933A. (1974 Code § 2-311)
2-2A-14: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Felony: A person who sells or keeps for sale any liquor without a city
license shall be guilty of a felony as prescribed in Idaho Code section 23-928.
(1974 Code § 2-316)
   B.   Misdemeanor: A violation of any of the provisions of this article by
any agent, employee, servant, or other person in any way acting on behalf of
the licensee shall be presumed to be a violation by the licensee. Persons
violating any provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1974 Code § 2-313)
   C.   Minors: Any minor who shall violate any of the provisions of this
article shall be subject to penalty as provided in the "Idaho Criminal And
Traffic Law Manual", latest edition. (2010 Code)
CHAPTER 3
MISCELLANEOUS LICENSES
SECTION:
2-3-1: Definitions
2-3-2: License Required
2-3-3: Application For License
2-3-4: License Fees
2-3-5: Display Of License
2-3-6: Transferability
2-3-7: Location
2-3-8: Revocation
2-3-9: Violation; Penalty
2-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CARNIVAL: Includes any person, partnership or any other organization who shall
either, as principal or agent, temporarily engage in the business of offering
amusement, bingo, and games of chance to the general public; also rides,
stands, and other concessions which may accompany said business.
DOOR TO DOOR SALESPERSON: Includes any person, partnership or corporation, who
shall, either as principal or agent, engage in a project of door to door
solicitation for a business or charitable or religious venture.
ITINERANT MERCHANT: Includes any person, partnership, corporation or any other
organization who shall, either as principal or agent, temporarily engage in the
business of selling or offering for sale at retail any goods, magazines,
magazine subscriptions, agricultural products or horticulture products raised
outside of the state of Idaho or who shall sell any wares or merchandise from
any room, building, structure, lot, doorway, curb, automobile, truck or other
vehicle, or any stand or other place used for the purpose of carrying on such
business within the city; provided, however, that the term itinerant merchant
as used in this chapter shall not include:
   A.   Any person, partnership or corporation selling or dealing only with
retail merchants within the city, and being exclusively wholesale sellers and
dealers.
   B.   Any person, partnership or corporation living within, employed within,
or doing business within the city.
   C.   Any religious or charitable corporation or organization wishing to
engage in any one or more of the above activities for strictly nonprofit
purposes.
Any person, partnership, corporation, or any other organization wishing to
engage in any one or more of the activities described in this definition, and
not specifically excluded from the definition of the “itinerant merchant” as
set forth in this definition, may petition the city council, and upon good
cause shown, the city council may choose not to treat the petitioner as an
“itinerant merchant” as that term is used in this chapter.
ITINERANT PHOTOGRAPHER: Includes any person, firm or corporation who shall,
either as principal or agent, temporarily engage in the business of photography
or as a photographer from any room, building, structure, automobile, truck or
other vehicle, curb, stand, or other place used for the purpose of engaging in
the photography business within the city.
MENAGERIE: Includes any person, partnership, corporation or any other
organization who shall, either as principal or agent, temporarily engage in the
business of offering to the general public, for a charge, a show consisting
principally of animals and animal acts.
MOBILE BUSINESS WITH A PERMANENT LOCATION: Includes any person, partnership,
corporation or business entity which desires to operate its business out of a
movable structure, such as a truck or trailer, at a designated location, either
leased or owned by the business operator, which maintains regular business
hours of operation with a regular weekly schedule of being open for business.
SPIRITUALIST AND PALM READING: Includes any person, partnership or corporation
who shall, either as principal or agent, temporarily engage in the business of
attempting to foretell the future, either by the reading of the palm, the use
of a crystal ball, cards, or of any other nature.
TENT SHOW: Includes any person, corporation, or any other organization who
shall either, as principal or agent, temporarily engage in the business of a
traveling amusement show and offering to the general public for a charge under
cover any amusement of a temporary nature.
TRAVELING AMUSEMENT: Includes any person, partnership or corporation, or other
organization who shall, either as principal or agent, temporarily engage in the
business of offering any type of amusement to the general public for a charge.
(1974 Code § 2-1601)
2-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership or corporation, or any other
organization to engage, either as principal or agent, in the business of
presenting a "carnival", "menagerie", "traveling amusement", "tent show",
"itinerant merchant", "itinerant photographer", or "spiritualist and palm
reading", "door to door salesperson", or "mobile business with a permanent
location" as defined in section
2-3-1 of this chapter, within the corporate limits of the city, except in
accordance with this chapter, and such persons or organizations shall not
engage in any business activity without having first procured a license as
herein provided, from the city. (1974 Code § 2-1602; amd. 2010 Code)
2-3-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Application: Any person, partnership, corporation or any other business
desiring to engage in the business of presenting carnivals, menageries,
traveling amusements, tent shows, or any itinerant merchants, itinerant
photographers, spiritualists, palm readers, door to door salespersons, or
mobile businesses with a permanent location who desire to engage in such
business in the city shall make application to the city clerk-treasurer prior
to the time said individual, partnership, corporation, or other organization
shall commence said business. (1974 Code § 2-1603; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Required Information: Such application shall state the name and
residence of applicant, the nature of the business, kind of goods to be sold,
or types of amusement which the business is to conduct and the length of time
for which a license is desired.
   C.   Issuance Of License: If said business be in all respects lawful and
upon the recommendation of the police department of the city, the city clerk-
treasurer shall, upon payment for the license fee herein provided for, issue a
license to the applicant for the period and the purpose required by such
application. (1974 Code § 2-1603)
2-3-4: LICENSE FEES:
The license fees shall be as follows:
   A.   Carnival: Any person, partnership, corporation or other organization
desiring to engage in the business of operating a "carnival", as defined in
this chapter, in the city, shall pay the city a license fee in the sum of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per day, or any fraction thereof. (1974 Code § 2-
1604; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Door To Door Salesperson:
      1.   License Required: Any person, partnership, corporation, or other
organization desiring to conduct any sales or solicitation activity involving
the use of door to door salespersons as defined in section
2-3-1 of this chapter shall apply for and procure a license from the city
authorizing and approving such solicitation.
      2.   Application; Form: Prior to conducting or sponsoring such
activities, each person, partnership, corporation, or other organization shall
make an application to the city clerk-treasurer for the issuance of such a
license on a form to be prepared and supplied by the city council, which form
shall require the disclosure of such information as the city council may, in
its discretion, deem appropriate.
      3.   Hearing: Each applicant shall appear thereafter in person or through
a representative before the city council at its next regular or special meeting
for the purpose of explaining the information contained in the application, and
for the purpose of answering any additional questions or supplying any
additional information the city council may, in its discretion, require. The
hearing may be continued until the next city council meeting if the information
requested by the council is not available.
      4.   Issuance; Decline To Issue; Additional Restrictions Or Conditions:
The council, after a thorough investigation into the financial responsibility
of the applicant, the suitability and honesty of the business practices of the
applicant, and such other criteria as may relate to the proposed solicitation
project, may issue or decline to issue the license, and if issued, may endorse
thereon such restrictions or conditions as the council may deem proper for the
protection and preservation of the health, safety, financial well being and
morals of the residents of the city. Such conditions may include, for example,
but are not limited to, the requirement that the applicant designate and
appoint a resident agent for service of process, may restrict the hours and
days during which such solicitations may be conducted, may prescribe or limit
the means by which monies or funds derived from such solicited orders may be
collected, may impose bonding requirements, may limit the number of
salespersons to be involved, may provide a specific date of expiration for the
license, or such other conditions as the city council may, in its discretion,
deem appropriate.
      5.   License Fee: A license fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) shall be
charged to the applicant and shall be paid to the city clerk-treasurer upon the
filing of the application, which fee shall be retained by the city without
regard to whether the requested license is or is not issued. The city council
may, in a proper case and in its discretion, and upon request of the applicant,
waive the license fee provided for by this section. This license shall not give
anyone the right to door to door solicitation at any homes which have posted a
sign that no peddlers or salesmen are allowed, and anyone attempting to do so
shall be subject to trespass laws of the state of Idaho.
      6.   Term: The term of each license shall be set forth on the license.
(1974 Code § 2-1611)
   C.   Itinerant Merchant: Any person, partnership, corporation or any other
organization desiring to engage in the business of an "itinerant merchant" as
defined in this chapter, in the city, shall make application to the city clerk-
treasurer for a license, and shall pay the city clerk-treasurer a license fee
in the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) per day, or any fraction thereof. (1974 Code
§ 2-1607)
   D.   Itinerant Photographers: Any person, partnership, corporation or other
organization desiring to engage in the business of itinerant photography shall
make application to the city clerk-treasurer for a license and shall pay the
city clerk-treasurer a license fee in the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
per day, or any fractional part thereof. (1974 Code § 2-1608; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Carnival; Traveling Amusement: Any person, partnership, corporation or
any other organization desiring to engage in the business of operating a
"carnival”, "tent show" or "traveling amusement" as defined in this chapter in
the city shall make application for a license to the city clerk-treasurer in
the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) per day, or any fraction thereof. (1974 Code
§ 2-1606; amd. 2010 Code)
   F.   Mobile Business With A Permanent Location:
      1.   Application; Fee: Any person, partnership, corporation or other
organization desiring to engage in the "mobile business with a permanent
location" in the city, as defined in this chapter, shall make application for
the license to the city clerk-treasurer and shall pay the city clerk-treasurer
the license fee established by the city council, said fee to be payable either
annually or semiannually at the licensee's discretion.
      2.   Required Information; Proof Of Ownership; Additional Licenses: In
order to obtain said license, the business operator must supply the city clerk-
treasurer with the information required on the "mobile business with a
permanent location" application established by the city and approved by the
city council, as well as proof of lease or ownership of the location of the
mobile business and all other city, county, state and federal licenses or
permits required to operate said business. (1974 Code § 2-1605)
   G.   Spiritualist; Palm Reading: Any person, partnership, corporation or
other organization desiring to engage in the business of "spiritualist and palm
reading" as defined in this chapter in the city, shall make application to the
city clerk-treasurer for a license and shall pay the city a license fee in the
sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day or any fraction thereof. (1974 Code
§ 2-1610)
   H.   Miscellaneous License Fees: Any person, partnership, corporation or any
other organization desiring to engage in any of the occupations or businesses
listed herein shall make application to the city clerk-treasurer for a license
and shall pay the city clerk-treasurer a license fee in the sum as indicated
for such occupation or business as follows:
      1.   Billiard, Pool, Bagatelle: For each billiard, pool, bagatelle or any
kind of table, upon which games are played with ball and cue, the sum of twelve
dollars ($12.00) per year for each table when such table is used or exposed for
the use of the public.
      2.   Merry-Go-Round, Ferris Wheel, Or Fly Horse: For each merry-go-
round, ferris wheel or so called fly horse, or similar amusement, the sum of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each day it is in operation.
      3.   Shooting Gallery: For each shooting gallery within the city, the sum
of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year.
      4.   Public Dance: Every person engaged in the business of operating a
public dance shall pay the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year.
      5.   Term: All annual license fees provided in this section shall be
payable on January 1 of each and every year; no license shall be issued for
less than one-fourth year. (1974 Code § 2-1612)
2-3-5: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Any person to whom a license is issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter shall display the same in his place of business so that the same can be
readily observed, or carry such license with him at all times while engaged in
the business to which the license relates, and produce the same upon demand of
any peace officer, police, or executive officer of the city, state of Idaho, or
Twin Falls County. (1974 Code § 2-1613)
2-3-6: TRANSFERABILITY:
No license shall be transferred or assigned without the permission of the city
council expressed by resolution to that effect, nor shall any such license
authorize any person to do business or act under it but the person or firm
named therein. (1974 Code § 2-1615)
2-3-7: LOCATION:
Any person, partnership, corporation or any other organization who shall desire
a license under any of the provisions of this chapter shall first secure
written permission from the owner of the property or land upon which the
business is to be located. (1974 Code § 2-1616)
2-3-8: REVOCATION:
Any license issued under authority of this chapter, shall be subject to
revocation by the city council, for the violation of any ordinances or
regulation, of the city or the laws of the state of Idaho, governing the manner
or method of conducting the particular business to which such license relates,
such revocation to be by resolution of the city council upon reasonable notice
to the licensee, or his agent in immediate charge of the business mentioned in
such license, of the charge of misconduct or violation charged against him.
Provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall in anywise interfere
with the effect of a judgment of conviction by the magistrate court operating
to revoke any license when such judgment of conviction is based upon the
violation of any ordinance or law of the state of Idaho relating to the conduct
of the business mentioned in such license. (1974 Code § 2-1614; amd. 2010 Code)
2-3-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, partnership, corporation, or any other organization who shall
violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1974 Code § 2-1617; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 4
FIREWORKS SALES
SECTION:
2-4-1: Definitions
2-4-2: Regulations And Restrictions
2-4-3: Permits
2-4-4: Insurance
2-4-5: Dates For Sale And Discharge Of Fireworks
2-4-6: Regulations For Business Establishments
2-4-7: Regulations For Fireworks Stands
2-4-8: Records
2-4-9: Bond
2-4-10: Duty To Comply
2-4-11: Revocation Of Permits
2-4-12: Violation; Penalty
2-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
DANGEROUS FIREWORKS: Include any of the following:
   A.   Firecrackers, cannon crackers, giant crackers, salutes, silver tube
salutes, cherry bombs, mines, ground bombardment, grasshoppers and other
explosive articles of similar nature.
   B.   Blank cartridges.
   C.   Skyrockets and rockets, including all similar devices employing any
combustible or explosive material and which rise in the air during discharge.
   D.   Roman candles, including all devices which discharge balls of fire into
the air.
   E.   Chasers and whistles, including all devices which dart or travel about
the surface of the ground during discharge.
   F.   Snakes and hats containing bichloride of mercury.
   G.   Sparklers, more than ten inches (10") in length or one-fourth inch (1/
4") in diameter.
   H.   All articles for pyrotechnic display such as aerial shells, sky
battles, parachute shells, mines, dago bombs and similar devices.
   I.   All torpedoes which explode by means of friction or which contain
arsenic, and all other similar fireworks devices including cracker balls.
   J.   Fire balloons of any type which have burning material of any kind
attached thereto.
FIREWORKS:
   A.   Includes blank cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes or toy
guns in which explosives are used, fire balloons or a type which have burning
material of any kind attached thereto or which require fire underneath to
propel them, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, rockets, Roman candles,
fountain wheels, dago bombs, sparklers and other fireworks of like construction
and any fireworks containing any combustible or explosive substance for the
purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration,
explosion or detonation.
   B.   Exempted from this chapter are all toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes
and toy guns and similar devices such as party poppers or party favors in which
paper caps containing not more than twenty five hundredths (0.25) grain of
explosive compound per cap are used and such caps whether single, roll or tape
type.
SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS: Include any of the following:
   A.   Cone fountains with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding fifty grams
(50 g) each.
   B.   Cylindrical fountains, whether bass, spike or handle, with pyrotechnic
composition not exceeding seventy five grams (75 g) each and inside tube
diameter not exceeding three-fourths inch (3/4").
   C.   Sparklers and "dipped sticks" not more than ten inches (10") in length
or one-fourth inch (1/4") in diameter and Suzuki and morning glories with
pyrotechnic composition not exceeding four grams (4 g) each.
   D.   Snakes which do not contain bichloride of mercury and pyrotechnic
composition not exceeding two grams (2 g) each.
   E.   Gels with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding sixty (60) grains for
each driver unit or two hundred forty (240) grains for each complete wheel. The
inside tube diameter of driver unit shall not exceed one-half inch (1/2").
   F.   Whistles, without report and which do not dart or travel about the
ground during discharge with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding six grams (6
g) and containing no picric or gallic acid. (1974 Code § 8-802)
2-4-2: REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or association in the
city to import, export, offer for sale, give away, sell, possess, keep, store
or permit the keeping or storing of any fireworks, or to fire, discharge or
display any fireworks other than safe and sane fireworks except as is
hereinafter provided. (1974 Code § 8-801)
2-4-3: PERMITS:
   A.   Dangerous Fireworks Permit:
      1.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to
import, export, offer for sale, sell, possess, keep or store or permit the
keeping or storing of any dangerous fireworks for any use or purpose, except
that a person holding a dangerous fireworks permit issued pursuant to the terms
and conditions of this chapter may use dangerous fireworks for a safely
supervised and conducted public display of fireworks. Said fireworks may be
stored for a period of not exceeding ten (10) days immediately preceding the
date of said public display, provided the fireworks are to be used exclusively
for the public display.
      2.   Application For Permit: Any reputable person, association, firm or
corporation in reasonable pursuit or the furtherance of any legitimate
personal, business or charitable purpose desiring to make a public display of
dangerous fireworks shall first make written application to the city clerk-
treasurer for a dangerous fireworks permit. Each applicant shall pay to the
city clerk-treasurer a fee, at the time he files his application, set by
resolution of the city council and approved by the mayor.
   B.   Safe And Sane Fireworks:
      1.   Permit Required: No person, firm or association, without having a
valid safe and sane fireworks permit issued pursuant to terms and conditions
set forth in this chapter shall import, export, possess for the purpose of
sale, offer for sale or sell any safe and sane fireworks for any use or
purpose.
      2.   Application For Permit: Any reputable person, association, firm or
corporation in reasonable pursuit or furtherance of any legitimate personal,
business or charitable purpose, desiring to engage in the sale of safe and sane
fireworks within the city shall first make written application to the city
clerk-treasurer for a safe and sane fireworks permit. Each applicant shall pay
to the city clerk-treasurer a fee, at the time he files his application, set by
resolution of the city council and approved by the mayor. (1974 Code § 8-803)
      3.   Time Of Application: Each application for a permit to sell safe and
sane fireworks at retail shall be filed with the city clerk-treasurer, on or
before June 1 of the calendar year for which the permit is sought. (1974 Code §
8-803; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Requirements For Application For Permits: Each applicant for a safe and
sane fireworks permit or a dangerous fireworks permit shall file his
application with the city clerk-treasurer. Each application shall show the
following:
      1.   Name and address of the applicant.
      2.   The purpose for which the applicant is primarily existing and for
which it was organized.
      3.   The names and addresses of the officers, trustees and/or directors,
if any, of the applicant.
      4.   The location where the applicant requests permission to sell safe
and sane fireworks or display dangerous fireworks.
      5.   When and where the applicant was organized and established or, if a
natural person, the applicant's age.
      6.   The location of the applicant's principal and permanent meeting
place or places, or principal place or places of business.
      7.   The applicant's state sales tax permit number.
      8.   If the applicant is an entity other than a sole proprietorship, the
name and general description of the ownership organization of each parent or
subsidiary, if any.
      9.   Such other information as the city clerk-treasurer may require on a
standard form submitted to all applicants and which is reasonably necessary to
protect the public health, safety and morals.
   D.   Investigation And Recommendation: The city clerk-treasurer shall notify
the building department and the fire department which departments, in
confidence with the city clerk-treasurer, shall cause an investigation to be
made of each application and applicant and shall submit a written report of its
findings and recommendations for or against the issuance of the permit,
together with the reasons therefor, to the city council, which report shall not
be public information except on request of the applicant or by order of the
city council.
   E.   Grant Or Denial Of Permits: The mayor and city council shall have the
power, in its discretion, to grant or deny any application, subject to such
reasonable conditions, if any, as it shall prescribe so long as the denial of
the application or any conditions imposed on the granting of the application
are reasonably necessary for protection of the public health, safety and
morals.
   F.   Terms Of Permit: A safe and sane fireworks permit or a dangerous
fireworks permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid only within the
calendar year in which issued. A permit shall be valid only for the specific
premises or location designated in the permit. However, subject to reasonable
conditions necessary for protection of the public health, safety and morals, an
applicant may be granted permits for more than one premises or location within
the city. No permit shall be transferable or assignable. (1974 Code § 8-803)
2-4-4: INSURANCE:
   A.   Required: Each applicant for a safe and sane fireworks permit or for a
dangerous fireworks permit shall file with the city clerk-treasurer, prior to
the issuance and validity of any permit, a policy or certified true copy of
public liability and products liability insurance, including both accident and
occurrence coverage. (1974 Code § 8-804)
   B.   Coverage Limits: The insurance coverage limits for both public
liability coverage and for products liability coverage shall be at least three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) per person per occurrence bodily injury,
five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) per occurrence aggregate bodily
injury and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence aggregate
property damage. (1974 Code § 8-804; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Form And Substance Of Policy: Each policy of insurance shall be in form
and substance acceptable to the city, and shall name as insured parties under
the terms of the policy the city, all officials, elected and appointed, of the
city, in performance of official functions regarding all operations under or
pertaining to said permit, any licensee or licensor of the applicant, and all
vendors of the fireworks covered by the permit to be issued to the applicant.
   D.   Notice Of Cancellation: Said policy of insurance shall be so written
that it cannot be canceled without at least ten (10) days' prior written notice
to the city from the underwriting insurance company. The policy of insurance
shall be underwritten through or by a qualified and duly licensed insurance
company or companies doing or authorized to do insurance business in Idaho, and
a copy of said policy shall be filed with the city clerk-treasurer prior to the
issuance of the permit. (1974 Code § 8-804)
2-4-5: DATES FOR SALE AND DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS:
   A.   Safe And Sane Fireworks:
      1.   Sale: No safe and sane fireworks shall be sold or offered for sale
or given away within the city limits of the city except beginning twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight on June 23, and ending at twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight July 5 of each year.
      2.   Discharge: No safe and sane fireworks shall be discharged or set off
within the city limits of the city except from twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
June 23, and ending at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight July 5 and beginning at
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight December 26 and ending at twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight January 1, or on such dates and at such times as are set forth in
a special discharge permit issued by the city fire department and endorsed by
the police department. (1974 Code § 8-805; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Dangerous Fireworks: No dangerous fireworks shall be sold or offered
for sale or given away or discharged or set off within the city limits at any
time unless a permit required by section
2-4-3 of this chapter has been previously obtained. (1974 Code § 8-805)
2-4-6: REGULATIONS FOR BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS:
Business establishments from which safe and sane fireworks may be sold shall be
subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Compliance With Building And Electrical Codes: All requirements of the
building code and electrical code of the city shall be fully complied with.
   B.   Doors: All doors shall open outward and shall be kept free and clear of
all supplies and materials at all times.
   C.   Water Type Fire Extinguishers: Each establishment shall be provided
with a minimum of two (2) water type extinguishers in good working order and
easily accessible for use in case of fire and shall be kept in immediate
proximity to the location where fireworks are sold and stored in said premises.
   D.   Supervisor On Duty: There shall be at least one supervisor, twenty one
(21) years of age or older, on duty at all times. All fireworks shall be
effectively kept away from any kind of self-service by the public and shall be
placed in a location which is unavailable and inaccessible to members of the
public other than legal customers. No person under eighteen (18) years of age
shall work at or about the location where safe and sane fireworks are sold or
offered for sale.
   E.   No Smoking: "NO SMOKING" signs shall be prominently displayed near the
location of storage or sale of fireworks. No smoking shall be permitted within
twenty five feet (25') of storage or sales area of said fireworks.
   F.   Discharge Of Fireworks: No fireworks shall be discharged within any
store or building in which safe and sane fireworks are stored or sold or
offered for sale.
   G.   Accumulation Of Rubbish: No person shall allow any rubbish to
accumulate in or around any fireworks stand or permit a fire nuisance to exist
in or around any area in which safe and sane fireworks are stored or sold or
offered for sale.
   H.   Left Unattended; Storage Of Fireworks: No fireworks shall remain
unattended at any time regardless of whether the same are open for business of
sale or offered for sale. All fireworks are to be stored in said establishment
in a place approved by the fire chief of the city.
   I.   Zoning: No fireworks are to be sold or offered for sale in any building
or establishment that is not zoned for retail sales of merchandise under the
zoning ordinances of the city.
   J.   Location For Storage And Sale: Safe and sane fireworks shall be stored
and sold or offered for sale only in an area in any business establishment
which is completely segregated from all other goods and merchandise which are
explosive, inflammable or in any other manner a fire hazard.
   K.   Other Regulations: The city may establish other regulations as may from
time to time be necessary for the preservation of public health and safety.
(1974 Code § 8-806)
2-4-7: REGULATIONS FOR FIREWORKS STANDS:
Temporary fireworks stands from which safe and sane fireworks are to be sold
shall be subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Sale Allowed: All retail sales of safe and sane fireworks shall be
permitted only from within a temporary fireworks stand, and the sale from any
other building or structure is hereby prohibited except as provided in section
2-4-6 of this chapter.
   B.   Location Of Stand: The stand in which the fireworks will be stored or
sold shall not be located within twenty five feet (25') of any other building
nor within one hundred feet (100') of any gasoline station or flammable liquid
dispensing device or installation.
   C.   Compliance With Building And Electrical Codes: All such stands shall
meet the requirements of the building code of the city and all lighting
circuits and other electrical equipment shall meet the requirements of the
electrical code of the city.
   D.   Exit Doors: The stand shall have exit doors at least thirty inches
(30") wide at both ends of the structures and one additional door for each
twenty five feet (25') of rear wall in excess of twenty five feet (25'). All
doors shall open outward from the stand and all doorways shall be kept free and
clear from all supplies and materials at all times.
   E.   Water Type Fire Extinguishers: Each stand shall be provided with a
minimum of two (2) 21/2-gallon water type fire extinguishers, in good working
order and easily accessible for use in case of fire, which shall be kept in
immediate proximity to the location where the fireworks are retailed.
   F.   Supervisor On Duty: There shall be at least one supervisor, twenty one
(21) years of age or older, on duty at all times. All fireworks shall be
effectively kept away from any kind of self-service by the public, and shall be
placed in a location which is unavailable and inaccessible to members of the
public in capacities other than as legal customers. No person under eighteen
(18) years of age shall work at or about any stand where safe and sane
fireworks are sold or offered for sale.
   G.   Watchman: No person employed as a watchman shall be permitted to remain
inside of any stand when it is not open for business.
   H.   No Smoking: "NO SMOKING" signs shall be displayed both inside and
outside the stand. No smoking shall be permitted within the stand or within
twenty five feet (25') of the stand.
   I.   Dates Allowed: No temporary stand shall be erected before June 10 of
any year. The premises on which the stand is erected shall be cleared of all
structures or debris not later than twelve o'clock (12:00) noon of July 26.
   J.   Discharge Of Fireworks: No fireworks shall be discharged in or within
twenty five feet (25') of any fireworks stand.
   K.   Accumulation Of Rubbish: No person shall allow any rubbish to
accumulate in or around any fireworks stand or permit a fire nuisance to exist.
   L.   Left Unattended; Storage Of Fireworks: No fireworks shall remain
unattended at any time regardless of whether the fireworks stand is open for
business or not. If any fireworks are stored, they shall only be stored at such
places as are approved for storage of fireworks by the city fire chief or his
representative.
   M.   Floor Area: No stand shall have a floor area in excess of seven hundred
fifty (750) square feet.
   N.   Zoning: No stand shall be erected or located except in an area where
retail sales are permitted under the zoning ordinances of the city. (1974 Code
§ 8-807)
2-4-8: RECORDS:
Each permittee shall be required to retain at the licensed premises while said
premises are open, and at his principal place of business for a year
thereafter, copies of all invoices, receipts and orders evidencing the source
from which he acquired the fireworks which he handled. (1974 Code § 8-808)
2-4-9: BOND:
   A.   Cash Bond, Cash Deposit Or Other Surety Required: In those cases where
the applicant conducts the sale of fireworks from a temporary fireworks stand,
he shall post with the city clerk-treasurer a cash bond or cash deposit in the
amount of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or such other security as may be
acceptable to the city council conditioned upon the prompt removal of the
temporary fireworks stand and the cleaning up of debris from the site of the
temporary fireworks stand, which deposit or security shall be returned to the
applicant only in the event he removes said temporary fireworks stand and
cleans up all debris to the satisfaction of the city fire chief and building
department representative, or such other official as the city council or fire
chief may designate.
   B.   Failure To Remove Stand And Debris; Penalty: In the event of the
applicant's failure to so remove the stand and debris, said cash bond or cash
deposit shall be forfeited to the city. In no event shall the applicant be
entitled to the return of said cash bond or cash deposit if he has failed to
remove said temporary fireworks stand and clean up all debris therefrom on or
before July 26 of the year in which the permit is granted, and failure to do so
shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1974 Code § 8-809; amd. 2010 Code)
2-4-10: DUTY TO COMPLY:
It shall be the duty of every person issued a fireworks permit to comply with
all the provisions of the Idaho State Fireworks Act and this chapter. The
conviction of violation of the aforesaid Idaho State Fireworks Act or any of
the provisions of this chapter by the permittee, or by any of its agents,
employees, or officers shall constitute a cause, in and of itself, to deny any
subsequent application for a permit. (1974 Code § 8-810)
2-4-11: REVOCATION OF PERMITS:
Any permit issued hereunder shall be subject to revocation by the City Council
for violation by the holder, his agents, or employees of any of the provisions
contained herein or of any law of the State of Idaho or United States
pertaining to fireworks provided that at least one day's notice of hearing upon
said revocation be given to said holder by personal service or by leaving a
copy of notice at the place of business of holder. (1974 Code § 8-811)
2-4-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm, corporation, or association violating any terms hereof shall
be guilty of an infraction and subject to the penalty provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
CHAPTER 5
PAWNSHOPS AND SECONDHAND DEALERS
SECTION:
2-5-1: Definitions
2-5-2: License Required; Application And Procedure
2-5-3: Qualifications For License
2-5-4: Display And Inspection Of License
2-5-5: Records
2-5-6: Prohibited Dealings
2-5-7: Sales
2-5-8: Restrictions On Sales; Notice From Police Department
2-5-9: Forfeitures
2-5-10: Reports To Chief Of Police
2-5-11: Closing Hours
2-5-12: Stolen Property; Return To True Owner
2-5-13: Managerial Responsibility
2-5-14: Determination Of Liability
2-5-15: Appeal Of City Clerk-Treasurer's Decision
2-5-16: Revocation Of License
2-5-17: Violations; Penalty
2-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
FURNITURE: Goods, vessels, utensils and other appendages necessary or
convenient for use in the interior of a house, apartment, office or building.
Furniture does not include appliances or equipment (e.g., stoves, fans,
refrigerators, dishwashers, freezers, washers, dryers and like appliances and
equipment).
PAWNBROKER: Every person, firm, association or corporation engaged in
conducting, managing or carrying on the business of loaning or advancing money,
check or draft for money, for himself or for another, upon deposit or purchase
of personal property, personal security, pawns, pledges, bailment or other
valuable thing, or who deals in purchasing articles of personal property or
other valuable thing on condition of reselling or agreeing to resell such
articles to the vendors or their assigns at a stipulated price, or who loans
money secured by chattel mortgage or personal property, having possession of
the property, or any portion or part thereof mortgaged or who advertises by use
of pawnbroker's sign, or by advertising "unredeemed pledges", or by any other
expression designating pawnbroker's business, shall, for all intents and
purposes under this chapter, be declared to be a pawnbroker within the meaning
of this chapter.
PAWNSHOP: Any room, store or place in which any such business of “pawnbroker”
as defined in this section is engaged in, carried on or conducted.
SECONDHAND DEALER: Any person, firm, association or corporation who buys,
accepts as trade, or otherwise deals in secondhand tools, goods, wares,
merchandise or other articles and things usually found in a secondhand store;
provided, that dealers in new furniture who do not pay in cash for furniture
that has been used, but allow their patrons an exchange value when making a
sale of new furniture shall not be included in the foregoing definition as a
secondhand dealer. Rummage sales, garage sales and yard sales conducted on a
temporary basis (not more than 10 days) shall be excluded from the provisions
of this chapter. Any person, firm, association or corporation which accepts or
receives, as donation only, and does not pay in cash for any property,
clothing, furniture, or any other valuable thing, shall also be excluded from
the provisions of this chapter. The term "secondhand dealer" includes antique
shops and collection shops. (1974 Code § 2-1401)
2-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage,
conduct, keep, manage or operate any pawnshop or secondhand store without
having first obtained a license therefor as provided for in this chapter and
which is in full force and effect.
   B.   Application; Form: An application for such license shall be made, in
writing, to the city clerk-treasurer/license officer, in such form and manner
as may be prescribed. An applicant who was not licensed by this chapter for the
year immediately preceding the current application shall be required to be
fingerprinted by an appropriate agency to be designated by the city clerk-
treasurer/license officer. Cost of taking and processing such fingerprints
shall be borne by the applicant.
   C.   Copartnership, Corporation Or Association: When application for a
license is made by or on behalf of a copartnership, corporation or association,
such application shall be made by the manager, officer, agent or other person
who will have the direct charge and management of such pawnshop or secondhand
store.
   D.   Investigation: Upon receipt of an application for a license, the city
clerk-treasurer/license officer shall cause an investigation to be made of the
applicant, consistent with section
2-5-3 of this chapter.
   E.   Issuance; Transferability; Issuance Refused; Provisional License: Upon
completion of such investigation, if the city clerk-treasurer/license officer
so finds that the license applicant complies with the required qualifications
set forth in section
2-5-3 of this chapter, the city clerk-treasurer/license officer shall issue a
license. Licenses shall not be transferable either as to person or place. The
city clerk-treasurer/license officer may refuse to issue a license for any
premises which is not suitably located for enforcement purposes, having due
regard to the type and character of business and traffic in the locale of the
proposed business and city zoning laws. A provisional license may be issued
pending completion of the required investigation.
   F.   Annual Fee; Term: The city clerk-treasurer/license officer shall
collect before the issuance of any renewal thereof an annual fee, for a
calendar year, of one hundred dollars ($100.00). Provided however, that if a
license is granted pursuant to an application filed after June 30 of any year,
the license fee for the balance of such year shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
Each license shall remain in full force and effect until relinquished,
suspended, revoked or expired. Each license shall expire on the last day of
December of the year it is issued, unless the license fee for the next year is
paid on or before the present license expires. Every licensee, on or before
each January 1, shall pay the city clerk-treasurer/license officer one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each license held by him as the annual fee for the
succeeding calendar year:
   G.   Age Restriction: No license shall be issued to any person who is not
eighteen (18) years of age or older.
   H.   Refund Of License Fee: If any license applicant is denied a license for
any reason, the required license fee shall be refunded to the applicant. No
license fee shall be refunded as result of any suspension, revocation or for
any license which is voluntarily surrendered by the holder of such license.
   I.   Compliance With Planning And Zoning Regulations And Fire Codes: No
license shall be issued to any person for any proposed location that does not
comply with the planning and zoning regulations and fire codes established by
the city, county of Twin Falls and the state of Idaho.
   J.   Criminal History Information; Fingerprints: To determine the
suitability of prospective applicants for pawnshop, pawnbroker and secondhand
dealer licenses, the police department shall require an applicant to provide
information and fingerprints necessary to obtain criminal history information
from the Idaho state police and the federal bureau of investigation. Pursuant
to Idaho Code section 67-3008, and congressional enactment Pub.L. 92-544, the
police department shall submit a set of fingerprints obtained from the
applicant and the required fees to the Idaho state police, bureau of criminal
identification, for a criminal records check of state and national databases.
The submission of fingerprints and information required by this section shall
be on forms prescribed by the Idaho state police. The police department is
authorized to receive criminal history information from the Idaho state police
and from the federal bureau of investigation for the purpose of evaluating the
fitness of applicants for pawnshops, pawnbrokers and secondhand dealers
licenses. As required by state and federal law, further dissemination or other
use of the criminal history information is prohibited. (1974 Code § 2-1402)
2-5-3: QUALIFICATIONS FOR LICENSE:
The city clerk-treasurer/license officer shall issue a pawnbroker's license or
secondhand store license if the applicant or other person principally in charge
of the operation of the business meets the following minimum qualifications.
   A.   Age Restriction: The applicant or other person principally in charge of
the operation of the business is over the age of eighteen (18) years.
   B.   Prior Denial, Revocation Or Suspension: The applicant has not had a
city pawnbroker or secondhand store business license or similar permit or
license denied, revoked, or suspended by the city or any other state or local
agency within three (3) years prior to the date of the application.
   C.   Conviction Within Preceding Three Years: The applicant has not been
convicted within the preceding three (3) years of:
      1.   Any felony or crime which would be deemed a felony according to the
laws of the state of Idaho.
      2.   Theft in any degree.
      3.   Obscene or lewd conduct.
   D.   Investigation; Issuance: The chief of police, or his/her designee,
shall investigate the character and aforementioned qualifications of applicants
for licenses pursuant to this chapter and shall report to the city clerk-
treasurer/license officer his/her recommendations. The city clerk-treasurer
shall, if the applicant complies with the licensing requirements, issue a
license to the applicant upon the payment of the proper fee. (1974 Code § 2-
1403)
2-5-4: DISPLAY AND INSPECTION OF LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of every person to whom a pawnbroker's license or
secondhand store license is issued to prominently display such license in a
conspicuous manner at all times in the pawnshop or secondhand store to which
said license relates. (1974 Code § 2-1404)
2-5-5: RECORDS:
   A.   Articles Pledged, Consigned Or Traded; Exception: Every pawnbroker or
secondhand dealer, except dealers of secondhand clothing, shall keep a record
of every article pledged, consigned, or traded with him/her, sold to him/her,
or received by him/her.
   B.   Open To Inspection; Form: This record shall be open to the inspection
of any city police officer, or designee, at any time during the hours of
business. Such record shall be typed or legibly printed in ink, in the English
language, by the pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or qualified employee of said
pawnshop or secondhand store, upon the required police department uniform
pawned and purchased property form, or other form or manner as may be
prescribed by the police department. The required media formats for record
reporting will be provided to the pawnbroker applicant by the city clerk-
treasurer/license officer at the time of application.
   C.   Disposition Of Records: Upon the purchase, pledge or receipt of any
property or article said record shall be completed; the original record shall
be delivered on a weekly basis to the police department, or at any time upon
request by the police department. One copy of said record shall be retained by
said pawnbroker or secondhand dealer for a period of twelve (12) months from
the date said form is completed. One copy of said record shall be provided to
the seller, pledger, trader or consignee. No entry on such record shall be
altered, erased, obliterated, or defaced, and all property described in the
record shall be open to the inspection of any city police officer, or designee,
during business hours. Original records shall be free of any staples, tape or
other items that may deface, obliterate, or damage said record.
   D.   Required Information: Each record of purchase, pledge, trade,
consignment or receipt of property or articles shall contain an accurate
description of the property or article and the person from whom it was
received. Said record shall also contain the following information:
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of the pawnshop or secondhand
store.
      2.   Last name, first name and middle initial; complete residence
address; phone number; date of birth; height; weight; sex; hair color and eye
color of the seller, pledger, or any person from whom any property or article
was received.
      3.   The social security number or driver's license number and the state
of issue, or official state of Idaho identification, or official United States
military identification, with photograph and signature block of the seller,
pledger, trader, consignee.
      4.   The date of the transaction; the amount of loan, purchase, pledge,
trade or consignment; the interest amount and terms of any loan or pledge.
      5.   A complete description of the property or article purchased,
pledged, traded or consigned, to include, brand name or make, model, serial
number, model number, owner applied number or other engravings, vehicle
identification number, type and color. (No record shall contain more than 6
article or property entries.)
      6.   Signature lines or space for the execution by both pawnbroker,
secondhand dealer and the seller, pledger, trader or consignee, or any person
from whom property was received.
      7.   A space shall be provided and shall bear a legible ink, chemical, or
other acceptable impression of the right or left thumbprint of the seller,
pledger, trader, consignee, or any person from whom property was received.
   E.   Required Signatures: Every record shall be executed (signed) by the
pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or employee and the seller, pledger, trader, or
consignee at the time of execution. The pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall
compare the signature upon the required identification with that upon the
record. The signature shall certify that the described property or article has
not been obtained by illegal means and is free and clear of any encumbrances.
   F.   Title; Bill Of Sale; Exception: Every pawnbroker and secondhand dealer
shall be required to ascertain title in and to any article pledged, sold,
traded or consigned to him/her. This section shall apply to all secondhand
merchandise, pledges, articles or property for trade or resale, but shall not
apply to articles of new merchandise purchased directly from the manufacturers,
wholesale dealers or distributors having established places of business or of
any purchase in the open market or secured from any persons doing business and
having an established place of business in the city. Such goods, however, shall
be accompanied by a bill of sale or other evidence of legitimate purchase and
must be shown to any city police officer, or designee, upon request.
   G.   Records Numbered Consecutively: Each record issued shall be numbered
consecutively, and if stubs are used in connection with such records, such
stubs shall be numbered consecutively to conform to the tickets.
   H.   Tags: Any pawnbroker or secondhand dealer receiving in pledges or
otherwise any article, shall affix to said article a tag, and upon such tag
shall be written a number in legible characters. Such number shall correspond
to the number in the record required to be kept by him/her.
   I.   Production Of Records Upon Request; Violation: Upon request of the
chief of police, his agent or police officer, a licensee, or anyone acting on
his/her behalf, shall produce any records required to be kept, pursuant to this
chapter, and shall permit the chief of police or his/her designee to examine
them, and shall permit an inspection of the licensee's premises. Upon request
of a city police officer, a licensee, or anyone acting on his behalf, shall
permit an inspection of the licensee's premises. Any inspection performed
pursuant to this chapter shall occur during the licensee's regular and usual
business hours. The failure to produce such records or to permit such
inspection on the part of any licensee shall be a violation of this chapter. A
violation of the rule may subject the licensee to administrative sanctions
pursuant to section
2-5-16 of this chapter. (1974 Code § 2-1405)
2-5-6: PROHIBITED DEALINGS:
No pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall:
   A.   Persons Under Eighteen; Consent Of Parent Or Guardian Required: Buy,
receive or accept on deposit any article, property or other valuable thing from
any person less than eighteen (18) years of age, except with the written
consent of the parent or guardian of the minor child as to each particular
transaction and, in that event, the parent or guardian must execute the record
required by section
2-5-5 of this chapter and furnish proof of identification as any pledger, or
seller of any article with such being recorded upon the aforesaid record.
   B.   Persons Under Influence Of Alcohol Or Illegal Drugs: Buy, receive or
accept on deposit any article, property or other valuable thing from any person
under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs. Nor shall any pawnbroker or
secondhand dealer sell any item, article or other valuable thing to any person
under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs.
   C.   Employee Less Than Eighteen: Allow any employee less than eighteen (18)
years of age to receive or accept any property, article or other valuable thing
for purchase, pledge, trade, or consignment or allow any employee less than
eighteen (18) years of age to make any loan or sell any merchandise that has
been pledged, traded or consigned.
   D.   Employ Any Unqualified Person: Employ or retain any person who does not
satisfy the qualifications in section
2-5-3 of this chapter.
   E.   Serial Or Identification Number Removed: Purchase, receive, or accept
any article, property or other valuable thing manufactured or produced with a
serial number or identification number, with said serial number or
identification number removed. (1974 Code § 2-1406)
2-5-7: SALES:
No personal article, property or other valuable thing, pledged to, purchased
by, received in trade by or deposited with any pawnbroker or secondhand dealer
at his place of business shall be sold from such place of business for a space
of at least ten (10) days after being so acquired; provided, this section shall
not apply to new merchandise purchased from manufacturers or wholesale dealers
having established places of business or any purchase in the open market or
secured from any person doing business and having an established place of
business in the city. Such goods, however, shall be accompanied by a bill of
sale or other evidence of legitimate purchase and must be shown to any city
police officer, or designee, upon request. (1974 Code § 2-1407)
2-5-8: RESTRICTIONS ON SALES; NOTICE FROM POLICE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Notice From Police Department: Whenever the chief of police, his/her
designee or any city police officer, shall notify any pawnbroker or secondhand
dealer, in writing, not to sell any article or property so purchased,
deposited, pledged, traded, consigned or otherwise received or permit the same
to be redeemed, such property shall not be sold or permitted to be redeemed or
otherwise released for a period of ninety (90) days from the date of such
notice, but such notice may be renewed for an additional ninety (90) day period
or periods. Further, a notice may be terminated at any time, in writing, by the
chief of police.
   B.   Contents Of Notice: Written notice of hold shall bear the date,
accurate description of held property, requesting agency case number, name of
business where questioned item is held, amount owed to pawnbroker or secondhand
dealer, name of person property was received from and the requesting officer's
name and agency. A duplicate copy of this information shall be left with the
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer at the time an item is placed on hold. (1974
Code § 2-1408)
2-5-9: FORFEITURES:
It shall be the duty of every "pawnbroker" as herein defined to allow any
person accepting a loan or advance of money, upon pledge or deposit, a minimum
of thirty (30) days in which to pay before the same becomes forfeitable. (1974
Code § 2-1409)
2-5-10: REPORTS TO CHIEF OF POLICE:
The chief of police may, at his/her discretion, require a written monthly
report of said business and during the business hours of every day may require
a personal examination of the books or records of such pawnbroker or secondhand
dealer, showing the articles or other property purchased, pledged, traded,
consigned, or otherwise received. (1974 Code § 2-1410)
2-5-11: CLOSING HOURS:
Every "pawnbroker" or "secondhand dealer" as herein defined, shall close his/
her place of business at ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. each and every night, except
on Saturday, when said business may remain open until twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight. (1974 Code § 2-1411)
2-5-12: STOLEN PROPERTY; RETURN TO TRUE OWNER:
   A.   Custody Transferred To Law Enforcement Agency: Any property, article or
other valuable thing purchased by, pledged to, traded with, consigned or sold
to any pawnbroker or secondhand dealer which is subsequently determined by a
law enforcement agency to have been stolen or otherwise unlawfully obtained
shall be transferred to the custody of such agency upon the agency's request,
or, at the direction of the agency, shall be returned by the pawnbroker or
secondhand dealer, to the true owner. The true owner shall not be liable to the
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer with respect to an article deemed stolen.
   B.   Return To True Owner: The pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall not be
required to return any stolen property directly to the true owner until:
      1.   He/she receives written notice from the law enforcement agency
authorizing the release of the property to the true owner and specifying the
name, address, social security number or driver's license number; written
notice shall be in the same manner and form as prescribed in subsection
2-5-8B of this chapter.
      2.   The true owner, in person, requests the return of the property,
executes a receipt therefor, and presents proper identification showing his/her
name, address, social security number or driver's license number and signature.
   C.   Documentation Required To Effect Transfer: Upon the return of stolen
property to the true owner by pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or law enforcement
agency, the pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or law enforcement agency shall
complete such documentation as may be necessary or required to effect the
transfer of the property including such documents pertaining to the title, or
registration of vehicles or firearms as may be required by local, state or
federal authorities. (1974 Code § 2-1412)
2-5-13: MANAGERIAL RESPONSIBILITY:
Where a license has been issued to any copartnership, corporation or
association to conduct a pawnshop or secondhand store, any person having
charge, management or control of said pawnshop or secondhand store shall be
liable to prosecution for any violation of this chapter. (1974 Code § 2-1413)
2-5-14: DETERMINATION OF LIABILITY:
For the purpose of determining the liability of any person to prosecution for
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, it shall be sufficient to
show that such person was, at the time of the act of violation complained of,
the person in actual charge, management or control of the pawnshop or
secondhand store in which such act is alleged to have been committed. (1974
Code § 2-1414)
2-5-15: APPEAL OF CITY CLERK-TREASURER'S DECISION:
If the applicant is aggrieved by the decision of the city clerk-treasurer/
licensing officer, the applicant may appeal such decision to the city council
within thirty (30) days of notice of the decision of the city clerk-treasurer/
licensing officer. The applicant must, in writing, appeal to the city council
and set forth the reasons therefor why the applicant should not be denied a
license. The city council shall set a time and place for a hearing within a
reasonable period of time subsequent to applicant's written notice of appeal.
Notice of such hearing shall be personally served upon the applicant, or mailed
postage prepaid to the applicant at his last known address, at least seven (7)
days prior to the date set for the hearing. (1974 Code § 2-1415)
2-5-16: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Power To Suspend Or Revoke: The city council may suspend or revoke any
license issued under this chapter for violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter or ordinance of the city or laws of the state of Idaho.
   B.   Notice To Applicant: Prior to suspension or revocation by the city
council, the city clerk-treasurer or city council shall notify the applicant,
in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the
time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be personally served upon the
licensee, or mailed postage prepaid to the licensee at his last known address,
at least seven (7) days prior to the date set for the hearing. (1974 Code § 2-
1417)
2-5-17: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   False Or Fictitious Information: It shall be unlawful for any person to
use a false name, a fictitious address, or any address other than the true
address, or to furnish any false, untrue or misleading information or statement
relating to the information required in section
2-5-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Property Leased Or Under Unfulfilled Contract: It shall be unlawful for
any person to sell, pledge, pawn, or trade any goods, chattels or effects, or
any personal property, leased or let to him by any instrument, in writing,
under a contract of purchase not yet fulfilled.
   C.   Misdemeanor: Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1974 Code § 2-1416; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 6
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
2-6-1: Certain Practices Declared Nuisance
2-6-2: Violation; Penalty
2-6-1: CERTAIN PRACTICES DECLARED NUISANCE:
The practice of going in and upon private residences in the City by solicitors,
peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants and transient vendors of merchandise,
not having been requested or invited so to do by the owner or owners, occupant
or occupants of said private residences, for the purpose of soliciting orders
for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise, and/or for the purpose of
disposing of and/or peddling or hawking the same, is hereby declared to be a
nuisance, and punishable as such nuisance, and an infraction. (Ord. 991, 10-11-
2018)
2-6-2: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person convicted of perpetrating a nuisance as described and prohibited in
section
2-6-1 of this chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1974 Code § 2-1502; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 7
TAXICABS
SECTION:
2-7-1: Definition
2-7-2: Application For License
2-7-3: Contract For Insurance
2-7-4: License Fee
2-7-5: Issuance Of License
2-7-6: Revocation Of License
2-7-7: Taxicab Markings And Rate Schedule
2-7-8: Appeal Of City Clerk-Treasurer's Decision
2-7-1: DEFINITION:
"Taxicabs" or "motor vehicles used for hire", for the purpose of this chapter,
shall be defined to be any vehicle used for transporting passengers for hire
within the corporate limits of the city. (1974 Code § 2-1101)
2-7-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of operating a
taxicab or taxicabs within the corporate limits of the city without first
complying with all of the provisions of this chapter. Verified applications for
a license for taxicabs shall be made by the owner thereof upon the blank forms
to be furnished by the city clerk-treasurer. Such application shall contain the
full name and address of the owner or owners and anyone having an interest in
the taxicabs to be used or in the business in which they are used, the make,
model, motor and factory number of the motor vehicle, and the Idaho state
license number for the current year. (1974 Code § 2-1102)
2-7-3: CONTRACT FOR INSURANCE:
Before any license is issued for any taxicab, the owner thereof shall be
required to file with the city clerk-treasurer a certified copy of policy of
insurance executed by an insurance company authorized to do business within the
state of Idaho, insuring the public against any loss or damage that may result
to any person or persons from the operation of said taxicab, provided the
limited amount of liability in such policy of insurance specified shall be in
an amount equal to or in excess of the minimum amount of insurance required by
the Idaho Code. (1974 Code § 2-1103)
2-7-4: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   Taxicab Fee: Owners of taxicabs licensed hereunder shall pay to the
city clerk-treasurer a yearly license fee in advance for each taxicab so
licensed the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00). Such license shall expire on
December 31 next following the date of issuance and must be renewed before
January 1 for each following year.
   B.   Driver's License: Every person who drives or operates any vehicle
licensed under this chapter must hold a valid driver's license issued by the
state of Idaho to drive a taxicab and procure a city license therefor, and
shall pay for said license the sum of five dollars ($5.00) per year, payable in
advance, which license shall expire on December 31 of each year, or until the
sooner revocation thereof. (1974 Code § 2-1104)
2-7-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Taxicab License: Upon the payment of the necessary fee and compliance
with all other sections of this chapter, the city clerk-treasurer shall issue a
taxicab license upon the card of the form and size as may be prescribed by said
city clerk-treasurer. Said card shall contain the date of its issuance, the
official license number of the motor vehicle and the make and model thereof.
Said card shall be displayed in the motor vehicle it is issued for in such a
manner that it is easily read by passengers in said vehicle.
   B.   Driver's License: Upon the payment of the necessary fee and compliance
with all other sections of this chapter, the city clerk-treasurer shall issue a
city taxicab driver's license of the form and size to be prescribed by said
city clerk-treasurer. Said license shall be displayed in the motor vehicle
being driven by said driver as a taxicab in such a manner that it is easily
read by passengers in said taxicab. (1974 Code § 2-1105)
2-7-6: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license granted under this chapter may be revoked or suspended at any time
by the city council for any violation of the provisions of this chapter, or
upon the conviction of the licensee named therein for the violation of any
provisions of the laws of the state of Idaho or any ordinance of the city, or
if such vehicle shall be used for any immoral, illegal, disorderly or improper
purpose. (1974 Code § 2-1106)
2-7-7: TAXICAB MARKINGS AND RATE SCHEDULE:
Any vehicle used as a taxicab shall be marked by one or more signs stating that
the vehicle is a taxicab and shall have a schedule of fixed rates for services
rendered printed and on display within the vehicle and accessible to potential
customers. (1974 Code § 2-1107)
2-7-8: APPEAL OF CITY CLERK-TREASURER'S DECISION:
   A.   Right To Appeal: If the applicant is aggrieved by the decision of the
city clerk-treasurer, the applicant may appeal such decision to the city
council within seven (7) days of notice of the decision of the city clerk-
treasurer.
   B.   Notice Of Appeal: The applicant must, in writing, appeal to the city
council and set forth the reasons therefor why the applicant should not be
denied a license.
   C.   Hearing; Notice: The city council shall set the time and place for a
hearing a reasonable period of time subsequent to applicant's written notice of
appeal. Notice of such hearing shall be personally served upon the applicant,
or mailed postage prepaid to the applicant at his last known address, at least
three (3) days prior to the date of hearing.
   D.   Council Order: The order of the city council shall be final. (1974 Code
§ 2-1108)
CHAPTER 8
SPECIAL EVENTS
SECTION:
2-8-1: Power To Issue Special Permits
2-8-2: Ordinances And Code Sections Suspended
2-8-3: Written Request For Special Permit
2-8-4: Permit
2-8-5: Approval Of Permit
2-8-6: Violation Of State Or Federal Regulation Prohibited
2-8-1: POWER TO ISSUE SPECIAL PERMITS:
The city council and mayor are hereby granted the power to issue special
permits which suspend certain ordinances and code sections of this code for
places, times and dates set forth in such special permits when requested to do
so by the Buhl chamber of commerce or special event sponsor, subject to the
conditions and restrictions set out in this chapter. (Ord. 930, 7-9-2007)
2-8-2: ORDINANCES AND CODE SECTIONS SUSPENDED:
The ordinances or code sections which can be suspended are those relating to
the place of sale and consumption of beer and wine, open container laws
relating to pedestrians only, motor vehicle parking and street closures, and
such other items as the Buhl chamber of commerce or special event sponsor might
request and the city council and mayor permit. (Ord. 930, 7-9-2007)
2-8-3: WRITTEN REQUEST FOR SPECIAL PERMIT:
The Buhl chamber of commerce or special event sponsor must submit its written
request for a special permit to the city clerk-treasurer at least three (3)
days before the city council meeting upon which action on the request will be
taken. (Ord. 930, 7-9-2007)
2-8-4: PERMIT:
The special permit issued by the city will be in writing and set forth therein
the activity approved and the place, date and time of such activity and any
other conditions required by the permit. (Ord. 930, 7-9-2007)
2-8-5: APPROVAL OF PERMIT:
A special permit must be approved by a vote of three (3) council persons and
approved by the mayor or by a vote of four (4) council persons without approval
of the mayor. (Ord. 930, 7-9-2007)
2-8-6: VIOLATION OF STATE OR FEDERAL REGULATION PROHIBITED:
The special permit will not allow the violation of any statute or regulation of
the state of Idaho or of the United States of America. (Ord. 930, 7-9-2007)
CHAPTER 9
CARD TABLES
SECTION:
2-9-1: Definitions
2-9-2: Police Power Exercised
2-9-3: License Required
2-9-4: Application For License
2-9-5: License Restrictions
2-9-6: Vested Rights
2-9-7: Regulations
2-9-8: Assignment Or Transfer Of License
2-9-9: License Fee; Term
2-9-10: Revocation Of License
2-9-11: Right Of Inspection
2-9-12: Violation; Penalty
2-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the following meaning:
CARD ROOM: Any place of business, place of amusement or room or place in the
city, open to the public, in which is played or conducted or permitted to be
played or conducted, any game of cards or any game in which playing cards are
used.
CITY: The city of Buhl, Idaho.
CLERK: The city clerk-treasurer of the city.
COUNCIL: The city council of the city.
PERSON: Shall include all individuals, firms, partnerships, associations,
corporations or any group or corporation acting as a unit, and the plural as
well as the singular; unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is
disclosed by the context. (1974 Code § 2-1002)
2-9-2: POLICE POWER EXERCISED:
This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the city for
the protection of the public health, peace and morals of the inhabitants of
said city, and all of its provisions shall be liberally construed for the
attainment of that purpose. (1974 Code § 2-1001)
2-9-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to play or conduct or permit the playing or
conducting, of any game of cards or any game in which playing cards are used in
the city, in any place of business, place of amusement or in any room or place,
open to the public, in such person's possession or control in whole or in part,
or within or upon any premises in connection therewith without having a valid,
unrevoked license therefor from the city council as provided in this chapter.
(1974 Code § 2-1003)
2-9-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Before any person shall obtain the license herein provided, he shall first make
application therefor, in writing, to the council on a form prepared and
furnished by the clerk-treasurer and pay the license fee herein prescribed,
which application shall contain four (4) references as to the good moral
character of the applicant, together with the name, residence and occupation of
applicant, for three (3) years previous to date of application. (1974 Code § 2-
1004)
2-9-5: LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:
No license provided for herein shall be granted to any of the following persons
for a card room at any of the following places:
   A.   License Revoked Or Cancelled: Any person whose license herein provided
for is at any time revoked or cancelled by the council for any violation of
this chapter.
   B.   Violates Or Permits Violation Of Chapter: Any person, who as licensee,
violates or permits the violation of any of the terms or conditions of this
chapter to be by such person kept and performed.
   C.   Failure To Conduct Quiet And Orderly Card Room: Any person who in the
city fails, neglects or refuses to conduct a quiet and orderly card room or to
any person where the view into the card room from the street is obstructed by
such card room being above or below the ground floor of the building in which
such card room is located or obstructed by any curtain, blind, sign,
advertisement, partition or locked door or doors.
   D.   Access Through Locked Door Or Doors: Any card room the access to which
is through a locked door or doors.
   E.   Not Fit Or Proper Person: Any person who, in the opinion of the
council, is not a fit or proper person to whom a license should be issued.
   F.   Unfit Premises: When, in the opinion of the council, the premises for
which the applicant makes application for a license, is not a fit or proper
premises for a card room or where such premises, in the opinion of the council,
may be or become a public nuisance or menace to the health, peace or general
welfare of the city or its inhabitants. (1974 Code § 2-1005)
2-9-6: VESTED RIGHTS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to create a vested right in any
person to the issuance of a license or the right to issue a power of attorney
over a license. Any license issued pursuant to this chapter, or any amendment
hereto, shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions of this chapter.
(1974 Code § 2-1006)
2-9-7: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Conduct Quiet And Orderly Card Room: Every person to whom a license is
granted hereunder shall, at all times, conduct a quiet and orderly card room.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It shall also be unlawful and a violation of this
chapter for any person to whom a license is issued under this chapter to:
      1.   Intoxicating Liquor: Violate any of the laws of the state of Idaho
relative to or governing the selling, serving or giving away or in any other
way handling, in any manner, or disposing of or having possession of, whether
as owner, bailee, or otherwise, intoxicating liquor.
      2.   View From Street Obstructed: Operate, conduct or permit to be
operated or conducted, any card room where the view from the street into such
card room is obstructed by such card room being above or below the ground floor
of the building in which such card room is located, or obstructed by any
curtain, blind, sign, advertisement, partition or locked doors.
      3.   Access Through Locked Door Or Doors: Play or conduct or permit to be
played or conducted, any game of cards or any game in which playing cards are
used, in any card room the access to which room is through a locked door or
doors.
      4.   Keep Open For Inspection: Fail, neglect or refuse to keep the card
room, during the time such card room is open to the public, open to the
inspection of the mayor and the police officers of the city, and the police
officers of Twin Falls County, Idaho, and the state of Idaho.
      5.   Prohibited Games: Deal, play or carry on, open or cause to be opened
or conduct either as employee, owner or lessee, whether for hire or not, any
game of faro, monte, roulette, poker, blackjack or twenty one or any game
played with cards, dice or any slot.
      6.   Allow Prohibited Games: Permit any of the games or devices
prohibited by subsection B5 of this section to be played, conducted or dealt in
the city in any card room or within or upon any premises connected therewith.
      7.   Keep Or Maintain Disorderly Card Room: Keep, maintain or be
interested in a disorderly card room in the city, or permit or suffer any
drunkenness, fighting, quarreling or unlawful game or device or riotous or
disorderly conduct or breach of the peace, in any card room or within or upon
any premises used or connected therewith.
      8.   Hours Restricted: Play or conduct or permit to be played or
conducted any game of cards or any game in which playing cards are used between
the hours of twelve o clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., nor
on Sunday.
      9.   Violation Of Chapter: Violate or permit a violation of any of the
terms or provisions of this chapter to be kept, observed or performed by such
license. (1974 Code § 2-1007)
2-9-8: ASSIGNMENT OR TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
No license issued hereunder shall be sold, transferred or assigned. (1974 Code
§ 2-1008)
2-9-9: LICENSE FEE; TERM:
The licensee shall pay the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year for
each table, bench or counter or other device upon which licensee plays,
conducts or operates a game of cards. Licenses hereunder shall expire on
December 31 of each and every year and the license fee for any license issued
between January 1 and December 31 of any one year shall be prorated to include
all of the month in which issued. (1974 Code § 2-1009)
2-9-10: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The right shall be and remain at all times in the council, and said council may
revoke and cancel any license for fraud or misrepresentation in its procurement
or for a violation by the licensee, or his employee or agent of any of the
provisions of this chapter to be kept or performed by the licensee, or for any
conduct or act of the licensee or his employee or agent, committed or permitted
by him or them in the card room, or any premises connected therewith or
adjacent thereto tending to render any of said premises a public nuisance or
menace to the health, peace, safety or general welfare of the city and its
inhabitants. (1974 Code § 2-1010)
2-9-11: RIGHT OF INSPECTION:
Any person conducting or who shall permit the conducting of any game or games
under a license issued aforesaid shall permit the mayor and any police officer
or officers of the city, county of Twin Falls, and the state of Idaho, or any
or either thereof, to freely visit and view such game or games and to remain
and view the same at will, and the licensee, or any person acting as an officer
or agent thereof, or any person having immediate control or conduct of such
business, place of amusement, room or place where said game is being carried on
or is being permitted to be carried on under such license, shall answer any
question or questions which may be propounded to him or them by any of the
officers aforesaid, in regard to such game or games, and shall make a
statement, in writing, under oath, when required by any said officer, in regard
to such game or games, and the conduct thereof, and shall exhibit when, and as
often as required, any matter or thing in possession, or under the control of
such person conducting or permitting the conduct of such game or games which,
in the opinion of such officer, would be evidence of the conducting of a
gambling game, or any improper conduct of said game, and if such person shall
refuse or fail, either individually or by or through such persons, employee or
agent, to answer the inquiries or make the statement or statements or exhibit
matters and things aforesaid, in the manner and to the extent aforesaid, then
such conduct on the part of any of the persons aforementioned shall constitute
a violation of this chapter. (1974 Code § 2-1011)
2-9-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of
an offense, in addition to the right of revocation or cancellation of his
license, and upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each and every violation of any provision or provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such. (1974 Code § 2-1012; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 10
PLUMBERS
SECTION:
2-10-1: Licenses And Permits Required
2-10-1: LICENSES AND PERMITS REQUIRED:
Any plumber doing plumbing in the city must have all licenses and permits to do
so required by the state of Idaho or the United States government. (2010 Code)
TITLE 3
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL HEALTH REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: City Sanitarian
3-1-2: General Health Provisions
3-1-1: CITY SANITARIAN:
   A.   Office Created: There is hereby created within the City the Office of
Sanitation Officer.
   B.   Appointment: The Mayor, with the approval of the Council, shall appoint
a competent person to the Office of City Sanitation Officer. The appointment
may be made from persons employed by the City, and, in that event, such officer
shall receive no extra compensation for fulfilling the duties of the office.
(1974 Code § 5-101)
   C.   Duties: The City Sanitation Officer shall be responsible for the
sanitary condition of the City. He shall, at all times, be cognizant of the
sanitary conditions of the City and work in cooperation with the State
Department of Public Health and County health officials to the end of promoting
the sanitary conditions within the City. He shall have control of the storage,
collection and disposal of rubbish and all garbage and all sanitary inspections
required under the ordinances of the City and such other duties as shall be,
from time to time, imposed upon him by the Mayor and Council. He shall see that
the sanitary laws of the State and the ordinances of the City and all sanitary
rules and regulations established by the Mayor and Council are carried into
effect. (1974 Code § 5-102)
   D.   Penalty For Refusing To Obey Orders Of City Sanitation Officer: Any
person, firm or corporation refusing or failing to obey an order relative to
sanitary conditions made by the City Sanitation Officer under authority granted
to him by the ordinances of the City or the laws of the State of Idaho shall,
upon conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1974 Code § 5-103; amd. 2010 Code)
3-1-2: GENERAL HEALTH PROVISIONS:
   A.   Privies Or Cesspools:
      1.   Prohibited Where Sewer Available: No privy or cesspool of any kind
shall, after the date that this section becomes effective, be maintained on or
appurtenant to any property if within one hundred fifty feet (150') of any
public sewer maintained by the City. (1974 Code § 5-601)
      2.   Notice To Connect: It is hereby made the duty of the City Public
Works Director or City Engineer to give or cause to be given notice to any and
all persons owning and having control of any privy or cesspool to have the same
properly connected with the public sewer within thirty (30) days from and after
said notice is given. The connection shall be under the direction and control
of the District 5 Health Department. (1974 Code § 5-602; amd. 2010 Code)
      3.   Penalty: Any person violating subsection A1 of this section shall be
deemed guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof, a penalty of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) plus court costs and fees shall be assessed for the
first violation, two hundred dollars ($200.00) plus court costs and fees for
the second violation, and three hundred dollars ($300.00) plus court costs and
fees for the third and subsequent violations during the same calendar year.
(Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
   B.   Property To Be Kept In Sanitary Condition:
      1.   Public Nuisance: Any person who owns or occupies property within the
limits of the City who keeps, maintains or permits any unsanitary cesspool,
garbage or other filth injurious to the public health upon the premises owned
or occupied by him shall be guilty of maintaining a public nuisance. (1974 Code
§ 5-604)
      2.   Abatement: Upon complaint being made to the City Sanitation Officer
that any person is maintaining a nuisance as set forth in subsection B1 of this
section, it shall be the duty of the City Sanitation Officer to notify such
person to abate the nuisance complained of, and if such person fails or refuses
to abate such nuisance, he shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1974 Code § 5-605; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Nuisances In General
3-2-2: Nuisance Unlawful
3-2-3: Nuisance Defined
3-2-4: Declaration, Notice, Hearing And Orders
3-2-5: Abatement; Assessment Of Costs
3-2-6: Right Of Appeal
3-2-7: Violation; Penalty
3-2-1: NUISANCES IN GENERAL:
If any person, firm or corporation shall own, occupy or keep grounds or other
premises in such condition as to be offensive and a nuisance to the
neighborhood or to any person or persons' residents within the neighborhood,
such person shall be deemed the author of a nuisance and shall be deemed guilty
of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be penalized as provided
in this chapter. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
3-2-2: NUISANCE UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, corporation or other entity
to own, lease, occupy, maintain or have charge of any building, lot, or other
property, whether real or personal, which either per se, or in fact, poses an
actual or clear potential danger to the public health, safety and welfare.
(1974 Code § 8-304)
3-2-3: NUISANCE DEFINED:
Anything which is injurious to health or morals, or is indecent, or offensive
to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, or unlawfully
obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable
lake, or river, stream, canal, or basin, or any public park, square, street, or
highway, is a nuisance. (2010 Code)
3-2-4: DECLARATION, NOTICE, HEARING AND ORDERS:
   A.   Inspection: It shall be the duty of any City official, officer,
employee, or agent, upon the finding, discovery, notification, complaint, or
knowledge of the probable existence of a state of nuisance to inspect the
relevant property(ies) in question, by power of process, if necessary, to
determine that there is sufficient evidence which would lead him, in good faith
to believe that a state of nuisance does exist, and to make his findings known
to the City Council.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: Upon such notification, the City Council shall, to
the best of its ability, and by the best means at its disposal, notify the
owner, operator, lessee, tenant, agent or other persons charged with the
responsibility and maintenance of the said property, that a hearing will be
conducted at a future time and place, not less than fourteen (14) days nor more
than ninety (90) days from the issuance of notification of intent to hold a
hearing for purpose of determining whether a nuisance in fact exists.
   C.   Hearing; Order: The owner, lessee, tenant, agent or other interested
parties shall in all respects have the right to attend, participate in or
testify to facts in evidence before the City Council, either personally, or by
virtue of written presentation. The hearing shall have the purpose of adducing
any and all facts which could lead the City Council to a determination that a
nuisance in fact does exist, the City Council shall enter an order of the final
disposition of such facts into a finding that a nuisance does or does not in
whole or in part exist, and the planning, arrangement, facilitation, or order
for abatement of the same. (1974 Code § 8-306)
3-2-5: ABATEMENT; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS:
   A.   Order: Pursuant to Idaho Code section 50-334, the City Council shall
have the power to determine the proper form of abatement in any given case
following the declaration that a nuisance does in fact exist. It shall, within
fifteen (15) days after the aforementioned hearing, enter an order of abatement
which will notify and inform the person, partnership, corporation or other
entity concerned that cause exists for the declaration of nuisance and
abatement, stating with particularity the offending characteristics of the
property and issuing a final decision as to the proper form of abatement,
whether it be repair, alteration, removal, destruction, or other form of
abatement as authorized by Idaho Code section 50-334.
   B.   Deadline For Compliance: Reasonableness of the time for compliance
shall be determined by the City Council with reference to the magnitude,
severity and immediacy of the threat to the public safety, health, or welfare
and shall be set out in the order of abatement.
   C.   Noncompliance; Action By City: Should the City Council determine that,
after a reasonable period, compliance on the part of the person, partnership,
corporation or other entity, is either not contemplated or not assured within
the reasonable period as determined above, then the City Council may take those
actions reasonably necessary and calculated to abate the nuisance as set out in
its order. Such actions may include the rejuvenation, repair, removal,
destruction, if the defects are inherent within the structure, or other
remedial action necessary, pursuant to Idaho Code sections 50-334 and 50-335.
   D.   Costs Of Abatement; Lien: In the event the City Council takes any
remedial action, it shall have the power to assess the costs of abatement
against the person, partnership, corporation, or other entity, as prescribed by
Idaho Code section 50-334 and pursuant to Idaho Code section 50-1008 by levy of
special assessment against said property. Said assessment shall constitute a
lien against the property which shall be collected in the same manner as other
taxes are collected. (1974 Code § 8-307)
3-2-6: RIGHT OF APPEAL:
Nothing in this chapter shall affect the ability of the person, partnership,
corporation, or other entity directly concerned as owner, manager, lessee, or
other contractually involved party from seeking relief in a court of original
competent jurisdiction. Such appeal must be filed within twenty (20) days after
the date of the order of abatement. (1974 Code § 8-308)
3-2-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Infraction: Any person, firm or corporation violating or failing to
comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an
infraction and, upon conviction thereof, a penalty of one hundred dollars
($100.00) plus court costs and fees shall be assessed for the first violation,
two hundred dollars ($200.00) plus court costs and fees for the second
violation, and three hundred dollars ($300.00) plus court costs and fees for
the third and subsequent violations during the same calendar year. (Ord. 991,
10-11-2018)
   B.   Cleanup: In addition to the penalty set forth in this chapter, sections
3-4-4 and
3-4-5 of this title shall apply to violations of this chapter. (Ord. 945, 12-
14-2009)
CHAPTER 3
WEEDS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Weeds To Be Destroyed
3-3-2: Property To Be Kept Free
3-3-3: Abatement
3-3-4: Grant Of Authority
3-3-5: Violation; Penalty
3-3-1: WEEDS TO BE DESTROYED:
   A.   Duty To Destroy, Cut Down, Weed Out And Obliterate; Notice: Every
person, company or corporation residing or doing business within the corporate
limits of the city who shall reside or conduct any business in or upon any lot,
lots, lands or premises within the corporate limits of the city, either as
owner, tenant, lessee, or merely as occupant of any such lots, lands or
premises as well, and all persons, companies or corporations, whether resident
or nonresident owner, or owners, of any lot, lands or premises within the
corporate limits of the city shall, at all times and continuously, after being
given ten (10) days' notice, during the time and dates hereinafter stated,
destroy, cut down, weed out, and obliterate all such weeds and noxious weeds,
grasses and growths growing or starting to grow on any such lots, lands or
premises, as well as shall such person or persons, company or corporation
during the time hereinafter stated, keep continuously cut down, weeded out,
destroyed, and obliterated all such weeds and noxious weeds, grasses and
growths from and off all that part or portion of said lots, lands, and premises
which lie and are situated between the property line of such respective lots,
lands or premises so owned, used or occupied by such person, persons, company
or corporation, and to the centerline of all streets or alleys running or lying
immediately adjacent or contiguous to such lots, lands or premises so owned,
used or occupied by such person, persons, company or corporation. That portion
of land or premises herein last referred to includes the sidewalk ground as
well as the parking ground fronting, adjacent or contiguous to any such lots,
lands, or premises.
   B.   Pasture Limits: All pastureland located within the city limits shall be
pastured off or cut down to a height of three feet (3') or less measured from
the ground to the tallest vegetation in the pasture. (Ord. 931, 7-9-2007)
3-3-2: PROPERTY TO BE KEPT FREE:
All such weeds and noxious weeds, grasses and growths which are deleterious,
unsightly and/or injurious to the public or to the residents or owner of
adjacent property within the city shall, at all times, continuously be kept
weeded out, cut down, obliterated and destroyed. (1974 Code § 8-502)
3-3-3: ABATEMENT:
   A.   Failure To Comply; Abatement By City; Costs: Every person, firm,
company or corporation owning or occupying any lots, lands, or premises
situated within the corporate limits of the city shall, within the time fixed
by section
3-3-1 of this chapter and after the notice as provided in section
3-3-1 of this chapter, keep continuously destroyed, weeded out, cut down, and
obliterated all such deleterious, unsightly and injurious weeds and noxious
weeds, grasses and growths in or on any and all such lots, lands or premises so
owned or occupied by such person, firm, company or corporation, in the manner
described and in accordance with the provisions of section
3-3-1 of this chapter, and, in the event that such deleterious, unsightly and
injurious weeds and noxious weeds, grasses and growths are not so continuously
destroyed, weeded out, cut down and obliterated, the mayor and the city council
shall cause deleterious, unsightly and injurious weeds and noxious weeds,
grasses and growths to be cut down, weeded out and destroyed and the costs and
expenses of such destruction in cutting down, weeding out and obliterating the
same shall be assessed against such property as general taxes, and collectible
as other general state, county and municipal taxes or at its option the city
may elect to sue the resident and/or the owner in the proper state court for
such expenses and costs.
   B.   Notice To Clean Up; Deadline: The resident and/or property owner shall
be notified in person, or via certified mail or regular mail or by posting
notice on the property, of the violation and be instructed to clean up the
property. The resident and/or property owner shall have ten (10) days after
notification to bring their property in compliance with City ordinances. After
said ten (10) days have passed, the property will be reinspected. If the
violation has been corrected, no further action will be pursued by the City and
the owner/occupant will be given a written statement that the violation has
been corrected as of the date of the written statement. Without a written
statement, the violation will not be deemed corrected.
   C.   Failure To Initiate Correction; Additional Time: If the violation has
not been corrected, the City may initiate the correction of the violation in
accordance with section
3-3-4 of this chapter. In instances where the property owner has made a
concerted effort to correct the violation but requires additional time, the
City Code Enforcement Officer may give written authorization for additional
time to bring their property into compliance with City ordinances. (1974 Code §
8-503)
3-3-4: GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
   A.   Power To Employ Labor, Lease Equipment, And Purchase Chemicals: The
Mayor and City Council are hereby given the power and authority to employ such
labor and lease such equipment and purchase such chemicals as are necessary to
carry out the provisions of this chapter, allow the bills therefor and assess
said expenses and administrative expenses against said land in the manner
provided in section
3-3-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Cost Of Labor And Materials: The cost of such labor employed and
materials used by the City shall be deemed reasonable and fair as contracted
through the annual open bid contract selection process.
   C.   Costs Separate From Penalty: The costs covered in this section are
distinct and separate from any penalties and/or fines covered in section
3-3-5 of this chapter. (1974 Code § 8-506)
3-3-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction, be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
   B.   Separate Offense: Each and every ten (10) days that any such person,
company or corporation mentioned and described in section
3-3-1 of this chapter, after ten (10) days' notice, shall fail, refuse or
neglect to comply with the provisions of this chapter, shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense against the provisions of this chapter, and each
of such separate offenses shall be punishable as provided. (1974 Code § 8-505)
CHAPTER 4
HOUSEHOLD GOODS AND EQUIPMENT, MACHINERY, MOTOR VEHICLES, MISCELLANEOUS
PROPERTY AND DEBRIS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Household Goods And Equipment, Machinery, Motor Vehicles And
Miscellaneous Property
3-4-3: Debris
3-4-4: Removal And Cleanup By City
3-4-5: Grant Of Authority
3-4-6: Violation; Penalty
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The words in this section hereafter provided are defined as follows:
HOUSEHOLD GOODS AND EQUIPMENT: All articles usually referred to as household
goods and articles used in housekeeping including, but not limited to, chairs,
tables, davenports, beds, refrigerators, stoves, washers, dryers, furnaces,
appliances, grease, oil, paint and their containers.
MACHINERY: All articles of industrial, farm or domestic machinery or equipment,
any and all metal or wooden machinery, motors, equipment, tools, or property.
MISCELLANEOUS PROPERTY: All other property including, but not limited to, old
rope, iron, brass, copper, tin, lead, rubber, rags, baggage, bottles, scrap,
toys, bicycles or boats.
MOTOR VEHICLES: Any vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power designed to travel on the ground on wheels, treads, runners or slides and
to transport persons or property or pull machinery including, but not limited
to, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, tractors, buggies, or wagons.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation or partnership.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: Shall include not only the parcel or lot, but also include
all land to the center of the adjacent street or streets and alley.
RUBBISH (DEBRIS): Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible
and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard,
metal cans, yard clippings, dead trees, tree limbs, wood, glass, bedding,
crockery, abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as cans or
containers and similar materials. However, rubbish shall not include wood and
other materials that are stored and used for fuel. Rubbish is included as part
of the definition of miscellaneous property and debris. (1974 Code § 5-501)
3-4-2: HOUSEHOLD GOODS AND EQUIPMENT, MACHINERY, MOTOR VEHICLES AND
MISCELLANEOUS PROPERTY:
   A.   Upon Public Property: No person shall place, allow, discard, maintain,
park or store any dismantled, abandoned, junked, damaged or destroyed household
goods or equipment, "motor vehicles", "machinery" or "miscellaneous property"
as herein defined upon any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public
property within the city. (1974 Code § 5-502)
   B.   Upon Private Property:
      1.   No person, whether he be owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
otherwise of any private property or premises shall place, allow, discard,
maintain, park, store or permit to be placed, allowed, discarded, maintained,
parked or stored upon said property or premises for a period of time exceeding
forty eight (48) hours any dismantled, abandoned, junked, damaged or destroyed
"household goods and equipment", "motor vehicles", "machinery" or
"miscellaneous property" as herein defined; provided, however, that the
provisions of this section shall not apply to any property or premises where
said household goods and equipment, motor vehicles, machinery or miscellaneous
property is housed within an enclosed building thereon.
      2.   Any business involved in the sale or repair of motor vehicles,
equipment, furniture, appliances or other items may have up to one hundred
twenty (120) hours to comply with subsection B1 of this section if such item is
being repaired and cannot be moved within an enclosed building while waiting
for parts. This exclusion does not apply to tools or parts which must be kept
in an enclosed area when not being used or installed.
      3.   Any business with abandoned or broken down motor vehicles or
equipment on its premises must comply with subsection B1 of this section and/or
with the city zoning laws that apply to salvage yards and/or automotive
wrecking yards 1 . (1974 Code § 5-503)
      4.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, a property owner,
tenant, lessee or lawful occupant of property in commercial or industrial
districts may locate items for display related to their specific business in a
public right of way upon the issuance of the signed permit by the city.
Application for a special permit for that purpose shall be made to the city
clerk-treasurer. The application shall include: a) a description of the
specific items for display, b) their location in the right of way, c) the
length of time proposed for such display and d) shall warrant that the display
will not materially obstruct any pedestrian or vehicular way within said right
of way. Application for this special permit shall be subject to amendment and
approval by the city council. This special permit shall be subject to
cancellation, without notice or hearing, if the application contains any false
or misleading information or the items for display interfere with pedestrian or
vehicle traffic. (Ord. 938, 4-14-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-2-3 for definitions of “wrecking yards” and “automotive wrecking yards”.
3-4-3: DEBRIS:
   A.   In Streets, Alleys Or Public Easements:
      1.   No person shall wilfully or negligently deposit or throw from any
vehicle or place upon or alongside any highway, street, alley or easement used
by the public for public travel any debris, paper, litter, glass bottles,
glass, nails, tacks, hooks, cans, barbed wire, boards, trash or garbage,
lighted materials or other waste substances.
      2.   For the purpose of this section the terms highway, street, alley or
easement shall be construed to include the entire right of way for such alley,
street, or easement. (1974 Code § 5-504)
   B.   Placing On Private Property: No person shall wilfully or negligently
deposit upon any public or private property within the city, any debris, paper,
litter, glass bottles, glass, nails, tacks, hooks, cans, barbed wire, boards,
trash, garbage, lighted materials or other waste substances on any place not
authorized by the state, county, city or the owner of the private property.
(1974 Code § 5-505)
3-4-4: REMOVAL AND CLEANUP BY CITY:
   A.   Duty To Correct Violations; Abatement By City; Costs: Every person,
firm, company or corporation owning or occupying any lots, lands, or premises
situated within the corporate limits shall, within the time fixed by subsection
B of this section, after the notice as provided in said subsection B, correct
any violations of this chapter existing on any and all such lots, lands or
premises so owned or occupied by such person, firm, company or corporation and
the streets and alleys adjacent thereto, in the manner described and in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and in the event that such
violation is not corrected, the mayor and the city council shall cause
violations to be corrected and the costs and expenses of doing so shall be
assessed against such property as general taxes, and collectible as other
general state, county and municipal taxes or, at its option, the city may elect
to sue the resident and/or the owner in the proper state court for such
expenses and costs.
   B.   Notice Of Violation; Deadline: The resident and/or property owner shall
be notified in person or via certified mail or by posting notice on the
property of the violation and be instructed to correct said violation. The
resident and/or property owner shall have ten (10) days after notification to
bring their property into compliance with city ordinances. After said ten (10)
days have passed, the property will be reinspected. If the violation has been
corrected, no further action will be pursued by the city, and the owner/
occupant will be given a written statement that the violation has been
corrected as of the date of the written statement. Without a written statement
the violation will not be deemed corrected.
   C.   Failure To Initiate Correction; Additional Time: If the violation has
not been corrected, the City may initiate the correction of the violation in
accordance with subsections
3-4-5A and/or B of this chapter. In instances where the property owner has made
a concerted effort to correct the violation, but requires additional time, one
additional ten (10) day cleanup period may be authorized by the City Code
Enforcement Officer. (1974 Code § 5-506)
3-4-5: GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
   A.   To Employ Labor And Hire Equipment:
      1.   The Mayor and City Council are hereby given the power and authority
to employ such labor and lease such equipment as is necessary to carry out the
provisions of this chapter, allow the bills therefor and assess said expenses
and administrative expenses against said property or land in the manner
provided in subsection
3-4-4A of this chapter.
      2.   The cost of such labor employed and materials used by the City shall
be deemed reasonable and fair.
      3.   The City may perform the required cleanup with City employees and
equipment and charge the reasonable value thereof against the personal property
and real property. (1974 Code § 5-507)
      4.   The costs covered in this section are distinct and separate from any
penalties and/or fines covered in section
3-4-6 of this chapter. (1974 Code § 5-507; amd. Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
   B.   To Impound, Sell And Assess Costs Therefor:
      1.   Any property or goods upon public or private property within the
City in violation hereof may be impounded and removed by the Police Department
and sold at public or private auction by the Police Department as is provided
in this Code for the disposal of abandoned property.
      2.   Should the City impound any property under this chapter, it may
assess the cost of such removal against such property and the same shall be a
lien thereon. Such assessment may be certified to the County Assessor or other
proper County officer having charge of making up of the assessment rolls, and
such assessment shall be placed on the assessment rolls and collected in the
same manner as other Municipal taxes are collected. (1974 Code § 5-508)
3-4-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be guilty of an infraction and shall be subject to penalty as provided in this
Code. The cost of removal shall be in addition to any such fine imposed. After
the ten (10) day notice has expired, each day of violation under this chapter
shall be deemed a separate offense and punishable as the same. A penalty of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) plus court costs and fees shall be assessed for the
first violation, two hundred dollars ($200.00) plus court costs and fees for
the second violation, and three hundred dollars ($300.00) plus court costs and
fees for the third and subsequent violations during the same calendar year.
(Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
CHAPTER 5
BUILDING MATERIALS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Placing, Storing Or Stacking
3-5-3: Time Extension
3-5-4: Exceptions
3-5-5: Violation; Penalty
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BUILDING MATERIALS: Shall include materials used in construction of buildings,
fences, or any type of structures, including, but not limited to, lumber, wood,
brick, sand, gravel, steel, siding, rocks, paint and glass.
CONSTRUCTION: Shall include the original construction, maintenance, remodeling
and repair of buildings, fences and structures of all types.
CONSTRUCTION PERIOD: The period of time allowed to complete construction and
shall commence from the date the building permit is issued. (1974 Code § 5-701)
3-5-2: PLACING, STORING OR STACKING:
It shall be unlawful to place, store or stack building materials upon public
property or private property within the City limits, except during any period
of construction. The construction period shall be as provided by the building
permit issued by the City with any extensions to that construction period to be
granted by the City building inspector. The time for construction shall be
determined by the City building inspector. (1974 Code § 5-702)
3-5-3: TIME EXTENSION:
   A.   Granted By Building Inspector: In the event construction is not
completed within the construction period set forth in the building permit, the
City building inspector may, upon proof that the owner has been diligently
pursuing completion of the construction, grant an extension of time on the
building permit not to exceed one additional period of thirty (30) days.
   B.   Petition Mayor And City Council: If construction is not completed
within the time allowed by the building inspector, the building permit holder
may petition the Mayor and City Council, who upon a showing of good cause, may
grant an extension of time for an additional thirty (30) day period. Such
extension of time shall be limited to a total of two (2) or a period of sixty
(60) days. (1974 Code § 5-703)
3-5-4: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any building materials which
are: a) housed within an enclosed building upon the property, or b) to any
property or premises lawfully operated as a business where building materials
are a part of said business enterprise and necessary to its operation. (1974
Code § 5-704)
3-5-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   General Penalty: Violators of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an
infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in this Code. It shall be deemed a separate offense for each and every
day or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is committed, continued or permitted. A penalty of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) plus court costs and fees shall be assessed for the first
violation, two hundred dollars ($200.00) plus court costs and fees for the
second violation, and three hundred dollars ($300.00) plus court costs and fees
for the third and subsequent violations during the same calendar year. (Ord.
991, 10-11-2018)
   B.   Cleanup: In addition to the penalty set forth in subsection A of this
section, sections
3-4-4 and
3-4-5 of this title shall apply to violations of this chapter. (Ord. 945, 12-
14-2009)
CHAPTER 6
SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
SECTION:
3-6-1: Authority
3-6-2: Intent
3-6-3: Definitions
3-6-4: Application To City Owned Facilities And Areas
3-6-5: Prohibition Of Smoking In Or On Public Property
3-6-6: Violation; Penalty
3-6-7: Other Applicable Laws
3-6-8: Severability
3-6-1: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted by the Idaho
Constitution and Idaho Code, including without limitation sections 39-5511 and
50-302. (Ord. 988, 9-25-2017)
3-6-2: INTENT:
The conclusions of public health officials concerning secondhand tobacco smoke
are sufficient to warrant measures that regulate smoking in public places in
order to protect the public health. The intent of this chapter is to protect
the public health and the rights of nonsmokers to breathe clean air by
prohibiting smoking in public places. (Ord. 988, 9-25-2017)
3-6-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
E-CIGARETTE: Any electronic oral device, such as one composed of a heating
element, battery, and/or electronic circuit, which provides a vapor of nicotine
or any other substances, and the use or inhalation of which simulates smoking.
The term shall include any such device, whether manufactured, distributed,
marketed, or sold as an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, or under any other
product name or descriptor.
PUBLIC PLACE: An area to which the public is invited or in which the public is
permitted for any purpose.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any and all lands owned, leased, or operated by the City of
Buhl including all City parks and open spaces.
SMOKING: Inhaling, exhaling, burning, carrying, or possessing any lighted or
heated cigar, cigarette, or pipe, or any other lighted or heated tobacco or
plant product intended for inhalation, in any manner or in any form. "Smoking"
also includes the use of an e-cigarette which creates vapor, in any manner or
any form, or the use of any oral smoking device for the purpose of
circumventing the prohibition of smoking in this chapter.
SPECIAL EVENT ZONE: Any outdoor area delineated through a special permit to
accommodate people in a smoke free space for such activities as concerts,
movies, or other entertainment in a space. (Ord. 988, 9-25-2017)
3-6-4: APPLICATION TO CITY OWNED FACILITIES AND AREAS:
All public property and indoor and outdoor areas owned, leased, or operated by
the City of Buhl shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 988,
9-25-2017)
3-6-5: PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN OR ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
Smoking shall be prohibited on all public property, and indoor and outdoor
public places within the limits of the City of Buhl that are owned, leased, or
operated by the City of Buhl, including, but not limited to, the following
places:
   A.   Within any buildings or structures owned, leased or operated by the
City of Buhl.
   B.   Within fifty feet (50') of entrances, exits, windows or air intakes to
buildings or structures owned, leased or operated by the City of Buhl.
   C.   On any public property as defined herein.
   D.   Within any designated special event zone as defined herein. (Ord. 988,
9-25-2017)
3-6-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Smoking Where Prohibited: A person who smokes in or on any public place
where smoking is prohibited by the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of an infraction, punishable by a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus
court costs.
   B.   Violations Declared Public Nuisance: Violation of this chapter is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance, which may be abated by the City of
Buhl by restraining order, preliminary and permanent injunction, or other means
provided for by law, and the City of Buhl may take action to recover attorney
fees and/or costs of the nuisance abatement. (Ord. 988, 9-25-2017)
3-6-7: OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS:
This chapter shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking where it
is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws or by the owner, operator,
manager, or other person in control of such facility or area. (Ord. 988, 9-25-
2017)
3-6-8: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this chapter or the
application thereof to any person or circumstances shall be held invalid, that
invalidity shall not affect the other provisions of this chapter which can be
given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the
provisions of this chapter are declared to be severable. (Ord. 988, 9-25-2017)
TITLE 4
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Department Created; Personnel
4-1-2: Officers And Members
4-1-3: Chief Of Police Monthly Report
4-1-4: Standard Of Training
4-1-5: Powers
4-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; PERSONNEL:
   A.   Created: There is hereby created a police department in the city.
   B.   Personnel: Such department shall consist of a chief of police, an
assistant chief of police, such number of policemen as shall be authorized by
the mayor and council, and such special police as may be authorized by the
mayor and council from time to time, as exigencies arise. The chief of the fire
department of the city shall be an ex officio member of the police department
of said city, and, when serving in such capacity, shall be subject to the
supervision and direction of the chief of police, except when in charge of a
fire. (1974 Code § 1-701)
4-1-2: OFFICERS AND MEMBERS:
   A.   Appointment: The mayor, with the consent of the council, shall appoint
the chief of police and the authorized policemen provided for in section
4-1-1 of this chapter, and he shall have authority, with the consent of the
council, to appoint special policemen from time to time as exigencies arise.
(1974 Code § 1-702)
   B.   Qualifications: Any person appointed as an officer or member of the
police department shall be a citizen of the United States. (1974 Code § 1-705)
   C.   Members Under Chief: All persons appointed under the provisions of this
chapter as policemen or special police shall be under the direction and
supervision of the chief of police.
   D.   Assistant Chief: The chief of police shall designate one of the
policemen to be assistant chief of police and, in the absence of the chief of
police, he shall have all the authority herein vested in the chief of police.
   E.   Duties: The policemen shall be subject to the orders of the chief of
police, except in cases otherwise provided by ordinance, it shall be their duty
to cause the public peace to be preserved and to see that all laws and
ordinances are enforced within the city limits. When violation of any law or
ordinance shall be reported to them or come to their knowledge, they shall
cause the required complaint to be made and see that all possible evidence is
procured for the successful prosecution of the offenders. (1974 Code § 1-703)
4-1-3: CHIEF OF POLICE MONTHLY REPORT:
The chief of police shall make a written report monthly giving a true account
of the number of arrests made, persons arrested and nature of offenses charged
during the month and such further reports as may at any time be required by the
mayor and council. (1974 Code § 1-704)
4-1-4: STANDARD OF TRAINING:
Pursuant to Idaho Code section 19-5110, the city, while receiving aid from the
peace officers standards and training council pursuant to Idaho Code title 19,
chapter 51, will adhere to the standards for employment and training
established by the peace officers standards and training council. (1974 Code §
1-706; amd. 2010 Code)
4-1-5: POWERS:
   A.   Arrest Offenders:
      1.   Manner Of Arrest: The officers and members of the police department
shall have power to arrest all offenders against the laws of the state, or of
the city, by day or by night, in the same manner as the sheriff or constable,
and keep them in the county jail or other place to prevent their escape until
trial can be had before the proper officer.
      2.   Pursuit Beyond Corporate Limits: Whenever such police officers shall
be in the fresh pursuit of an offender against any law of the state or of the
city, and the offense has been committed within the corporate limits of the
city, such police officers, while in fresh pursuit, may go beyond the corporate
or geographical limits of the city but not beyond the boundary lines of the
county of Twin Falls for the purpose of making such arrest. Upon overtaking
such offender outside the corporate or geographical limits of the city, the
arresting officer may take such offender to and keep him in the county jail, or
other place, to prevent his escape until trial can be had before the proper
officer, or may personally hand such arrested person a notice, in writing, or
partly written and partly printed, to appear in court of proper jurisdiction at
a time specified in such notice. (1974 Code § 1-707; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Call Others To Assist; Penalty For Refusal:
      1.   Authority To Call For Assistance: The chief of police or any member
of the police department shall have authority to call upon any person to assist
him in making an arrest, capturing or retaining in custody any person.
      2.   Refusal Or Failure To Assist: Any person, when so requested, who
shall refuse or fail, to the best of his ability, to render such aid as
required, shall be guilty of an offense, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1974 Code § 1-708; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Remove And Impound Vehicles:
      1.    Authority To Remove And Impound: The police department of the city
is hereby authorized to remove and impound or cause to be removed and impounded
any vehicle parked in violation of any ordinance of the city. The owner or
operator of any such vehicle may recover the same by paying the cost of its
removal and impoundment, together with the sums due by reason of the violation
of said city ordinance. (1974 Code § 1-709; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Required Notice: Upon removal of a vehicle from public or private
property under subsection C1 of this section, the officer causing the vehicle
to be removed, shall immediately advise the department of law enforcement of
the state of Idaho of any identifying number or marks and attempt thereby to
determine the name of any owner or lienholder listed on the certificate of
title filed with the department of law enforcement. If there is no certificate
of title on file in the department, then a notice shall be sent to the apparent
owner as determined by the registration certificate or other identification
found in the vehicle, but if no identification of the owner can be found in the
vehicle then notice shall be given by publication in the official newspaper,
and in either event, the notice shall include: a) the make, year, model, color
and license plate, number of the vehicle; b) the approximate place where the
vehicle was found; c) the place to where the vehicle was removed; and d) a
statement that the vehicle will be sold for removal and storage charges if not
claimed within ten (10) days from the date of mailing or publication of the
notice.
   D.   Impounded Vehicles:
      1.   Claimed By Owner: Any person claiming ownership of any said vehicle,
upon producing a certificate of title or any other satisfactory documentary
evidence of ownership, shall be presented with his or her vehicle upon payment
of all costs of both removal and impoundment incurred by the city.
      2.   Sale Of Unclaimed Vehicles: In the event no person claims and pays
for any such vehicle so removed within ten (10) days either after personal
service of notice or publication of notice in the official newspaper, then it
shall be the duty of the chief of police to see that the impounded vehicle
shall be sold at either public or private sale. Proceeds of any such sale shall
be first applied to the city's costs in removal and impoundment and the
balance, if any there may be, shall then be remitted to the owner if he can be
found and otherwise any remaining money shall be forfeited to and become a part
of the general fund of the city. (1974 Code § 1-709)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-2-1: Department Created
4-2-2: Officers And Personnel; Appointment
4-2-3: Chief Of Fire Department
4-2-4: Officers And Employees; Duties
4-2-5: Police; Duties At Fire
4-2-6: Equipment
4-2-7: Limit On Approach To Fire
4-2-8: Driving Across Hose Or Interference With Equipment
4-2-9: Violation; Penalty
4-2-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby organized a fire department of the city, for the purpose of
protecting property and the lives of the citizens of said city. (1974 Code § 1-
601)
4-2-2: OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL; APPOINTMENT:
The officers and employees of the fire department of the city shall consist of
a chief of the fire department, an assistant chief of the fire department and
such officers and members as shall be authorized by the mayor and council. The
chief and the assistant chief of the fire department shall be appointed by the
mayor, with the advice and consent of the council. All other officers and
employees of the department shall be appointed by the mayor, with the advice
and consent of the council, upon the recommendation of the chief of the fire
department. (1974 Code § 1-603)
4-2-3: CHIEF OF FIRE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Duties:
      1.   The chief of the fire department shall at all times, except in case
of absence or inability to act, have full charge of the entire fire department,
and at all times shall be subject to such rules as the mayor and the city
council shall prescribe. It shall be his duty to see that all officers and
employees of the fire department perform the necessary services and that the
department is in continuous efficient working service.
      2.   At a fire, the chief will have full charge of the matters pertaining
to the department and all things to be done in or about such fire, and he
shall, in case of necessity arising at a fire, employ, aside from his regular
force, so many men as may, in his judgment, be necessary for the purpose of
extinguishing the fire.
   B.   Reports: It shall be the duty of the chief of the fire department to
make out and submit annual reports to the mayor and council of the condition of
the department, and all matters of interest relating thereto. He shall also
report number of fires that have taken place during the past year, giving the
location of, date of, and other particulars of such fires. He shall incorporate
in said reports such suggestions in regard to the government of the fire
department and the efficiency thereof as may, in his judgment, seem proper and
necessary. After each fire, the chief shall make prompt and thorough
investigation of the cause of the fire, the amount of loss and insurance
carried, time of breaking out, description of building and all necessary
particulars and record the same in the record book kept for that purpose in the
department. (1974 Code § 1-604)
   C.   Authority To Prescribe Traffic Limits At Fire: Whenever a fire shall
occur in the city, the fire chief or acting fire chief is hereby empowered,
during the continuance of such fire, to prescribe the limits within which shall
be unlawful for any person to come, excepting members of said fire department,
the owners of the premises included in such limits, and such other persons as
may be specially admitted by the said chief or acting chief, and it shall be
the duty of such fire chief to plainly indicate such limits, either by
stretching a rope thereon or erecting some barrier sufficient to apprise the
people of such limits. And it shall be unlawful for any person other than the
above specified to enter within such limits at any time until same are removed.
(1974 Code § 1-607)
4-2-4: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of all officers and employees of the fire department to
attend to the duties of their respective positions under the orders of the
chief of the fire department, or in case of his absence or inability to serve,
under the assistant chief of the fire department. (1974 Code § 1-605)
4-2-5: POLICE; DUTIES AT FIRE:
It shall be the duty of the regular policemen of the City and those persons
designated at a fire as police officers by the Chief of the Fire Department to
see that the provisions of this chapter are complied with. (1974 Code § 1-606)
4-2-6: EQUIPMENT:
The equipment of the City Fire Department shall consist of the apparatus now
owned by the City, and that which may hereafter be purchased by the City and
all other things that are now used and have been used in connection with the
Fire Department. (1974 Code § 1-602)
4-2-7: LIMIT ON APPROACH TO FIRE:
Any person or persons not officers of the City, or acting firemen of the City,
or any person or persons not interested as owner or owners or employees of the
owner or owners, in the property and goods at the location of any fire who
shall occupy the grounds within fifty feet (50') of the fire, or impede the
work of the firemen, or blockade the way to, from or around any fire shall be
deemed guilty of an infraction. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
4-2-8: DRIVING ACROSS HOSE OR INTERFERENCE WITH EQUIPMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person within the City to ride or drive any horse
or vehicle of any kind over or across any water hose belonging to the City
while in use. And it shall be unlawful for any person other than the members of
the regularly organized fire company of the City, to handle or have in their
possession or in any manner interfere with any of the fire apparatus used by
the fire companies of the City, except at the express invitation or permission
of the Fire Chief or Acting Fire Chief of the City. (1974 Code § 1-609)
4-2-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person guilty of violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of
an infraction and shall be punished, upon conviction thereof, as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Criminal Code Adopted
4-3-1: CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: There is hereby adopted by the city, Idaho Code title 18,
crimes and punishments, as presently in effect or as may hereafter be amended,
one copy of which is on file in the office of the city clerk-treasurer for
public inspection.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this chapter, or the
statutes adopted herein, shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2010 Code)
ARTICLE A. OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS, HEALTH AND POLICE
SECTION:
4-3A-1: Unlawful Consumption Of Or Possession Of Alcoholic Beverages In Public
Place
4-3A-1: UNLAWFUL CONSUMPTION OF OR POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC
PLACE:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and phrases
shall have the meanings given herein when not inconsistent with the context.
Words used in the present tense include the future, words in the plural number
include the singular number, and words in the singular number include the
plural number. The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
 
                    Any beverage containing alcohol that is a product of
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: distillation of any fermented liquor, or synthetic ethyl
                    alcohol, including liquor, spirits, beer, wine or any
                    liquid containing liquor, spirts, beer or wine.
BEER:               Shall have the meaning it is given in title 3, chapter 2 of
                    this Code.
                    An area to which the general public has an unrestricted
                    right of access and that is generally open or used by the
                    public, regardless of whether it is publicly or privately
                    owned, Examples of public places include, without
PUBLIC PLACE:       limitation, streets, highways or public rights-of-way,
                    sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, public
                    driveways, parking lots, transit stations, trains, buses,
                    moving or stationary motor vehicles, shelters, tunnels, and
                    buildings, including, without limitation, stores and
                    restaurants.
 
WINE:               Shall have the meaning it is given in title 3, chapter 2 of
                    this Code.
 
   B.   Specified: Except as otherwise provided by license, permit or law, it
shall be unlawful for any person:
      1.   To consume any alcoholic beverage in a public place within the City;
or
      2.   To possess, in a public place within the City, any alcoholic
beverage in any bottle, can or other receptacle which has been opened, or has a
seal broken, or where the contents of which have been partially removed.
   C.   Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to the
possession or consumption of any alcoholic beverage by a person who is at least
twenty-one (21) years of age when such possession or consumption occurs:
      1.   Within any private residence or upon the yard thereabout, or within
any apartment, duplex, condominium, boarding house or other structure lawfully
used as a permanent residence, or within any common area or area designated
exclusively for and appurtenant to such residential occupancy;
      2.   Within an establishment, business place or other location properly
licenses and permitted by the State, the County and the City for the
consumption of any alcoholic beverage;
      3.   Pursuant to a valid City approved event which has been issued a City
catering permit or State approved permit; provided, that the alcoholic beverage
is held in an opaque plastic container.
(Ord. 1015, 11-14-2022)
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES AFFECTING PUBLIC SAFETY
SECTION:
4-3B-1: BB Guns And Air Guns
4-3B-2: Explosives
4-3B-3: Obstruction To Vision At Intersections
4-3B-4: Subterraneous Opening, Highway Or Sidewalk
4-3B-5: Tampering With Fire Equipment
4-3B-6: Throwing Stones Or Missiles
4-3B-7: Trespassing Upon City Property
4-3B-8: Violation; Penalty
4-3B-1: BB GUNS AND AIR GUNS:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or discharge
any cannon, gun, fowling piece, pistol or firearm, of any description, or
explode, or set off any combustible or explosive material within the city
unless such activity is: 1) allowed as fireworks under title 2, chapter 4 of
this code, or 2) when the firing of said arms is with blanks at a parade,
celebration, sporting event or theatrical performance, or 3) an activity which
is exempted or allowed under Idaho law as it now exists or is hereafter
amended.
   B.   Discharge Of BB Guns, Air Guns, Slingshots, Wrist Rockets And Bow And
Arrows Prohibited: The shooting or firing or discharging of any air rifle, air
pistol, air revolver, BB gun, slingshot, wrist rocket, or bow and arrow within
the limits of the city is hereby prohibited, unless: 1) such activity is
conducted at a firing range or at a competition which is sanctioned by a
sponsoring club or entity and is properly supervised; or 2) such activity is
conducted on private property with proper equipment to retain or keep the
projectile upon said private property; provided that when such activity is
conducted by a minor, the same shall be done under adult supervision.
   C.   Shooting Of Crossbows, Dart Guns Or Blowguns: The shooting of
crossbows, dart guns or blowguns within the limits of the city is prohibited.
(Ord. 984, 11-14-2016)
4-3B-2: EXPLOSIVES:
   A.   Prohibited; Exemption: It shall be unlawful to store or keep any
dynamite, nitroglycerin, giant powder, gunpowder, TNT, black powder, military
ordnance, C4 explosives, bombs, booby traps, bomb making materials or other
explosives within the city limits, unless the same is allowed under subsection
B of this section or a permit has been obtained in compliance with title 8,
chapter 3 of this code.
   B.   Storage Of Gunpowder Or Black Powder: The storing of gunpowder or black
powder under the following conditions is exempt from the prohibition set forth
in subsection A of this section:
      1.   Gunpowder: The storing of up to fifty (50) pounds of gunpowder for
personal reloading of shells, kept with reloading equipment and shell casings,
etc., to reload shells is exempt; however, a person keeping more than ten (10)
pounds of gunpowder shall register such fact with the city fire department for
the safety of city employees and volunteers.
      2.   Black Powder: The storing of up to ten (10) pounds of black powder
for personal use in firing of black powder rifles is exempt; however, a person
keeping more than five (5) pounds of black powder shall register such fact with
the city fire department for the safety of city employees and volunteers.
      3.   Registration Required: The registration with the city fire
department required in subsections B1 and B2 of this section shall also be
required whenever the total weight of both gunpowder and black powder at the
same premises equals ten (10) pounds.
   C.   Construction And Demolition Explosives:
      1.   License Required To Store Explosives: Any person, firm or
corporation intending to store explosives within the city limits to be used in
a demolition or construction project must obtain a written license from the
city to perform said demolition or construction work before bringing said
explosives into the city for storing.
      2.   Permit Required To Fire Explosives: Before firing such explosives,
the person or entity firing such explosives must obtain a written permit from
the city to fire or explode such explosives.
      3.   Licenses And Permits:
         a.   Forms: The written license and permit required by this section
shall be obtained from the city fire chief on forms supplied by the city.
         b.   Endorsement By Chief Of Police: Such license and permit shall be
endorsed by the chief of police.
         c.   Information And Data Given Strictly Followed; Changes: The
information and data given in obtaining the license and permit must be strictly
followed. Any changes in explosives, storing procedure, date of and time of
explosion will require an amendment to the license or permit affected by such
change.
         d.   Fees: The fee for said license and permit shall be set from time
to time by resolution of the city council. (1974 Code § 8-1201)
4-3B-3: OBSTRUCTION TO VISION AT INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Obstruction Prohibited: No person shall plant, install, create,
maintain or possess, on public or private property, an obstruction to the
vision of a driver of a vehicle at an intersection which constitutes a traffic
hazard.
   B.   Prima Facie Evidence Of Obstruction: Prima facie evidence of an
obstruction constituting a traffic hazard shall exist if any object, structure
or thing, except buildings and residences which are otherwise in conformance
with the law, is allowed to exist which exceeds three feet (3') above the
existing roadway, centerline elevation within the triangular area formed by the
intersecting roadway edges and a straight line joining said roadway edges at
points which are forty feet (40') distance from the point of an intersection
measured along said street edges. At alley and street intersections, the
dimensions shall be forty feet (40') along the street edge and fifteen feet
(15') along the alleyway edge. Trees and utility facilities are allowed in such
triangular area provided that no tree limb or growth extending from said limb
shall be maintained or allowed to exist nearer than eight feet (8') from the
surface of the ground. (1974 Code § 8-1208)
4-3B-4: SUBTERRANEOUS OPENING, HIGHWAY OR SIDEWALK 1 :
   A.   Prohibited:
      1.   Leave Open Subterranean Opening: It shall be unlawful for any person
to leave or keep open any cellar, door, pit, vault, or other subterranean
opening in any highway or sidewalk; nor shall such person suffer the same to be
left open or kept in an insecure condition likely to be of danger to passersby.
      2.   Maintain Sidewalks In Good Repair: Provided further, that it shall
be unlawful for the owner or owners or occupants of premises abutting a
sidewalk to allow the same to become or remain so broken or otherwise out of
repair as to endanger life or limb or as to create a hazard to passing
pedestrians.
      3.   Keep Sidewalks Free And Clear Of All Debris, Snow, Ice Or Other
Substance: Provided, that this section further casts a duty upon the occupier,
owner or owners of premises abutting a sidewalk, to keep the same free and
clear of all debris, snow, ice or other substance or thing likely to create a
condition of danger to passing pedestrians.
   B.   Private Wells: All private wells located within the city, whether used,
unused, or abandoned, must be properly covered and sealed in such a manner so
as to prevent any unauthorized person or animal from removing said cover and in
such a manner that persons or animals not knowing the existence of said unused
well cannot fall into said well. Unused or abandoned wells must be covered or
capped with concrete or have a metal cap welded to the casing. Wooden well
covers on unused or abandoned wells are hereby prohibited within the city
limits.
   C.   Privies, Cisterns, Cesspools And Septic Tanks:
      1.   Cover Required: All privies, cisterns, cesspools and septic tanks
which are maintained and used within the city limits shall be covered in such a
manner that said covers will support a minimum weight of five hundred (500)
pounds without giving way or breaking.
      2.   Abandonment; Filling Required: Within thirty (30) days after any
privy, cistern, cesspool or septic tank is abandoned, or no longer used by the
property owner, said privy, cistern, cesspool or septic tank must be filled
level to the ground by said owner at said owner's expense, with earth, rocks
and/or stones so there is no hole for any person or animal to fall into.
   D.   Open Pits, Holes, Basements And Cellars: All open pits, holes,
basements and cellars located within the City limits must be either covered
with a roof or flooring which will support a minimum of five hundred (500)
pounds of weight per square foot, or by a six foot (6') high fence in such a
manner as to prevent unauthorized persons from entering the area so fenced in,
or be filled in with earth and/or rocks so that no pit, hole or cellar remains.
Provided, however, that this section shall not be operative during any period
of construction, unless said construction is suspended or abandoned for a
period of thirty (30) days or more, in which event it will apply.
   E.   Abandoned Underground Tanks: All underground tanks within the City
limits which are abandoned for a period of thirty (30) days must be removed
from the ground and the hole filled with earth so that no hole remains.
Provided, however, that any property owner may obtain, for just cause, a thirty
(30) day extension for compliance with this section from the City Fire Chief.
No one may be given more than five (5) consecutive thirty (30) day extensions.
   F.   Compliance Required: All of the provisions of this section must be
complied with by all property owners within the City. (1974 Code § 8-1205)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-2-10 of this code.
4-3B-5: TAMPERING WITH FIRE EQUIPMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, corporation, or association of
persons, excepting the City officers and employees of City, and members of the
Fire Department of said City, to tamper with, open, close, or draw water from
any fireplug or tap, or hydrant belonging to said City, or any public hydrant
or tap whatever, or to tamper with any fire equipment, fire alarm system or
turn in any false alarm of a fire. (1974 Code § 8-1206)
4-3B-6: THROWING STONES OR MISSILES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw stones or other objects or
missiles upon or at any building or motor vehicle, whether occupied or
unoccupied, or at any tree, awning or other public or private property in a
manner likely to injure or deface such property, or injure any person. (1974
Code § 8-1204)
4-3B-7: TRESPASSING UPON CITY PROPERTY:
   A.   Sleeping, Occupying Or Trespassing Upon City Property: No person,
persons or groups of persons, other than employees, officers or agents of the
City shall occupy, sleep on, or trespass upon, any property under the control,
jurisdiction and ownership of the City between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. unless they have first obtained a permit from
the Chief of Police. (1974 Code § 8-1001)
   B.   Permits: Permits allowing the above prohibited activities shall be
issued, without charge, by the Chief of Police upon request made to said Chief
of Police during the normal office hours of his office. Said permits shall be
issued in the name or names of all persons proposing to occupy, sleep in, or
trespass upon said City property, and if any be minors, then no permit shall
issue to them or their party unless and until it is shown that they are
accompanied by one or more of their parents, legally appointed guardian, or
coach or other mature and responsible person. Any person or persons aggrieved
by the Chief of Police denying a permit may appeal said decision to the Mayor
and City Council who will determine whether or not said permit shall be issued
at its next regularly scheduled meeting. (1974 Code § 8-1002)
4-3B-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Every person convicted of violating subsection
4-3B-4A2 or A3 of this article shall be guilty of an infraction, and every
person convicted of violating any other provision of this article shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished, upon conviction thereof, as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES AFFECTING PUBLIC PEACE AND QUIET
SECTION:
4-3C-1: Disorderly House
4-3C-2: Public Disturbance; Noise
4-3C-3: Violation; Penalty
4-3C-1: DISORDERLY HOUSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any common, ill governed or
disorderly house, nor shall suffer any drunkenness, quarreling, fighting or
riotous or disorderly conduct whatever on his or her premises. (1974 Code § 8-
1304)
4-3C-2: PUBLIC DISTURBANCE; NOISE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, or for any person in possession
of property to allow to originate from the property, sound that is a public
disturbance noise. The following sounds are determined to be public disturbance
noises:
   A.   The frequent, repetitive, or continuous sounding of any horn or siren
attached to a motor vehicle, except as a warning of danger or as specifically
permitted or required by law.
   B.   The creation of frequent, repetitive, or continuous sounds in
connection with starting, operation, repair, rebuilding, or testing of any
motor vehicle, motorcycle, off highway vehicle, or internal combustion engine
within a residential district, so as to unreasonably disturb or interfere with
the peace, comfort, and repose of owners or possessors of real property.
Included shall be the use of motor vehicles with defective mufflers or without
mufflers.
   C.   The use of engine brakes on diesel trucks while operating within the
City limits for the purpose of braking, slowing or stopping. The term engine
brake shall include brakes commonly known as exhaust, jake, pac, or manifold
brakes.
   D.   The creation of frequent, repetitive or continuous sounds which emanate
from any building, structure, house, apartment, condominium, or person which
unreasonably interferes with the peace, comfort, and repose of owners or
possessors of real property, such as sounds from audio equipment, musical
instruments, band sessions, or social gatherings.
   E.   Sound from motor vehicle sound systems, such as tape players, radios,
and compact disc players, operated at a volume so as to be audible greater than
fifty feet (50') from the vehicle itself.
   F.   The foregoing provisions shall not apply to regularly scheduled and
City approved events at parks, streets, parking lots, or halls, such as public
address systems for games, concerts, rodeos or street dances. (1974 Code § 8-
1307)
4-3C-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person guilty of violating any provision of this article shall be guilty of
an infraction and shall be punished, upon conviction thereof, as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
CHAPTER 4
MINORS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Purpose
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Truancy
4-4-4: Runaways And Incorrigibles
4-4-5: Curfew
4-4-6: Parental Responsibility
4-4-7: Enforcement Procedures
4-4-8: General Penalties And Treatment
4-4-1: PURPOSE:
The policy of the state and of the city is to:
   A.   Protect children's health and welfare, which includes their care,
guidance and control.
   B.   Parents, guardians, and/or other persons having legal custody are
responsible for providing for the physical custody and control of a child and
to determine where and with whom the child shall live and provide the child
with care, education and discipline.
   C.   A child who is unaccompanied by an adult having custodial rights, or an
adult person designated by a person having custodial rights, and who is found
to be on public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or other
public grounds, places, vacant lots, or other locations unsupervised by such
adult, having the lawful authority to be at such place between the hours set
forth in this chapter is at greater risk for injury, becoming a victim of
crime, being involved in criminal activity, being a danger to persons or
property, or otherwise being subject to danger. (1974 Code § 8-401)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular, and words in the singular number include
the plural. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
EMANCIPATED: Any person either eighteen (18) years of age or older, or if under
the age of eighteen (18), any person who is married or has been married; or any
person who is in active military service; or any person who is both self-
supporting and neither resides with nor is subject to parental control.
EMERGENCY: Includes any unforeseen health, accident, or crime related exigency
calling for immediate action.
JUVENILE AND MINOR: Any person less than the age of eighteen (18) and who has
not been duly emancipated.
MINOR: A person under eighteen (18) years of age.
PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a juvenile: a) as a natural or
adoptive parent, b) as a legal guardian, c) as a person who stands in loco
parentis, or d) as a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of
court.
REMAIN: To stay behind, to tarry and to stay unnecessarily upon the streets,
including the congregating of groups (or of interacting minors) totalling four
(4) or more persons in which any juvenile involved would not be using the
streets for ordinary or serious purposes such as mere passage or going home.
RUNAWAY: A juvenile under the age of eighteen (18) who has physically removed
himself from the supervision and control of his parents with the intent to
remain beyond the control of his parents.
TIME OF NIGHT: Referred to herein is based upon the prevailing standard of
time, whether Mountain Standard Time or Mountain Daylight Saving Time,
generally observed at that hour by the public in this jurisdiction.
YEARS OF AGE: Continues from one birthday, such as the sixteenth to (but not
including the day of) the next, such as the seventeenth birthday. (1974 Code §
8-402)
4-4-3: TRUANCY:
   A.   School Attendance Required: The parent or guardian of any child
resident in this state who has attained the age of seven (7) years at the time
of the commencement of school in his district, but not the age of sixteen (16)
years, shall cause the child to be instructed in subjects commonly and usually
taught in the public schools for the state of Idaho. Unless the child is
otherwise comparably instructed, the parent or guardian shall cause the child
to attend and said child shall attend a public, private or parochial school
during a period in each year equal to that in which the public schools are in
session; there to conform to the attendance policies and regulations
established by the board of trustees, or other governing body, operating the
school attended.
   B.   Exceptions: Any exceptions to this requirement as codified by any
school district or as contained in Idaho Code title 33, chapter 2, are hereby
recognized and given full force and effect. (1974 Code § 8-403)
4-4-4: RUNAWAYS AND INCORRIGIBLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18), living or
found in this jurisdiction to attempt to run away or to run away from his
parents, guardian or other legal custodian, or to be or remain a person who has
run away from his parents, guardian or other legal custodian, or who commits or
has committed any act or acts which render him incorrigible or places him
beyond the control of his parents, guardian or other legal custodian. (1974
Code § 8-404)
4-4-5: CURFEW:
   A.   Hours Of Curfew Imposed: It shall be unlawful for any person under the
age of eighteen (18) years to be or remain in or upon public property or
private property open to the public within this jurisdiction at night during
the period beginning at eleven fifty nine o'clock (11:59) P.M. and ending at
the following five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
   B.   Defenses: The following circumstances shall provide defenses to a
charge of curfew violation, and the juvenile shall have the burden of coming
forward with evidence of such circumstances at a hearing in order to raise
these defenses:
      1.   When accompanied by a parent or guardian of such juvenile.
      2.   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of such minor.
      3.   When exercising first amendment rights protected by the United
States constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech,
and the right of assembly. The juvenile shall evidence the bona fides of such
exercise by first delivering to the chief law enforcement officer of this
jurisdiction a written communication, signed by the juvenile and countersigned,
if practicable, by a parent of the juvenile with their home address and
telephone number, specifying when, where and in what manner the juvenile will
be on the streets at night (during hours when the curfew ordinance is otherwise
applicable to said minor) in the exercise of a first amendment right specified
in such communication.
      4.   When the juvenile is on the sidewalk of a place where such juvenile
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next door neighbor not communicating an
objection to law enforcement.
      5.   When returning home, by a direct route from (and within 1 hour after
the termination of) a school or community sponsored activity, or an activity of
a religious or other voluntary association such as night classes, library
study, dances, proms, church socials, religious midnight masses or other late
night religious services, political activities including public hearings,
athletic events, concerts and cultural or contemporary music events.
      6.   When the juvenile provides a letter of employment, signed by at
least one parent and the juvenile's employer, renewable each calendar month
when the current facts so warrant, dated or reissued not more than forty five
(45) days previously, and briefly identifying the juvenile, the addresses of
his home and of his place of employment, and his hours of employment.
      7.   When the juvenile is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle.
This contemplates normal travel. It is the intention of this provision to
clearly exempt bona fide interstate movement along major routes through this
jurisdiction and interstate travel beginning or ending in this jurisdiction.
      8.   In the event of an emergency.
      9.   Each of the foregoing exemptions, and their several limitations such
as provisions for notification, are severable, as provided in section
4-4-6 of this chapter but here reemphasized. These exceptions will be
reconsidered as warranted by future experience illuminated by the views of
student government associations, school personnel, citizens, associations,
parents, officers and persons in authority concerned positively with juveniles
as well as with juvenile delinquency. (1974 Code § 8-405)
4-4-6: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Permit Or Allow Violation: It shall be unlawful for a parent having
legal custody of a juvenile knowingly to permit or by inefficient control to
allow the juvenile to violate any of the provisions of this chapter under
circumstances not constituting an exception to, or otherwise beyond the scope
of, this chapter. The term "knowingly" includes knowledge which a parent should
reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a juvenile in that
parent's legal custody. It is intended to continue to keep neglectful or
careless parents up to a reasonable community standard of parental
responsibility through an objective test. It shall, therefore, be no defense
that a parent was completely indifferent to the activities or conduct or
whereabouts of such juvenile.
   B.   Presumption: If at any time within forty five (45) days following the
giving of notice as provided above, the minor to whom said notice related or
applied is again charged, and upon such charge is subsequently convicted of a
violation of the provisions of this chapter, it shall be rebuttably presumed
that the minor committed such subsequent violation with the knowledge,
allowance, permission or sufferance of the parent or guardian of such minor,
and said parent or guardian shall thereupon be charged with a violation of this
chapter. (1974 Code § 8-406)
4-4-7: ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Notice To Juvenile Of Violation: If a law enforcement officer
reasonably believes that a juvenile is in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter, the officer shall notify the juvenile that he or she is in
violation of this chapter and shall require the juvenile to provide his or her
name, address and telephone number and how to contact his or her parent or
guardian.
   B.   Determination Of Age: In determining the age of the juvenile and in the
absence of convincing evidence such as a birth certificate, a law enforcement
officer on the street shall, in the first instance, use his or her best
judgment in determining age.
   C.   Normal Procedure: The normal procedure shall then be to take the
juvenile to said juvenile's home or the city police department, city hall,
where a parent or guardian shall immediately be notified to come for the
juvenile. Upon the arrival of the parent or guardian, the juvenile, parent and/
or guardian may be questioned as to relevant facts relating to the alleged
curfew violation so that this chapter may be informally and effectively
enforced. Such facts shall be accurately, fairly and impartially set forth in
the officer's report and will be made available to persons who have
responsibility for enforcement and treatment under this chapter. Constitutional
safeguards of the juveniles and the parent or guardian shall not be ignored.
   D.   Release To Custody Or Parent Or Other Responsible Adult: When a parent
or guardian has come to take charge of the juvenile and the appropriate
information has been recorded, the juvenile shall be released to the custody of
such parent or guardian. If the parent or guardian cannot be located or fails
to take charge of the juvenile, then the juvenile shall temporarily be
entrusted to an adult relative, neighbor or other person who will on behalf of
a parent or guardian assume the responsibility of caring for the juvenile
pending the availability or arrival of a parent or guardian.
   E.   Written Acknowledgment: Upon release of the juvenile to his or her
parent or guardian, the juvenile and parent or guardian shall sign a written
acknowledgment of the city curfew ordinance, which notice shall be presumptive
evidence of knowledge of this chapter.
   F.   Status Offenders: Status offenders shall not be placed in any jail
facility, but instead may be placed in juvenile shelter care facilities, except
in the case of runaways, when there is specific detention request from a
foreign jurisdiction to hold the child pending transportation arrangements.
(1974 Code § 8-407)
4-4-8: GENERAL PENALTIES AND TREATMENT:
   A.   Violation By Juvenile: Any juvenile who shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a status offense punishable under
Idaho Code title 20, chapter 5, commonly known as the Juvenile Corrections Act.
(1974 Code § 8-408)
   B.   Violation By Parent Or Guardian: Any parent or guardian who shall
violate any of the provisions of this chapter, shall be guilty of an infraction
and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Said parent or guardian may also be required to attend
class instructions on parenting provided through the Twin Falls County Juvenile
Probation Office. The purpose of the instruction is to provide the parents or
guardian with more ideas and support in raising their children. (Ord. 991, 10-
11-2018)
   C.   Preliminary Inquiry From Department Of Juvenile Probation: Upon a first
offense of any of the provisions of this chapter by the juvenile or parent, the
City Prosecuting Attorney may request a preliminary inquiry from the Department
of Juvenile Probation for screening and assessment according to the Department
of Juvenile Probation's designated and authorized procedures.
   D.   Two Status Offenses Within Twelve Months: Any child who has been
adjudicated for commission of two (2) status offenses within twelve (12) months
may be charged, petitioned and adjudicated as a habitual status offender for
the third status offense committed within that twelve (12) month period.
   E.   Expungement Of Record: Any proceedings hereunder for a status offense,
excluding habitual status offenses, shall be expunged when the minor reaches
the age of majority or is emancipated, upon application for expungement. (1974
Code § 8-408)
CHAPTER 5
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Dogs
4-5-3: Wild Animals
4-5-4: Vicious Animals
4-5-5: Running At Large
4-5-6: Animals In Public Buildings
4-5-7: Cruelty To Animals
4-5-8: Driving Or Riding Animals
4-5-9: Females In Heat
4-5-10: Nuisance
4-5-11: Enclosure For Breeding Animals
4-5-12: Liability For Damages Caused By Animal Owned By Minor
4-5-13: Kennels
4-5-14: Rabies, Disease And Quarantine
4-5-15: Impoundment
4-5-16: Payment Of Fees
4-5-17: Animal Traps
4-5-18: Uniform Citation; Prosecution
4-5-19: Administrative Procedure
4-5-20: Violation; Penalty
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, each of the terms defined shall have the meaning given
in this section unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context.
The word "shall" is mandatory, not directory.
ABUSE: Any case in which an animal has been the victim of intentional or
negligent conduct resulting in the animal's bruising, bleeding, malnutrition,
dehydration, burns, fractures or breaks of any bones, subdural hematoma, soft
tissue swelling, or death.
ANIMAL: Any organism other than human beings needing food to maintain and
sustain its life which generally has mobility and a developed central nervous
system.
ANIMAL CONTROL CONTRACTOR: The organization contracting with the city to
provide humane shelter services.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: The code enforcement officer and/or any city police
officer appointed by the city police chief to be primarily responsible for the
enforcement of this chapter. All members of the city police department shall
have the power to enforce this chapter.
AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the owner
or a member of his immediate family either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise
provided for in this chapter. On the premises of the owner when the owner is
not at home and not under control by being within a home, enclosed yard or on a
leash or cord or chain.
BUILDING: Any structure with substantial walls and roof securely affixed to the
land and entirely separated on all sides from any other structure by space or
any walls in which there are no communicating doors, windows or openings, which
is designated or intended for the shelter, enclosure or protection of persons,
animals, chattels or property of any kind.
CITY: The city of Buhl, Idaho.
CITY CLERK-TREASURER: The clerk-treasurer of the city.
DOG: Shall be intended to mean both male and female, whether neutered or
spayed.
ENCLOSURE: A fence or structure of at least six feet (6') in height, forming or
causing containment suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine an animal in conjunction with other measures which may be
taken by the owner such as tethering the animal. Such enclosure shall be
securely enclosed and locked and designed with secure sides, top and bottom and
shall be designed to prevent the animal from escaping from the enclosure. The
enclosure shall be constructed in such a manner as to prevent children from
reaching into the enclosure. The enclosure must have independent walls and be
set back a minimum of three feet (3') from any property line or any fence used
to enclose the owner's property.
HUMANE SHELTER: The humane shelter is established for the impounding and care
of animals seized, kept, or removed in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter, which humane shelter shall be under the jurisdiction of the city. The
city shall contract with a qualified entity for the purpose of maintaining and
operating the humane shelter and for the purpose of impounding, keeping and
disposing of any animal impounded according to the provisions of this chapter;
provided, that neither the contractor nor any employee employed by the
contractor shall be deemed to be city employees nor included within or under
the provisions of the civil service regulations.
IMPOUNDED: Taken into the custody of the humane shelter.
LEASH: A cord, chain or rope of the length to restrict the dog to the owner's
property or when the dog is off the owner's property, the leash shall not be
more than eight feet (8') in length unless the code specifically sets forth a
shorter or longer length.
MISUSE: The intentional causing of an animal to perform a noncustomary task
which could be dangerous or harmful to the animal.
NONCOMMERCIAL KENNEL/COMMERCIAL KENNEL: Any lot or premises or portion thereof
on which four (4) or more dogs, cats or any combination thereof (puppies or
kittens less than 3 months old do not count towards said limit), are
maintained, harbored, possessed, bred or cared for. A noncommercial kennel
exists when the animals are not owned primarily for resale. A commercial kennel
exits if the animals are owned for resale.
OWNER: Any person or persons keeping, harboring, possessing, caring for, or
having any custodial duties over any animal.
PERSON: Shall be intended to include all natural persons, firms, companies,
corporations or associations.
RUSH: The act of a dog in approaching a person in such a manner that the person
is put in fear that the dog is threatening or about to do such person bodily
harm and the dog has the apparent ability to do so.
SENIOR CITIZENS: Any head of household who has attained the age of sixty five
(65) years or older.
SIGN: Any structure which shall be used to attract attention to any object,
place, activity, person, animal, business which shall display or include any
letter, word, insignia, device or representation used as, or which is in the
nature of an announcement, direction or advertisement. The sign shall be
constructed of wood, metal or other similar weatherproof material, at least
twenty four inches by twenty four inches (24" x 24") in size, with letters in
indelible or fluorescent ink with the words in clear, capital letters as
follows: "VICIOUS ANIMAL ON PREMISES", "VICIOUS DOG ON PROPERTY", or words of
similar meaning; and shall be posted at all visible entryways onto the owner's
property.
VICIOUS ANIMAL:
   A.   Includes:
      1.   Any animal which, when unprovoked in a vicious or terrorizing
manner, approaches or rushes any person in apparent attitude of attack upon the
streets, sidewalks, any public grounds or places, or private property not owned
or possessed by the owner of the animal; or
      2.   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
attack unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human
beings or domestic animals; or
      3.   Any animal which bites, inflicts injury, assaults or otherwise
attacks a human being or domestic animal without provocation; or
      4.   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
fighting or any animal trained for fighting; or
      5.   Any animal who fits the description of a vicious animal as set forth
in Idaho Code, section 25-2805(2) which is adopted herein by reference as if
set forth fully herein.
   B.   Does Not Include:
      1.   Notwithstanding the definition of a "vicious animal" in subsection A
of this definition, no animal may be declared vicious if an injury or damage is
sustained by a person who, at the time of such injury or damage was sustained,
was committing a wilful trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by
the owner of the animal, or was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the
animal or was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
      2.   No animals may be declared vicious if the injury or damage was
sustained as a result of teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal.
No animal may be declared vicious if the animal was protecting or defending a
human being within the immediate vicinity of the animal from an unjustified
attack or assault. (1974 Code § 8-101; amd. 2010 Code)
4-5-2: DOGS:
   A.   License And Registration:
      1.   Required: All dogs over the age of six (6) months, kept, harbored or
maintained by any person in the city shall be licensed and registered. (1974
Code § 8-117)
      2.   Issuance: Dog licenses shall be issued by the city clerk-treasurer
or any other person authorized by resolution of the city council to issue dog
licenses (upon payment of a license fee in the amount set by resolution of the
city council and approved by the mayor) for each dog. (1974 Code § 8-117; amd.
2010 Code)
      3.   Required Information: The owner shall state, at the time application
is made for such license, his name and address and the sex, breed and color of
each dog owned by him.
      4.   Term Of License; Renewal; Late Fee: All dog licenses shall expire on
December 31 of the year in which they are issued. All licenses purchased on or
after July 1 may be one-half (1/2) of the license fee if so provided in said
resolution and shall expire on December 31. The owner of any dog who fails to
register and license a dog within thirty (30) days after said license becomes
due shall pay a late licensing fee of an additional amount set by resolution of
the city council and approved by the mayor of the city over and above the
licensing fee.
      5.   Payment Of Fee: Payment of license fees shall be made to the city
clerk-treasurer or any person authorized to issue said license.
      6.   Applicability:
         a.   Vicious Animals: The provisions of this section and section
4-5-4, "Vicious Animals", of this chapter, shall apply to all vicious dogs that
a license or registration is applied for.
         b.   Nonresidents: The provisions of this section shall not be
intended to apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within the
city for thirty (30) days or less, nor to dogs brought into the city for the
purpose of participating in any dog show, nor to commercial kennels.
      7.   Assistance Dogs: Dogs used as guides for blind persons and commonly
known as "seeing eye" dogs and dogs trained as helpers of the handicapped shall
be licensed and registered as other dogs as provided in this section, except
that the owner or keeper of such dog shall not be required to pay any fee
therefor.
      8.   Spayed Female, Certificate Required: No female dog shall be licensed
as a spayed female except upon certification of a licensed veterinarian.
      9.   Rabies Vaccination: The owners of all dogs required to be licensed
under this chapter shall: a) provide their dog or dogs with a valid rabies shot
as hereafter provided, and b) present to the city clerk-treasurer, prior to
being issued a dog license, a valid rabies vaccination certificate issued by a
licensed veterinarian. In addition, any dog impounded within the city shall be
vaccinated for rabies, or proof thereof shall be provided by the owner prior to
release from the city pound. A rabies certificate shall be considered valid
within the following guidelines:
         a.   Within one year from the date of issue when the dog vaccinated
was less than one year old.
         b.   Within three (3) years from the date of issue when the dog
vaccinated was one or more years of age. (1974 Code § 8-117)
   B.   Exemptions: Any dog of either sex which has not reached the age of six
(6) months or any dog kept or maintained exclusively in a licensed kennel need
not be licensed. All other dogs, unless herein specifically exempted, are
required to be licensed. (1974 Code § 8-117; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Tag To Be Attached To Dogs; Certificate Retained By Owner: Upon payment
of the license fee, the city clerk-treasurer or any other person authorized by
resolution of the city council to receive license fees shall issue to the owner
a certificate and a tag for each dog so licensed. The shape or color of the tag
shall be changed every year, and shall have stamped thereon the year issued,
the words "Buhl Dog Tag" and the license number corresponding with the tag
number of the certificate. Every owner shall be required to provide each dog
with a collar or harness to which the license tag must be affixed, and shall
see that the collar and tag are constantly worn. Show dogs during showings are
exempt from wearing the collar and tag.
      1.   Duplicate Dog Tags: Duplicate dog tags shall be issued upon payment
of two dollars ($2.00) for each tag so issued to replace an original tag that
was lost or destroyed.
      2.   Dog Tags Not Transferable: Dog tags shall not be transferable from
one dog to another, and no refunds shall be made on any tag that was lost or
destroyed.
      3.   Inspection Of Certificate: The original certificate shall be
retained by the owner or harborer of the licensed dog for inspection by the
code enforcement officer or police department.
      4.   Unlawful To Remove: No person shall remove or cause to be removed
the collar or tag from any licensed dog without the consent of the owner,
keeper or harborer thereof.
      5.   Imitation License Tags: It shall be unlawful for any person to allow
any dog owned, kept or harbored to wear a license tag received on account of a
former licensee or to wear any imitation of the license tag issued by the city
for that year.
   D.   Training And Exercise Grounds: The council may designate such areas of
a public park or other public grounds of the city which may be used, subject to
the rules and regulations as may be prescribed, for the training or exercise of
dogs. Dogs within such area so designated need not be controlled by leash, but
shall be under the control of a responsible person and controlled by whistle,
voice, or other effective command. (1974 Code § 8-117)
4-5-3: WILD ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor, keep, maintain or possess, any
wild animal as determined by the chief of police and passed by resolution of
the city council. A listing of prohibited wild animals shall be kept at the
clerk-treasurer's office. (1974 Code § 8-106)
4-5-4: VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Registration:
      1.   Requirements For Registration: No vicious animal shall be licensed
by the city for any licensing period commencing after January 1, 2003, unless
the owner or keeper of such vicious animal shall meet the following
requirements:
         a.   Liability Insurance: The owner shall present to the city clerk-
treasurer or other licensing authority, proof that the owner or keeper has
procured liability insurance in the amount of no less than five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000.00), covering any damage or injury which may be
caused by such vicious animal during the twelve (12) month period for which
licensing is sought, which policy shall contain a provision requiring the city
to be named as additional insured for the sole purpose of the city clerk-
treasurer or other licensing authority where such animal is licensed to be
notified by the insurance company of any cancellation, termination or
expiration of the liability insurance policy.
         b.   Tattoo:
            (1)   Definition: For the purposes of this section, "tattoo" shall
be defined as any permanent numbering of a vicious animal by means of indelible
or permanent ink with the number designated by the licensing authority, or any
other permanent, acceptable method of tattooing.
            (2)   Required: The owner shall, at his own expense, have the
licensing number assigned to such vicious animal, or such other identification
number as the city clerk-treasurer or other licensing authority shall
determine, tattooed upon such vicious animal by a licensed veterinarian or
person trained as a tattooist and authorized as such by any state, city or
police department. The tattoo shall be placed either on the upper inner lip,
inside ear or inside rear thigh of the vicious animal. The humane shelter may,
in its discretion, designate the particular location of said tattoo. Said
number shall be noted on the city licensing files for such vicious animal if it
is different from the license number of such vicious animal.
         c.   Warning Sign: The owner shall display a sign in conformance with
section
4-5-1 of this chapter on his or her premises warning that there is a vicious
animal on the premises. Said sign shall be visible and capable of being read
from the public highway.
         d.   Signed Statement: The owner shall sign a statement attesting
that:
            (1)   Insurance: The owner shall maintain and not voluntarily
cancel the liability insurance required by this section during the twelve (12)
month period for which licensing is sought, unless the owner shall cease to own
or keep the vicious animal prior to expiration of such license.
            (2)   Enclosure: The owner shall, on or prior to the effective date
of such license for which application is being made, have an enclosure for the
vicious animal on the property where the vicious animal will be kept or
maintained.
            (3)   Notice Required: The owner shall notify the licensing
authority and the animal control officer within twenty four (24) hours if a
vicious animal is on the loose, is unconfined, has attacked another animal or
has attacked a human being, or has died or has been sold or given away. If the
vicious animal has been sold or given away, the owner shall also provide the
licensing authority with the name, address and telephone number of the new
owner of the vicious animal.
      2.   Powers Of Animal Control Officer:
         a.   Make Inquiry; Seizure: The animal control officer is hereby
empowered to make whatever inquiry is deemed necessary to ensure compliance
with the provisions of this section, and any such animal control officer is
hereby empowered to seize and impound any vicious animal whose owner fails to
comply with the provisions hereof.
         b.   Failure To Surrender: In the event that the owner of the animal
refuses to surrender the animal to the animal control officer, the animal
control officer may request a police officer to obtain a search warrant from a
magistrate of the district court and to seize the animal upon execution of the
warrant. (1974 Code § 8-107)
   B.   Control Of Vicious Animal:
      1.   Locked Enclosure: All vicious animals shall be confined in an
"enclosure" as defined in section
4-5-1 of this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any owner to maintain a vicious
animal upon any premises which does not have a locked enclosure.
      2.   Requirements When Outside Dwelling Or Enclosure: It shall be
unlawful for any owner to allow any vicious animal to be outside of the
dwelling of the owner or outside of the enclosure unless it is necessary for
the owner to obtain veterinary care for the vicious animal or to sell or give
away the vicious animal or to comply with commands or directions of the animal
control officer with respect to the vicious animal, or to comply with the
provision of subsection A1a or A1b of this section. In such event, the vicious
animal shall be securely muzzled and restrained with a chain having a minimum
tensile strength of three hundred (300) pounds and not exceeding three feet
(3') in length, and shall be under the direct control and supervision of the
owner of the vicious animal.
      3.   Transfer Of Ownership: Upon the transfer of ownership of a vicious
dog, the dog shall remain classified as a vicious dog and the new owner must
comply with this chapter. The history of the vicious dog shall follow the dog
and apply to said dog regardless of any change of ownership. (1974 Code § 8-
108)
   C.   Animal Fighting; Attack:
      1.   Harboring Or Training Prohibited: No person shall own, harbor or
train any animal for the purpose of animal fighting, or train, torment, badger,
bait or use any animal for the purpose of causing or encouraging said animal to
unprovoked attacks upon human beings or domestic animals. (1974 Code § 8-109)
      2.   Commanding To Attack: Except where great bodily harm or death is
likely to immediately ensue, it shall be unlawful for any person to command,
encourage or aid by word or conduct, any animal to bite, chase, attack, or
attempt to bite, chase or attack another person or animal. (1974 Code § 8-103)
      3.   Sell, Breed Or Purchase Prohibited: No person shall possess with
intent or sell, or offer for sale, breed, or buy or attempt to buy any vicious
animal within the city. (1974 Code § 8-109)
   D.   Action For Damages; Destruction Of Offending Animal; Civil Penalty:
      1.   Damages: If any vicious animal shall, when unprovoked, kill or
wound, or assist in killing or wounding any sheep, lamb, cattle, horse, hog,
swine, fowl or other domestic animal, belonging to or in the possession of any
person, or shall, when unprovoked, attack, assault, bite or otherwise injure
any human being or assist in attacking, assaulting, biting or otherwise
injuring any human being while out of or within the enclosure of the owner or
keeper of such vicious animal, or while otherwise on or off the property of the
owner whether or not such vicious animal was on a leash and securely muzzled or
whether the vicious animal escaped without fault of the owner or keeper, the
owner or keeper of such animal shall be liable to the person aggrieved as
aforesaid, for all damage sustained, to be recovered in a civil action, with
costs of suit. It is reputably presumed as a matter of law that the owning,
keeping or harboring of a vicious animal in violation of this section is a
nuisance. It shall not be necessary, in order to sustain any such action, to
prove that the owner of such vicious animal knew that such vicious animal
possessed the propensity to cause such damage or that the vicious animal had a
vicious nature.
      2.   Destruction Of Animal: Upon such attack or assault, the animal
control officer in the city is hereby empowered to confiscate and destroy such
vicious animal, if the conduct of such vicious animal or its owner constituted
a violation of the provisions of this section, punishable by the confiscation
and destruction of the animal. (1974 Code § 8-110)
   E.   Exemptions:
      1.   Kennels: Subsections A through C, inclusive, of this section shall
not apply to kennels licensed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
      2.   Police Department Or Law Enforcement: The provisions of this section
shall not apply to K-9 or other animals owned by any police department or any
law enforcement officer which are used in the performance of law enforcement
police work. (1974 Code § 8-111)
   F.   Penalties For Violation:
      1.   Violations: Any vicious animal:
         a.   Which does not have a valid license in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter; or
         b.   Whose owner does not secure the liability insurance coverage
required in accordance with subsection A of this section; or
         c.   Which is not maintained on property with an enclosure; or
         d.   Which shall be outside of either the dwelling of the owner, or an
enclosure except as provided in subsection B of this section; or
         e.   Which is not tattooed, (1974 Code § 8-112)
shall be confiscated by the animal control officer and destroyed in an
expeditious and humane manner after the expiration of a five (5) day waiting
period exclusive of Sundays and holidays. In addition, the owner, upon
conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      2.   Kill, Wound Or Worry Any Animal: If any vicious animal shall, when
unprovoked, kill, wound, or worry or assist in killing or wounding any animal
described in subsection D of this section, the owner of said animal shall, upon
conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and the animal control officer is empowered to confiscate
and, after the expiration of a five (5) day waiting period exclusive of Sundays
and holidays, shall destroy said vicious animal. Each subsequent violation
shall be considered a separate offense. (1974 Code § 8-112; amd. 2010 Code)
      3.   Second Or Subsequent Violation: For a second or subsequent violation
of this section, the court may, in the interest of public safety, order the
owner to have the vicious animal destroyed or may direct the appropriate
authorities to destroy the animal. (1974 Code § 8-112)
      4.   Injure Or Kill Human Being: If any vicious animal shall, when
unprovoked, attack, assault, wound, bite or otherwise injure or kill a human
being, the owner shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1974 Code § 8-112; amd. 2010 Code)
      5.   Suspension Of Tattooing Requirement: No fine and/or tattooing
requirement shall be suspended by any court of competent jurisdiction. (1974
Code § 8-112)
   G.   Determination Of Vicious Animal:
      1.   Probable Cause:
         a.   Power To Convene Hearing: In the event that the animal control
officer or law enforcement officer has probable cause to believe that an animal
is vicious, the chief of police or his/her designee, shall be empowered to
convene a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not the animal in
question should be declared vicious.
         b.   Investigation; Notice Of Hearing: The animal control officer or
chief of police shall conduct or cause to be conducted an investigation and
shall notify the owner of the animal that a hearing will be held, at which time
he or she may have the opportunity to present evidence why the animal should
not be declared vicious.
         c.   Hearing: The hearing shall be held promptly within no less than
five (5) nor more than ten (10) days after service of notice upon the owner of
the animal. The hearing shall be informal and shall be open to the public.
         d.   Determination; Notice: After the hearing, the chief of police or
his/her designated hearing officer, shall determine whether or not the dog is a
vicious dog and the owner of the animal shall be notified, in writing, of the
determination.
            (1)   Determined Vicious: If a determination is made that the
animal is vicious, the owner shall comply with the provisions of this section
in accordance with a time schedule established by the chief of police, but, in
no case, more than thirty (30) days subsequent to the date of the
determination.
            (2)   Determination Contested: If the owner of the animal contests
the determination, he or she may, within five (5) days of such determination,
bring a petition in the magistrate court in the fifth judicial district of the
state of Idaho, in and for the county of Twin Falls, wherein the animal is
owned, praying that the court conduct its own hearing on whether or not the
animal should be declared vicious. After service of notice upon the animal
control officer, the court shall conduct a hearing de novo and make its own
determination as to viciousness. Said hearing shall be conducted within
fourteen (14) days of the service of the notice upon the animal control officer
or law enforcement officer involved. The issue shall be decided upon the
preponderance of the evidence. If the court rules the animal to be vicious, the
court may establish a time schedule to ensure compliance with this section,
but, in no case, more than thirty (30) days subsequent to the date of the court
determination.
            (3)   Court Decision: The court may decide all issues for or
against the owner of the animal regardless of the fact that said owner fails to
appear at said hearing. The determination of the magistrate court shall be
final and conclusive upon all parties thereto. However, the animal control
officer or any law enforcement officer shall have the right to declare an
animal to be vicious for any subsequent actions of the animal.
            (4)   Seizure And Impoundment; Costs Of Impoundment: In the event
that the animal control officer or law enforcement officer has probable cause
to believe that the animal in question is vicious and may pose a threat of
serious harm to human beings or other domestic animals, the animal control
officer or law enforcement officer may seize and impound the animal pending the
aforesaid hearings. The owner of the animal shall be liable to the city for the
costs and expenses of impoundment of such animal.
      2.   Owner Believes No Violation:
         a.   Petition Court: If the owner of an animal impounded for an
alleged violation of subsections A through F of this section, inclusive, shall
believe that there shall not have been a violation of such subsections hereof,
such owner may petition the magistrate court of the fifth judicial district of
the state of Idaho, in and for the county of Twin Falls, praying that the
impounded animal not be destroyed.
         b.   Destruction Pending Owner's Petition: The impounded animal shall
not be destroyed pending resolution of such owner's petition if the petition
shall have been filed within five (5) days of impoundment of such animal and
notice shall have been served within five (5) days of the impoundment of such
animal upon the animal control officer or keeper of the impounded animal. The
hearing shall be conducted within fourteen (14) days from serving of this
notice.
         c.   Appeal To District Court: The decision of the magistrate court
may be appealed to the district court by any aggrieved party within forty two
(42) days of the decision. The animal shall remain impounded pending the
appeal.
         d.   Release Of Animal; Costs: If the court finds that there shall not
have been a violation of subsections A through F of this section, inclusive,
such animal may be released to the custody of the owner upon payment to the
humane shelter or animal control officer of the expense of keeping such animal.
The schedule of such costs as provided for by section
4-5-15 of this chapter shall be paid in full to the city clerk-treasurer before
the animal is released.
         e.   Violation By Owner: If the owner of the animal violates any of
the terms and conditions of subsections A1 through F of this section, said
owner shall be fined one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first such violation
and two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each subsequent violation. (1974
Code § 8-114)
4-5-5: RUNNING AT LARGE:
Except as provided by subsection
4-5-2D of this chapter, any person who owns, harbors or has in his or her
control an animal, whether the animal is licensed or not, which animal is found
at large upon the streets or alleys of the city, or in any public place in the
city or upon any other premises without the consent of the person in possession
of such premises, is responsible for such animal being at large and is in
violation of this section; except:
   A.   When such animal is controlled by a leash not exceeding eight feet (8')
in length.
   B.   Such animal be confined in a motor vehicle. (1974 Code § 8-118)
4-5-6: ANIMALS IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit, allow, keep or carry any animal
in, upon or within a public transportation facility, or any other public
building or facility, particularly a building or facility in which food or
drink is prepared or stored, except that a disabled person shall not be denied
the use of any common carrier or public transportation facility or admittance
to any other public building or place within city limits by reason of his or
her being accompanied by a seeing eye or guide dog or dogs trained as helpers
of the handicapped specially trained for such purpose. It is the intent of this
section to permit and authorize a disabled person to have a seeing eye or guide
dog or helper dog with him or her in such places and while using such
facilities without being required to pay any additional charges for his or her
seeing eye or guide dog or helper dog, but such person shall be liable for any
damage or disturbance caused by such seeing eye or guide dog or helper dog.
(1974 Code § 8-119; amd. 2010 Code)
4-5-7: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to act in a cruel manner to any animal
within the city. The phrase "cruel manner" shall include, but is not limited
to, the following specific acts and omissions:
   A.   Failure To Provide: Any owner of an animal who fails to provide such
animal with:
      1.   Sufficient good and wholesome food; or
      2.   Proper shelter and protection from the weather; or
      3.   Proper veterinary care to prevent suffering or disease; or
      4.   A clean and wholesome environment in which to live; or
      5.   Protection from the abuse of other persons.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: Any person who, through act or omission, does any of
the following specific acts with an animal:
      1.   Abuses or otherwise mistreats; or
      2.   Tortures; or
      3.   Misuses; or
      4.   Overloads or overrides; or
      5.   Abandons; or
      6.   Trains or enters a dog or animal in a fight with another dog or
another animal or attending a fight between animals as a spectator or owner;
      7.   Exposes to unreasonable danger to health or life. (1974 Code § 8-
102)
   C.   Penalties: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
deemed guilty of an infraction, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in this Code. Each day such violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense. It shall be the duty
of any police officer, animal control officer, or other designated City
employee to take possession of any animal for which he has probable cause to
believe falls under the preceding section and deliver such animal to the humane
shelter. All costs incurred for the maintenance of such animal will be paid by
the person charged with the offense. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
4-5-8: DRIVING OR RIDING ANIMALS:
No person shall lead, drive or ride any emu, llama, alpaca, pig, sheep, goat,
cattle or other animal over, across or upon any sidewalk, parkway or public
parking area, or over or across any public park except upon roadways, trails or
areas designated for such use. (1974 Code § 8-120; amd. 2010 Code)
4-5-9: FEMALES IN HEAT:
   A.   Penned Or Enclosed During Estrus: The owner of a female dog shall cause
such dog, when in season, to be penned or enclosed in such a manner as to
preclude other dogs from attacking such female dog or being attracted to such
female dog so as to create a public nuisance.
   B.   Allow To Stray Or Run At Large Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for the
owner or person having possession, charge, custody or control of any female dog
to cause, permit or allow the same to stray or run, or in any other manner to
be at large in or upon any street or sidewalk while such female dog is in the
copulating season.
   C.   Declared Nuisance: If a female dog cannot be controlled by owner during
the said copulating season, the female dog may be declared a nuisance and
impounded by the Code Enforcement Officer or Police Department. (1974 Code § 8-
131)
4-5-10: NUISANCE:
It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to exercise proper care and control
of his animal to prevent it from becoming a public nuisance. Every person shall
be guilty of allowing an animal to become a nuisance when such animal:
   A.   Makes excessive, continuous or untimely barking, or noise;
   B.   Molests passersby, chases vehicles;
   C.   Habitually attacks other domestic animals;
   D.   Trespasses upon public or private property in such a manner as to
damage the property; or
   E.   Allows the excessive accumulation of animal feces in such a manner as
to affect the health and quiet enjoyment of another person. (1974 Code § 8-124)
4-5-11: ENCLOSURE FOR BREEDING ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to let a bitch dog or let to any female any
male animal, except within an enclosure so arranged as to obstruct such animal
completely from the view of all persons who have no proprietary interest in the
breeding of such animals. (1974 Code § 8-132)
4-5-12: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES CAUSED BY ANIMAL OWNED BY MINOR:
In the event that the owner of any animal is a minor, the parent or guardian of
such minor shall be liable for all injuries, property damage, fines and
impoundment fees caused or incurred by said animal. (1974 Code § 8-116)
4-5-13: KENNELS:
   A.   Noncommercial Kennel License:
      1.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to keep, maintain, harbor, or
possess upon the premises of any one household more than four (4) dogs or cats,
or any combination of such animals with a maximum of three (3) dogs, unless the
owner or person in charge shall have obtained a noncommercial kennel license.
      2.   Application; Consent Required; Deposit: Application for a
noncommercial kennel license shall be made to the clerk-treasurer and must be
accompanied by the written consent to such noncommercial kennel by at least
seventy five percent (75%) of all the persons in possession of premises within
a radius of one hundred feet (100') of the premises upon which such
noncommercial kennel is to be maintained. The application shall be accompanied
by the deposit of a license fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for five (5) animals
(dogs and/or cats), and an additional two dollars ($2.00) for each dog or cat
over five (5), which deposit shall be returned to the applicant if the license
is not issued.
      3.   Required Information; Health Department Approval: The application
shall state the name and address of the owner, where the noncommercial kennel
is to be located and the number of dogs or cats. The application shall be in
duplicate and the duplicate thereof shall be referred to the South Central
district health department, which department shall, within five (5) days
thereof, make its report of whether or not the location and operation of said
noncommercial kennel complies with its health regulations. Where the South
Central district health department report denies approval of the location or
operation of said proposed noncommercial kennel, no license shall be issued.
      4.   Transferability; Term; Additional Dogs: Noncommercial kennel
licenses shall not be transferable, and shall expire December 31 of the year in
which issued. Whenever additions are made to the number of dogs for which a
noncommercial kennel license has been issued, the licensee shall, within three
(3) days, report to the office of the clerk-treasurer and pay the required
license fee; provided, however, that whenever puppies or kittens are born, such
puppies or kittens shall not be counted in computing the number of allowed dogs
or cats and the license fee for cats until three (3) months old and the license
fee for dogs until six (6) months old.
      5.   Individual Dog Licenses: The issuance of a noncommercial kennel
license shall not obviate the necessity of obtaining an individual dog license,
nor shall any of the provisions of this chapter be deemed to vary or alter any
of the zoning regulations of the city.
      6.   Renewal: Noncommercial kennel licenses may be renewed upon
expiration by filing an application and paying required fee.
      7.   Grounds For Suspension Or Revocation: Any licensee who shall:
         a.   Violate any provision of this chapter or fail to comply with any
of the conditions under which any license shall be issued; or
         b.   Violate any statute or ordinance regarding the operation of the
noncommercial kennel shall be subject to have his license suspended or revoked.
      8.   Inspection; Right Of Entry: It shall be the duty of the animal
control officer to inspect, or cause to be inspected, noncommercial kennel
facilities for which licenses under this section have been issued as often as
it may be necessary for the adequate control and supervision of such
facilities. The animal control officer, or designee, shall have the right to
enter all such facilities at any reasonable time for the purpose of making
necessary investigations and inspections, and shall be charged with the
responsibility of enforcing and administering the provisions of this section.
(1974 Code § 8-121)
   B.   Commercial Kennel License:
      1.   License Required: No person shall operate or maintain a commercial
kennel without first obtaining a license from the city clerk-treasurer. (1974
Code § 8-122)
      2.   Applications; Fee; Referral To Zoning Commission And Health
Department: All applications for license to operate or maintain a kennel shall
be submitted in writing upon printed forms provided for such purposes by the
city clerk-treasurer with the required fee set by resolution of the city
council and approved by the mayor. The application shall first be referred to
the zoning commission and, upon their approval, the health department shall
make an inspection of the premises where such kennel is to be maintained and
operated and shall make recommendations to the city council for the granting or
denying of such license. (1974 Code § 8-122; amd. 2010 Code)
      3.   Rules And Regulations: The city council shall promulgate rules and
regulations covering the conduct and operation of all kennels within the city.
      4.   Fee: Any person conducting, operating or maintaining a dog kennel
shall pay to the city for the privilege of conducting, operating or maintaining
such dog kennel an annual license fee set by resolution of the city council and
approved by the mayor of the city.
      5.   Infraction Of Rules And Regulations: Whenever the code enforcement
officer or police department finds or discovers any infractions of any rule or
regulation promulgated by the city council, they shall immediately notify the
city council of said infraction, and the city council shall, upon receipt of
such notice, immediately notify the owner or keeper of such kennel to appear
before said city council at a date and time certain to show cause why the
license should not be revoked for such infraction. (1974 Code § 8-122)
4-5-14: RABIES, DISEASE AND QUARANTINE:
   A.   Animal Infected With Rabies: It shall be unlawful for a person other
than a veterinarian, or the humane shelter to own, keep or harbor any animal
afflicted with rabies.
   B.   Disposition Of Afflicted Animals: The chief of police, or his designee,
or the owner shall secure disposition of any animal afflicted with rabies.
   C.   Duty To Surrender; Quarantine: It shall be the duty of every owner of
an animal showing symptoms of rabies, or which has bitten any person causing an
abrasion of the skin, to surrender the animal for confinement and isolation to
the humane shelter or to a licensed veterinarian for a period not to exceed
fifteen (15) days. If such animal shall be determined free of rabies, it shall
be returned to the owner upon payment of the regular fee for keeping such
animal impounded. If such fee is not paid, the animal shall be subject to
disposal as provided in this chapter. At the discretion of either the chief of
police, the humane shelter or the health department, the quarantine of an
animal may be upon the premises of the animal owner, or the person in charge of
such animal, if the animal is securely confined, kept from contact with other
animals and is submitted to a veterinarian for examination at the owner's
expense to determine whether the animal is rabid.
   D.   Contagious Diseased Animals At Large: It shall be unlawful for any
person to permit or allow any animal with a contagious or infectious disease to
run at large upon the public streets, or to be within and upon any public
transportation facility, or any other public building or place within the city,
or to expose such animal in any public building or place whereby the health,
safety and well being of the public, or any member or members thereof, may be
affected; nor shall such animal be shipped or removed from the premises of the
owner of such animal except under the supervision of the humane shelter. (1974
Code § 8-123)
4-5-15: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Records: The humane shelter shall keep a record of all animals
impounded, which record shall contain a description of the animal, the place
where, and the date when, taken into custody or when delivered to the humane
shelter. (1974 Code § 8-125)
   B.   Power To Impound: A police officer, animal control officer, or any
other person may seize and impound all dogs at large. All animals seized must
be immediately delivered to the humane shelter for impoundment. The person who
actually seizes and impounds a dog or animal must complete the papers and forms
required by the city for all impoundments.
   C.   Interference With Animal Control Officer Or Police Officer: It shall be
unlawful for any person to hinder or molest any animal control officer or
police officer who may be engaged in seizing, keeping or removing any animal in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter. (1974 Code § 8-104)
   D.   Redemption; Impounded Animal:
      1.   Animals Running At Large: Any animal impounded because it was found
running at large, or without a license, may be redeemed by the owner prior to
the sale or destruction of such animal, by paying all charges against the same,
as provided by this chapter. (1974 Code § 8-126)
      2.   Payment Of License Fees And Costs: The owner of any animal taken up
and impounded may recover possession of such animal upon payment to the city
clerk-treasurer at the city hall the required license fee and fees authorized
by resolution of the city council and approved by the mayor. (1974 Code § 8-
129)
      3.   Notice To Owner; Failure To Redeem: If the owner or representative
of the owner of any animal taken up and impounded shall fail to pay the license
fees and costs and fees of the pound within three (3) days after actual notice
to the owner or representative of the owner, or within three (3) days after
reasonable and diligent effort to notify the owner or representative of the
owner, or within three (3) days after notice has first been posted pursuant to
subsection F of this section, the humane shelter may dispose of an animal
either through adoption, provided the new owner shall pay the license fee and
the costs and fees as herein provided, or through euthanasia. (1974 Code § 8-
129; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Fees: The fees for the keeping and selling of any animals shall be paid
to the city clerk-treasurer and used to defray the costs of the humane shelter.
The fees charged for impounding, keeping and selling any animal to be paid upon
redemption or sale of such animal shall be set by resolution of the city
council and approved by the mayor. Charges shall be set for the following
services:
      1.   For impounding any horse, mule, hog, sheep, goat, any kind of
cattle, or any animal not herein specifically named.
      2.   For keeping any horse, mule, hog, sheep, goat, any kind of cattle,
or any animal not herein specifically named.
      3.   For impounding any dog or cat.
      4.   For keeping any dog or cat.
      5.   For isolation care (rabies, etc.) of any dog or cat.
      6.   The actual veterinary and hospital expenses incurred in caring for
any animal.
      7.   In addition to the foregoing, any person redeeming any dog or
vicious animal shall, prior to or at the time of the redemption, take out a
license for same and fulfill all licensing requirements of this chapter, unless
such dog or vicious animal shall already have a license for the calendar year.
      8.   A fraction of a day shall be deemed a full day, and a portion of a
day in excess of any multiple to twenty four (24) hours, shall be deemed a day.
(1974 Code § 8-127)
   F.   Sale; Notice:
      1.   Notice; Sale: At any time after any horse, mule, any kind of cattle,
hog, llama, alpaca, emu or any stock animal shall have been impounded, the
humane shelter shall give notice of sale by posting a notice at the humane
shelter, describing the animal impounded, and notifying the owner to pay the
charges thereon and remove same prior to the time fixed for the sale thereof;
and that, otherwise, the animal will be sold at a public sale at a time and
place named in said notice, which time shall be not less than three (3) days
from the date of the posting of such notices. (1974 Code § 8-130; amd. 2010
Code)
      2.   Authority To Adopt Out: The director of the humane shelter shall
have the authority to adopt out animals unclaimed by owner after three (3) days
of impoundment. (1974 Code § 8-128)
   G.   Diseased Animals; Destruction: Any animal impounded hereunder and
suffering from serious injury or disease may be euthanized at the discretion of
the humane shelter. (1974 Code § 8-130)
4-5-16: PAYMENT OF FEES:
All fees prescribed by this chapter for animals within the city limits shall be
paid to the city at the city clerk-treasurer's office. (1974 Code § 8-133)
4-5-17: ANIMAL TRAPS:
The animal control officers are hereby authorized to place humane animal traps
on public property or private property upon request and permission of the
owner. Such traps shall be checked daily by the animal control officer. No
person shall disturb or injure such trap or animal confined therein. The animal
control officer may allow private citizens to use city animal traps subject to
terms and conditions set out in a written agreement signed by the city and the
private citizen. (1974 Code § 8-134)
4-5-18: UNIFORM CITATION; PROSECUTION:
The uniform citation shall be used by the animal control officers and peace
officers in the enforcement of this chapter. Any offense hereunder may be
prosecuted by complaint. (1974 Code § 8-115)
4-5-19: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE:
   A.   Uniform Citation: In order to eliminate burdening the court system with
violations of dog licensing and running at large ordinances, and as a
convenience to the public, the named defendant on the uniform citation may pay
the fixed penalty to the City Clerk-Treasurer within fifteen (15) days of the
issuance of the uniform citation. The following license fees and fixed
penalties shall be imposed for violations of dog licensing and running at large
ordinances under this chapter:
      1.   Licensed, Not Wearing Tag: If any dog is licensed, but the dog's
license tag is not attached to its collar as required by section
4-5-2 of this chapter, a penalty of ten dollars ($10.00);
      2.   Failure To Renew: If any dog is found unlicensed sixty (60) days
after the license renewal date, January 1, in violation of subsection
4-5-2A of this chapter, the license fee prescribed by subsection
4-5-2A, plus a penalty of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for failure to license
the dog;
      3.   Running At Large: If any dog is found running at large in violation
of section
4-5-2 of this chapter, a penalty in the amount set by resolution of the City
Council and approved by the Mayor shall be assessed.
   B.   Accounting Of Fees: All fees and penalties collected as prescribed by
subsection A of this section, shall be accounted for in the time and manner
provided by section
4-5-16 of this chapter.
   C.   Failure To Make Payment: In the event payment is not made in accordance
with the administrative procedure set out herein, the uniform citation alleging
an ordinance violation shall be filed in the Magistrate Division of the
District Court. (1974 Code § 8-135)
4-5-20: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Infraction: Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
is guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in this Code. A penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus court
costs and fees shall be assessed for the first violation, two hundred dollars
($200.00) plus court costs and fees for the second violation, and three hundred
dollars ($300.00) plus court costs and fees for the third and subsequent
violations during the same calendar year. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
   B.   Cleanup: In addition to any penalty set forth in this chapter, sections
3-4-4 and
3-4-5 of this Code shall apply to violations of this chapter. (Ord. 945, 12-14-
2009)
ARTICLE A. ANIMALS AND FOWL
SECTION:
4-5A-1: Animals Prohibited Within City; Declared Nuisance
4-5A-2: Animals At Large
4-5A-3: Liability For Personal Injury And Damage To Property
4-5A-4: Interference Unlawful
4-5A-5: Violation; Penalty
4-5A-1: ANIMALS PROHIBITED WITHIN CITY; DECLARED NUISANCE:
   A.   Dangerous Animals: No person, firm, corporation or any other entity
shall, at any time, keep or harbor, whether controlled or not, any reptile,
insect or animal, including, but not limited to, venomous snakes, constricting
snakes, frogs, lizards, alligators, crocodiles, spiders, poisonous insects,
dogs or any other wild or domesticated animal, that has a propensity toward
violence or aggressiveness or that poses the risk of attacking humans or other
animals, within the limits of the city.
   B.   Wild And Domestic Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to own, keep or harbor any wild or domestic animal within the city
that shall disturb the peace and quiet of the vicinity in which such wild or
domestic animal is kept.
   C.   Animals A Nuisance: It shall be unlawful to own, keep or harbor any
wild or domestic animal, including, but not limited to, all those animals and
fowl enumerated in this section, within the city limits, when such animal(s) or
fowl emit or cause to be emitted any nauseous or foul odor or disturb the peace
and quiet of the neighborhood by any loud or unusual noise or otherwise render
the neighborhood less desirable.
   D.   Numerous Animals Deemed Nuisance 1 : The keeping or harboring of three
(3) or more dogs over the age of six (6) months or three (3) or more cats over
the age of three (3) months or a combination of a total of four (4) or more
such dogs and cats at one household in the city shall be presumed to be a
nuisance. This presumption may be rebutted by showing that the same do not
bother neighboring households. (1974 Code § 8-202; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  4-5-13 of this chapter requiring a noncommercial kennel license.
4-5A-2: ANIMALS AT LARGE:
   A.   Prohibited: No horses, cattle, mules, swine, sheep, goats, llamas,
alpacas, emus, rabbits, geese, ducks, hens, turkeys, or other fowl shall be
permitted to run at large within the limits of the city, nor shall any such
animal be herded or picketed upon any street, alley or other public or private
grounds within the limits of the city; and any person being the owner of any
such animal who shall suffer or allow the same to run at large shall be deemed
the author of a nuisance and shall, upon conviction thereof, be penalized as in
this article provided. (1974 Code § 8-201; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Impoundment: Whenever any such animal as described and enumerated in
this article shall be found running at large or herded or picketed in the
manner prohibited by this article, it shall be the duty of the code enforcement
officer or police officer to take up the same and place it or them in the
humane shelter, or some other suitable place for safekeeping. (1974 Code § 8-
203; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Notice Of Impoundment: Upon the taking up of any of the animals named
in this article, the officer taking up the same shall immediately cause a
written notice of the taking of such animal to be given to the owners of such
animal if known, and if not known, to be posted at the humane shelter and at
the city hall. The notice shall contain a description of such animal taken up,
the time and place of taking up the same, the place where such animal is kept
and that unless the owner thereof shall appear and claim the same and pay all
costs and expenses incurred by the taking up and keeping thereof and any other
costs connected with the taking up of such animal before a certain day and
date, which shall not be less than three (3) days from and after the date of
the posting of said notice, the officer will proceed according to law to sell
and/or dispose of such animal. (1974 Code § 8-204; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Failure To Claim Animals: If no person appears to claim such animal and
to pay the costs and expenses incurred by the taking up thereof before the time
fixed in the notice as provided in this article, the officer who took up the
animal shall make an affidavit showing that he took up the same, the time and
place where and when the animal was taken up, that he posted the notice
required, a copy of which shall be attached to said affidavit, and file the
same with the City Clerk-Treasurer. (1974 Code § 8-205)
   E.   Order Directing Sale: Immediately upon filing of the affidavit
mentioned in subsection D of this section, the City Clerk- Treasurer shall
inform the City Attorney of the filing of the affidavit. The City Attorney
shall take the necessary steps required to obtain a court order from the court
with jurisdiction of such matter that such animal or animals be sold and that
out of the purchase money received from the animal sold, all costs and expenses
incurred by the taking up of such animal, including the costs of advertising
the sale, shall be paid first and the balance, if any, shall be paid to the
owner of such animal; provided, that said owner shall appear and claim the same
within ninety (90) days of the date of sale of such animal, and in case the
said owner does not appear within ninety (90) days and claim the said balance,
then the same shall be paid into the City Treasury. (1974 Code § 8-206)
4-5A-3: LIABILITY FOR PERSONAL INJURY AND DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
The owner, harborer or keeper of any animal that does personal injury and/or
damage to property of another shall be liable to the person injured and to the
owner of the property damaged for the damages and costs of suit and attorney
fees. In the prosecution of actions of such damage, it is not necessary for the
plaintiff to show that the owner, harborer or keeper of such animal had
knowledge of the fact that such animal was doing personal injury or damage to
the property. (1974 Code § 8-207)
4-5A-4: INTERFERENCE UNLAWFUL:
No person shall break open or in any manner, directly or indirectly aid or
assist in breaking open any pound, pen, enclosure or other place used for the
safekeeping of any animal taken up under the provisions of this article, with
the intent of releasing any animal therein confined; nor shall they hinder,
delay or obstruct any officer in the discharge of any duty herein or by law
enjoined. (1974 Code § 8-208)
4-5A-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Infraction: Any person violating or failing to comply with any of the
provisions of this article shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in this Code. A penalty
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus court costs and fees shall be assessed
for the first violation, two hundred dollars ($200.00) plus court costs and
fees for the second violation, and three hundred dollars ($300.00) plus court
costs and fees for the third and subsequent violations during the same calendar
year. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
   B.   Cleanup: In addition to the penalty set forth in this chapter, sections
3-4-4 and
3-4-5 of this Code shall apply to violations of this chapter. (Ord. 945, 12-14-
2009)
TITLE 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
MOTOR VEHICLE LAWS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws Adopted
5-1-2: Speed Limit
5-1-3: Operation On City Property
5-1-4: Through Street
5-1-5: Defective Bed
5-1-6: Operation Of Vehicles On Streets Or Alleys Closed For Construction Or
Repair
5-1-7: Injury To Pavement; Lug Wheels
5-1-8: Garage Keeper To Report Damaged Vehicles
5-1-9: Public Employees To Obey Traffic Regulations
5-1-10: Truck Routes
5-1-11: Pedestrians
5-1-12: Exceptions
5-1-1: IDAHO MOTOR VEHICLE LAWS ADOPTED:
   A.   Intent: It is hereby declared to be the intent of the governing body to
aid and assist by whatever means possible, for the utmost consistency in
traffic regulations among and between agencies of Idaho having such
jurisdiction. Toward that end, adoption of the Idaho motor vehicle laws by the
cities of Idaho is a necessary means of assuring maximum uniformity within the
state. (1974 Code § 7-102)
   B.   Adoption: There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules
and regulations for the use of all streets and public thoroughfares of the
city, that certain code, identified as the Idaho motor vehicle laws, more
particularly Idaho Code title 49, published by the department of law
enforcement, and as the same may hereafter be revised by the Idaho legislature,
or amended by the governing body, and the same is hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference as an ordinance of the city as fully as though set
forth at length herein.
   C.   Copies On File: One copy of the Idaho motor vehicle laws, together with
any revisions or amendments, duly certified by the city clerk-treasurer, shall
be kept on file in his office for use and examination of and by the public.
(1974 Code § 7-102; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Authority To Establish Areas Of Traffic Control: The city is hereby
given authority to establish areas of traffic control where motor vehicles will
not be allowed to enter onto or exit from private or public parking lots or
business locations onto or from the public streets within the city.
   E.   Traffic Control Signs: The city does hereby establish such traffic
control signs as it deems necessary to control traffic movement, including, but
not limited to, the use of "Do Not Enter" signs facing traffic about to enter
upon or exit a public street from or to adjacent public or private property.
   F.   Entry To Highway 30 Prohibited: Upon passage hereof, it shall be
illegal to enter Highway 30 from that area of lot 4, section 31, township 9
south, range 15 east of the Boise Meridian, commonly referred to as the Scrub
and Grub corner, directly onto U.S. Highway 30 in violation of the two (2) "Do
Not Enter" signs, facing the traffic about to enter U.S. Highway 30 from said
property.
   G.   Violation; Penalty: Any person violating this section by making said
movement shall be guilty of a traffic infraction as prescribed by Idaho Code
title 49, chapter 15. (1974 Code § 7-102)
5-1-2: SPEED LIMIT:
No person shall drive or operate a motor vehicle on any street within the
corporate limits of the city at a rate of speed greater than twenty five (25)
miles per hour or on any alley within the corporate limits of the city at a
rate of speed greater than ten (10) miles per hour; the above speed limits will
govern except where speed limitations have been posted upon the order of the
mayor and council. (1974 Code § 7-103; amd. 2010 Code)
5-1-3: OPERATION ON CITY PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized motor vehicle to be operated, driven,
pushed or to go into or upon the city parks or the city cemetery or to be upon
the city airport runway, or to be driven on any sidewalks in the city, except
in those places where driveways or alleys cross sidewalks. (1974 Code § 7-104)
5-1-4: THROUGH STREET:
Broadway is hereby designated as a "through street" and motor vehicles shall
come to a full stop before entering such "through street" except where such
street is controlled by a mechanical traffic device or upon order of an
authorized officer. (1974 Code § 7-105)
5-1-5: DEFECTIVE BED:
No motor vehicle shall be used on a street for the transportation of any
material when the bed of such vehicle is defective or when such material is so
loaded as to allow the material to be spilled on the street. (1974 Code § 7-
106)
5-1-6: OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON STREETS OR ALLEYS CLOSED FOR CONSTRUCTION OR
REPAIR:
No person shall drive or operate a vehicle upon any portion of any street or
alley within the City that is being constructed or repaired when access thereto
shall have been blocked by barriers set up and established by the City or a
person engaged in performing such work on its behalf. (1974 Code § 7-107)
5-1-7: INJURY TO PAVEMENT; LUG WHEELS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a motor vehicle on or
across any paved street within the City when such vehicle has tires so
constructed or in such condition as to injure the pavement; provided, that
nothing herein contained shall be deemed to prohibit the use of antiskid chains
or rubber tires attached to the wheels of motor vehicles. (1974 Code § 7-108)
5-1-8: GARAGE KEEPER TO REPORT DAMAGED VEHICLES:
The person in charge of any garage or repair shop to which is brought any motor
vehicle which shows evidence of having been involved in an accident or struck
by any bullet shall report to the nearest police station or Sheriff's Office
within twenty four (24) hours after such motor vehicle is received, giving the
engine number, registration number and the name and address of the owner or
operator of such vehicle. (1974 Code § 7-109; amd. 2010 Code)
5-1-9: PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned
by or used in the service of the United States government, this State, County,
or the City, and it shall be unlawful for any said driver to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter or by
State Statute. (1974 Code § 7-110)
5-1-10: TRUCK ROUTES:
   A.   Designated: The City is authorized to designate a route for the traffic
of heavy trucks, the destination of which is outside the City limits. The route
is hereby designated to commence at the southeast corner of the City limits at
the intersection of Broadway and Burley Avenue, thence west on Burley Avenue to
its intersection with the County road running on the west boundary of the City
and called the Fruitland Road, thence north on said Fruitland Road to the point
where said Fruitland Road intersects with Highway 30 and Broadway. This road
shall be used for heavy vehicular traffic into, through, and out of the City,
and such vehicles shall not travel upon other streets of the City unless their
destination requires it. (1974 Code § 7-501)
   B.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who shall violate any provision of this
section shall be guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
5-1-11: PEDESTRIANS:
   A.   Intersections Or Pedestrian Crossings: No person shall cross any street
within the business district of the City, other than at an intersection, unless
a pedestrian crossing shall have been established elsewhere and marked upon the
surface of the street. At all intersections where traffic is being controlled
by mechanical or other means, the pedestrian shall not proceed to cross a
street until directed to do so by the device or person controlling traffic.
   B.   Right-Of-Way: Any pedestrian crossing a street within the City in
accord with the provisions of this chapter shall have the right-of-way over
vehicular traffic upon such street, and the vehicular traffic shall yield the
right-of-way to the pedestrian. (1974 Code § 7-111)
5-1-12: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to vehicles operated by members
of the Police or Fire Departments, or ambulances when operated in response to
an emergency call or proceeding to the scene of a fire or when parked pursuant
to such a call or at the scene of a fire. (1974 Code § 7-112)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Manner Of Parking
5-2-2: Parking In Alleys
5-2-3: Stopping, Standing Or Parking
5-2-4: Parking Of Vehicles In Residential Areas
5-2-5: Commercial Vehicles In Excess Of Thirty Thousand Pounds
5-2-6: Restricted Parking Zones
5-2-7: Limitation On Time
5-2-8: Private Parking Lots
5-2-9: Handicapped Parking
5-2-10: Obstruction Of Traffic
5-2-11: Extended Parking
5-2-12: Leaving Vehicle Unattended
5-2-13: Penalty; Parking Tickets, Administrative Procedures And Fee Schedule
5-2-14: Procedures And Penalties Of Idaho Infraction Rules
5-2-1: MANNER OF PARKING:
   A.   Two-Way Streets: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every
vehicle stopped or parked upon a two-way street shall be stopped or parked with
the right hand wheels parallel to and within eighteen inches (18") of the right
hand curb or as close as practicable to the right edge of the right hand
shoulder.
   B.   One-Way Streets: Except when otherwise provided, every vehicle stopped
or parked upon a one-way street shall be stopped or parked with the right hand
wheels parallel to and within eighteen inches (18") of the right hand curb or
as close as practicable to the right edge of the right hand shoulder, or with
its left hand wheels within eighteen inches (18") of the left hand curb or as
close as practicable to the left edge of the left hand shoulder.
   C.   Angular Parking:
      1.   Indicated With Markings: Except in such portions of the city as
shall be marked for angular parking by lines upon the surface of the street,
vehicles shall be parked within the same and at the angle shown thereby;
provided, however, that where angular parking shall have been directed, no
vehicle having an overall length in excess of twenty feet (20') shall be so
parked. Where lines or markings designate parking spaces, vehicles shall be
parked in accordance with those lines or markings, and it shall be unlawful to
park any vehicle across any such lines or markings.
      2.   Federal Aid Or State Highways: The police department may permit
angle parking on any street, except that angle parking shall not be permitted
on any federal aid or state highway unless the state of Idaho transportation
department (ITD) has determined that the roadway is of sufficient width to
permit angle parking without interference with the free movement of traffic.
      3.   Backing Into Space Prohibited: Where angle parking is permitted, the
vehicle shall not be backed into the parking space with the front of the
vehicle facing the roadway. (1974 Code § 7-201)
5-2-2: PARKING IN ALLEYS:
No person shall park a vehicle in an alley, except while engaged in the
expeditious loading and unloading of passengers, supplies or merchandise. A
vehicle stopped in an alley shall, wherever possible, be so located as to
permit the passage of other vehicles through the said alley. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading exceed fifteen (15) minutes. (1974 Code § 7-
202)
5-2-3: STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING:
Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance
with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic control
device, no person shall:
   A.   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
      1.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street (commonly referred to as double parked);
      2.   On a sidewalk;
      3.   In the area between the street curb or side of street and the
sidewalk in any residential zone unless designated for parking;
      4.   Within an intersection;
      5.   Within a fire lane;
      6.   Within a properly marked "handicapped parking" space, unless
authorized to do so under section
5-2-9 of this chapter or Idaho Code sections 49-210 and 49-213;
      7.   On a crosswalk;
      8.   On a bike lane or bike path as designated by painted lines;
      9.   Within twenty feet (20') of a bike path approach;
      10.   Within a safety zone indicated by signs or markings;
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      12.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway;
      13.   On any railroad tracks;
      14.   At any place where official traffic control devices posted at the
direction or under the authority of the city or Buhl highway district prohibit
or limit such stopping, standing or parking. It shall be prohibited for any
vehicle to remain stopped, standing or parked past the time prescribed on each
traffic control device. At the expiration of the posted time limit, the subject
vehicle shall be removed from the block face of the area in which it was parked
and not returned to such restricted area for the remainder of that calendar
day.
   B.   Stand or park a vehicle, unless driver occupied, except temporarily to
pick up or discharge a passenger(s):
      1.   In front of a public or private driveway.
      2.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
      3.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk or bike/pedestrian curb
ramp, except at an intersection where a traffic control signal is in operation.
      4.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing signal,
stop sign, yield sign or traffic control signal located at the side of the
roadway.
      5.   Within a properly signposted no parking zone around a fire station.
      6.   At any place where official traffic control devices posted at the
direction or under the authority of the city or Buhl highway district prohibit
such stopping or parking.
   C.   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passenger(s):
      1.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail or railroad crossing;
      2.   At any place where official traffic control devices prohibit such
parking. (1974 Code § 7-203)
5-2-4: PARKING OF VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS:
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall park upon the streets in any residential
area within the city:
      1.   Any vehicle, either motorized or unmotorized, having a gross weight
capacity in excess of twelve thousand (12,000) pounds' gross weight or a
vehicle or combination of vehicles exceeding twenty two feet (22') in length;
or
      2.   Any trailer regardless of type; or
      3.   Any motor home, mobile home, or recreational vehicle, either
motorized or unmotorized; or
      4.   Any vehicle designed or used primarily as farm equipment, whether
attended or unattended, upon the streets in any residential area within the
city for a period in excess of two (2) hours.
   B.   Time Limitation: No person shall park any vehicle upon the streets in
any residential area within the city limits for a continuous period in excess
of seventy two (72) hours. In addition, at the expiration of the seventy two
(72) hour time limit, it is required that the vehicle be removed from the
block, or more than five hundred feet (500'), whichever is farther from the
location at which it was previously parked in the residential zone.
   C.   Exceptions: The provisions of subsections A and B of this section shall
not apply when a vehicle is parked:
      1.   For the purpose of loading or unloading passengers, materials or
merchandise when such passengers, materials or merchandise are actually being
loaded or unloaded.
      2.   For any purpose incident to any lawful construction project located
within the immediate vicinity of such parked vehicle.
      3.   For any purpose incident to a lawful commercial or industrial
operation located in any residential area and conducted under the conditional
use permit and so long as the vehicle is parked within one hundred feet (100')
of such commercial or industrial operation. (1974 Code § 7-204; amd. Ord. 2024-
8, 11-11-2024)
5-2-5: COMMERCIAL VEHICLES IN EXCESS OF THIRTY THOUSAND POUNDS:
No person shall park any commercial or industrial vehicle which has a licensed
gross vehicle weight in excess of thirty thousand (30,000) pounds in the city
except in commercial or industrial zoned districts or for purposes stated in
subsection
5-2-4C of this chapter. (1974 Code § 7-205)
5-2-6: RESTRICTED PARKING ZONES:
The city council may establish, by resolution, zones upon any street within the
city, within which parking shall not be permitted, or the manner of parking, or
restrictions as to the use thereof. When any such zone or zones shall have been
so established and marked by signs giving notice of such restriction or
restrictions, no person shall park a vehicle therein in violation of such
restriction(s). The council, upon finding and declaring the necessity to
prohibit or limit the parking or standing of vehicles upon a street, shall
direct the posting or erecting of signs prohibiting or limiting the stopping,
standing or parking of such vehicles upon the streets of the city. (1974 Code §
7-206)
5-2-7: LIMITATION ON TIME:
No vehicle shall remain continuously parked upon the following streets for more
than two (2) hours between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. Monday through Friday: Main Street between the intersection
with 9th Avenue and the intersection with 12th Avenue; and Broadway Avenue
between the intersection with Walnut Street and the intersection with Maple
Street. (1974 Code § 7-207)
5-2-8: PRIVATE PARKING LOTS:
Parking by the public upon private parking lots maintained by the owners or
lessees of commercial establishments within the city shall be subject to the
limitations or conditions as imposed by the owner or lessee of such
establishments. The owner or lessee may give notice of any limitation or
condition by posting one or more conspicuous signs on the property setting
forth the applicable conditions or limitations. Any vehicle parked in a private
parking lot in violation of such posted conditions or limitations shall be
subject to removal with the owner responsible for the payment of any towing and
storage charges. Any person violating the provisions of this section shall also
be guilty of an infraction and shall be subject to the penalties as set forth
in section
5-2-13 of this chapter. (1974 Code § 7-208)
5-2-9: HANDICAPPED PARKING:
   A.   Prohibited; Handicapped License Plate Or Card Required: Parking a
vehicle in a space reserved for the handicapped, which space is marked in
conformance with the requirements specified in Idaho Code section 49-213, is
prohibited, unless a vehicle is momentarily in the space for the purpose of
allowing a handicapped person to enter or leave the vehicle, or unless a
special license plate or card for the handicapped as prescribed in Idaho Code
section 49-410, or a special temporary card as prescribed in Idaho Code section
49-410, is displayed on the vehicle. The registered owner of a vehicle parked
in violation of the provisions of this section is guilty of an infraction.
   B.   Power To Enter Private Property: Law enforcement officials are
empowered to enter upon private property open to the public to enforce the
provisions of this section.
   C.   Authority To Establish Requirements: The police department is hereby
granted authority to establish requirements for handicapped parking zones and
spaces within the city pursuant to Idaho Code sections 49-213 and 49-410.
   D.   On Street Handicapped Parking Space Requirement:
      1.   These spaces shall be parallel with the sidewalk where parallel
parking is required, or at an angle to the sidewalk where angle parking is
required. Should angle parking be used, the parking spaces so designated for
handicapped use shall be at least twelve feet (12') in width.
      2.   All handicapped parking spaces shall be near curb cuts and/or ramps
for wheelchair and other mechanical device usage.
      3.   For each designated parking space or area, there shall be posted
immediately adjacent to, and visible from each stall or space, a sign, which is
at least thirty six inches (36") above the ground, consisting of the
international handicapped symbol as shown in Idaho Code section 49-410. (1974
Code § 7-209)
5-2-10: OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC:
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle,
whether attended or unattended, upon a street or highway in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than twelve feet (12') of such
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
   B.   Exception: A vehicle may be parked in violation of subsection A of this
section if there is one or more persons directing traffic around such vehicle.
(1974 Code § 7-210)
5-2-11: EXTENDING PARKING:
No person shall park any vehicle upon any street, alley or public property for
a period of seventy two (72) hours or longer. (1974 Code § 7-211)
5-2-12: LEAVING VEHICLE UNATTENDED:
No person having control or charge of a vehicle shall allow such vehicle to
stand on any street unattended without stopping the motor, removing the keys
and effectively securing the vehicle. (1974 Code § 7-212)
5-2-13: PENALTY; PARKING TICKETS, ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND FEE SCHEDULE:
The police department, through its officers, shall have authority to issue
parking tickets as follows:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: It shall be the duty of the police department upon
observing a vehicle parked, standing or stopped in violation of the provisions
of this chapter, to leave upon such vehicle a separate notice for each posted
time limit or as frequently as every two (2) hours that such vehicle has been
parked or stopped in violation of the provisions of this chapter. Among other
things, each notice shall bear the date and hour of leaving the same at or upon
the vehicle, make of the vehicle, and its license number, the specific code
section violated and the amount of the fine, instructing the owner or operator
of such vehicle to report to the city clerk-treasurer's office at the city
hall. One copy of each notice mentioned herein shall be filed with the police
department and one copy with the city clerk-treasurer's office.
   B.   Payment Of Citation; Fee Schedule: In order to eliminate burdening of
courts with violations of ordinances and to eliminate, insofar as possible,
public inconvenience, each person receiving a parking ticket left upon his or
her vehicle shall:
      1.   Fee Schedule: Within seven (7) days of the time of such notice, pay
to the city clerk-treasurer at the city hall, in full satisfaction of such
violation, the fee indicated in the following fee schedule for each notice left
upon his or her vehicle:
         a.   Twenty five dollars ($25.00) for violations of sections
5-2-4,
5-2-5,
5-2-8, and
5-2-9 of this chapter.
         b.   Ten dollars ($10.00) for violations of sections
5-2-2,
5-2-3,
5-2-10,
5-2-11, and
5-2-12 of this chapter.
         c.   Four dollars ($4.00) for violations of sections
5-2-1 and
5-2-7 of this chapter.
      2.   Entry Of Plea: Within seven (7) days from the date of said parking
violation ticket, the person to whom said ticket is issued may appear at the
city clerk-treasurer's office at the city hall, and enter a not guilty plea,
which plea will be forwarded to the Buhl city prosecuting attorney to be
handled under section
5-2-14 of this chapter.
   C.   Prima Facie Responsibility: If any vehicle is found stopped, standing
or parked in any manner violative of the provisions of this chapter and the
identity of the operator cannot be determined, the owner or person or
corporation in whose name said vehicle is registered or the named lessee in a
rental or lease agreement of said vehicle shall be held prima facie responsible
for said violation. (1974 Code § 7-213; amd. Ord. 2024-8, 11-11-2024)
5-2-14: PROCEDURES AND PENALTIES OF IDAHO INFRACTION RULES:
   A.   Failure To Pay; Issuance Of Infraction Citation Or Complaint: Upon the
failure of any owner or operator charged with a violation of this chapter to
pay the required fine by following the administrative procedures provided for
in section
5-2-13 of this chapter within seven (7) days after said parking violation, or
who pleads not guilty to said parking violation within seven (7) days as
prescribed in section
5-2-13 of this chapter, the chief of police or enforcement officer may file an
infraction citation or complaint with the magistrate division of the district
court against the owner or operator of the vehicle cited for the violation of
this chapter, said infraction may be prosecuted by the city prosecuting
attorney.
   B.   Administrative Procedures And Penalties No Longer Apply: Once an
infraction citation or complaint is issued, the administrative procedures and
penalties set forth in section
5-2-13 of this chapter shall no longer apply to the alleged violation.
   C.   Idaho Infraction Rules Apply: Once an infraction citation or complaint
has been issued, the procedures and penalties set forth in the Idaho
infractions rules shall apply to the violation and shall be followed. The Idaho
infraction rules are hereby adopted by the city by reference as they now exist
or may hereafter be amended. (1974 Code § 7-214; amd. Ord. 2024-8, 11-11-2024)
CHAPTER 3
BICYCLES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Traffic Regulations
5-3-2: Headlights And Reflectors
5-3-3: Riding On Sidewalks
5-3-4: Parking Limitations
5-3-5: Riding
5-3-6: Serial Numbers
5-3-7: Bicycle Races
5-3-8: Violation; Penalty
5-3-1: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS 1 :
Every person riding a bicycle upon a highway, street or alley within the city
shall be subject to all the rules and regulations applicable to the driver of
any vehicle, except those provisions which by their very nature can have no
application. (1974 Code § 7-405)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 49-714.
5-3-2: HEADLIGHTS AND REFLECTORS:
Every bicycle in use at the times described in Idaho Code section 49-903, shall
be operated with a light emitting device visible from a distance of at least
five hundred feet (500') to the front, attached to the bicycle or the rider,
and with a reflector clearly visible from the rear of the bicycle. (2010 Code)
5-3-3: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:
No person shall ride a bicycle on a public sidewalk. (1974 Code § 7-407)
5-3-4: PARKING LIMITATIONS:
No person shall park a bicycle along or upon any street, alley or sidewalk
within the corporate limits of the city, except within stands provided by the
city for such purpose, and so parked in said stands in an upright position.
(1974 Code § 7-408)
5-3-5: RIDING:
   A.   Riding On Bicycles:
      1.   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride an attached permanent and regular seat.
      2.   No bicycle or human propelled vehicle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
      3.   An adult rider may carry a child securely attached to his person in
a backpack or sling or in a child carrier attached to the bicycle.
   B.   Clinging To Or Following Too Closely:
      1.   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
skateboard, sled or toy vehicle shall attach it or himself to any vehicle upon
a highway.
      2.   The provisions of this subsection shall not prohibit the attachment
of a bicycle trailer or bicycle semitrailer to a bicycle if that trailer or
semitrailer has been designed for that attachment.
      3.   No person riding upon any bicycle or human powered vehicle shall
follow a vehicle so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard to the rider.
(2010 Code)
5-3-6: SERIAL NUMBERS:
No bicycle shall be sold or registered unless it shall have embossed, cut or
impressed on some portion thereof a serial or manufacturer's number. Any person
who has in his possession a bicycle from which the serial or manufacturer's
number has been removed or defaced shall present such bicycle to the chief of
police who, after investigation, shall issue numbers to the proper owner to be
placed on such bicycle and registered as serial number before license plates
shall be issued. (1974 Code § 7-410)
5-3-7: BICYCLE RACES:
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to run or engage in, or cause to
be run or engaged in, any bicycle race within the corporate limits of the city;
provided, that road races may be run and engaged in under the supervision and
direction of the chief of police, who is hereby given authority to designate
the streets that may be traversed in such road races. (1974 Code § 7-411)
5-3-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Violation By Adult: Any adult person who shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1974 Code § 7-412; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Violation By Juvenile: Any juvenile found guilty of violating any
provision of this chapter shall be deemed delinquent and shall be remanded to
the custody of the court having jurisdiction in the county of Twin Falls, state
of Idaho. (1974 Code § 7-412)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Encroachments
6-1-2: Curbs And Parking Strips
6-1-3: Protection Of Sidewalks And Streets
6-1-4: Paving Of Alleys
6-1-5: Railroads
6-1-1: ENCROACHMENTS:
   A.   Over Streets Or Alleys: No bush, shrub, or tree may encroach or
protrude into the city street or alley right of way which is lower than twenty
feet (20') from the surface of said street or alley. (1974 Code § 6-601)
   B.   Over Sidewalks: No bush, shrub, or tree may encroach or protrude into
the city sidewalk right of way which is lower than eight feet (8') from the
surface of said sidewalk. (1974 Code § 6-602)
   C.   Location Of Bush, Shrub Or Tree:
      1.   Traffic And Pedestrians: No bush, shrub, or tree may be located in
such a manner so as to prevent a driver of a motor vehicle from seeing traffic
and pedestrians from a safe distance determined by the appropriate highway
manuals.
      2.   Intersections: No bush, shrub, or tree shall be located within
twenty five feet (25') of an intersection or sign nor in any way be located so
that it obstructs the view of a vehicle operator or pedestrian at such
intersection or sign. (1974 Code § 6-603)
   D.   Enforcement: The city public works department is hereby granted
authority to enforce this section by giving the property owner upon which
bushes, shrubs, or trees are located written notice that the same violates this
chapter, that the property owner has fifteen (15) days to correct the problem,
and that if said problem is not corrected within the said fifteen (15) days,
that the department of public works will have said problem corrected and bill
the property owner for the cost thereof. If said cost is not paid to the city
within fifteen (15) days after billing, the city clerk-treasurer shall take the
proper steps to provide that said cost or fee will be added to the property
owner's real property taxes and will be collected by the county tax collector
for the city in accordance with the law. (1974 Code § 6-604)
6-1-2: CURBS AND PARKING STRIPS:
   A.   Curbs To Be Constructed: There shall be constructed on the curb line as
herein established a curb. All curbs shall be constructed in compliance with
standards established by the city engineer. (1974 Code § 6-201)
   B.   Permit Required: Any person, partnership or corporation desiring to
construct curbing within the limits of the city shall obtain a permit to do so
in the same manner and under the same conditions as are required for the
construction of sidewalks within the said city. (1974 Code § 6-202)
   C.   Parking Strips: A strip of uniform width of seven feet (7') on all
sidewalks thirteen feet (13') wide and six feet (6') on all sidewalks twelve
feet (12') wide between the curb line and the outside edge line of any sidewalk
now constructed or hereafter to be constructed within the limits of the city
measured from the said curb line at right angles with the said curb line toward
the front line of the lots shall be, and the same is hereby set off and
reserved for parking strip purposes; provided, that the provisions of this
subsection shall not apply to that part or portion of Main Street lying between
the northeast curb line on Eighth Avenue and the southwest curb line on Twelfth
Avenue and shall not apply to that part or portion of Broadway lying between
Maple Street and the railroad track of the Eastern Idaho Railroad, and shall
not apply to that part or portion of Ninth Avenue lying between the railroad
track of the Eastern Idaho Railroad and the alley running northeast and
southwest between Main Street and Locust Street. (1974 Code § 6-203; amd. 2010
Code)
6-1-3: PROTECTION OF SIDEWALKS AND STREETS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   ALLOWABLE LIMITATION: An encroachment now existing which does not extend
into or invade or intrude into any way, alley or street of the City, a distance
of more than eight inches (8"), or an encroachment made, after the effective
date hereof, which does not extend into or invade or intrude into any way,
alley or street of the City, a distance of more than four inches (4");
provided, that any such encroachment does not hamper public use of any such
way, alley or street of the City.
   ENCROACHMENT: Any fixture, construction or restriction, permanent or
temporary, which intrudes into or invades any way, alley or street of the City,
or encloses a portion of it, diminishing its width or area.
   HAMPER: That which interferes with the free and unrestricted use of such
way, alley, or street of the City. (1974 Code § 6-301)
   B.   Damage To Sidewalks: Every person who shall step or walk upon or
otherwise mark or deface any part of the cement sidewalk, within the City, or
who shall permit any dog, horse or other animal or animals owned by him or
under his control to step or walk upon or otherwise mark or deface the said
sidewalk, or any part thereof, before the same shall have become dry and have
been cleared for use, shall be guilty of an infraction. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this
section, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1974 Code § 6-303; amd. 2010 Code)
6-1-4: PAVING OF ALLEYS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   ALLEY: Those passageways other than streets, avenues, and boulevards which
are open to public or private passage, whether limited or restricted.
   PARKING LOT: Any area, either designated or actually used as a space for the
parking, storage, or retention of four (4) or more motor vehicles, whether
permanent or temporary, whether said space is owned by private individuals,
governmental or public authorities.
   PAVE: To cover with a suitable asphalt or other permanent surface at such a
depth and base as approved by the City Engineer. (1974 Code § 6-501)
   B.   Alleys Utilized For Egress And Ingress To Parking Lots:
      1.   Paving Required: Any person, partnership, corporation, governmental
unit or other entity which owns, establishes, leases, operates or maintains a
parking lot utilizing alleys for purpose of ingress and/or egress into said
lot, and encourages or permits use of said lot for purposes of public parking,
retention, or storage of four (4) or more motor vehicles shall pave, at its own
expense, that portion of the alley regularly utilized for ingress or egress to
the public streets, avenues or boulevards. (1974 Code § 6-502)
      2.   Permit Required: Any person, partnership, corporation, governmental
unit, or other entity which utilizes or intends to utilize any portion of any
alley shall apply in its building permit application as required by title 8,
chapter 2 of this Code, for permission to utilize a portion or the whole of
said alley for purposes of ingress or egress to a parking lot and said use
shall not be allowed until approved by the City Council. (1974 Code § 6-503)
   C.   Violation Declared Nuisance: Any parking lot which utilizes an alley or
any portion thereof for purposes of ingress or egress, and which is not in
compliance with subsection B of this section, relating to required paving of
said alley, is liable to declaration as a nuisance, and subject to abatement
pursuant to this Code. (1974 Code § 6-504)
6-1-5: RAILROADS:
   A.   Time Limitation For Holding Crossings: It shall be unlawful for the
engines, cars, or trains of any railway company within the corporate limits of
the City to stand upon any street crossing in any place so as to interfere with
travel along said street at any time longer than five (5) minutes. (1974 Code §
8-701)
   B.   Speed Limit: Any person, firm or corporation who shall run or cause to
be run any railroad locomotive, or railroad train within the corporate limits
of the City at a greater speed than twelve (12) miles per hour, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be penalized as
provided in subsection C of this section. (1974 Code § 8-702)
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this
section shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
SECTION:
6-2-1: Permit Required
6-2-2: Lines And Grades
6-2-3: Width
6-2-4: Space Reserved For Sidewalks
6-2-5: Necessary Construction
6-2-6: Repair
6-2-7: Method Of Filing And Hearing Protests
6-2-8: Manner Of Letting Contracts
6-2-9: Inspection
6-2-10: Trap Doors, Openings Or Gratings
6-2-11: Removal Of Snow And Ice
6-2-12: Violation; Penalty
6-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: No public sidewalk, curb, or gutter, hereafter referred to as
"sidewalks", shall hereafter be constructed or repaired by any person or
persons within the city without first having obtained a construction permit
from the city building inspector.
   B.   Application; Form: Such permit shall be obtained upon application
therefor made upon forms to be provided by the city with the construction
permit fee to be any actual out of pocket expenses incurred by the city under
section
6-2-2 of this chapter for engineering or surveying necessary to approve the
construction permit. (1974 Code § 6-101)
   C.   Cost Estimate; Payment Of Fee: The building inspector shall issue a
statement of the estimated cost which must be paid before the construction
permit is issued. The balance of the fee will be due ten (10) days after final
billing by the city building inspector.
   D.   Issuance: Any construction permit for the construction or repair of
sidewalks shall be issued by the city building inspector. (1974 Code § 6-101;
amd. 2010 Code)
6-2-2: LINES AND GRADES:
No sidewalks shall be constructed or repaired along the streets or alleys of
the city until lines and grades therefor shall have been furnished by the city
engineer or the city building inspector and all sidewalks shall be so
constructed as to conform to the lines and grades so furnished and established,
and it shall be the duty of the city engineer or city building inspector to
supply to any person holding a permit for the construction or repair of
sidewalk the grades and lines therefor upon request by such person. The
construction or repair of sidewalks shall likewise conform to the standards and
specifications of the city as herein adopted, or as may be otherwise provided
by the city engineer through the city building inspector. (1974 Code § 6-102;
amd. 2010 Code)
6-2-3: WIDTH:
   A.   Standards And Specifications: All sidewalks hereinafter built,
constructed, reconstructed, or laid down within the city limits, shall be built
and constructed in accordance with the city standards and specifications.
   B.   Width:
      1.   Thirteen Feet Wide Or From Lot Line To Curb Line: All such sidewalks
hereafter built, constructed, or laid down on the following named streets shall
be thirteen feet (13') wide or laid full from the lot lines to the curb lines:
         a.   Main Street: On Main Street between the northeast curb line and
Eighth Avenue and the southwest curb line of Twelfth Avenue;
         b.   Broadway: On Broadway between Maple Street and the railroad track
of the Eastern Idaho Railroad; and
         c.   Ninth Avenue: On Ninth Avenue between the railroad track of the
Eastern Idaho Railroad and the alley running northeast and southwest between
Main Street and Locust Street.
      2.   Five Feet Wide And Adjacent To Curb Line: The sidewalks at the
following designated lots and blocks shall be at least five feet (5') wide and
shall be constructed adjacent to the curb line unless otherwise permitted by
the city building inspector:
         a.   Blocks: Blocks 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 13, 69, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83,
84, 85, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 110, 111, 112, 114, 115, 118, 123, 124, 125,
126, 127, 128.
         b.   Lots:
      Block 10, lots 9 through 16
      Block 11, lots 9 through 16
      Block 12, lots 9 through 16
      Block 15, lots 1 through 8
      Block 16, lots 1 through 8
      Block 17, lots 1 through 8
      Block 18, lots 1 through 8
      Block 19, lots 1 through 8
      Block 54, lots 9 through 16
      Block 55, lots 6 through 10
      Block 56, lots 17 through 21
      Block 57, lots 9 through 16
      3.   Undesignated Sidewalks: All sidewalks, excepting those designated in
subsections B1 and B2 of this section to be at least five feet (5') wide and
inside edge of line thereof to be along the curb line and the outside edge to
be twelve feet (12') out from the lot lines along which the same are built,
constructed or laid down. (1974 Code § 6-103)
6-2-4: SPACE RESERVED FOR SIDEWALKS:
The uniform width of thirteen feet (13') on all streets and avenues
approximately eighty feet (80') wide, and twelve feet (12') on all streets and
avenues approximately seventy feet (70') wide, or less, measured from the front
line of the lots at right angles with said line toward the center of the street
or avenue, shall be, and the same is hereby set off and reserved for sidewalk
purposes. (1974 Code § 6-104)
6-2-5: NECESSARY CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Duty Of Council To Order Necessary Repair And Construction: It shall be
the duty of the city council, when, in the judgment of the council, the
necessity exists therefor, to order the construction of any new sidewalk or
reconstruction of existing sidewalks in the city at the cost of the owner or
owners of the property in front of which or immediately adjacent to which the
said sidewalk or sidewalks are ordered to be constructed. (1974 Code § 6-105)
   B.   Authority To Make Order:
      1.   Passage Of Resolution Setting Forth Necessity: Whenever the city
council shall determine that a new sidewalk is necessary in front of or
adjacent to any property in the city, it shall adopt, at a general or special
meeting called for that purpose, a resolution setting forth the existence of
the necessity for such reconstruction or construction, and declaring the
intention of the council to order such construction.
      2.   Property Affected: Such resolution shall specify and describe the
property in front of which such new construction is to be directed to be made;
shall state the general character of the improvement directed to be made and an
estimate of the cost thereof, and that the cost of such improvement is to be
assessed against the property in front of or adjacent to which the same is
directed to be made, unless the owners of said property shall cause and procure
the same to be done.
      3.   Protests: Said resolution shall further provide and specify a time
within which protests against the said improvement may be filed with the city,
which shall be not less than five (5) nor more than fifteen (15) days after the
date of the adoption of such resolution, and shall likewise specify the date
upon which such protests will be heard and considered by the city council.
(1974 Code § 6-106)
   C.   Publication Of Order: Upon the adoption of the city council of the
resolution as specified in subsection B of this section, the city clerk-
treasurer shall cause said resolution to be published in one issue of the
official city newspaper before the time fixed in such resolution as the limit
for the filing of protests against said improvement, and an affidavit of such
publication shall be filed in the office of the city clerk-treasurer. (1974
Code § 6-107; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Notice To Property Owner:
      1.   Written Notice: Upon the passage of any final resolution by the city
council directing the construction or reconstruction of sidewalks as above
specified, the city clerk-treasurer shall thereupon cause a written notice,
setting forth the resolution to be served upon the owner or owners of the
property abutting, fronting on or adjacent to the sidewalk, or sidewalks to be
constructed, or reconstructed, notifying such persons that they must commence
the reconstruction or construction, as the case may be, in accordance with the
provisions of said resolution, directing the commencement of said work within a
period of time set by the city council from the date of the service of said
notice. (1974 Code § 6-108; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Service Of Notice: The notice shall be served by the delivery of a
copy thereof to the owner or owners of the said property described in the
resolution directing the making of the said improvement or improvements, if
such owner or owners are residents of the city. In the event that any such
owner is a nonresident, such notice shall be served upon him by depositing a
copy thereof in the U.S. post office, enclosed in a sealed envelope, with
postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the person to be served at his last known
address. In the event that any such owner is a nonresident whose address cannot
be discovered, then the city clerk-treasurer shall cause copies of the said
notice to be served personally upon any person or persons occupying the said
premises as tenants or otherwise, and a copy thereof to be posted in a
conspicuous place upon the said property. (1974 Code § 6-108)
   E.   Procedure Of Council After Giving Notice:
      1.   Failure Of Owner To Comply; Work Done By City Or Under Contract: In
the event that, at the expiration of the time specified in the notice for the
commencement of work therein specified, at which time the same shall not have
been commenced by the owner of the property abutting, fronting or adjacent to
the same, then the city shall proceed, as soon as practicable, to do the said
work or cause the same to be done under contract, and in accordance with plans
and specifications therefor prepared by the city engineer.
      2.   Written Bids:
         a.   Calling Of Written Bids: The council may, if it deems it
necessary or proper, direct the calling of written bids for the doing of the
said work; said bids to be considered at a regular or special meeting of the
city council as may be specified by the call. (1974 Code § 6-109)
         b.   Preparation And Publication Of Notice: Notice of the call for
bids shall be prepared and signed by the city clerk-treasurer, and shall be
published one time a week for three (3) successive weeks, in the official city
newspaper, and shall give not less than five (5) days from the date of the last
publication thereof within which bids may be submitted by bidders. (1974 Code §
6-109; amd. 2010 Code)
         c.   Bids; Certified Check: Each bid submitted shall be accompanied by
a certified check payable to the order of the city in an amount equal to ten
percent (10%) of the sum bid, the same to be held and not cashed until the
acceptance of one of the said bids, when all checks of unsuccessful bidders
shall be returned thereto. The check submitted by the successful bidder shall,
on acceptance of his bid, be cashed and the amount thereof held by the city
clerk-treasurer as a guarantee that he will enter into a written contract with
the city to do the work specified in his bid within five (5) days from the date
of the acceptance of his bid by the city council. (1974 Code § 6-109)
6-2-6: REPAIR:
   A.   Duty To Repair:
      1.   Responsibility Of Owner: It shall be the duty of the owner of any
property along or abutting any sidewalk which shall have been constructed
within the corporate limits pursuant to the foregoing provisions or otherwise
to keep such sidewalk in good repair.
      2.   Notice Of Defective Condition: Whenever any such sidewalk shall be
found to be in a defective condition, the city engineer or the city council
shall serve written notice on the owner or person in control of such property
that such defect exists and require that the same be repaired.
      3.   Failure To Make Repairs; Work Done By City; Costs: Upon the failure
of such person to make such repair within ten (10) days after the receipt of
such notice, the city council, or its authorized representative, may cause the
same to be done and shall require the city engineer to certify the cost of such
work to the clerk-treasurer to be placed upon the assessment book and certified
to the county auditor to be placed on the assessment roll and collected in the
same manner as other city taxes are collected. (1974 Code § 6-110)
   B.   Failure, Neglect Or Refusal To Repair: It shall be unlawful for any
person owning or having control of any property abutting any sidewalk which is
defective or out of repair to fail, neglect or refuse to repair the same for a
period of more than ten (10) days after such person shall have received written
notice from the city engineer or duly authorized representative of the council,
that such defect exists, and each day's failure to diligently proceed with such
work or repair, after the expiration of ten (10) days from the receipt of such
written notice, shall constitute a separate offense. (1974 Code § 6-111)
6-2-7: METHOD OF FILING AND HEARING PROTESTS:
   A.   Right To File Protest: Any person owning or having any interest in the
property in front of or adjacent to which the construction, repair or
reconstruction of sidewalk or sidewalks shall have been proposed by the
resolution of the city council, as above provided, shall have the right to file
in the office of the city clerk-treasurer, within the time specified in said
resolution, a protest in writing, specifying the interest of the protestant and
the nature and grounds of his objection to the proposed improvement.
   B.   Hearing: At the time fixed for the hearing of protests, the same shall
be considered by the city council, and any person who shall have filed a
protest may appear before the council at such time and present such evidence as
he may desire in support of his said protest.
   C.   Council Vote:
      1.   Improvements To Be Made: When said hearing shall have been
completed, the city council shall vote upon the question of ordering work to
proceed in whole or in part, and, upon a majority of the members present voting
to proceed therewith, the council shall, by resolution, enter in its minutes
and direct that the proposed improvement or improvements, or a portion thereof,
describing the same shall be made.
      2.   Improvements Not To Be Made: The council may, at its discretion,
order that any portion of the proposed improvements shall not be made, and such
resolution shall be entered on the minutes of the meeting, together with a
statement of the reasons therefor. (1974 Code § 6-112)
6-2-8: MANNER OF LETTING CONTRACTS:
   A.   Written Contract: Each contract for the performance of work as
hereinabove specified shall be in writing, executed by the successful bidder
and by the city through its mayor and the city clerk-treasurer.
   B.   Contractor's Bond: At the time of the execution of such contract, the
successful bidder shall deposit with the city clerk-treasurer a contractor's
bond as required by the laws of the state of Idaho, conditioned for the
faithful performance by him of the terms of the said contract and the payment
of all laborers, material men or other persons to whom he may become indebted
on account of the performance of his contract; the amount of the said bond
shall be not less than seventy five percent (75%) of the amount of the price to
be paid by the city for the doing of the said work as specified in the said
contract, and the surety or sureties thereon shall be subject to the approval
by the city council. (1974 Code § 6-113)
6-2-9: INSPECTION:
   A.   Inspection Of All Work Required: All work done in accordance with the
terms and provisions of this chapter, whether done by the owner or owners of
the property, the city, or a contractor, shall be done and performed under and
subject to inspection by and the approval of the city building inspector, and
shall be in accordance with the city standards and specifications therefor,
except that the city council may direct that the city engineer perform the
inspection on specific projects. (1974 Code § 6-114; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Certificate Of Completion:
      1.   Duty To Inspect: It shall be the duty of the city engineer to
inspect and examine all work done under the provisions of this chapter and to
require that the same be of such quality and type as to meet all reasonable
engineering and construction requirements.
      2.   Certificate Upon Completion Of Work By City: Upon the completion of
such work, and its approval by the city engineer, when said work shall have
been done by the city, either by its own employees or under contract, he shall
make and cause to be filed with the city clerk-treasurer a certificate
specifying the completion thereof, and that the said work has been done in
accordance with specifications prepared by him, and has been approved by him.
The said certificate shall describe the property in front of, or adjacent to
which sidewalk or sidewalks have been constructed, reconstructed or repaired,
and shall state the cost of doing the said work in front of or adjacent to each
separate piece or parcel of land where the same shall have been done. (1974
Code § 6-115)
      3.   Publication; Demand For Payment: Upon the filing of the said
certificate or certificates of completion and approval in his office, the city
clerk-treasurer shall cause a copy thereof to be published in one issue of the
official city newspaper, together with a demand for the immediate payment of
the amounts shown therein to have been the cost of the said work, as
apportioned against each separate parcel of property in front of or adjacent to
which the same shall have been done, within twenty (20) days from the date of
the publication of such certificate and demand, and an affidavit of the
publication thereof shall be filed in the office of the city clerk-treasurer.
If the owner of any of the property described in the certificate of completion
and approval hereinabove referred to shall fail to pay the amount specified
therein to be due on account of the work so done in front or adjacent to his
said property to the city within a period of twenty (20) days from the date of
the publication of the said certificate and demand for payment, the city clerk-
treasurer shall certify to the county tax collector of the county of Twin
Falls, state of Idaho, the amount due and owing from each lot or parcel of real
estate in front of or adjacent to which the said sidewalk or sidewalks shall
have been constructed, repaired or reconstructed in the same manner as other
municipal taxes are certified by him to the said officer. All such assessments
shall be known as and shall be designated as special assessments for sidewalks,
and shall be levied and collected as a separate tax in addition to municipal
taxes for general revenue purposes, and shall be placed upon the tax roll for
collection, subject to the same penalties and to be collected and paid to the
city in the same manner as all other taxes. (1974 Code § 6-116; amd. 2010 Code)
6-2-10: TRAP DOORS, OPENINGS OR GRATINGS 1 :
   A.   Unlawful: It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any trap door,
opening or grating in any public sidewalk in the city, except upon permission
therefor being granted by the city council by resolution being duly adopted.
(1974 Code § 6-117)
   B.   Openings In Sidewalks: Every person building, maintaining or permitting
any bulkhead, cellar or basement way, stairway, door, window, or other hole or
opening leading to or from the street or sidewalk to the premises owned or
occupied by him shall keep the same property guarded with a good substantial
rail, grate or other device, together with the manner of placing and
maintaining the same shall be approved by the building inspector, and the owner
or person having control of any premises to or from which such bulkhead,
cellar, or basement way, stairway, door, window, or other hole or opening shall
open or lead, and not protecting the same as aforesaid shall be guilty of
maintaining a nuisance, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in section
6-2-12 of this chapter. (1974 Code § 6-118)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 4-3B-4 of this code.
6-2-11: REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE:
   A.   Removal Required: Owners, tenants or occupants of any premises within
the city abutting or adjoining any public sidewalk shall remove all snow and
ice from any such sidewalk.
   B.   Notice To Remove: It shall be the duty of the city to notify any owner,
tenant or occupant of property herein described to remove or otherwise correct
the objectionable matter herein legislated against, which notice shall be sent
by registered mail to the last known address of such owner, tenant or occupant,
notifying him that he has a period of twenty four (24) hours from and after
receipt of such notice within which to correct or otherwise remove the snow and
ice. (1974 Code § 6-119)
6-2-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
including, but not limited to, the failure of the owner, tenant or occupant of
premises to comply with the terms and conditions of the notice or notices
provided for herein, shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1974 Code § 6-120; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 3
LIBRARY
SECTION:
6-3-1: Established
6-3-2: Board Of Directors
6-3-3: Use Free To Residents
6-3-1: ESTABLISHED:
A public library is hereby established in the city, located on parts of lots 8,
9 and 10 in block 98 in the Buhl townsite, under the provisions of Idaho Code
title 33, chapter 26, and that for such purpose the council of the city shall
annually levy and cause to be collected, as other taxes are, a tax as
determined from time to time by the city council on the taxable property of
said city, to constitute a library fund, which fund is hereby created, and
shall be kept by the city clerk-treasurer, separate and apart from other monies
of the city, and be used exclusively for personnel, the purchase of books,
periodicals, computers, necessary furniture and fixtures, building maintenance,
utilities, and whatever is required for the maintenance of such library. (1974
Code § 1-1001; amd. 2010 Code)
6-3-2: BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
   A.   Appointment: For the government of such library there shall be a board
of five (5) directors, all of whom shall be recommended and appointed by the
council from among the citizens thereof at large that reside in the city.
   B.   Term: Such directors shall hold their office for five (5) years from
the date of appointment and until their successors are appointed.
   C.   Vacancies: All vacancies shall be reported within five (5) days to the
city council by the board of directors and shall be filled by appointment in
the same manner as appointments are originally made. Appointments to complete
an unexpired term shall be for the residue of the term only.
   D.   Compensation: No compensation shall be paid or allowed to any directors
in any manner whatsoever. Prior approved expenses may be allowed. (1974 Code §
1-1002; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Organization:
      1.   Officers: The directors shall meet and organize by the election of
one of their number as president, and by the election of such other officers as
they may deem necessary every December at term renewal. (1974 Code § 1-1003;
amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Bylaws, Rules And Regulations: The directors shall make and adopt
such bylaws, rules and regulations for their guidance and for the government of
the library as may be expedient.
      3.   Control Of Expenditures: The directors shall have the exclusive
control of the expenditures of all monies collected for the library fund.
      4.   Librarian: The directors may appoint a librarian and assistants, and
prescribe rules for their conduct. (1974 Code § 1-1003)
   F.   Report To Idaho Commission For Libraries: The board of directors shall
make an annual itemized report to the Idaho commission for libraries, formerly
the Idaho state library, on or before January 1 of each year, stating the
condition of their trust, and the various sums of money received from the
library fund and from all sources, and how much had been expended, the number
of books and periodicals on hand, and the number added by purchase, gift or
otherwise, during the year, the number lost or removed, the number of books
loaned out, and other statistics required by the Idaho commission for
libraries. (1974 Code § 1-1005; amd. 2010 Code)
   G.   Authority To Accept Donations: The library board is hereby authorized
to accept donations of money, personal property or real estate for the benefit
of such library. Title to such property shall be vested in said board of
directors to be held in control by said board, when accepted according to the
terms of the deed of gifts, devise or bequest of such property said board shall
be held and considered to be the special trustees. (1974 Code § 1-1006)
6-3-3: USE FREE TO RESIDENTS:
The library established under this chapter shall be forever free for the use of
the residents of the city, subject to such reasonable rules and regulations as
the library board may find necessary to adopt and have available for public
inspection in order to render the use of the library of the greatest benefit to
the greatest number, and they may exclude and cut off from use of said library
any and all persons who shall wilfully violate such rules. (1974 Code § 1-1004;
amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
SECTION:
6-4-1: Boundaries
6-4-2: Airport Commission
6-4-3: Operation Of Airport
6-4-4: Procedure, Rules And Regulations
6-4-5: Construction Of Hangars; Rental Space
6-4-6: Building Specifications
6-4-7: Zoning District
6-4-8: Violation; Penalty
6-4-1: BOUNDARIES:
   A.   Parcel 1: Township 9 South, Range 14 E., B.M., Twin Falls County,
Idaho:
Section 34: Part of the NW1/4SE1/4, described as follows:
Beginning at the Southeast corner of the NW1/4SE1/4; thence in a Westerly
direction approximately 1320 feet to the Southwest corner of the NW1/4SE1/4;
thence in a Northerly direction a distance of 462 feet more or less along the
West line of the NW1/4SE1/4; thence in an East Southeast direction to the point
of beginning.
   B.   Parcel 2: Township 9 South, Range 14 E., BM., Twin Falls County, Idaho:
Section 34: SW1/4SE1/4; Except: A tract of land located in the SW1/4SE1/4 of
Section 34, Township 9 South, Range 14, E., B.M., Twin Falls County, Idaho
being more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at the Southeast corner of said Section 34; thence North 90°00' West
along the South line of said Section for 1324.33 feet to the true point of
beginning; thence continuing North 90°00' west along said South line for 500.00
feet; thence North 00°19'40" West for 435.6 feet; thence South 90°00' East and
parallel to the South line of said Section 34 for 500.00 feet; thence South
00°19'40" East for 435.60 feet to the true point of beginning. Except highway
right of way.
   C.   Parcel 3: Township 9 South, Range 14, E., B.M., Twin Falls County,
Idaho:
Section 34: SE1/4SE1/4; except beginning at a point 25 feet North and 25 feet
West of the Southeast corner; thence West a distance of 660 feet; thence North
a distance of 500 feet; thence South 71°10' East a distance of 694.1 feet;
thence South 285 feet to the point of beginning. Except highway right of way.
   D.   Parcel 4: A portion of the Northeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter
(NE1/4SW1/4) of Section 34, Township 9 South, Range 14 East of the Boise
Meridian, Twin Falls County, Idaho, more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at the Southwest corner of said Section 34; thence North 0°29'13"
East, along the Westerly boundary of said Section 34, 1,329.07 feet; thence
North 89°57'50" East, 1,325.67 feet to the Southwest corner of said NE1/4SW1/
4 and the real point of beginning; thence North 0°24'39" East, along the
westerly boundary of said NE1/4SW1/4 891.95 feet; thence North 89°55'40" East,
1324.49 feet to a point on the easterly boundary of said NE1/4SW1/4; thence
South 0°20'05" West, 892.79 feet to the Southeast corner of said NE1/4SW1/4;
thence South 89°57'50" West, 1,325.67 feet to the real point of beginning,
comprising 27.14 acres, more or less.
   E.   Parcel 5: Lot 1, located in the NW1/4SW1/4 of Section 34, Township 9
South, Range 14, E., B.M., Twin Falls County, Idaho, being more particularly
described as follows:
Beginning at the west quarter corner of said Section 34; thence North 89°55'40"
East along the North line of said NW1/4SW1/4 for 661.95 feet; thence South
00°26'56" West for 332.37 feet; thence South 89°56'13" West for 667.17 feet to
the West line of said Section 34; thence North 00°29'13" East along said West
line for 332.27 feet to the point of beginning. Containing 5.05 acres more or
less.
   F.   Parcel 6: Lot 2, located in the NW1/4SW1/4 of Section 34, Township 9
South, Range 14, E., B.M., Twin Falls County, Idaho, being more particularly
described as follows:
Commencing at the West quarter corner of said Section 34; thence North
89°55'40" East along the North line of said NW1/4SW1/4 for 661.95 feet to the
true point of beginning; thence South 00°26'56" West for 332.37 feet; thence
North 89°56'13" East for 662.18 feet to the East line of said NW1/4SW1/4;
thence North 00°24'39" East along said East line for 105.71 feet; thence South
89°55'40" West and parallel to the North line of said NW1/4SW1/4 for 230.14
feet; thence North 00°24'39" East and parallel to the East line of said NW1/
4SW1/4 for 226.76 feet to the North line of said NW1/4SW1/4; thence South
89°55'40" West along said North line for 431.82 feet to the true point of
beginning. Containing 3.85 acres more or less.
   G.   Parcel 7: Lot 3, located in the NW1/4SW1/4 of Section 34, Township 9
South, Range 14, E., B.M., Twin Falls County, Idaho, being more particularly
described as follows:
Commencing at the West Quarter corner of said Section 34; thence South
00°29'13" West along the West line of said Section 34 for 332.27 feet; thence
North 89°56'13" East for 993.27 feet to the true point of beginning; thence
South 00°25'47" West for 664.84 feet; thence North 89°57'18" East for 331.31
feet to the East line of said NW1/4SW1/4; thence North 00°24'39" East along
said East line for 664.94 feet; thence South 89°56'13" West for 331.09 feet to
the true point of beginning. Containing 5.06 acres more or less.
   H.   Parcel 8: Lot 4, located in the NW1/4SW1/4 of Section 34, Township 9
South, Range 14, E., B.M., Twin Falls County, Idaho, being more particularly
described as follows:
Commencing at the West Quarter corner of said Section 34; thence South
00°29'13" West along the West line of said Section 34 for 997.80 feet; thence
North 89°57'18" East for 662.61 feet to the true point of beginning; thence
South 00°26'56" West for 332.37 feet to the South line of said NW1/4SW1/4;
thence North 89°57'50" East along said South line for 662.84 feet to the East
line of said NW1/4SW1/4; thence North 00°24'39" East along said East line for
332.47 feet; thence South 89°57'18" West for 662.61 feet to the true point of
beginning. Containing 5.06 acres more or less.
   I.   Parcel 9: Lot 5, located in the NW1/4SW1/4 of Section 34, Township 9
South, Range 14, E., B.M., Twin Falls County, Idaho, being more particularly
described as follows:
Commencing at the West Quarter corner of said Section 34; thence South
00°29'13" West along the West line of said Section 34 for 997.80 feet to the
true point of beginning; thence North 89°57'18" East for 662.61 feet; thence
South 00°26'56" West for 332.37 feet to the South line of said NW1/4SW1/4;
thence South 89°57'50" West along said South line for 662.83 feet to the West
line of said Section 34; thence North 00°29'13" East along said West line for
332.27 feet to the true point of beginning. Containing 5.06 acres more or less.
   J.   Parcel 10: Lot 6, located in the NW1/4SW1/4 of Section 34, Township 9
South, Range 14, E., B.M., Twin Falls County, Idaho, being more particularly
described as follows:
Commencing at the West Quarter corner of said Section 34; thence South
00°29'13" West along the West line of said Section 34 for 997.80 feet; thence
North 89°57'18" East for 331.31 feet to the true point of beginning; thence
North 00°28'05" East for 332.32 feet; thence North 89°56'45" East for 662.39
feet; thence South 00°25'47" West for 332.42 feet; thence South 89°57'18" West
for 662.61 feet to the true point of beginning. Containing 5.05 acres more or
less.
   K.   Parcel 11: Lot 7, located in the NW1/4SW1/4 of Section 34, Township 9
South, Range 14, E., B.M., Twin Falls County, Idaho, being more particularly
described as follows:
Commencing at the West Quarter corner of said Section 34; thence South
00°29'13" West along the West line of said Section 34 for 332.27 feet; thence
North 89°56'13" East for 331.09 feet to the true point of beginning; thence
South 00°28'05" West for 332.32 feet; thence North 89°56'45" East for 662.39
feet; thence North 00°25'47" East for 332.42 feet; thence South 89°56'13" West
for 662.18 feet to the true point of beginning. Containing 5.05 acres more or
less.
   L.   Parcel 12: Lot 8, located in the NW1/4SW1/4 of Section 34, Township 9
South, Range 14, E., B.M., Twin Falls County, Idaho, being more particularly
described as follows:
Commencing at the West Quarter corner of said Section 34; thence South
00°29'13" West along the West line of said Section 34 for 332.27 feet to the
true point of beginning; thence North 89°56'13" East for 331.09 feet; thence
South 00°28'05" West for 664.64 feet; thence South 89°57'18" West for 331.31
feet to the West line of said Section 34; thence North 00°29'13" East along
said West line for 664.53 feet to the true point of beginning. Containing 5.05
acres more or less.
(1974 Code § 9-101)
6-4-2: AIRPORT COMMISSION:
   A.   Established: There is hereby established an airport commission,
consisting of five (5) persons who shall look after the airport and make
recommendations to the city council as to rules and laws necessary for its
operation.
   B.   Membership:
      1.   Appointment: The five (5) members shall be appointed by the mayor
and approved by the city council at the first council meeting of each year from
a list of nominees provided by the existing airport commission.
      2.   Term: These five (5) members shall each serve three (3) year terms.
The mayor shall inform the current commissioners of their terms so that the
rotating three (3) year terms will become effective immediately.
   C.   Youth Member:
      1.   Appointment: In addition to the members provided for above, the city
mayor, with the approval of the city council, may appoint one "ex officio"
youth member under twenty one (21) years of age. The youth member shall
participate in all discussions, but will not have a vote.
      2.   Term: The youth member's term shall be one year, from October 1 to
September 30 of the following year, and may be reappointed up to four (4)
successive terms. In computing the number of terms one can serve, the
completion of less than one-half (1/2) of the term of a previous youth member
shall not be counted as a term.
   D.   Duties: This commission shall recommend matters of policy to the city
council, and if the council shall approve them the commission shall see that
they are carried into force and effect. (1974 Code § 9-104; amd. Ord. 1004, 8-
9-2021)
6-4-3: OPERATION OF AIRPORT:
The mayor and city council of the city are hereby authorized to comply with all
requirements of the civil aeronautics administration in connection with said
airport and they are further authorized to promulgate such rules and
regulations relative to the management of said airport and such further rules
as they deem necessary in connection with the operation of the said airport and
the personnel thereon. (1974 Code § 9-103)
6-4-4: PROCEDURE, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The procedure, rules and regulations governing and regulating the use,
maintenance and guarding of the Buhl municipal airport shall be such procedure,
rules and regulations as may now be prescribed, and as may from time to time
hereafter be prescribed, by the civil aeronautics administration of the
department of commerce of the United States, touching and concerning airports
of the class and designation as the said airport is classed and designated by
said administration, which applicable procedure, rules and regulations as are
now in force and effect and all the same amendatory thereof or supplementary
thereto, are hereby adopted. (1974 Code § 9-102)
6-4-5: CONSTRUCTION OF HANGARS; RENTAL SPACE:
   A.   Specifications: All hangars that are placed on the airport shall be
constructed upon a substantial cement or cinder block foundation or similar
material; each hangar shall be of good substantial construction and shall be
fireproofed. Each hangar shall be kept in a good state of repair so as to at
all times be an asset to said airport and sightly in appearance; each hangar
must be painted with an adequate number of coats of high grade asphalt aluminum
paint necessary to maintain its good appearance.
   B.   Doors: Each hangar shall be equipped with doors of sturdy construction
that will at all times hang straight, and said doors shall be closed at all
times except when taking an airplane in or out of the hangar.
   C.   Lease Required: A lease will be given to anyone desiring to place a
hangar on the airport, and the owner of the hangar must abide by the terms of
this lease or forfeit his right to have a hangar on said field. (1974 Code § 9-
106)
   D.   City To Have Lien: The city shall have a lien on any aircraft and
attendant property, including buildings, parts and equipment, placed on the
airport premises from the date hereof, for any unpaid charges until same are
fully satisfied and the city may retain possession of said aircraft and
attendant property, including buildings, parts and equipment placed on the
airport premises, and sell the same at public auction, after giving ten (10)
days' public notice of sale by advertising in the official newspaper. The
proceeds of the sale must be applied to the discharge of the lien and costs;
the remainder, if any, must be paid over to the owner. (1974 Code § 9-106; amd.
2010 Code)
6-4-6: BUILDING SPECIFICATIONS:
All building specifications are to be approved by the airport commission. After
this approval is obtained a permit must be obtained from the city to build.
(1974 Code § 9-105)
6-4-7: ZONING DISTRICT 1 :
Those lands, the boundaries of which are described in section
6-4-1 of this chapter, shall, for zoning purposes, be placed within the airport
district. The official zoning map as established pursuant to title 9, chapter 6
of this code shall designate those lands as coming within the airport district.
The boundaries of the airport district, for zoning purposes, may be enlarged or
restricted as provided by the general provisions of the city zoning ordinance
as found at title 9 of this code. As concerns the airport district, the same is
herein established for zoning purposes, the following provisions shall apply:
   A.   Intent: It is intended that all lands within the airport zone or
district shall be primarily available for municipal airport purposes. Excepting
other nonconforming uses or buildings now conducted or located on the property
within the airport district, all such land shall be used or occupied and any
building, structure or improvement thereon shall only be used, occupied,
placed, replaced, erected, reerected, constructed, reconstructed, altered,
extended, enlarged, modified, removed or moved upon obtaining from the planning
and zoning commission for the city a special use permit.
   B.   Zoning Applicable: Except as modified herein, all provisions of title 9
of this code shall apply to those lands located within the airport zoning
district.
   C.   Administration: The administration of title 9 of this code as well as
the provisions herein as concerns those lands located within the airport zoning
district, shall be vested with the planning and zoning commission of the city.
(1974 Code § 9-108)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  9-6-1F of this code.
6-4-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this chapter or of
the rules and regulations of the civil aeronautics administration of the
department of commerce of the United States which is herein adopted, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1974 Code § 9-107; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PARKS AND RECREATIONAL AREAS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Supervision; Rules And Regulations
6-5-2: City Parks
6-5-3: Skatepark
6-5-4: Violation; Penalty
6-5-1: SUPERVISION; RULES AND REGULATIONS:
All parks and recreational areas operated and maintained by the city shall be
under the supervision of the mayor and council, or their duly designated agent
or agents. The mayor and council shall, by resolution or ordinance, from time
to time, promulgate rules and regulations for the operation and maintenance of
such areas, and shall have the authority to establish schedules of fees to be
charged for the use of the same. (1974 Code § 10-101)
6-5-2: CITY PARKS:
City parks which have been named are as follows:
   A.   Jess O. Eastman Park: City park bounded by Maple Street, 6th Avenue,
Poplar Street, and 8th Avenue.
   B.   Dr. A.F. McClusky Park: Lot 2 of Inventors 4th addition adjacent to
Poplar Street.
      1.   The Alta Gannon Stage at McClusky Park. (1974 Code § 10-102)
      2.   The Buhl Centennial Skatepark at McClusky Park. (2010 Code)
   C.   Faris Field: Athletic field and lot 13 of Rodanbaugh addition, bounded
by Linden Street, 13th Avenue, and Birch Street 1 .
      1.   Clint Faux Diamond: At Faris Field, northeast baseball diamond.
      2.   Carey Schmeckpeper Diamond: At Faris Field, southwest baseball
diamond.
   D.   North Park: Athletic field adjacent to east side of Sawtooth Boulevard.
      1.   Kris Nungester Field: At North Park, west baseball diamond.
      2.   J.P. "Pat" Hamilton Field: At North Park, east baseball diamond.
      3.   Bobby Diercksen Field: At North Park, the north baseball diamond/
soccer field adjacent to Sawtooth Boulevard and Clear Lakes Road.
      4.   Community Field: At North Park, the south baseball diamond/soccer
field adjacent to Bobby Diercksen Field and Clear Lakes Road.
   E.   John Barker Memorial Park: Located in lot 2 of section 1, T10S, R 14
EBM near the Grove Subdivision 2 . (1974 Code § 10-102)
   F.   Rotary Triangle Park: Located on the east side of Main Street at the
intersection of Main Street and Clear Lakes Road.
   G.   Rotary Centennial Park: Located on the south side of Sawtooth Boulevard
at the intersection of Sawtooth Boulevard and Broadway Avenue.
   H.   Chamber Park: Located on the north side of U.S. Highway 30 at 716 U.S.
Highway 30 E.
   I.   John B. Crawford Park: Located on the south side of Clear Creek Drive
at the intersection of Clear Creek Drive and Milner Street.
   J.   Buhl Centennial Skatepark: Located within Dr. A.F. McClusky Park. (Ord.
962, 8-13-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. Deeded to the city by Buhl School District, Ord. 568, 5-1-1973; and deeded
  to city by Buhl Recreation Association, Inc.
2 1. Named in deed to city dated 3-12-1996.
6-5-3: SKATEPARK:
   A.   Rules: The following rules shall apply to anyone and everyone using the
Buhl Centennial Skatepark at Dr. A.F. McClusky Park:
      1.   The park closes at ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and thirty (30) minutes
before and thirty (30) minutes after any stage production, if asked to do so by
the sponsor of the stage production.
      2.   The park is unsupervised. Skate at your own risk.
      3.   Helmets are required for ages eighteen (18) and under. Protective
gear (helmets, knee and elbow pads) is recommended.
      4.   No bicycles, scooters or motorized vehicles allowed. The park is
designated for skateboards, in-line and roller skates only.
      5.   Skate within your ability and control, with the traffic flow.
      6.   Be respectful of others. The skaters' code of ethics is something to
be proud of.
      7.   Take pride in your park and use trash containers. Skaters trash
their boards, not their park.
      8.   All alcohol, tobacco, and drugs are prohibited in this park.
      9.   Vandalism, graffiti and tagging is prohibited. (1974 Code § 10-104)
   B.   Parent's Notification Of Violation: The parent(s) or guardian(s) of any
person under eighteen (18) years of age shall be informed in person or by
letter of any violation of the rules set forth in subsection A of this section
by such minor. (1974 Code § 10-105)
   C.   Warning: In lieu of the penalty for failure to observe rules and
regulations set out in subsection A of this section, any violators of these
rules may be issued a warning and suspended from using the skatepark for a
period of up to thirty (30) days. Should said violators not comply with the
suspension or repeat the violation, the penalty of section
6-5-4 of this chapter may be applied. (1974 Code § 10-106)
6-5-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who refuses or fails to observe any of the
provisions of the rules and regulations or fee schedules as provided for in
section
6-5-1 of this chapter, shall be guilty of an infraction and shall also be
subject to suit by the City for all damage to City property and be liable for
City Attorney fees and costs of bringing such civil action. (Ord. 991, 10-11-
2018)
ARTICLE A. PARKS AND TREE COMMITTEE
SECTION:
6-5A-1: Composition
6-5A-2: Responsibility
6-5A-3: Officers; Meetings
6-5A-4: Coordination And Communication
6-5A-5: Funding
6-5A-1: COMPOSITION:
   A.   Membership: A committee of five (5) individuals, three (3) of which
must reside within the city limits and two (2) of which may reside outside the
city limits shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of the city
council to serve until the term of the mayor who appoints the committee members
expires.
   B.   Council Liaison: A city council member shall be appointed to serve as
council liaison.
   C.   Ex Officio Members: The city public works director and parks
superintendent shall be ex officio members of the committee.
   D.   Youth Member: In addition to the members provided for above, the city
mayor, with the approval of the city council, may appoint one ex officio youth
member under twenty one (21) years of age, who lives within the city or its
impact area. The youth member shall participate in all discussions, but will
not have a vote. The youth member's term shall be one year, from October 1 to
September 30 of the following year and may be reappointed up to four (4)
successive terms. In computing the number of terms one can serve, the
completion of less than one-half (1/2) of the term of a previous youth member
shall not be counted as a term. (1974 Code § 10-201)
6-5A-2: RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Advisory In Nature: The committee shall be advisory in nature with the
purpose of providing advice to the mayor and city council as to the
preservation, protection and management of the community parks and forest, in
accordance with the intent and purpose of this title.
   B.   Findings And Recommendations: The committee will report its findings
and recommendations to the mayor and city council as requested by the mayor and
city council, or as is appropriate.
   C.   Hear Appeals:
      1.   License And/Or Certification Applicants: The committee will hear
appeals from license and/or certification applicants who are aggrieved of some
actions or omissions taking place pursuant to the license/certification
procedures of this title.
      2.   Controllers And/Or Licensees: The committee will hear appeals from
controllers and/or licensees who are aggrieved by the granting or denial of a
permit required by this title.
   D.   Community Forestry Issues: The committee will help develop and
implement educational materials and programs addressing community forestry
issues.
   E.   Recommend Needs To Maintain: The committee will make recommendations to
the council annually regarding needs of the several parks to maintain the
trees, grass, vegetation, and facilities of the several park areas for their
use by the public.
   F.   Permanent Changes: The committee will review and make appropriate
recommendations regarding all trees, shrubs, flowers and permanent changes to
the several parks such as erecting monuments, shelters, or other proposals as
may come before the council. To require scaled plans or drawings of proposed
projects when the committee feels such are necessary for making said
recommendation.
   G.   Guidelines For Use: The committee will propose guidelines for the use
of the parks by the public.
   H.   Disagreement With Committee Recommendations: Any organization or person
who does not agree with the committee recommendations may ask the city council
for time to submit their proposal as they desire it. The committee shall be
allowed time to submit to the council its opinion and recommendation on such
proposal.
   I.   Day To Day Operation And Maintenance: The day to day operation and
maintenance of the parks is and shall be done by the public works department of
the city. (1974 Code § 10-202)
6-5A-3: OFFICERS; MEETINGS:
The committee shall elect a president and vice president from within its
membership and a secretary-treasurer, shall hold regular meetings as required
by the president, and shall cause the secretary to maintain a written record of
its deliberations and proceedings. (1974 Code § 10-203)
6-5A-4: COORDINATION AND COMMUNICATION:
The committee will coordinate its activities regarding public trees in public
parks by communicating with the public works department, the parks
superintendent and forester. (1974 Code § 10-204)
6-5A-5: FUNDING:
The committee shall recommend an annual budget to the mayor and city council.
The committee is authorized to seek outside funding for committee projects as
may be approved by the city council in accordance with city budgetary
procedures. (1974 Code § 10-205)
CHAPTER 6
TREES AND SHRUBBERY
SECTION:
6-6-1: Definitions
6-6-2: Forester
6-6-3: Permits To Plant
6-6-4: Trees Permitted; Spacing
6-6-5: Permits For Removal
6-6-6: Dead Or Diseased Trees
6-6-7: Shade Trees; Damaging, Destroying
6-6-8: Pruning
6-6-9: Injurious Pests; Failure To Prune
6-6-10: Duties Of Owners
6-6-11: Work Done By City; Discretion Of City Parks And Tree Committee
6-6-12: Trees Grown In Containers On Streets
6-6-13: Violation; Penalty
6-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following words shall have the following
meanings:
PARKWAY: That portion of public right of way situated between the curb line of
any street and the property line of property abutting and adjoining any street.
In the absence of a curb, the curb line of a street shall be deemed to be the
edge of that portion of public right of way maintained and open to the use of
the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, association, company or
organization of any kind.
STREET: Highways, roads, alleys and bridges dedicated, purchased or otherwise
acquired for the public, including the unimproved or unused portion thereof,
maintained and open to use by the public, including sidewalks, parkways and
special tree planting easements adjacent to a street granted by property
owners.
TREES: All trees, plants and shrubs which, upon maturity, grow to a height of
more than three feet (3'). (1974 Code § 10-301)
6-6-2: FORESTER:
   A.   Appointment: The forester shall be appointed by the mayor with the
advice and consent of the council, and shall have such duties and perform such
functions as shall be prescribed in this chapter and as required by the rules
and regulations of the mayor and council and the city parks and tree committee.
(1974 Code § 10-302)
   B.   Budget: Each fiscal year, the budget of the forester shall be contained
in, but as a separate item of, the budget of the department of parks. (1974
Code § 10-303)
   C.   Directives; Authority: For the purpose of prohibiting the planting and
growing of the types or kinds of trees that may be hazardous, susceptible to
disease and insects, or injurious to sidewalks and curbs, and for the further
purpose of providing an aesthetically attractive plan of planting and growth of
trees for the beautification of the streets of the city, and to that end to
control and regulate the types or kind of trees permitted to be planted in, or
overhanging any street, the forester, subject to the provisions of this
chapter, is hereby authorized and directed to:
      1.   Plant, prune, spray, preserve and remove trees in public places to
ensure safety or preserve symmetry and beauty of such public places.
      2.   Order the pruning, preservation or removal of trees upon private
property when the forester or the city parks and tree committee shall find such
action necessary for public safety or to prevent the spread of disease or
insects to public trees and places.
      3.   Supervise all work done under a permit issued in accordance with the
terms of this chapter.
      4.   Divide the city into zones, districts or areas, and to specify the
type or kind of trees which may hereafter be planted and maintained in or over
any street within any such zone, district or area.
      5.   Provide for the spacing of, or distance permitted between, all such
trees.
      6.   Provide for the form of application for removal, or the planting, of
any such tree.
      7.   Establish and maintain a nursery for the growing of the types and
kinds of trees permitted, and to sell and plant the same, upon the payment of
the fees provided for in this chapter. (1974 Code § 10-304)
   D.   Map Or Plat:
      1.   Preparation: To carry out the purposes, functions and duties
prescribed by subsection C of this section, the forester shall cause to be
prepared a map or plat showing the zones, districts or areas of the city, and
the types or kinds of trees permitted within each zone, district or area.
      2.   Copies On File: Copies of such map or plat shall be kept on file in
the offices of the forester and the city clerk-treasurer, and shall be open to
public inspection. (1974 Code § 10-305)
6-6-3: PERMITS TO PLANT:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to plant any tree
in or within five feet (5') of any street, except and until a permit shall have
been issued therefor by the forester. Applications for tree planting shall be
filed with the forester, or with the city clerk-treasurer for transmittal to
the forester.
   B.   Applicant To Furnish Trees; Approval Required: If the applicant himself
desires to furnish a tree for planting, he shall so specify in his application
together with the name of the nursery, if any, to furnish and plant the same.
Such trees must be of the type and variety permitted under subsection
6-6-2C of this chapter and before planting must be approved by the forester for
size, variety and freedom from disease. (1974 Code § 10-306)
   C.   Amendment Of Application: All applications for tree planting permits
may be amended at any time so as to conform to the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Denial Of Application: If any application is denied by the forester,
the application shall be returned to the applicant with the reasons for the
refusal noted thereon.
   E.   New Or Amended Application: The applicant may file a new application,
with the refusal noted thereon, or an amended application at any time
thereafter. (1974 Code § 10-307)
6-6-4: TREES PERMITTED; SPACING:
   A.   Type, Kind And Variety; Location: Each permit issued for tree planting
shall designate the type, kind and variety of tree permitted, and the forester
shall designate the location therefor.
   B.   Approved Street Tree List:
      1.   Annual Review And Update: Approved species, species not permitted,
authorized spacing information and minimum tree well sizes for trees planted in
paved areas shall be obtained from the approved street tree list for the city,
which shall be reviewed and updated annually by the forester.
      2.   Variance: Permission for variance of the approved list may be
granted by the forester, if, in the judgment of the forester, said variance
will be beneficial to the city.
   C.   Distance From Sidewalk Line: No person shall plant any tree within two
feet (2') of the established sidewalk line; provided, that the provisions of
this subsection may be varied in special cases upon the approval of the
forester. (1974 Code § 10-308)
6-6-5: PERMITS FOR REMOVAL:
   A.   Permit:
      1.   Required: Except as provided by section
6-6-6 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to remove any tree
from any street until a permit shall have first been issued by the forester.
      2.   Application; Issuance: Applications for such tree removal shall be
filed with the forester, and if, in the judgment of the forester, such removal
is desirable, a permit shall be issued.
      3.   Removal Supervised: All work of removal shall be under the
supervision of the forester.
      4.   Permit Fee: No fee shall be charged for a removal permit. (1974 Code
§ 10-309)
      5.   Owner Requests Removal By City; Cost: In cases where the owner
requests such removal by the city, a fee shall be established and collected by
the forester of not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) up to actual
cost for each tree to be removed. All trees so removed by the city shall
thereupon be the property of the city. (1974 Code § 10-309; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Replacement:
      1.   When Required: Whenever, in the opinion of the forester, any tree
removed under the provisions of this section should be replaced, it shall be a
condition and a part of the permit for removal that the permittee plant, or
permit the planting of, the type of tree or trees and at the location specified
by the forester.
      2.   Fees:
         a.   Trees Furnished Or Planted By City: All fees for trees to be
furnished and/or planted by the city are payable at the time of planting. In
the event that said fees become delinquent they are hereby declared to be a
lien upon the adjacent real property owned by such person or persons where the
trees or trees were planted. (1974 Code § 10-309)
         b.   Furnished By Outside Source; Deposit: Any property owner desiring
to replace removed trees from an outside source must file a deposit of twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per tree to be replaced with the forester and shall have
one year's time from the completed removal date to replace said trees. At the
end of the specified time period, if the trees have not been replaced by the
owner, the forester is hereby directed to replant the number, size, and kind of
trees he deems necessary and shall use said deposit monies as partial payment
thereof and the owner will be billed for remainder of the actual cost. If the
owner properly replaces the trees as agreed, the deposit will be refunded to
the owner. (1974 Code § 10-309; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Fees For Removal Caused By Establishment And Creation Of Local
Improvement District: The fee or cost for removal of a tree or trees caused by
the establishment and creation of a local improvement district shall be
included as part of the costs and expenses of improvements authorized and
ordered by a local improvement district and shall be assessed against the
abutting, adjoining, contiguous and adjacent lots and lands benefited by the
improvements authorized and ordered by a local improvement district. (1974 Code
§ 10-309)
6-6-6: DEAD OR DISEASED TREES:
   A.   Definition: The term "diseased tree" means any tree which has become
blighted, deformed, or has acquired a disease not capable of cure through
treatment or the use of any known or recognized form of spray material.
   B.   Declared Nuisance: Every dead, deformed, broken, dangerous or diseased
tree within any street, or upon private property adjacent to a street or other
public grounds, which has or may become a traffic hazard and is so determined
by the forester, is hereby declared to be and to constitute a nuisance, and the
forester is authorized to remove such nuisance in the manner provided by this
section.
   C.   Removal: Whenever, in the opinion of the forester, any such trees
within a street or upon a parkway or other public property should be removed,
the forester shall cause the same to be removed at city expense.
   D.   Private Property Adjacent To Street Or Public Ground: Whenever any such
trees, or such trees declared to be a public nuisance as provided by section
6-6-9 of this chapter, are situated upon private property adjacent to a street
or other public ground, interfere with pedestrian or public travel or otherwise
constitute a safety hazard, the forester shall cause the pruning, removal or
extermination thereof. The cost of such pruning, removal or extermination shall
be assessed against the said property in the manner provided by section
6-6-10 of this chapter. (1974 Code § 10-310)
6-6-7: SHADE TREES; DAMAGING, DESTROYING:
It shall be unlawful for any person, including the owner, lessee or occupant of
any lot or premises, to wilfully cut, injure, disfigure or destroy, or in any
way damage or mutilate any shade tree, or part thereof, or ornamental plant
growing within any street, public park or public grounds in Buhl; except that
the forester may, upon determination that any tree or part thereof within any
public right of way is subject to condemnation as provided herein, remove such
tree or part thereof. (1974 Code § 10-311)
6-6-8: PRUNING:
   A.   Required: Every owner, agent, tenant or occupant of any property shall
prune all shade trees, and shall prune and remove all parts of dead or diseased
limbs of trees, in front of the property owned or occupied by him, overhanging
the sidewalks, street or alley so that the branches thereof will not interfere
with pedestrians or public travel, or constitute a hazard.
   B.   Options: In the case of trees on the public right of way, the owner,
agent, tenant or occupant has the option of:
      1.   Doing the work himself, subject to permit and supervision by the
forester; or
      2.   Hiring a tree firm licensed by the city to do the work. (1974 Code §
10-312)
6-6-9: INJURIOUS PESTS; FAILURE TO PRUNE:
It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance:
   A.   Permit Or Cause Infestation, Spread, Or Continued Existence: To permit,
or cause to be permitted, the infestation, spread or continued existence of
injurious pests, or insects, or their eggs or larvae, upon any tree or
shrubbery upon private property or upon property in the care, custody and
control of any person or upon a parkway; and
   B.   Permit Or Cause To Remain Unpruned: For any person to permit or cause
to be permitted, any tree to remain unpruned on a parkway when such tree or the
parts or branches thereof interfere with pedestrian or public travel or
otherwise constitute a safety hazard. (1974 Code § 10-313)
6-6-10: DUTIES OF OWNERS:
   A.   Duty To Eradicate Pests And Insects And Prune: It is hereby made the
duty of every owner of any real property in the city to eradicate any and all
injurious pests or insects, or their eggs or larvae from any and all trees or
shrubbery and to cause all trees growing upon the parkway to be pruned under
the supervision of the forester. (1974 Code § 10-314)
   B.   City May Do Work; Lien: In the event any owner of property fails to
have trees or shrubbery on the parkway pruned under the supervision of the
forester, or fails to exterminate such injurious pests or insects, or their
eggs or larvae, the same shall be done by the city under the supervision of the
forester and the costs and charges incurred are hereby declared to be a lien
upon the real property owned by such person. (1974 Code § 10-315)
   C.   Record Of Assessments: After the extermination of such injurious pests
or insects or their eggs or larvae or the pruning of trees and shrubbery,
herein declared to be a nuisance, the total amount of all expenses incurred and
incidental thereto shall be certified by the forester to the council and if
found to be correct, the council shall order the same entered in a docket or
book for the collection of special assessments by the city, which book or
docket shall contain the names of the property owners, description of the
property and the amount assessed against each lot, piece or parcel thereof, and
all amounts so entered shall be declared to be a lien upon the property so
benefited. (1974 Code § 10-316)
   D.   Delinquent Assessments: The city clerk-treasurer shall give public
notice in at least three (3) consecutive issues of the official newspaper,
specifying the time in which payment of such assessment may be made and that a
penalty of seven percent (7%) will be added after delinquency, and shall also
mail a postal card to each property owner, containing the substance of said
notice, and any person may redeem his property from said assessment by paying
the principal thereof within the time specified, and in default of such
payment, the same shall become delinquent assessments, which together with the
penalty shall be certified to the county tax collector by the city clerk-
treasurer and placed upon the tax roll and collected in the same manner and
subject to the same penalty as other city taxes. (1974 Code § 10-317)
6-6-11: WORK DONE BY CITY; DISCRETION OF CITY PARKS AND TREE COMMITTEE:
Whenever the city parks and tree committee shall determine that it is to the
best interest of the city to undertake the eradication of injurious pests and
insects, or to prune trees within the city streets, the same may be done by the
department of parks, to the extent of monies available therefor, without charge
to the owners of property adjoining such streets upon which such work is done.
(1974 Code § 10-318)
6-6-12: TREES GROWN IN CONTAINERS ON STREETS:
Trees may be planted, grown, established and maintained in containers placed,
installed, erected and maintained upon public property or right of way, subject
to all provisions of this chapter, except where in conflict with this section,
and subject to the following additional conditions and regulations: (1974 Code
§ 10-319)
   A.   Compliance With Map Or Plat: It shall be unlawful for any person to
plant, grow, establish and maintain trees in containers placed, installed,
erected or maintained upon public property or right of way in and at any
location until a zoning map, as provided by subsection
6-6-2D of this chapter, is on file showing the districts or areas within which
such containers may be placed, installed, erected or maintained and showing the
type, kind, sizes and spacing of the trees and containers within such districts
or areas, or at any place or places which the forester may from time to time
specify. The forester shall designate locations where such containers shall be
placed, installed, erected or maintained and reserve the right to change, alter
or amend designation of said location or locations as public convenience and
necessity may from time to time require. (1974 Code § 10-319; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful or any person to place, install,
erect or maintain any such container in the city without first securing a
permit therefor.
      1.   Written Application: No such permit shall be issued except upon
written application showing proposed location of each container and such other
information as the forester shall require.
      2.   Damage To City Property: No installation will be permitted which
will cause damage to the property of the city.
      3.   Obstruction Or Hazard: No permits shall be issued if the
installation, erection or maintenance of any such container should tend to
obstruct the passage along any public way or create a hazard or would otherwise
be detrimental to the public safety, welfare or convenience.
   C.   Container, Tree, Spacing, And Location: The forester, with the approval
of the city parks and tree committee, shall prescribe the type and kind of
container, types and kinds of trees, and the spacing and location of the
container or containers which shall be shown on the zoning map referred to in
subsection A of this section and in subsection
6-6-2D of this chapter, which types, kinds, spacing and locations may be in
addition to the conditions and regulations provided by subsections
6-6-2B, C, and D of this chapter. No permittee shall locate or maintain any
container or containers except in conformity with the provisions of this
section.
   D.   Supervision: The forester shall supervise the installation, erection,
maintenance or removal of all containers licensed hereunder, and said forester
shall have charge of, prescribe and regulate, subject to the provisions of this
chapter, the replacement or removal of trees planted, grown, established and
maintained in such containers.
   E.   Maintenance: It shall be the duty of the permittee, his, their or its
successors, assigns, transferees or agents, to maintain each container at all
times in a safe condition and in its proper, lawful location and to maintain
the trees therein.
   F.   Assignment Or Transfer: Each permit may be assigned and transferred,
but notice of such assignment or transfer must be given to the forester.
   G.   Revocation: Any permit may be revoked for any violation of any of the
provisions of this section and chapter. If any permit is revoked in accordance
with the provisions of this section, the permittee, his, their or its
successors, assigns, transferees or agents, shall remove the container or
containers from public property within ten (10) days from the date he, they or
it are so ordered, or the city shall remove and store the container or
containers at the permittee's, or his, their, or its successors', assigns',
transferees' or agents' expense. Any permit issued under this section shall be
canceled and revoked if the permittee, his, their or its successors, assigns,
transferees or agents, fails to place, install, erect or maintain such
container or containers within sixty (60) days after issuance of the permit.
(1974 Code § 10-319)
6-6-13: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of an infraction. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
CHAPTER 7
FRANCHISES
SECTION:
6-7-1: Gas And Electricity Franchises
6-7-2: Nonexclusive Franchises
6-7-1: GAS AND ELECTRICITY FRANCHISES 1 :
The providing of gas and electricity to the city must be franchised in the city
under agreements between the franchisee and the city. (2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-329.
6-7-2: NONEXCLUSIVE FRANCHISES:
The city council shall have the power to issue nonexclusive franchises. (2010
Code)
CHAPTER 8
WORK IN PUBLIC STREETS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY
SECTION:
6-8-1: Permit Required
6-8-2: Application And Permits
6-8-3:Denial Of Application
6-8-4: Approval Of Permits
6-8-5: Progress Of Work
6-8-6: Safety, Warning Signs, And Barricades
6-8-7: Ditching Across Public Right Of Way
6-8-8: Awnings
6-8-9: Use Restrictions
6-8-10: Weight Restrictions
6-8-11: Council May Order Construction
6-8-12: Sidewalks, Curbs, And Driveway Approaches
6-8-13: Liability For Damages Or Injuries Occurring On Sidewalks, Curbs And
Driveway Approaches
6-8-14: Inspections, Street Restoration, And Bond Requirements
6-8-15: Permit Fees
6-8-16: Suspension, Revocation, Or Modification Of Permit
6-8-17: Cuts On New Pavement Prohibited
6-8-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, other that authorized City
employees, to commence to repair, improve, alter, or otherwise perform any
street maintenance or work upon the public streets or Rights-of-Way within the
City without first having obtained a permit from the Public Works Director. In
granting a permit under this Chapter, the Director shall have the authority to
impose any conditions necessary to safeguard the public interest, including,
but not limited to, conditions on use, construction, indemnity, insurance, and
compensation to the City for degradation of the useful life of streets and the
Rights-of-Way. (Ord. 2024-05, 5-13-2024)
6-8-2: APPLICATION AND PERMITS:
Any person, firm or corporation required to obtain a permit for work in, or
business use of, a public street or Rights-of-Way shall file an application
therefor with the Director of the Department of Public Works. The application
shall be in writing, shall conform to the City Specifications and Standard
Drawings and any amendments thereto, and shall be upon forms provided by the
City. It shall contain information showing the type of construction, the
length, the exact location, the purposes, and other information which may be
required by the Public Works Director. The provisions of this section shall
apply to any person, firm or corporation qualified for and seeking permits for
street openings or work in the public streets and Rights-of-Way of the City.
(Ord. 2024-05, 5-13-2024)
6-8-3: DENIAL OF APPLICATION:
Wherever work in the public streets of Rights-of-Way within the City will
create an exceptional traffic hazard or will unreasonably restrict the use of
City streets, will create and impediment to the free movement of vehicles upon
the aforementioned streets, or a hazard to the travel or safety of pedestrians
thereon, the Public Works Director, at his/her discretion, may deny any
application, or part thereof, made under the terms of this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-
05, 5-13-2024)
6-8-4: APPROVAL OF PERMITS:
Permits for any work involving the removal or destruction of any street
surfacing, curb, curb and gutter, sidewalks, signs or other structure with
public right-of-way shall be approved by the City Engineer.
A permit for performing work in or upon any public right-of-way shall not
relieve the permittee of responsibility for the safety of water lines, sewer
lines, electrical cables, conduit or any other structures, material or
equipment which may be either above or below the ground, nor shall any such
permit allow the permittee to enter upon private property.
Permits shall not be granted for any improvement, excavation, fill,
construction, repairs or any other work within the public right-of-way unless
the contemplated work includes the construction of curb on all streets
adjoining the property where adequate curbing does not exist at the time of
application nor shall any permit be granted for any work within the streets
adjoining any business property unless the contemplated work includes the
construction of curb and sidewalk on all streets adjoining the property where
adequate curing and sidewalks do not exist at the time of application, except
that in the Manufacturing Zones, as defined in this Code, this requirement may
be waived on approval of the City Council.
Permits shall not be granted for any work within or upon any public right-of-
way bordering on any property having motor vehicle fuel pumps, driveway
approaches, signs, sidewalks, curbs or other structures which do not conform to
the existing requirements unless such times are to be reconstructed, removed or
altered to conform to the existing requirements and regulations.
Permits shall not be granted for the use of any material other than Portland
cement concrete for any new construction bordering on any business property
within the space between the property line and the curb line of any street.
(Ord. 2024-05, 5-13-2024)
6-8-5: PROGRESS OF WORK:
Whenever any work is done in or upon any public right-of-way, such work shall,
when once commenced, be continued to completion without unnecessary delay. If,
at any time during the progress of the work, the work is left unattended for a
period of more than twenty-four (24) hours, the superintendent of streets may
restore the site to its original condition and the person responsible for the
work shall be billed for the expense of such restoration. (Ord. 2024-05, 5-13-
2024)
6-8-6: SAFETY, WARNING SIGNS, AND BARRICADES:
The safety requirements of the City and of the state of Idaho, as applicable to
any work for which a permit is required hereunder, shall be observed.
Anyone doing any work in or upon any public right-of-way, whether by permit or
otherwise, shall if such work is not completed before sunset, provide a minimum
of four 4. flares or lights and keep them burning throughout the hours from
sunset to sunrise. (Ord. 2024-05, 5-13-2024)
6-8-7: DITCHING ACROSS PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY:
When, for any reason, it is necessary to run a ditch of any depth across more
than one-half (1/2) the width of any street, excavation and backfilling shall
be completed on one-half (1/2) of the street before any excavation is started
on the other half. Whenever such ditching is to be done, the person responsible
for the work shall inform the police and fire departments not less than two 2.
hours before the work is scheduled to start and shall notify the police and
fire departments as soon as the work is completed. Backfilling shall be done in
accordance with city specifications for sewer construction. (Ord. 2024-05, 5-
13-2024)
6-8-8: AWNINGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, erect, construct or maintain any
awning, shade or other structure of any kind or for any purpose over or above
the sidewalk space of any street or avenue within the city, unless each and
every part thereof other than the cloth or fabric covering shall be at least
seven feet (7') above the surface of the sidewalk, and unless each and every
part of the cloth or other fabric covering and fringe be at least six and one-
half feet (6 ½’) above the sidewalk. Provided, that this section does not, and
shall not, be deemed to affect or change in any way the provisions for height
or electric or other signs. (Ord. 2024-05, 5-13-2024)
6-8-9: USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Fires: It shall be unlawful for any person to set or maintain a fire on
any public right-of-way.
   B.   Rubbish And Waste: It shall be unlawful for any person to sweep, throw,
drop, leave or otherwise place any paper, rubbish, dirt, ashes, waste, trash,
weeds, grass, or other like substances on any public right-of-way.
   C.   Obstruction of Streets: It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct
in any way any public right-of-way except by permit issued under this code.
   D.   Horses And Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any
horse, mule or team standing in any street or public place or an enclosure
without a rider or driver, unless such horse, mule or team is securely
fastened.
   E.   Driving Over Curb: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or
cause to be driven any vehicle, team, or wagon over or upon any curbing or
sidewalk, except at locations where an approved crossing has been provided.
(Ord. 2024-05, 5-13-2024)
6-8-10: WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful to drive or haul or cause to be driven or hauled any
vehicle of which the weight, or distribution of the weight or the length of a
single vehicle, or the combined length of joined vehicles or the width shall
exceed in any respect that or those allowed by any statue of the state now or
hereafter in effect, or any regulation of the state highway department now or
hereafter in effect, or any regulation of any highway district in the city
which now is or hereafter may be in effect; or to drive or haul, or cause to be
driven or hauled, any vehicle having projecting hard knobs or parts upon any of
its wheels, except upon permission of the city engineer, which permit shall
designate the street or streets to be traveled; or to move any weight or
article upon or over any street or streets to be traveled; or to move any
weight or article upon or over any street unless the same be mounted upon, and
the weight thereof borne by wheels. Provided, however, that this section shall
not apply to the moving of buildings under special permit by the city council
or to the operation of any vehicles or equipment by the City in the care of or
work upon its streets and alleys. (Ord. 2024-05, 5-13-2024)
6-8-11: COUNCIL MAY ORDER CONSTRUCTION:
The City Council may from time to time by order or resolution entered upon its
minutes, order and direct the construction or repair of any sidewalk in the
manner designated in the order and when any sidewalk shall be ordered built,
rebuilt or repaired, and the owner shall fail or neglect to build, rebuild or
repair the same, the same may be done by the Superintendent of Streets or by
the contractors who may agree to do the same, and such contract shall be
awarded to the lowest responsible bidder therefor. The City Clerk shall, as the
City Council may direct, advertise for bids the construction of sidewalks in a
newspaper published in the City.
The Clerk shall, upon the passage of any order or resolution of the Council
directing the building or repair of any sidewalk, cause a written notice to be
served on the owner or owners of the property abutting, fronting on or adjacent
to the sidewalks to be constructed, notifying them to construct the same in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter and the order or resolution
directing the construction of the same, within fifteen (15) days from the date
of the service of said notice, which notice may be served by delivering a copy
thereof to the owner or owners, his or their agent, or by leaving a copy
thereof at the usual place of abode or the owner with any member of the owner’s
family over the age of fifteen (15) years. In case any owner is a nonresident,
or his place of abode cannot be found, then the Clerk shall cause said notice
to be published for four 4. weeks in a newspaper published in the City.
If, at the expiration of the time for which said notice is given, the said
sidewalk shall not be built by the owner of the property abutting, fronting on
or adjacent to the same, then the Superintendent of Streets or contractor shall
proceed as soon as practicable to construct the proper sidewalk as provided by
this Code, and in accordance with the order or resolution directing the
construction of the same.
When any sidewalk shall need repairing or rebuilding to conform to the
requirements of this Code, the Superintendent of Streets may cause notice
signed by the City Clerk to be given to the owner of the property fronting on
or abutting on or adjacent to such walk requiring the repair to be made within
fifteen (15) days, or the rebuilding to be done in fifteen (15) days, or
demonstrate within fifteen (15) days that they are attempting to start
construction. The serving of notice shall be made in the same manner as
provided above and if the same is not repaired or rebuilt within the time above
specified, it may be repaired or rebuilt by the Superintendent of Streets or
contractor in the same manner and upon the same terms as provided for first
construction.
As soon as the building, rebuilding or repairing of any sidewalk shall be
completed, the sidewalk shall be inspected by the City Engineer, and if it be
constructed or repaired in conformity with this Code and the order or
resolution ordering the same and the contract, if one is made, a certificate
shall be issued to the Superintendent of Streets or contractor as the case may
be, which shall state the amount of sidewalk constructed by the Superintendent
of Streets or contractor, the street or avenue, where constructed and the
description of the lots and blocks in front of, abutting on or adjacent to
which such sidewalk is built and the amount due for that fronting on, abutting
or adjacent to each lot.
Upon the presentation of one or more such certificates to the City Clerk, he
shall assess the amount of such certificates separately upon the lost fronting,
abutting on or adjacent to the sidewalks built or repaired, and record and file
the assessment roll in his office. At the next regular meeting of the City
Council the Clerk shall notify said Council of the fact that he has made such
assessment.
The City Clerk shall immediately thereafter give the lot owner notice of such
assessment by publication for a period of three 3. days in a newspaper
published in the City, notifying such owner to appear before the Council at its
next regular meeting, giving time and place of such meeting, that such property
owner may be heard before the Council as to the justness and correctness of the
amount so assessed.
In case the owner shall fail to pay such assessment of fail to appear and make
objections or shall fail to have his objections sustained by the Council, then
the assessment, unless the same be paid within ten (10) days after such
hearing, shall be certified by the City Clerk to the proper County officer
having custody of the tax list of Twin Falls County, at the time the said
certificate is made, in the same manner as other City taxes are certified to
said officer.
All such assessments shall be known as special assessments for sidewalk and
shall be levied and collected as a separate tax in addition to the taxes for
general revenue purposes to be placed on the tax roll for collection, subject
to the same penalties and collected in the same manner as other City taxes.
As soon as the City Clerk has so certified such assessment he shall draw and
issue a warrant to the contractor or Superintendent of Streets for the amount
called for in the certificate by the City Engineer upon the sidewalk fund which
shall be signed by the proper officers of the City and registered in the office
of the City Treasurer.
All warrants so issued shall be payable out of the moneys collected by the
County Collector from said sidewalk assessment and the City shall in no event
be liable on such warrants except to the amount collected from said assessment.
When any warrant drawn on the sidewalk fund is presented to the City Treasurer
for payment and there are no funds in the Treasury for the payment of the same,
the Treasurer shall endorse upon the bank of said warrant the date of
presentation for payment with words “No Funds” and any and all warrants to
endorsed shall bear interest from the date of presentation and endorsement by
the Treasurer at the rate of seven percent (7%) per annum. (Ord. 2024-05, 5-13-
2024)
6-8-12: SIDEWALKS, CURBS, AND DRIVEWAY APPROACHES:
   A.   Property Owner Responsibility: Sidewalks, curbs and driveway approaches
shall be constructed and repaired by the owners of the property adjoining the
location of the work at their expense, at such times and in such places and
manner as herein provided. The City Engineer is hereby authorized and directed
to inspect all such work and to obtain compliance with this Code and the
specifications and drawings herein referred to.
   B.   Regulations: It shall be unlawful for any person to lay, place or
construct any crossing over curbing in the City by means of cutting or removing
such curb, or otherwise, without first obtaining a permit from the City
Engineer to be issued according to the regulations contained herein.
      Any property owner desiring to obtain a permit for a service driveway or
driveways to serve his property, shall file application therefor with the City
Engineer. Said application shall be in writing and upon a form provided by the
City and shall contain information showing the type of construction, the length
of driveway desired, location of driveway and any other information which may
be required by the City Engineer.
      The permit fee for cutting a curb shall be established in the official
fee schedule of the city.
      If the proposed alteration as set forth in said application conforms with
the regulations herein contained and amendments thereof, the City Engineer
shall issue a permit therefor.
      The city council reserves the right to review any decision of the city
engineer upon any application and to permit curb cuts for a distance more that
thirty-five feet (35') in a commercial or manufacturing district where it
appears that it is necessary to accommodate large trucks and trailers. The
public welfare, safety and convenience shall be considered in granting any such
application.
   C.   Line And Grades: All lines and grades for all construction within the
public right-of-way shall be established by the city engineer. If sidewalks,
curbing, driveway approaches or other construction in the public right-of-way
is not set to the lines and grades as established by the city engineer, the
city council may direct removal and reconstruction to the proper grades. (Ord.
2024-05, 5-13-2024)
6-8-13: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES OR INJURIES OCCURRING ON SIDEWALKS, CURBS AND
DRIVEWAY APPROACHES:
Since the owners of property adjoining right-of-way are responsible for the
construction and repair of sidewalks, curbs and driveway approaches, the city,
its officers and employees shall not be liable for injuries or damages
resulting from a failure to construct, rebuild or repair sidewalks, curbs and
driveway approaches. (Ord. 2024-05, 5-13-2024)
6-8-14: INSPECTIONS, STREET RESTORATION, AND BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Inspections: The Department of Public Works, or qualified designee,
shall inspect Rights-of-Way occupancy permit locations/sites to evaluate the
condition of public infrastructure (including but not limited to; curb/gutter,
sidewalk, roadway/street and alley paving, grading, drainage structures,
bridges [vehicular and pedestrian], railings, retaining walls, boulevard or
median improvements, driveway approaches, alley approaches, curb and pavement
markings, traffic management structures, public utility connections and other
related appurtenances to determine if any harm, damage, degradation, or other
adverse condition to the public infrastructure has occurred. Any/all resultant
harm, damage, degradation, or other adverse condition to the public
infrastructure shall be fully restored to prior condition or better, as
determined feasible and/or appropriate by the Public Works Department. The
permittee accepts full responsibility, including any/all resultant costs, for
restoration of the public infrastructure. Failure to comply with restoration
requirements may result in the City completing the restoration work and;
      1.   Assessing the person, firm, or corporation; and
      2.   Drawing against the bonds posted by one or more licensed
contractors; and
      3.   Refusing future ROW permits for nonperformance until performance
issues are resolved.
   B.   Street Restoration:
      1.   The permittee, or its agent or contractor, shall restore, repair,
and replace any portion of the improvements or infrastructure located within
Rights-of-Way that is damaged or disturbed by the permittee’s work in or
adjacent to the Rights-of-Way.
      2.   If the permittee fails to timely restore, repair, or replace the
Rights-of-Way as required in this subsection, the City or its contractor may do
so and the permittee shall pay the City’s reasonable costs and expenses in
completing the restoration, repair or replacement including reasonable
attorney’s fees and expenses.
   C.   Video Inspections: All projects utilizing directional drilling
techniques with public right-of-way shall provide to the City a post-
construction video inspection of sewer mains and laterals within the
construction area documenting that the sewer system was not damaged by
construction activities.
   D.   Bond Requirements: The Public Works Director is authorized to require a
bond, or deposit, from any permittee under this Chapter, to guarantee the
restoration of the street and Rights-of-Way or use thereof to its original
condition and to compensate the City for the degradation of the street and
Rights-of-Way.
      Bond amounts shall be at the discretion of the Public Works Director,
utilizing commonly used estimation formulas for Public Works Construction.
(Ord. 2024-05, 5-13-2024)
6-8-15: PERMIT FEES:
   A.   Permits required under this Chapter specifying the authorized work
shall be issued by the Public Works Director, or their designee, upon proper
application therefore and upon payment of the fees required as follows;
      1.   A basic fee in the amount established by the City; and
      2.   The estimated cost of administration and inspection as determined by
the Public Works Director, including the City’s labor, overhead and all other
costs for street work, said amount shall not exceed 20% percent of the
estimated cost of construction.
      3.   In the event that reinspection or other actions are necessary, an
additional fee shall be charged in an amount determined by the Public Works
Director to equal the City’s costs of performing the reinspection or other
actions, including all labor, overhead and other costs.
      4.   A payment of all related street degradation costs.
      5.   Any permit for temporary use or occupation of the public Rights-of-
Way, where there is no construction involved, shall not require payment of a
degradation cost as part of the permit fee.
      6.   Before a permit is issued pursuant to this article, the applicant
shall pay to the City a permit application fee, which shall be determined in
accordance with a fee schedule adopted by the City from time to time.
   B.   Fees will be reasonably related to the costs inherent in managing the
public Rights-of-Way. As used in this Chapter, these costs include, but are not
necessarily limited to:
      1.   The costs of permitting Rights-of-Way occupant(s),
      2.   Verifying Rights-of-Way occupation(s),
      3.   Mapping Rights-of-Way occupation(s),
      4.   Inspecting job site(s) and Rights-of-Way restoration(s),
      5.   Administering this Chapter,
      6.   Costs relating to the degradation of the Rights-of-Way (i.e., the
cost to achieve a level of restoration as determined by the City at the time
the permit is issued); and
      7.   Disruption costs resulting from traffic disruption and delay.
   C.   The portion of the permit fee relating to degradation costs shall be
reduced by the City in cases where the applicant demonstrates to the
satisfaction of the Public Works Director that the excavation proposed will be
used by two 2. or more entities, legally and financially unrelated, for the
installation, maintenance, or repair of facilities.
   D.   The degradation cost portion of the permit fee shall be further reduced
in cases where the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Public
Works Director that the excavation to be made will be commenced and completed
during the twelve-month period immediately prior to the scheduled repaving or
resurfacing of a street, as indicated in the most recent edition of the City’s
repaving plan. (Ord. 2024-05, 5-13-2024)
6-8-16: SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, OR MODIFICATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   The Public Works Director may suspend, revoke, or modify any permit
issued under this section when such permit holder, or any party to the permit:
      1.   Violates any of the terms and requirements outlined in the approved
permit;
      2.   Exceeds the scope of the use of work outlined in the permit
application;
      3.   Has obtained a permit by fraud, misrepresentation, concealment, or
through inadvertence or mistake; or
      4.   Makes a misrepresentation or fails to disclose a material fact to
the City related to any of the obligations set forth in this Chapter. (Ord.
2024-05, 5-13-2024)
6-8-17: CUTS IN NEW PAVEMENT PROHIBITED:
   A.   For the purposes of this section, “new pavement” includes any paving or
surface treatment that has been in place less that five 5. years; nominal
surface treatments such as chip, slurry, or fog seals are excluded from this
definition.
   B.   A permit to cut new pavement shall not be granted. Permittees shall
determine alternate methods to avoid cutting new pavement.
   C.   Exceptions:
      1.   Emergency which endangers life or property;
      2.   Interruption of essential utility service;
      3.   Work that is mandated by City or by state, or federal legislation;
      4.   Service for buildings or customers where no other feasible means of
providing service exists; and
      5.   Cuts smaller that two 2. square feet, only permitted outside of a
wheel path as determined by Public Works Director.
   D.   Permits issued under C.1. to C.4. above require mill and inlays of all
lanes affected. Unless otherwise specified by the Public Works Director or
their designee, mill and inlays shall extend at least one hundred (100) feet on
arterials, or at least fifty (50) feet on collectors.
   E.   Permits issued under C.5. above shall be in accordance with the City
Specifications and Standard Drawings. (Ord. 2024-05, 5-13-2024)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER SYSTEM REGULATIONS AND PROTECTION
SECTION:
7-1-1: Definitions
7-1-2: Request For Hookup; Fees
7-1-3: Meters
7-1-4: Service Lines
7-1-5: Access For Inspection
7-1-6: Damage In Case Of Shutoff
7-1-7: Two Homes Or Buildings On One Meter
7-1-8: Power To Withhold Water
7-1-9: Request For Service And Shutoffs
7-1-10: Water Rates
7-1-11: Deposit For Turn On
7-1-12: Statements
7-1-13: Sprinkling
7-1-14: Testing
7-1-15: Control Rests With Mayor And Council
7-1-16: Tapping
7-1-17: Turning On After Shutoff
7-1-18: Inhibiting Access To Meter; Penalty
7-1-19: Theft, Improper Use, Interference Or Damage
7-1-20: Violation; Penalty
7-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
CHARGES AGAINST THE PREMISES: Charges made under this chapter, the payment of
which is secured by ownership of the premises and not by a security deposit.
CHARGES AGAINST THE SECURITY DEPOSIT: Charges made under this chapter, the
payment of which is secured by a security deposit and not by ownership of the
premises.
DIRECTOR: Director of public works who shall be responsible for the operation
of the city water system.
INDIVIDUAL USER: A user whose primary use of water is for domestic and
irrigation use.
MONTH: A month as used herein shall mean the period between scheduled water
meter readings. The city will, as nearly as possible, schedule the water meter
readings thirty (30) days apart.
OWNER: Refers to the property owner, or his duly authorized representative such
as tenant, developer, lease holder, etc., that is served by the water system.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
SERVICE LINES: Service lines include all water lines or pipes used to deliver
city water from the water meter to the place of use.
UNIT: A term sometimes used to define a separate water user where two (2) or
more water users are served through one water meter.
USER: Any person or owner who receives a separate billing from the city for
services rendered by the water system.
VARIABLES: Used in computing water use rates:
   A.   C = Total water use charge.
   B.   CU = Individual unit water use charge.
   C.   G = Monthly water meter reading in gallons.
   D.   U = Number of individual units.
   E.   V = Monthly individual unit water use.
WATER SYSTEM: Includes all components and facilities of the public water system
that are owned, operated, and maintained by the city for domestic and other
uses. (1974 Code § 1-501)
7-1-2: REQUEST FOR HOOKUP; FEES:
   A.   Application: Application for the hookup of water must be made at the
office of the city clerk-treasurer on such forms as may be required by the
city. Service will not be provided until all forms have been properly completed
and signed and all costs required have been paid to the city, in advance. All
services shall be governed by this title and such rules and regulations as may
be prescribed by the city council. (1974 Code § 1-502)
   B.   Fees:
      1.   Paid In Advance: Before water meters can be installed and connected
to the city water mains or laterals, the installation and hookup fee set by
resolution of the city council and approved by the mayor must be paid in full
to the city clerk-treasurer.
      2.   Users Outside City Limits: The hookup fees to be charged to any
owners or users outside the city limits of the city shall equal one and one-
half (11/2) of the hookup fee or charge assessable to an owner or user within
the city limits and as set forth in subsection B1 of this section. (1974 Code §
1-503)
7-1-3: METERS:
   A.   Required; Location: All water will be measured by means of a meter
supplied by the city. The meter shall be placed at a point to be designated by
the director of public works between the city mains or laterals and the service
line.
   B.   Furnished By City; Installation: All meters shall be furnished by the
city. All meters shall remain the property of the city and must be installed by
the city under the direction, supervision and control of the director of public
works. All meters shall be returned to the city upon their removal from the
city water system.
   C.   Replacement:
      1.   City To Replace: The city shall replace all meters which wear out
from normal use at the city's expense, said expense having been paid by the
user as part of the water hookup fee and the water fees paid.
      2.   Owner To Replace:
         a.   Larger Or Smaller Meter Requested: The owner will be responsible
for the expense of replacing a meter with a larger or smaller meter when the
owner requests such replacement.
         b.   Damaged Or Destroyed: The owner shall be responsible to replace,
at the owner's expense, all water meters or parts thereof damaged or destroyed
by the real property owner or other persons known or unknown. (1974 Code § 1-
504)
7-1-4: SERVICE LINES:
   A.   Property Owner To Repair And Protect: It is the responsibility of the
property owner receiving water through a service line to keep the same in
repair and protected from freezing. The city will not work on service lines.
   B.   Damage Resulting From Leaks Or Breaks: The owner shall be responsible
for all damage resulting from leaks or breaks in owner's service line. The city
shall have no responsibility for the installation, maintenance or repair of
such service lines, nor shall the city have any liability for damage resulting
from the leakage or breakage of a service line. (1974 Code § 1-505)
   C.   Frozen Lines; Flat Fee: Should an owner's service line freeze and said
freezing results in the damage to the water meter and/or the city water lines
and the city is called upon to thaw the city line or water meter, there shall
be a flat fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus the cost of any materials
used by the city charged to the owner of the frozen service line; such fees
shall be added to the next utility bill. (1974 Code § 1-505; amd. Ord. 965, 10-
22-2012)
7-1-5: ACCESS FOR INSPECTION:
Officers and employees of the city shall have free access to all buildings to
which water may be delivered from the city mains and the location of all city
water meters for the purpose of inspecting conditions of the pipes, fixtures
and meters and the reading of water meters. No structures shall be constructed,
erected or maintained nor any vehicles parked so as to interfere with such
access. The owner must control all dogs or other pets so that they do not
interfere with such access. Failure to keep the meter accessible for meter
reading may result in a charge for returning to read the meter. (1974 Code § 1-
506)
7-1-6: DAMAGE IN CASE OF SHUTOFF:
The city water may be shut off from the mains at any time, without notice, for
the purpose of making repairs, extensions, or other necessary purposes. Persons
having boilers supplied by direct pressure from the mains are cautioned against
danger of explosion or collapse. The city shall not be responsible for the
safety of boilers on the premises of any water consumer, nor for any damage
caused a property owner as a result of a shutoff. When water is to be shut off
out of the mains of the city on a planned shutoff, the water department shall
notify the fire department and property owners prior to the time of making such
shutoff using the best method of notice available. (1974 Code § 1-507)
7-1-7: TWO HOMES OR BUILDINGS ON ONE METER:
   A.   Prohibited: No new construction or remodeling will be allowed which
will place two (2) or more houses, buildings or structures on one meter.
   B.   Existing Conditions; Billing Procedures: Under existing conditions
where two (2) or more parties receive water through one water meter, one water
statement for the meter will be issued and the following billing procedures
will be followed:
      1.   Minimum Billing: The minimum billing will equal the minimum fees for
city services times the number of units receiving services through the one
meter or the actual use, whichever is greater.
      2.   One Statement: One statement for the meter will be sent to the owner
of the property served, said owner shall be responsible for paying said
statement. Default in payment will result in a shutoff order being issued for
the meter.
      3.   Repeated Shutoff Orders: In the event repeated shutoff orders are
issued for a water meter statement, the city may require that each user have a
separate water meter, the cost of which shall be paid by the property owner.
(1974 Code § 1-508)
7-1-8: POWER TO WITHHOLD WATER:
   A.   Violation; Failure To Pay: The city may withhold water for any
violation of this chapter, for public health or safety reasons, for failure to
have backflow prevention devices (article A of this chapter), or for failure to
pay debts due the city.
   B.   Multiple Units Or Premises; Failure Of Either To Comply: Where two (2)
or more units or premises are supplied from the same service line, failure on
the part of either of such units to comply with this chapter shall warrant the
director of public works in withholding the supply of water through such
service line, until a separate service line, with a separate meter for each
user, is installed for each user at said user's expense.
   C.   Unauthorized Hose Or Pipe: No aboveground or buried water hose or other
unauthorized pipe may be used to supply water from one user to a second user.
(1974 Code § 1-509)
7-1-9: REQUEST FOR SERVICE AND SHUTOFFS:
Should a person, corporation or legal entity desire to obtain city water
service or to discontinue the use of city water, a request for such must be
given to the city clerk-treasurer at city hall on such forms as the city shall
provide. All required deposits and outstanding bills with the city shall be due
and payable. (1974 Code § 1-510)
7-1-10: WATER RATES:
   A.   Basis For Water User Charges: There is hereby established a system of
periodic service charges and fees for the use of, and for services rendered by,
the city water system, which charges and fees shall be as near as possible
proportional to the services rendered by said water system. The rates, charges
and fees shall be sufficient to produce the revenue required to maintain,
repair, operate, administer and improve the system and pay all loans, bonds, or
other debts incurred to do so. The rates, charges and fees provided by this
chapter are hereby levied and assessed against the user having any water
service connection with the city water system. It is specifically enacted that
all property in the city to which the water system is available, but is not
used by the owner or occupier of said parcel of land, is still subject to user
charges under the provisions of this chapter as recompense for availability of
service and other benefits. (1974 Code § 1-511)
   B.   Rate Committee:
      1.   Created; Membership; Confirmation: There is hereby created a Rate
Committee consisting of seven (7) members, who are as follows: a) the City
Clerk, b) the Director of Public Works, c) the City Treasurer, d) the City
Engineer and e) three (3) citizens of Buhl appointed by the Mayor; one will
represent commercial users, one will represent industrial users and one will
represent residential users; all must be approved by the City Council. The City
Water Department Manager and the City Waste Water Department Manager shall be
adjunct members of the Rate Committee. The Rate Committee shall be confirmed by
the City Council and all decisions made by the Rate Committee shall be subject
to approval of the City Council.
      2.   Chairperson: The City Engineer shall be the Chairperson of the Rate
Committee.
      3.   Meetings: The Rate Committee shall meet at least one time a year and
at such additional times as called by the Chairperson or three (3) members.
      4.   Duties: At least once annually the Rate Committee shall evaluate the
monthly service charges for the City water, sewer and sanitation system and
recommend changes to the City Council in administration, water use, and other
rates as required to operate, maintain, administer and/or improve the City
water, sewer and sanitation system.
      5.   Individual Unit User Appraisal:
         a.   Appraisal; Assessment: Each type of individual water user and
parcel being subject to a water user charge as provided in this section shall
be appraised and assessed by the Rate Committee for the purpose of establishing
the individual unit user rating and the monthly service charge or fee for
individual unit water use service, to be charged or assessed to and against
such property. In making such appraisal, the Rate Committee shall utilize the
unit rating adopted by resolution of the City Council. The unit rating shall be
sum of all units served by a single water meter.
         b.   Example Computation For Multiple Users Through Single Meter: An
example computation for a planned unit development user obtaining all of his
water through a single water meter and consisting of ten (10) single-family
residences, a mobile home court with twenty (20) spaces, five (5) duplexes, and
a motel with twelve (12) units, is as follows:
 
Single-family residences 10 units
Mobile home court        20 units
Duplexes                 10 units
Motel:    First unit  1 unit
    Next 10 units     5 units
    Next 1 unit       1/4 unit
Total:                   461/4 units
 
The total unit rating for this user would be forty seven (47) units. All
fractions of units obtained after summation shall be rounded up to the next
largest whole unit. (Ord. 986, 8-14-2017)
   C.   Water Rates Within City Limits: All owners within the City limits who
derived benefit from the City water system shall, in return for said benefit,
pay monthly user charges established by resolution of the City Council. The
total monthly user charge shall be the sum of separate monthly charges for
administration, water usage and such other expenses deemed proper by the City
Council.
      1.   Administration rate: The monthly service charge to administer the
water system.
      2.   Water user rate: The monthly service charge to provide water for use
from the water system.
   D.   Water Rates Outside City Limits: All owners outside the City who derive
benefit from the City water and/or sewer system shall, in return for said
benefit, pay monthly user charges equal to one and one-half (11/2) times the
monthly charge otherwise chargeable to an owner within the City as computed
above, unless the City determines that, because of special circumstances, the
fee should be more or less than one and one-half (11/2) times the fee, in which
case the Rate Committee may be asked to determine the fee.
   E.   Notification To Users Of Income And Expense Of Water System: Upon any
rate change, the City shall inform users that an income and expense statement
for the water system is available at City Hall for their inspection and
copying. (1974 Code § 1-511)
   F.   Faulty Meter; Rate To Be Paid: If, for any reason, a meter is faulty or
fails to register the correct amount of water used, the rate shall be fixed at
an estimated rate of use based upon a historical review of the facts presented
by the user and the city and past consumptive records. The director of public
works, or the director's designee, shall establish a settlement rate based upon
such information. (1974 Code § 1-512)
7-1-11: DEPOSIT FOR TURN ON:
   A.   Nonproperty Owner: Every user of water, purchasing the same from the
city, who is not a real property owner in said city, shall, before being
supplied with water, deliver to the city clerk-treasurer a deposit of lawful
money of the United States Of America, as hereinafter set out, conditioned that
the said user paying to the city the rates charged for said water for such term
as it may be supplied irrespective of the place or places of delivery. The city
clerk-treasurer may return the deposit after twelve (12) billing periods have
passed if the user has not been delinquent in payment for twelve (12) or more
consecutive payments and the clerk-treasurer knows of no reason to retain the
deposit. Should the user default in payment of his or her statement, the clerk-
treasurer may demand that the deposit be once again posted with the city. (1974
Code § 1-513)
   B.   Property Owner: Every user of water, purchasing the same from the city,
who is a real property owner in the city and who does not make the deposit
provided for above, by accepting said water, consents to the city filing a lien
against the property to which the water was delivered with the Twin Falls
County recorder, Twin Falls, Idaho, for the amount of the delinquent utility
bill plus late charges, interest and the cost of filing said lien.
   C.   Statement Placed In Name Of Property Owner: Any real property owner may
have the water statement placed in his/her name and water, etc., will be
provided to the renter on the owner's account with no deposit being required.
However, the real property owner will be personally liable for said utility
bill and subsection B of this section shall apply. (1974 Code § 1-513; amd.
Ord. 965, 10-22-2012)
   D.   Amount Of Deposit: The amount of said deposit shall be the greater
amount of the following:
      1.   Two (2) times the minimum monthly charges for monthly services
charged to said meter rounded up to the nearest five dollar ($5.00) increment.
      2.   The term "monthly service charged" to said meter includes, but is
not limited to, water, sewer and sanitation fees.
      3.   The deposit for services outside the city limits shall be one and
one-half (11/2) times the fee computed under subsection D1 or D2 of this
section.
      4.   All deposits shall be held by the city to secure payment of the
party's city water statement.
      5.   When service is terminated by the user of the service or by the city
because the account is delinquent, the deposit shall be applied first to paying
the balance due the city on the account and the balance remaining, if any,
shall be returned to the party who made the deposit if such sum is claimed at
the city hall within forty five (45) days. Unclaimed balances shall be
deposited into the city water department general fund. If any balance is due
the city after applying the deposit to payment of the account, the city may
bring civil suit for the collection of the balance or refuse city services to
such party until such balance is paid in full. (1974 Code § 1-514)
   E.   Charges To Be Paid Before Turn On:
      1.   All charges against the premises that are due and payable must be
paid by the owner of the premises, or some other person on such owner's behalf,
before water will be turned on to the premises for which such service charge is
owed.
      2.   All charges against the security deposit that are due and payable,
including such that are not paid by the security deposit, must be paid by the
owner of the security deposit, or some other person on such owner's behalf,
before water will be turned on to the user who posted the original security
deposit. (1974 Code § 1-515)
7-1-12: STATEMENTS:
   A.   Meters Read Monthly: All city water meters will be read by the city on
a monthly basis.
   B.   Billing: The monthly water fee shall be part of the utility fee billed
as provided hereafter in chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 966, 10-22-2012)
7-1-13: SPRINKLING:
   A.   Power To Regulate: The Director of Public Works, with the consent of
the City Council and Mayor, shall have the power and authority to regulate the
hours of sprinkling.
   B.   Water Shortage:
      1.   In the case of shortage of water, upon declaration or proclamation
by the Mayor, the Director of Public Works shall order the water users to
discontinue the use of sprinkler irrigation and outside use of City water from
said City water system for such time as, in the Director's opinion with the
concurrence of the Council, shall be deemed necessary.
      2.   During the period of a declaration of water shortage, no sprinkler,
open hoses, etc., shall be used for domestic irrigation, and no City water
shall be used for washing motor vehicles, driveways, patios, sidewalks or any
other outside use.
   C.   Use During Fire: All domestic irrigation shall be ceased at any time
when there is a fire burning that is being fought by the Buhl Fire Department
or any other Fire Department aiding the City. (1974 Code § 1-517)
7-1-14: TESTING:
It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works, in accordance with State
regulations, to draw or have drawn specimens of water from at least four (4)
points in the water system, such points to be chosen by the Director of Public
Works. The water so drawn for specimens shall be submitted to a qualified
laboratory approved by the State Department of Public Health for testing as to
purity, and report on such tests shall be filed in the Office of Director of
Public Works and such other agencies as required by law. (1974 Code § 1-518)
7-1-15: CONTROL RESTS WITH MAYOR AND COUNCIL:
In all cases where this chapter places any discretion in the Director of Public
Works or the City Clerk-Treasurer, such discretion shall be subject to the
approval of the Mayor and Council. (1974 Code § 1-519)
7-1-16: TAPPING:
   A.   Done By City: All tapping of mains or laterals of the City water system
must be done by the City through the Director of Public Works and City
employees. (1974 Code § 1-520)
   B.   Done By Any Other Person: Any other person or persons doing so shall be
violating the provisions of this section. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
7-1-17: TURNING ON AFTER SHUTOFF:
   A.   Prohibited: Should the owner or occupant of the premises turn on the
water, or suffer or cause it to be turned on, after it has been shut off by the
City at the water meter, the City will shut the meter off and a charge of fifty
dollars ($50.00) must be paid to the City before the same shall be turned on
again. The charge set forth herein shall be increased for repeated violations
by multiplying this charge times the repeat numbers.
   B.   Violation; Penalty: Any person turning on a City water meter after it
is shut off by the City shall be guilty of an infraction and subject to penalty
as provided in this Code, which penalty shall be in addition to any charge set
forth in subsection A of this section. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
7-1-18: INHIBITING ACCESS TO METER; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall, in any manner, intentionally
interfere with the reading of the water meter shall be deemed guilty of an
infraction. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
7-1-19: THEFT, IMPROPER USE, INTERFERENCE OR DAMAGE:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall: a) knowingly divert water service of
the City to his own benefit or the benefit of another not entitled thereto; or
b) use City water from the City water system for any purpose not stated in the
application for City water service; or c) maliciously interferes with, damages
or vandalizes any City water meter or the City water system or any part
thereof, shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and subject to penalty as
provided in this Code. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
7-1-20: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Infraction: A violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be an
infraction and the violator, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty of
one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus court costs and fees assessed for the first
violation, two hundred dollars ($200.00) plus court costs and fees for the
second violation, and three hundred dollars ($300.00) plus court costs and fees
for the third and subsequent violations during the same calendar year;
provided, however, that in the event the damages resulting from any single
violation of this chapter exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), such violation
is declared to be a misdemeanor. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
   B.   Civil Action:
      1.   Whenever it appears to the City Council that any person has engaged
or is about to engage in any act or practice violating any provisions of this
chapter, the City Council may institute a civil action in the District Court to
enforce compliance with this chapter. Upon a showing that a person has engaged
or is about to engage in an act or practice constituting a violation of this
chapter, a permanent or temporary injunction, restraining order or other such
relief as the court deems appropriate may be granted. The City Council shall
not be required to furnish any bond in said civil processing.
      2.   The City may file a civil suit to collect any sums due the City
which were not paid when due plus attorney fees and court costs.
      3.   The City shall be entitled to costs and reasonable attorney fees on
any suits brought to enforce this chapter. (1974 Code § 1-524)
ARTICLE A. CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
7-1A-1: Purpose; Scope
7-1A-2: Definitions
7-1A-3: Nuisance
7-1A-4: Connection And Discontinuance Of Service
7-1A-5: Backflow Prevention Devices
7-1A-6: Cross Connection Inspection
7-1A-7: Sprinkler Systems
7-1A-8: Enforcement
7-1A-9: Additional Remedies
7-1A-10: Civil Liability
7-1A-11: Violation; Penalty
7-1A-1: PURPOSE; SCOPE:
   A.   The purpose of this article is to protect the public health of water
consumers by the control of actual and potential cross connections. (1974 Code
§ 5-801)
   B.   Rules and regulations of the Idaho department of environmental quality
pertaining to public water supplies have specific provisions to control cross
connections in public water systems. For the purpose of protecting the health
of consumers receiving water from the city, it is considered that the
requirements established by the Idaho department of environmental quality in
Idaho rules for public drinking water systems, IDAPA 58.01.08, apply. (1974
Code § 5-801; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   This article is adopted for the benefit of public health to water users
receiving their water supply from the city by protecting the public water
system from actual or potential contamination. (1974 Code § 5-801)
7-1A-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   General Definitions: The following are established as definitions for
the purpose of this article:
   BACK PRESSURE BACKFLOW: The backflow of a higher pressure nonpotable water
supply into a lower pressure potable supply.
   BACK SIPHONAGE BACKFLOW: Backflow of a nonpotable supply into a potable
water supply that is a result of negative or reduced pressure.
   BACKFLOW: The flow, other than the intended direction of flow, of any
foreign liquids, gases or substances into this city public water supply
distribution system.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device to counteract back pressure or to
prevent back siphonage.
   CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical arrangement whereby a public water supply is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water supply system, sewer,
drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture, or other device
which contains or may contain contaminated water, sewage or other waste or
liquid of unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of contaminating the
public water supply system of this city as a result of backflow.
   B.   Additional Definitions: All definitions contained in Idaho rules for
public drinking water systems, IDAPA 58.01.08, as the same may hereafter be
revised or amended, shall be considered as definitions within the meaning of
this article. (1974 Code § 5-802)
7-1A-3: NUISANCE:
No water service connection from the city water system to any premises shall be
installed or maintained unless the city water supply is protected, as
determined to be necessary by backflow prevention devices as required by rules
and regulations of the state department of environmental quality, the Idaho
rules for public drinking water systems, and/or the AWWA PNS cross connection
and control manual and by this article. The installation or maintenance of a
cross connection which will endanger the water quality of the city water supply
system is prohibited. Any such cross connection now existing or hereafter
installed is hereby declared a nuisance and shall be abated. The control and/or
elimination of cross connection with the distribution system of the city shall
be in accordance with the rules and regulations of the state of Idaho,
department of environmental quality and the city. The city council may
establish requirements of cross connection control within this city more
stringent than state regulations. (1974 Code § 5-803)
7-1A-4: CONNECTION AND DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
Service to any property, landowner, or water user receiving its water supply
from the city water system shall be contingent upon compliance with all
requirements of the rules and regulations of the state department of
environmental quality and of this article pertaining to cross connections.
Service shall be discontinued to any premises, water user or property owner for
failure to comply with such regulations. Discontinued service will not be
reestablished until the city has approved compliance by that particular
premises, water user or landowner with such requirements of the rules and
regulations of the state department of environmental quality and of this
article pertaining to cross connections. (1974 Code § 5-804)
7-1A-5: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   Required: Backflow prevention devices shall be installed where, in the
judgment of the city, the nature and extent of activities or the materials
stored on the premises, would present an immediate and dangerous hazard to
health and/or be deleterious to the quality of the water should a cross
connection occur even though such cross connection does not exist at the time.
Backflow prevention devices shall be installed under circumstances including,
but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply.
      2.   Premises having internal cross connections that are not correctable,
or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impossible to ascertain
whether or not cross connections exist.
      3.   Premises where entry is restricted or denied.
      4.   Premises having a history of cross connections being established or
reestablished.
      5.   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply, or where a cross connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters.
      6.   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
in such a way that if back siphonage should occur, a serious health hazard
might result.
      7.   Other premises, as specified by the city, where backflow prevention
devices are required to protect the public water supply. (1974 Code § 5-805)
   B.   Type Of Protective Device: The AWWA PNWS cross connection control
manual, as it now exists or is hereafter amended, is adopted by the city by
reference and shall be followed in determining the type and installation of
cross connection control devices. A copy of the current manual being used by
the city shall be kept at the city clerk-treasurer's office at city hall. (1974
Code § 5-806)
   C.   Place Of Installation: Backflow prevention devices required by this
article shall be installed at the property line of the premises or at a
location designated by the city. The device shall be located so as to be
readily accessible for maintenance and testing, and where no part of the device
can become submerged. (1974 Code § 5-807)
   D.   Installation: Backflow prevention devices required by this article
shall be installed under the supervision of, and with the approval of, the
city. Only backflow prevention devices approved by the American Association of
Sanitary Engineers (AASE), International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical
Officials (IAPMO), and the uniform plumbing code (UPC) will be allowed. (1974
Code § 5-808)
   E.   Inspection And Testing: Backflow prevention devices installed pursuant
to this article, except atmospheric vacuum breakers, shall be inspected and
tested annually, or more often if necessary by an Idaho certified backflow
prevention device tester. Inspections, tests and maintenance shall be at the
owner's expense. Whenever the devices are found to be defective, they shall be
repaired, overhauled or replaced at the owner's expense. Annual test results
and records of supporting data, or copies thereof, must be filed with the city
department of public works. (1974 Code § 5-809)
7-1A-6: CROSS CONNECTION INSPECTION:
   A.   Required Prior To Occupancy: No water shall be delivered to any
structure hereafter built within the City or within areas served by City water
until the same has been inspected for possible cross connections and been
approved as being free of same by the Department of Public Works. The building
inspector shall not issue an occupancy permit without the Department of Public
Works inspection having been completed. Upon completion of such inspection by
the Department of Public Works, notification will be given to the building
inspector.
   B.   Periodic Inspections: Inspection shall be made periodically by the City
of all buildings, structures or improvements of any nature receiving water
through the City system for the purpose of ascertaining whether cross
connections exist. (1974 Code § 8-812)
7-1A-7: SPRINKLER SYSTEMS:
   A.   Permit Required: No underground sprinkling device will be installed
without a sprinkler installation permit issued by the City Department of Public
Works. The City Department of Public Works will have final design approval of
all new sprinkler system installations. No sprinkling system will be installed
without a sprinkler installation permit and without adequate backflow
prevention device(s) located at the point from which the water for irrigation
is taken from the public water supply. The application for a sprinkler
installation permit shall be obtained from the City Clerk-Treasurer's Office on
forms approved by the City Department of Public Works.
   B.   Inspection Of Design Plan: Upon receipt of the application, the City
Department of Public Works will inspect the design, order such changes as may
be required to comply with this article and issue a sprinkler installation
permit once the sprinkler system as built complies with this article.
   C.   Copies Of Sprinkler Installation Permit: The Department of Public Works
shall provide copies of each sprinkler installation permit to all City
departments that need a copy of such permit. (1974 Code § 5-810)
7-1A-8: ENFORCEMENT:
For the purposes of carrying out this article, the City shall be authorized to
inspect all premises receiving water service from the water supply system of
the City, as the City determines to be necessary, in order to exercise
effective cross connection control. (1974 Code § 5-811)
7-1A-9: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
In the event an improper cross connection is not corrected within the time
limit set by the City, or in the event the City employee authorized is refused
access to any property for the purpose of determining whether or not cross
connections exist, delivery of water to the property shall cease until the
deficiency is corrected to the satisfaction of the City. In addition, the City
may effect the necessary repairs or modifications at the property owner's
expense and refuse delivery of water to the property until the cost thereof
shall have been paid. (1974 Code § 5-813; amd. 2010 Code)
7-1A-10: CIVIL LIABILITY:
Violators of this article shall be liable to the City for all costs and
expenses of remediation of the City public water system caused by such
violation. Such costs must be paid to the City before City water will be
supplied to such violator. (1974 Code § 5-814)
7-1A-11: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Infraction: A violation of this article is hereby declared to be an
infraction. The violator, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each twenty four (24) hour period the violation exists is a
separate violation. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
   B.   Civil Action:
      1.   Whenever it appears to the City Council that any person has engaged
or is about to engage in any act or practice violating any provisions of this
article, the City Council may institute a civil action in the District Court to
enforce compliance with this article. Upon a showing that a person has engaged
or is about to engage in an act or practice constituting a violation of this
article, a permanent or temporary injunction, restraining order or other such
relief as the court deems appropriate may be granted. The City Council shall
not be required to furnish any bond in said civil processing.
      2.   The city may file a civil suit to collect all expenses and costs and
attorney fees the city incurred as a result of a violation of this article
which were not paid within ten (10) days after billing the same to the
violator.
      3.   The city shall be entitled to costs and reasonable attorney fees on
any suits brought to enforce this article or collect fees due the city. (1974
Code § 5-815)
ARTICLE B. PUBLIC AND INDUSTRIAL WELLS
SECTION:
7-1B-1: Purpose; Scope
7-1B-2: Definitions
7-1B-3: Use Of Private Well
7-1B-4: Drilling Of Private Well
7-1B-5: Drilling And Use Of Industrial Well
7-1B-6: Use Of Public Or Private Water Supply Required
7-1B-7: Utility Service Agreement
7-1B-1: PURPOSE; SCOPE:
The purpose of this article is to protect the public health of water consumers
by the control of actual and potential water contamination by private wells
located within the city limits. (1974 Code § 5-1101)
7-1B-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
INDUSTRIAL WELL: A well used to supply water for an industrial use and not for
residential purposes. A well that is not a private well.
PRIVATE WELL: A well used to supply water for domestic use and irrigation water
for five (5) families or less, either as a single-family residence, multi-
family building or manufactured home subdivision or park. (1974 Code § 5-1102)
7-1B-3: USE OF PRIVATE WELL:
No private well will be maintained or used on any property within the city
limits or area of impact unless the same is allowed under section
7-1B-4 of this article. This prohibition does not apply to private wells in use
at the effective date hereof so long as said well is not abandoned and not used
for a period of six (6) consecutive months or more. (1974 Code § 5-1103; amd.
2010 Code; Ord. 2025-6, 3-24-2025)
7-1B-4: DRILLING OF PRIVATE WELL:
No private well shall be drilled within the city limits or area of impact after
the effective date hereof unless the closest city water main is two hundred
feet (200') or more away from the boundary line of the lot or parcel upon which
the water from said well will be used, measured from the boundary line closest
to the city water line to the city water main along the route the new water
line would have to be installed, in which case, the city will issue a written
city well permit for drilling said well. The water user shall be responsible
for the cost of the water line and all applicable costs if the city water line
is within two hundred feet (200') of said property and a private well is not
permitted. (1974 Code § 5-1104; amd. Ord. 2025-6, 3-24-2025)
7-1B-5: DRILLING AND USE OF INDUSTRIAL WELL:
The drilling and use of an industrial well shall not be allowed within the city
limits or area of impact unless the city elects to not supply water service or
is unable to do so. The drilling and use of an industrial well, if allowed,
shall be regulated and controlled by this title; the rules and regulations of
the Idaho department of water resources and the state of Idaho, as they now
exist or may hereafter be amended. (1974 Code § 5-1105. amd. Ord. 2025-6, 3-24-
2025)
7-1B-6: USE OF PUBLIC OR PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any private water source
or to connect to or use the city water system except as herein provided.
   B.   All houses, buildings or properties under the jurisdiction of the city
used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes that contain
facilities designed to supply water for human consumption shall connect such
facilities to a public or private water source conforming to the provisions
contained herein and no permit to construct a building shall be issued until
evidence has been submitted to the building official that the owner has
obtained a permit as provided herein to construct a private water supply or to
connect to a public water line for the purpose of water supply.
   C.   The owners of all new houses, buildings or properties abutting on any
street, alley or other right of way in which there is located a public water
line of the city, shall, at the owner’s expense, make the necessary line
extensions, connect to and use the water from the public water lines as
provided herein; providing, that said public water line is within two hundred
feet (200') of his property line.
   D.   The owners of all existing houses, buildings or properties served by a
private water supply shall, at the owner’s expense, abandon the private water
supply and make the necessary line extensions, connect to and use the water
from the public water line, at any time a public water line becomes available
for extension and/or connection within two hundred feet (200') of the property
line, providing the state department of health and welfare or the city water
superintendent notifies the owner, in writing, that the private water supply is
polluted.
   E.   The developer of a new subdivision shall, at his expense, construct the
necessary extensions of the public water system to provide a public water
supply for each lot in his subdivisions, providing the boundary line of the
subdivision is within one-half (½) mile of a public water line.
   F.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the use of the city’s portable water
supply at the primary source of irrigation water in all new developments shall
be prohibited. For purposes of this subsection, the term “new development”
means any new subdivision or ZDA, or any development of any parcel or land of
two (2) acres or larger that is not part of a subdivisions or ZDA. (Ord. Ord.
2025-6, 3-24-2025)
7-1B-7: UTILITY SERVICE AGREEMENT:
Any owner of property outside the corporate limits of the city who desires to
connect ot a public water line shall first obtain approval of the public works
director and upon such approval shall sign a utility service agreement for
providing water service. Approval by the public works director shall be based
on the availability of surplus capacity in the public facility and the
council’s determination that the connection will not have a detrimental effect
on the health, safety or welfare of the other users of the water system. The
contract for providing water service shall, as a minimum, contain the following
provisions:
   A.   A request that the property served be annexed into the city immediately
upon becoming contiguous to said city.
   B.   An agreement to comply with all policies, rules and regulations
governing the water system and to pay all fees and charges for services
provided all as established herein.
   C.   An agreement to comply with all provisions of the building, zoning and
subdivision regulations of this code; except, that the requirements for a city
issued building permit shall not apply to property which is not then eligible
for annexation.
   D.   An acknowledgment that the use of the public water system is granted
only because surplus capacity is available and agreement that such use may be
terminated by the city council at any time said council determines that such
surplus capacity is no longer available or determines the terms of the
agreement are not being complied with by the owner.
   E.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the use of the city’s potable water
supply as the primary source or irrigation water in all new developments shall
be prohibited. For purposes of this subsection, the term “new development”
means any new subdivision or ZDA, or any development of any parcel of land of
two (2) acres or larger that is not part of a subdivisions or ZDA. (Ord. 2025-
6, 3-24-2025
CHAPTER 2
SEWER SYSTEM RATES AND REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SEWERS
SECTION:
7-2A-1: Definitions
7-2A-2: Private Sewage Disposal
7-2A-3: Building Sewers And Connections
7-2A-4: Use Of Public Sewers
7-2A-5: Stop Flow Valves
7-2A-6: Maintenance Of Sewer Service Lines
7-2A-7: Industrial Waste Discharges, Cost
7-2A-8: Protection From Damage
7-2A-9: Inspectors
7-2A-10: Violation; Penalty
7-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this article and in article B of this chapter, shall be as follows:
BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedures in five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in
parts per million by weight.
BUILDING DRAIN: The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and
from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct from
sanitary sewage.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface water or groundwater.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwater, surface
water and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
groundwater and stormwaters as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of
sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SHALL; MAY: Shall is mandatory; may is permissive.
STORM SEWER OR STORM DRAIN: A sewer which carries stormwater and surface water
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of sewage works of the city, or his
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (1974 Code § 5-901)
7-2A-2: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Permitted: Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available
under the provisions of section
7-2A-4 of this article, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
disposal system complying with the provisions of the South Central health
district. (1974 Code § 5-902; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   When Permit Becomes Effective: A permit for a private sewage disposal
system shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the
satisfaction of the superintendent. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at
any stage of construction and, in any event the applicant for the permit shall
notify the superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within forty eight (48) hours of the receipt of notice by the superintendent.
   C.   Compliance Required: The type, capacities, location and layout of a
private sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the
department of public health of the state of Idaho. No permit shall be issued
for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption
facilities where the area of the lot is less than ten thousand (10,000) square
feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any public
sewer or natural outlet.
   D.   Availability Of Public Sewer: At such time as a public sewer becomes
available to a property served by a sewage disposal system, as provided in
article B of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public
sewer in compliance with this article, any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
   E.   Operation And Maintenance: The owner shall operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no
expense to the city.
   F.   Additional Requirements: No statement contained in this section shall
be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed
by the appropriate officials of the state of Idaho or county of Twin Falls.
(1974 Code § 5-902)
7-2A-3: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Written Permit; Fee:
      1.   Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection
with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances
thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the superintendent.
      2.   Classes Of Permits: There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer
permits:
         a.   For residential and commercial service; and
         b.   For service establishments producing industrial wastes.
      3.   Application: In either case, the owner or his agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the superintendent. (1974 Code § 5-903)
      4.   Permit And Inspection Fee: A permit and inspection fee as
established for residential, commercial and industrial building sewer permits
by the international building code shall be paid to the city clerk-treasurer at
the time the application is filed. (1974 Code § 5-903; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Installation Costs And Expenses; Indemnification: All costs and expense
incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be
borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage
that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building sewer. (1974 Code § 5-903)
   C.   Separate And Independent Building Sewer Required: A separate and
independent building sewer shall be provided for every building. (1974 Code §
5-903; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the
superintendent, to meet all requirements of this article. (1974 Code § 5-903)
   E.   Material Specifications: Material specifications for building sewers
shall be as provided in the "Idaho Standards For Public Works Construction",
2008 edition. (1974 Code § 5-903; amd. 2010 Code)
   F.   Size And Slope: The size and slope of the building sewer shall be
subject to the approval of the superintendent, but in no event shall the
diameter be less than four inches (4"). The slope of such four inch (4") pipe
shall not be less than one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot, the slope of six inch
(6") pipe shall be not less than one-eighth inch (1/8") per foot.
   G.   Elevation: Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to
the building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall
be laid parallel to or within three feet (3') of any bearing wall, which might
thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from
frost. The building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight
alignment insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with
properly curved pipe and fittings.
   H.   Drain Too Low; Lifting Required: In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such drain shall be lifted by approved artificial means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   I.   Excavations: All excavations required for the installation of a
building sewer shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the
superintendent. Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with
ASTM specifications C12-19 except that no backfill shall be placed until the
work has been inspected.
   J.   Joints And Connections:
      1.   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
(1974 Code § 5-903)
      2.   All joints and connections shall be made as provided in the "Idaho
Standards For Public Works Construction", 2008 edition. (1974 Code § 5-903;
amd. 2010 Code)
      3.   All joints in pipe shall be of a type approved by the
superintendent.
   K.   Connection To Public Sewer: The connection of the building sewer into
the public sewer shall be made at the Y branch, if such branch is available at
a suitable location. If no properly located Y branch is available, a neat hole
may be cut into the public sewer to receive the building sewer, with entry in
the downstream direction at an angle of about forty five degrees (45°). A forty
five degree (45°) ell may be used to make such connection, with the spigot end
cut so as not to extend past the inner surface of the public sewer. The invert
of the building sewer at the point of connection shall be at the same or at a
higher elevation than the invert of the public sewer. A smooth, neat joint
shall be made, and the connection made secure and watertight by encasement in
concrete. Special fittings may be used for the connection only when approved by
the superintendent.
   L.   Notice For Inspection: The applicant for the building sewer permit
shall notify the superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection
and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the superintendent or his representative.
   M.   Excavations; Barricades And Lights Required: All excavations for
building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and
lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways
and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored
in a manner satisfactory to the city. (1974 Code § 5-903)
7-2A-4: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   Protection Of Sewage System: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary
sewer.
   B.   Unpolluted Drainage: Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall
be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers
or storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the superintendent.
Industrial cooling waters or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, upon
approval of the superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural
outlet.
   C.   Prohibited Discharges: Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall
discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or
wastes to any public sewer:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F).
      2.   Any water or waste which may contain more than one hundred (100)
parts per million by weight, of fat, oil or grease.
      3.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      4.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewer works.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      6.   All waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such
materials at the sewage treatment plant.
      7.   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance. (1974 Code § 5-904)
      8.   Antibiotics, other prescription drugs, or anything else that could
be deemed by the federal government to put the city out of effluent compliance.
(2010 Code)
   D.   Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors:
      1.   Required: Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when,
in the opinion of the superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand and other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
superintendent, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
      2.   Maintenance: Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors
shall be maintained by the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
   E.   Preliminary Treatment Facilities:
      1.   Required: The admission into the public sewers of any waters or
wastes having: a) a five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand greater than three
hundred (300) parts per million by weight, or b) containing more than three
hundred fifty (350) parts per million by weight of suspended solids, or c)
containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics described in
subsection C of this section, or d) having an average daily flow greater than
two percent (2%) of the average daily sewage flow of the city shall be subject
to the review and approval of the superintendent. Where necessary, in the
opinion of the superintendent, the owner shall provide, at his expense, such
preliminary treatment as may be necessary to: a) reduce the biochemical oxygen
demand to three hundred (300) parts per million and the suspended solids to
three hundred fifty (350) parts per million by weight, or b) reduce
objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the maximum limits
provided for in subsection C of this section, or c) control the quantities and
rates of discharge of such waters or wastes. Plans, specifications and other
pertinent information relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities
shall be submitted for the approval of the superintendent and of the state
board of health of the state of Idaho and no construction of such facilities
shall be commenced until said approvals are obtained, in writing.
      2.   Maintenance: Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his expense.
   F.   Control Manhole: When required by the superintendent, the owner of any
property served by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation,
sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be
accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with
plans approved by the superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the
owner at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
   G.   Measurements, Tests And Analyses: All measurements, tests and analyses
of the characteristics of waters and wastes (reference made thereto in
subsections C and F of this section) shall be determined in accordance with
"Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water And Sewage" and shall be
determined at the control manhole provided for in subsection F of this section,
or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected.
   H.   Special Agreements Or Arrangements: No statement contained in this
section shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangements
between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment,
subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern. (1974 Code § 5-904)
7-2A-5: STOP FLOW VALVES:
   A.   Required: All plumbing installations for sewer connections from
buildings within the city to the sewer service lines of the city which require
openings into the sewer service lines within the same elevation as the main
sewer line, or which are basement sewer line connections, or which are from
single level buildings which may be determined to be within a critical distance
of any lift station on said main sewer line of the city, such distance to be
determined by the city engineer, shall be required to have installed on said
sewer connection line, an antiflowback sewer collection line, and such
antiflowback valve shall be located in an accessible location for cleaning and
repair by the owner.
   B.   Inspection And Approval Of Building Inspector: The city shall inspect
all building permit applications to determine whether or not such building
sewer connection to the main sewer line is within a category above specified,
and if so, the owner of said premises shall be notified of the requirements
hereof, and prior to completion of such sewer line connection, the said line
shall be inspected and approved by the city building inspector.
   C.   Required Prior To Connection: No premises hereafter erected or to be
hereafter connected to the sewer collection system of the city shall be allowed
to connect the sewer effluent line to the main collection system prior to
installation of the antiflowback valve as herein provided and inspection by the
prior official to the city.
   D.   Size And Capacity: All antiflowback valves to be installed as herein
required shall be of sufficient size and capacity to ensure operation and shall
be maintained at all times in operable condition by the owner of the premises.
(1974 Code § 5-905)
7-2A-6: MAINTENANCE OF SEWER SERVICE LINES:
   A.   Responsibility For Maintenance:
      1.   City: The city shall maintain and repair all sewer main lines and
collector lines which are located on or within any city street, alley or
dedicated easement, which maintenance and repair shall include replacement,
elimination of leaking lines, blockage of any kind not specifically provided
for in subsections A2 and B2 of this section.
      2.   Property Owner: Every person, within the city, whether as owner,
tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall maintain the individual sewer
connection from the building or buildings served thereby to the tap on the city
main sewer line or city collector line as the case may be. This maintenance
shall include repair and replacement as required, elimination of leaking lines,
blockage of any kind and rodding as provided in subsection B2 of this section.
   B.   Removal Of Roots Or Any Other Blockage:
      1.   Sewer Main Lines And Collector Lines: The city shall remove any
blockages from all main sewer lines and collector lines within the city which
are not designated in subsection B2 of this section to be the responsibility of
the property owner.
      2.   Sewer Service Lines: The person, within the City, whether as owner,
tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise shall have the responsibility of removal
of all roots and rodding or removal of any blockages in the service line from
the building or buildings served by the individual sewer service line to the
tap on the City main sewer line or City collector line as the case may be.
   C.   Responsibilities Of City Sewer Superintendent: The Superintendent of
the Sewer Department shall have the responsibility to investigate any and all
problems that develop within the City and determine the responsibility for
maintenance, repair and rodding of the sewer lines pursuant to this section.
The location of the leak, roots, breakage, blockage or cloggage shall determine
the responsibility for such maintenance or repair as the case may be. (1974
Code § 5-906)
7-2A-7: INDUSTRIAL WASTE DISCHARGES, COST:
The City Council shall develop and adopt, by resolution, an industrial cost
recovery system acceptable to the United States Environmental Protection Agency
and which shall comply with Pub.L. 92-500 and all regulations and guidelines
pertaining thereof. Industrial wastes shall be and are hereby defined to be
those wastes as defined under section
305-905-8 of the Construction Grant Regulations in 40 Code of Federal
Regulations, part 35. (1974 Code § 5-907)
7-2A-8: PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the Municipal sewage works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct. (1974 Code § 5-908)
7-2A-9: INSPECTORS:
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this article. (1974 Code § 5-
909)
7-2A-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this article, except section
7-2A-9 of this article, shall be served by the City with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. (1974 Code § 5-910)
   B.   Failure To Comply: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond
the time limit provided for in this section shall be deemed guilty of an
infraction and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code; provided, however, that in the event the damages resulting
from a violation of this section exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), such
person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
ARTICLE B. SEWER SERVICE FEES
SECTION:
7-2B-1: Sewer Fund
7-2B-2: Utility Accounts
7-2B-3: Billing; Payment
7-2B-4: Method Of Collection (Rep. by Ord. 966, 10-22-2012)
7-2B-5: Application For Sewer Service Connection; Fees
7-2B-6: Rates And Charges
7-2B-7: Service Outside City Limits
7-2B-1: SEWER FUND:
   A.   Created: There shall be and there is hereby created in the office of
the city clerk-treasurer a special fund which shall be known and described as
the sewer fund, into which fund shall be placed such revenues as may from time
to time be directed by ordinance and which revenues shall be deposited in said
sewer fund, and from which fund shall be paid such charges as may be directed
by the mayor and council.
   B.   Collected Fees And Charges: All fees and charges herein provided, when
collected, shall be placed in the sewer fund and paid into the general fund of
the city. (1974 Code § 5-1001)
7-2B-2: UTILITY ACCOUNTS:
The city clerk-treasurer shall establish an account for all premises consisting
of each individual lot, piece or parcel of property, dwelling, flat, rooming
house, eating place, shop, place of business, manufacturing, or business
establishment in the city. (1974 Code § 5-1002)
7-2B-3: BILLING; PAYMENT:
   A.   Billing To Individual Accounts: All sewer, and similar monthly charges
shall be billed to the individual account for the premises to which such
service is rendered as part of the utility fee billed as provided hereafter in
chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 966, 10-22-2012)
7-2B-4: METHOD OF COLLECTION:
(Rep. by Ord. 966, 10-22-2012)
7-2B-5: APPLICATION FOR SEWER SERVICE CONNECTION; FEES:
   A.   Applicants Within City: Owners of property located within the city
shall make application for connection to the city sewer system and shall pay a
connection fee as follows:
      1.   Application: Application for connection to the city sewer system
must be made at the office of the city clerk-treasurer on such forms as the
clerk-treasurer may prescribe. The application must be made by the owner or
tenant of the property to be benefited and state the lots and blocks on which
it is to be used. Said applicant must agree to conform to the rules and
regulations established from time to time, as a condition for service
connection. At the time of making the application, said applicant for sewer
installation shall make payment of the applicable connection fee. (1974 Code §
5-1005)
      2.   Fees: At the time of the application for permit to connect to the
sewer service and system of the city, there shall be paid a hookup fee set by
resolution adopted by the city council and approved by the mayor. (Ord. 950, 9-
13-2010)
   B.   Applicants Outside City: Owners of property located outside the city
shall make application for connection to the city sewer system and shall pay a
connection fee as follows:
      1.   Application: Application for connection to the city sewer system
must be made at the office of the city clerk-treasurer on such forms as the
clerk-treasurer may prescribe. The application must describe the property to be
benefited. The application shall be submitted to the city council for its
approval prior to any connection being so permitted. (1974 Code § 5-1005)
      2.   Fees: Upon approval by the city council of the requested connection,
the applicant shall pay a connection or hookup fee set by resolution adopted by
the city council and approved by the mayor, which payment shall be made prior
to connection. The applicant shall be responsible for all costs in construction
of the service line on applicant's property and extension of city main line or
connection line that may be required to provide service to applicant's
property. (Ord. 950, 9-13-2010)
7-2B-6: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Charges Established:
      1.   Residential: The monthly charges for city sewer service for each
dwelling unit serviced by the city sewer system shall be set by resolution of
the city council. The residential rates shall apply to residential single-
family dwellings only. For multiple dwelling units, being apartments, duplexes,
motels, trailer parks, rooming houses or any other multiple-family dwelling
units within the city, a monthly charge per unit, or equivalent, shall be
charged for such sewer service.
      2.   Commercial: The monthly charges for city sewer service shall be
determined by the amounts of city water delivered to the premises as shown by
the water meter from private sources delivered to the premises, as shown by a
meter supplied by the owner, and which is discharged into the public sewer; and
shall be collected at the rates set by resolution of the city council.
      3.   Cost Considerations: In setting the rates, the city council shall
consider the costs of providing said services and the costs of maintaining and
improving the city services.
      4.   Commercial Users To Supply Meters: All commercial users shall supply
adequate meters for all private water sources used on their premises, or in
lieu thereof, provide an adequate meter for the wastewater from their premises
entering the city sewer collection system.
      5.   Applicability Of Commercial Rate: Commercial rates shall apply not
only to business houses and commercial users in the commercial areas or
industrial areas of the city, but shall also apply to those dwellings used for
commercial purposes located in any area of the city.
   B.   Premises With No Water Delivery: Rates and charges for premises to
which city water is not delivered, except as above specified, or metered, or
upon which sewer service has no reasonable relationship with water delivered or
used upon the premises shall be affixed according to the rates and charges for
the same or similar use and occupancy in other cases. Where applicable,
wastewater meters shall be used to determine applicable rates for such uses.
(1974 Code § 5-1006)
   C.   Months When Water Services Discontinued: No charge shall be made for
the month or months for which the city water services for such premises has
been discontinued pursuant to section
7-5-2 of this title; provided, further that such period of time is not less
than one month and provided further that upon notice of such vacancy, and in
such event, no charge will be made during the time the premises are vacant, and
no sewage is collected therefrom. (1974 Code § 5-1006; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Modification Of Rates And Charges: The rates and charges herein
established shall be subject to modification upon application to the city
council by the owner or occupant of any premises in any cases when fees so
established shall be, in the opinion of the city council, unjust or oppressive.
(1974 Code § 5-1006)
7-2B-7: SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
All owners outside the city who derive benefit from the city sewer system
shall, in return for said benefits, pay monthly sewer service rates and charges
equal to one and one-half (11/2) of that monthly charge otherwise chargeable to
an owner within the city and as computed and collected under this article. Such
service shall be covered by contract between the city and the users of the city
sewer system. (1974 Code § 5-1007)
ARTICLE C. SEWER LINE CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-2C-1: Construction Permit
7-2C-2: Construction Of Pipeline
7-2C-3: Cost Sharing Of Construction
7-2C-4: Previously Constructed Sewer Lines
7-2C-5: Conflict With Subdivision Ordinance
7-2C-1: CONSTRUCTION PERMIT:
Any person desiring to construct a sewer trunk line to be connected onto the
city sewage disposal system shall first obtain a permit for such construction
upon application being filed with the city engineer. The said application for
permit shall be filed with the city engineer and shall state the name of the
person applying, the approximate location of the sewer trunk line to be
constructed, and the legal description of the land or lots to be served by the
line and the owner of the said lots or land so served, together with the
proposed size of the pipeline and type of material of the pipe to be laid and
the approximate cost. (1974 Code § 3-1301)
7-2C-2: CONSTRUCTION OF PIPELINE:
Upon approval by the mayor and city council, the person making application for
construction of a sewer pipeline must, at his cost, construct a sewer pipeline
under the specifications and direction of the city engineer in such a manner
that there are sufficient connecting junctions or Ys constructed so as to serve
the adjacent lots or lands by which the sewer line passes, and also sufficient
manholes as specified. Upon completion of the sewer line, the person
constructing the same and the city engineer shall file a certificate of
completion with the city clerk-treasurer setting forth the following:
   A.   Location of the sewer;
   B.   The lots served;
   C.   The owner of lots served;
   D.   The construction costs per lots served;
   E.   The frontage foot of each lot served;
   F.   The owners of lots who have participated in the cost of construction;
   G.   A proposal for sharing of the construction costs with persons owning
lands which may be subsequently benefited by connecting onto the sewer line as
constructed. (1974 Code § 3-1302)
Once installed and accepted by the city, the sewer line shall become the
property of the city. (1974 Code § 3-1302; amd. 2010 Code)
7-2C-3: COST SHARING OF CONSTRUCTION:
No person owning lots or lands shall be served by such sewer trunk line, nor
connected onto that line, until he has paid the pro rata costs of the
construction of the said sewer line. All persons desiring to connect to said
sewer must make application to the building inspector for the city and present
verification of payment of said pro rata cost to the person having constructed
the sewer line or his assigns. No building permit authorizing the connection to
the sewer line shall be issued until the said pro rata cost has been paid.
(1974 Code § 3-1303)
7-2C-4: PREVIOUSLY CONSTRUCTED SEWER LINES:
All persons having heretofore constructed sewer lines at their expense may file
with the city clerk-treasurer a certificate of completion as provided in
section
7-2C-2 of this article for cost sharing of that construction shall be
applicable. (1974 Code § 3-1304)
7-2C-5: CONFLICT WITH SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE:
It is intended that in the event any of the provisions of this article should
conflict with the provisions of title 9, chapter 24 of this code regarding the
construction of sewer lines by a developer within a subdivision, that the
provisions as set forth in the subdivision ordinances shall be controlling.
(1974 Code § 3-1305)
CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Police Power Exercised
7-3-3: City To Haul Or Contract To Haul
7-3-4: Classification
7-3-5: Accumulation Of Garbage And Rubbish
7-3-6: Streets And Private Property To Be Kept Clean
7-3-7: Containers
7-3-8: Items Excluded From City Collection
7-3-9: Hauling Vehicles
7-3-10: Burning Of Garbage
7-3-11: Sanitary Disposal Area
7-3-12: Fees
7-3-13: Scope Of Service Charge
7-3-14: Billing And Payment For Service
7-3-15: Disposition Of Monies From Collection And Disposal Service
7-3-16: Enforcement
7-3-17: Violation; Penalty
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
GARBAGE: Kitchen refuse from residences and places where food is prepared for
human consumption and all animal and vegetable refuse from such kitchens and
other places, and offal from fish, meat and vegetable markets and all organic
substances of every kind and nature unfit for food and subject to quick decay.
PERSON: Includes a normal person, his heirs, executors, administrators and
assigns, and shall include a firm, partnership or corporation, its or their
successors or assigns. Singular includes plural. Male includes female.
RUBBISH: Floor sweepings, broken crockery, broken bottles, dishes and
glassware, broken bricks, tin vessels, trimmings from lawns and flower gardens,
paper sacks, straw, sawdust, packing material, and shavings. Pasteboard boxes
and berry boxes will be included as "rubbish" as herein defined when they have
been broken down to such a size that they will fit into the receptacles
required by the city to be furnished.
SHALL AND MAY: "Shall" means mandatory. "May" means permissive. (1974 Code § 5-
301; amd. 2010 Code)
7-3-2: POLICE POWER EXERCISED:
This chapter will be deemed an exercise of the police power of the city, acting
in its governmental capacity, for the protection of the health, welfare, safety
and cleanliness of said city and all its provisions shall be liberally
construed for the accomplishment of its purpose. (1974 Code § 5-302; amd. 2010
Code)
7-3-3: CITY TO HAUL OR CONTRACT TO HAUL:
   A.   Exclusive Right: The city, its duly authorized agents, contractors,
servants, employees or licensees shall have the exclusive right to gather and
collect garbage and rubbish within the city, and it shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation, except as otherwise provided in this chapter, to
collect or gather garbage and/or rubbish within the city. (1974 Code § 5-303)
   B.   City May Haul Or Contract:
      1.   All garbage or rubbish from residential homes, units or apartments
will be hauled by the city in its own vehicles by its employees; however, the
city may, but need not, issue a permit or license to any person, firm or
corporation with adequate equipment to contract the hauling of garbage, trash,
or rubbish from commercial firms or buildings only, with the owner or occupant
thereof; provided, however, that such contractor must make his service
available to any and all commercial accounts.
      2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection B1 of this section, the
city council may, at its sole discretion, enter into an agreement with a
commercial unit only whereby the city and the commercial unit agree that the
city will furnish no garbage collection service whatsoever to said commercial
unit and that the commercial unit will haul all of its own garbage and rubbish.
(1974 Code § 5-304; amd. 2010 Code)
7-3-4: CLASSIFICATION:
   A.   Residential: A residential unit is a single-family dwelling or an
apartment of two (2) units or less where no business or commercial activity is
performed on the premises.
   B.   Commercial: A commercial unit shall be placed where a business activity
is conducted on the premises. Where a residence is combined with a business in
the same building or premises, it shall be classified as commercial. (1974 Code
§ 5-305)
   C.   Apartments, Mobile Homes, Duplexes: Apartments, residences and trailers
or mobile homes, duplexes or otherwise shall be considered as commercial units
defined in subsection B of this section. (1974 Code § 5-305; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Churches And Civic And Fraternal Order Buildings: All churches, civic
and fraternal order buildings, not having a regular schedule of meal service,
shall be classified as a residential unit. (1974 Code § 5-305)
7-3-5: ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH:
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall deposit, collect or accumulate nor permit
the deposit, collection or accumulation of any garbage, rubbish or other refuse
upon any open place, land, lot or premises, nor upon any alley or street within
the city, except as herein provided.
   B.   Right Of Entry: The city shall have the right to enter any lots, lands
or premises or any alleys or streets adjacent thereto within the city and
remove any and all debris, garbage, rubbish, and other refuse accumulated
thereon and charge such cost of removal to the owner or occupant, if such owner
or occupant fails to remove the same, after being given five (5) days' notice
by the sanitation officer of the city to so remove such debris, garbage or
other refuse. The city shall have a lien against the real property for such
costs.
   C.   Warning Notices; Failure To Comply; Civil Penalty; Lien: The city,
through its employees, may also issue warning notices for any violation of this
chapter which shall set forth a time limit to correct such violation and the
date for reinspection. If the violation is not corrected by the reinspection
date set on the warning notice, a civil penalty of one hundred dollars
($100.00) shall be assessed for the first violation, two hundred dollars
($200.00) for the second violation, and three hundred dollars ($300.00) for the
third and subsequent violations during the same calendar year. The city shall
have a lien against the real property for such civil penalty.
   D.   Service Of Notice: Notice shall be deemed as being completed when
mailed by certified mail addressed to such owner or occupant.
   E.   Cost Of Removal And/Or Civil Penalty:
      1.   The cost of such removal and/or any civil penalty shall be charged
to the owner or occupant and will be payable in the same manner as all other
utility accounts with said city.
      2.   The cost of such removal and/or any civil penalty not collected by
the city with utility accounts may be collected by being certified to the
county assessor or other proper county officer having charge of making up of
the assessment rolls, such assessment to be placed on the assessment rolls and
collected in the same manner as other municipal taxes are collected. (1974 Code
§ 5-306)
7-3-6: STREETS AND PRIVATE PROPERTY TO BE KEPT CLEAN:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit any
rubbish, garbage, litter, or other noxious matter in any street, avenue,
alleyway, park, or parking strip. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to distribute, hand out, drop, throw, cast or discard wastepaper,
paper wrappings, sacks, cartons, wrapping paper, in, upon or about any streets,
alleys, sidewalks, avenues or public places, or in or upon any motor vehicle or
in open spaces or vacant lots, or in yards or stoops of privately owned
premises in the city. (1974 Code § 5-307)
7-3-7: CONTAINERS:
No person shall deposit garbage or rubbish on or below the surface of the
ground in a manner otherwise than herein prescribed. No person shall deposit or
bury any garbage or rubbish in or upon a public alley, street, other public
area, or upon the premises of another person, whether or not the garbage or
rubbish is in a prescribed container. No garbage, dirt or rubbish of any kind
shall be thrown, swept or pushed into the street in front of any place of
business or residence, except on permission of the city sanitation officer, and
the proprietor of the business and the owner or occupant of the premises shall
be responsible for the disposal of all such garbage or rubbish. (1974 Code § 5-
308)
   A.   Receptacles Furnished By City: Every owner, agent or occupant of every
building or residence is hereby provided a ninety (90) gallon, hard plastic
tote to each residence in which shall be placed all rubbish accumulated in such
building, residence or on such premises; provided, that the term rubbish as
used in this section does not include broken or discarded stoves or furniture,
broken or discarded building materials, paper, ash, grass, weeds, lawn
clippings, brush, leaves or any waste material accumulated outside the dwelling
house within any residence, building or warehouse district. (1974 Code § 5-308;
amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Location Of Containers For Pick Up:
      1.   Alley Available: Where an alley is available, containers for garbage
and all types of rubbish shall be located on the private premises adjacent to
the property line on the alley, and at a point readily accessible to the
collectors. No garbage container or rubbish containers or piles of rubbish
shall be placed in or upon the alley right of way.
      2.   No Alley Available: Where no alley is available, containers or
rubbish shall be placed in front of the premises by the owners or the occupants
of such premises on the morning of the day scheduled for collection; and the
empty containers shall be withdrawn from the front of the premises as soon
after collection as possible on the same day. (1974 Code § 5-308)
7-3-8: ITEMS EXCLUDED FROM CITY COLLECTION:
   A.   Ashes, dirt or earth debris from construction or lawn renovation,
rocks, stones, automobile bodies and parts, manure, offal or waste materials
from animals, dead animals, building materials, such as mortar, plaster, scrap
lumber and wood shavings, must be collected and disposed of by the building
contractor, owner or occupant of premises. (1974 Code § 5-310; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   "Hazardous materials" as defined by the laws of the United States and
the state of Idaho, and materials containing asbestos, paints, paint thinners,
turpentine, insecticide, herbicides, pesticides and all other chemicals.
   C.   Motor vehicle batteries and tires. (1974 Code § 5-310)
7-3-9: HAULING VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to remove and haul any
garbage and rubbish from the city, excepting in vehicles so constructed as to
prevent leakage therefrom of garbage and so covered as to prevent escape
therefrom or rubbish. (1974 Code § 5-311)
7-3-10: BURNING OF GARBAGE:
   A.   Rules For Open Burning: The international fire code section 307 as
adopted by the state of Idaho requires notification of the fire department and
the securing of an open burning permit. The following items must be addressed
in order to secure a permit:
      1.   Notification: Notification of the fire department prior to
commencement of open burning.
      2.   Material Restrictions: See department of environmental quality
regulations. General restrictions cover items such as tires, twine, asphalt
shingles, etc. It is usually permissible to burn tree limbs, grass, weeds, etc.
      3.   Time And Atmospheric Conditions: Open burning shall only be
conducted during the times and atmospheric conditions as set by the fire
department.
         a.   Times: Seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. through seven o'clock (7:00)
P.M.
         b.   Wind: Less than twelve (12) miles per hour.
      4.   Location: No open burning shall be conducted within twenty five feet
(25') of any structure or other combustible material.
      5.   Attendance: All open burning shall be attended at all times by a
competent adult knowledgeable in the methods of extinguishment.
      6.   Fire Extinguishing Equipment: A garden hose connected to a water
supply or other approved fire extinguishing equipment shall be readily
available for use at open burning sites.
      7.   Discontinuance: The Chief or his representative is authorized to
require that open burning be immediately discontinued if it is determined that
smoke emissions are offensive or dangerous conditions exist.
   B.   Failure To Comply: Failure to comply with these rules may result in
citation under the International Fire Code section 109.2.3 (prosecution).
   C.   Obtaining Burning Permit: To obtain an open burning permit call 543-
5664. If the station is not staffed at the time of your call, you may log your
permit (if you comply with the stated provisions) by following the voice mail
prompts for burning permits. Listen to the message and leave the requested
information.
   D.   Red Flag Warning: Always check prior to lighting a burn. Often in the
summer, burning is not allowed at all when a red flag warning has been issued,
or when air quality advisories are in effect. (2010 Code)
   E.   Allowing To Smolder: It is unlawful for any person to allow a fire
which was lit between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock
(7:00) P.M. to emit smoke or smolder during the hours between seven o'clock (7:
00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. (1974 Code § 5-312; amd. 2010 Code)
7-3-11: SANITARY DISPOSAL AREA:
   A.   Authorized: The City shall provide, when no other delegated disposal
area is available for the residents of the City, an area for sanitary disposal
of garbage and rubbish collected from within the limits of the City and
authorized locations from without the City, hauled by the City collectors and
independent collectors and private individuals. (1974 Code § 5-401)
   B.   Use Of Area; Violation: Entry on and use of the sanitary disposal area
shall be under the direction of the Superintendent of Sanitation as directed by
resolution of the City Council. All garbage and rubbish which is dumped or
disposed in the sanitary disposal area shall be placed in such area and in such
manner as directed by the Superintendent of Sanitation or by the attendant or
lessee in charge of the sanitary disposal area. Any person who dumps or
disposes of garbage or rubbish in the sanitary disposal area in violation of
the direction given by the Superintendent of Sanitation or the attendant or
lessee in charge of the sanitary disposal area shall be guilty of an
infraction; provided, however, that in the event the damages resulting from a
violation of this section exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) such person
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
   C.   Nonresident Service Charge: There shall be a service charge established
by resolution by the City Council to be paid by all nonresidents of the City
who shall enter upon and use the sanitary disposal area. (1974 Code § 5-403)
   D.   Disposal Of Dead Animals: It shall be unlawful to dispose of any dead
animals in the City sanitary disposal area. (1974 Code § 5-404)
   E.   Hours Of Operation: The hours in which the City sanitary disposal area
shall be open to the public shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
(1974 Code § 5-405)
7-3-12: FEES:
Fees charged for garbage and rubbish collection service provided under this
chapter shall be as follows:
   A.   Residential Units: The fee for monthly service to residential units
shall be set from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
   B.   Commercial Units: As distinguished from individual residential units,
commercial units shall be those units which are not residences and those units
which may be partly residential in nature but which, by reason of location, are
zoned commercial. A residence or building housing two (2) or more household
units, including trailer or mobile home parks, which have a central point or
points for accumulating garbage cans for pick up shall be considered as a
commercial unit. The fee for monthly service to commercial units shall be set
from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
   C.   Daily Service Available:
      1.   One Container Twenty Gallons Or Smaller: For commercial units
located where daily pick up service is available and which have not more than
one garbage container of twenty (20) gallons or smaller capacity, the fee for
monthly service shall be set from time to time by resolution of the City
Council.
      2.   Two Or More Containers Larger Than Twenty Gallons: For commercial
units where daily pick up service is available and which have two (2) or more
garbage containers or one garbage container larger than a twenty (20) gallon
capacity, the minimum and all individual monthly charges shall be set by
resolution of the City Council based upon the time spent by the City garbage
collection crew in picking up said garbage and the amount of garbage actually
hauled by the City garbage truck.
   D.   Proposed Fee Exceeds Monthly Minimum:
      1.   Public Hearing Required: In any case where the City Council's
proposed fee exceeds the minimum fee per month set for such commercial units,
the City Council shall hold a public hearing for the purpose of setting said
monthly fees and shall give five (5) days' notice to the owner or operator of
the commercial unit for which the City proposes to establish a monthly fee
under this chapter in excess the minimum monthly fee.
      2.   Notice: Notice shall be given to each owner or operator of a
commercial unit by ordinary mail or personal notice.
      3.   Fee Set By Resolution: Once the fee to be charged is determined, the
City Council shall set said fee by resolution or by resolutions. (1974 Code §
5-313)
      4.   Appeal: Anyone not agreeing with the determination of the City
Council shall have thirty (30) days within which to appeal the Council decision
to the State courts. The fee set by resolution will be collected on the
commercial unit's utility bill. (1974 Code § 5-313; amd. Ord. 965, 10-22-2012)
      5.   Reexamination Of Fee: The fee set by resolution may be changed at
any time not less than six (6) months by the City giving the commercial unit
notice of its intention to reexamine the fee charge or the commercial unit
giving the City notice that its operation is changed and that it feels that the
fee should be reduced. Notice by the City shall be given as set out above.
      6.   Application For New Hearing: The commercial unit shall give the City
notice by making written application for a new hearing and delivering the same
to the City, who shall report to the City Council at its next meeting. The City
Council shall set a time for hearing within thirty (30) days after the request
for a new hearing has been delivered to the City Council.
   E.   Sanitary Landfill And Transfer Station Fees: In addition to the above
referred to fees the City shall collect from the City users, the user's share
of the Twin Falls County Sanitary Landfill and Transfer Station fees paid by
the City to Twin Falls County or its operating agent and the City
administrative costs related thereto. These fees shall be set by the resolution
of the City Council and shall be shown on the City billing as separate costs.
   F.   All Service Fees Set In One Resolution: All of the above service fees
may be set in one resolution and shall be charged to and collected from all
occupants of premises classified as a residential and/or commercial units
regardless of the type and amount of hauling and collection service actually
rendered. (1974 Code § 5-313)
7-3-13: SCOPE OF SERVICE CHARGE:
No owner or occupant of any premises within the City, except those commercial
units contracting directly with the City under subsection
7-3-3B of this chapter, shall be exempt from the collection and disposal
services provided by the City or by individual collectors. All owners or
occupants of premises within the City, except those commercial units
contracting directly with the City under subsection
7-3-3B2 of this chapter, shall be subject to service charges prescribed by this
chapter. (1974 Code § 5-314)
7-3-14: BILLING AND PAYMENT FOR SERVICE:
Charges for sanitation service shall be billed as part of the utility fee
billed as provided for hereafter in chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 966, 10-22-
2012)
7-3-15: DISPOSITION OF MONIES FROM COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SERVICE:
All monies received by the City from collection and sanitary disposal service,
and from the operation of a sanitary disposal area, shall be deposited in the
General Fund and used to pay for the operation of the collection and sanitary
disposal system, maintenance of the City dump ground, equipment and salaries
needed for said collection and disposal system, and for the improvement of the
alleys and for the specific purposes of protecting public health, safety and
welfare. (1974 Code § 5-316)
7-3-16: ENFORCEMENT:
The City Sanitation Officer, or the person appointed by the Mayor and City
Council to perform the functions of the City Sanitation Officer, is hereby
charged with the duties of enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. (1974
Code § 5-317)
7-3-17: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this chapter shall
be guilty of an infraction, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code; provided, however, that in the event the damages resulting
from a violation of this section exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), such
person, firm or corporation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 991, 10-11-
2018)
CHAPTER 4
BOND FEE
SECTION:
7-4-1: Established
7-4-2: Amount
7-4-3: Billing And Collection
7-4-1: ESTABLISHED:
The mayor and city council shall, from time to time, by resolution, set a "bond
fee" to be charged against owners of all real property located within the city
and owners of real property located outside the city limits which use city
water or city sewer service. (Ord. 964, 10-22-2012)
7-4-2: AMOUNT:
The "bond fee" shall be a sum sufficient to pay the principal and interest of
all loans and bonds used by the city to construct and maintain its water and
sewer systems and treatment plants for water and sewer, which are not general
obligation bonds. (Ord. 964, 10-22-2012)
7-4-3: BILLING AND COLLECTION:
The "bond fee" shall be billed and collected as provided in chapter 5 of this
title. (Ord. 964, 10-22-2012)
CHAPTER 5
BOND FEE AND UTILITY FEE BILLING
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Statements
7-5-3: Collection Of Delinquent Bond Fee Accounts
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
BOND FEE: The fee the city must collect from its residents and nonresident
users of city service to pay the principal and interest and bond sinking funds
required by law on bonds which are not general obligation bonds and loans
obtained to finance the city's water and sewer systems and sewer treatment and
water treatment facilities.
UTILITY FEE: The fee the city must collect from its residents and/or users of
its service for supplying water, sewer and sanitation services, including
reserves to replace worn out equipment, etc. (Ord. 965, 10-22-2012)
7-5-2: STATEMENTS:
   A.   Individual Utility Fee And Bond Fee Statement(s) Mailed: Individual
city utility fee and/or bond fee statements, which set forth the charges for
bond fee and/or utility fee shall be mailed to all parties with an account with
the city on or after the twenty fifth day of each month.
   B.   Due Date: Payment shall be due on or before the tenth day of the month
following the month in which city water meters were read, unless said day is a
holiday, Saturday or Sunday, in which case the account will be due on the next
day the city clerk- treasurer's office is open for business.
   C.   Delinquent Or Late Fee: Individual city statements which are not paid
on or before the twentieth day of the month following the month in which the
water meter for such city utility fee statement was read, shall be assessed a
late fee. A minimum of fifteen dollars ($15.00) or ten percent (10%) of the
past due balance with a maximum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) will be added
to such delinquent utility fee and/or bond fee statements.
   D.   Charges: The total monthly billing to each utility fee and/or bond fee
account shall be considered as one bill for property owners who reside on said
property. Any payment received shall be credited first to the utility fee
portion of the account and then to the bond fee portion of the account. In the
event the property owner rents said property the utility fee account and
billing will be set up and mailed to the renter and the bond fee account and
billing will be set up and mailed to the property owner.
   E.   Payments On Account: The clerk-treasurer shall have authority to accept
partial payments to apply upon the balance due on the entire account and shall
have authority to accept prepayments to apply against all future billings to
the account.
   F.   Correct Or Remove Delinquency: Once a delinquent or late fee has been
assessed against a city utility fee and/or bond fee statement (account), said
account and all subsequent city statements relating to the said delinquent
account, whether or not billed, shall also be included as being delinquent and
must also be paid in full to correct or remove the delinquency.
   G.   Turnoff Order: In the event a city utility fee and/or bond fee account
becomes delinquent, the city clerk-treasurer may issue a turn off order to shut
off city water and other services until entire past due amount is paid in full
or partial payment is made with arrangements to pay remaining balance within
one week is made with city clerk-treasurer's office.
   H.   Reinstatement: Once services have been turned off, they will not be
reinstated until the entire account, including all late fees, has been paid in
full or arrangements have been made with the city clerk-treasurer's office. In
addition a turn on fee of fifty dollars ($50.00), one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for repeat offenders, will be assessed to the utility fee/bond fee account.
   I.   Fee Collected: The city council shall apply the utility fee and the
bond fee collected to the payment of the various services rendered by the city
in the manner determined by resolution adopted by the city council. (Ord. 965,
10-22-2012)
7-5-3: COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT BOND FEE ACCOUNTS:
All delinquent bond fee accounts are hereby declared to be "special
assessments" levied by the city of Buhl and are therefore collectible under
Idaho Code section 50-1008, which is incorporated herein by reference as if set
forth fully herein. The city clerk-treasurer shall comply with the provisions
of Idaho Code section 50-1008 by timely certifying delinquent bond fee accounts
to the tax collector of Twin Falls County, Idaho, and said tax collector shall
place said delinquent accounts on the tax roll to be collected in the same
manner and subject to the same penalties as other city taxes. (Ord. 965, 10-22-
2012)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: International Codes Adopted
8-1-2: Provision For Alternative Safety Procedures
8-1-3: Building Permit Fees
8-1-4: Modular Office Buildings
8-1-5: Violation; Penalty
8-1-1: INTERNATIONAL CODES ADOPTED:
The following nationally recognized codes are adopted as the official building
codes of the city of Buhl:
   A.   International Building Code: The international building code, 2012
edition, prepared by the International Code Council, Inc., as adopted by the
state of Idaho or the Idaho building code board, together with any amendments
or revisions to the international building code made by the Idaho building code
board through the negotiated rulemaking process, is adopted.
   B.   International Residential Code: The international residential code,
2009 edition, prepared by the International Code Council, Inc., as adopted by
the state of Idaho or the Idaho building code board, together with any
amendments or revisions to the international residential code made by the Idaho
building code board through the negotiated rulemaking process, is adopted.
   C.   International Energy Conservation Code: The international energy
conservation code, 2009 edition, prepared by the International Code Council,
Inc., as adopted by the state of Idaho or the Idaho building code board,
together with any amendments or revisions to the international energy
conservation code made by the Idaho building code board through the negotiated
rulemaking process, is adopted.
   D.   International Existing Building Code: The international existing
building code, 2012 edition, prepared by the International Code Council, Inc.,
as adopted by the state of Idaho or the Idaho building code board, together
with any amendments or revisions to the international existing building code
made by the Idaho building code board through the negotiated rulemaking
process, is adopted. (Ord. 974, 1-27-2014, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2014)
8-1-2: PROVISION FOR ALTERNATIVE SAFETY PROCEDURES:
   A.   Reservation Of Power: Notwithstanding any provisions of the city
building codes to the contrary, the city council reserves the power to provide
for alternate safety procedures or requirements in lieu of those required by
said city building codes in cases where the occupancy of an existing building
is changed from a use or occupancy that complied with the code to a use or
occupancy where the newly required safety procedures present practical
difficulties in strict compliance with the code.
   B.   Practical Difficulties: Practical difficulties can involve cost of the
safety procedure compared to the value of the building; the nature of the
previous use, and the new use to which the building is to be put; the degree of
risk, or lack thereof, given the alternative safety procedures to be employed;
whether the required safety procedure or procedures is not present in other
buildings or structures of the same proposed occupancy; square footage of the
building and its various occupancies; and any other factor deemed relevant by
the council. Requirements which cannot be waived are those relating to exits,
kitchen hoods and connected fire suppression systems.
   C.   Request For Review: In the event a new occupant believes that the
interpretation of the building codes and/or its requirements by the city
building inspector gave rise to practical difficulties of the type described
above, the new occupant may request review of such requirements by the council,
in which case, such new occupant shall not be required to appeal to the board
of appeals created by the building codes. Such requests shall be filed directly
with the city clerk-treasurer, and shall specify, at a minimum:
      1.   The location of the property in question;
      2.   The use to which the premises were previously put;
      3.   The use to which the occupant intends to put the property;
      4.   The requirement which the building inspector has determined should
be applied;
      5.   An explanation as to why such requirement imposes practical
difficulty; and
      6.   The alternative safety measures the applicant proposes in lieu
thereof.
   D.   Council Review Of Request: At city council meeting at which the matter
is set on the agenda, the city council will review the written request, hear
statements from the occupant, building inspector, fire chief, and any other
person attending the meeting who the mayor and/or city council feels can aid
the city council and mayor in their decision. The matter may then be tabled for
further study, denied or approved as presented or approved as amended by the
council. The decision of the council shall be reduced to writing and a copy
shall be delivered to the occupant, building inspector, fire chief and anyone
else requesting a copy of the same.
   E.   Order By Council; Violation: In the event the council order allows
alternate safety procedures to be used, the order will contain the legal
description of the property involved and set forth in detail the alternate
safety procedures to be followed and such other conditions as deemed
appropriate. The order will be considered the same as an occupancy permit which
will be effective when the provisions thereof and other applicable provisions
of the fire code and building code are complied with. A violation of the order
will result in the cancellation of the occupant's occupancy permit. The order
shall be signed by the mayor, property owner and any tenants and shall be
recorded with the Twin Falls County recorder. (1974 Code § 3-202)
8-1-3: BUILDING PERMIT FEES:
All building permit fees as required under the international building code
shall be set forth by resolution of the city council and mayor. The
determination of value or valuation for the purposes of establishing building
permit fees shall be made by the building official of the city. (1974 Code § 3-
203; amd. 2010 Code)
8-1-4: MODULAR OFFICE BUILDINGS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following words and
phrases shall have a meaning ascribed to them in this subsection:
   BUSINESS USE: Any legitimate business operation allowed by law.
   MODULAR OFFICE BUILDING: Any prebuilt unit constructed specifically for
offices or medical facilities which are constructed off of the premises, to be
moved onto the premises, for a business use and not used for a dwelling. (1974
Code § 3-501)
   B.   Site Provisions: Modular office buildings shall be located on a well
drained site and shall be either placed upon a foundation of concrete or cinder
blocks in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations and be skirted.
The units must be placed upon the site in such a manner that there is a minimum
of twenty feet (20') (including any street or alley) between the units and any
building on adjoining property. (1974 Code § 3-502)
   C.   Location: Modular office buildings may be located, parked or stored in
the business district, manufacturing and warehouse district, or in licensed
trailer courts only and only then when they comply with this section. (1974
Code § 3-503)
   D.   Not Used As Dwellings: A modular office building may not be used as
living quarters or as a dwelling either on a permanent basis or a temporary
basis. If such units are used for living quarters, they shall no longer be
classified as a modular office building, but shall be classified as
manufactured housing. (1974 Code § 3-504)
   E.   Comply With Codes: All modular office buildings shall comply with all
federal, state and local plumbing and electrical codes, laws and regulations
and shall be connected to the city water and sewage service where available in
compliance with the city ordinance applicable thereto. (1974 Code § 3-505)
   F.   Permits: It shall be unlawful for any owner to move a modular office
building onto any site within the limits of the city, unless said owner holds a
valid building and/or zoning permit issued by the city. Applications for
permits shall be made showing a complete layout of the proposed site with the
dimensions of said site and the locations and dimensions of the proposed
modular office building which is to be located upon the site together with such
other information as may be required by the building inspector and/or zoning
commission. (1974 Code § 3-506)
8-1-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Every person, firm, corporation or his, her or their servant, agent,
representative, or employee violating any of the provisions of the
international codes adopted by this chapter shall, in addition to the penalties
prescribed by those codes, be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The imposition of one penalty for any one violation shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall
be required to correct or remedy such violation or defect within a reasonable
time. (1974 Code § 3-204; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING PERMITS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Permit Required
8-2-2: Application
8-2-3: Building Permit And Plan Review Fees
8-2-4: Issuance
8-2-5: Expiration
8-2-6: Suspension Or Revocation
8-2-7: Work Done Without Required Permit
8-2-8: Inspections
8-2-9: Violation; Penalty
8-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
move, improve, remove, convert or demolish any building or structure in the
city or cause the same to be done without first obtaining a separate building
permit for each such building or structure from the city. (1974 Code § 3-301)
8-2-2: APPLICATION:
To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file with the city clerk-
treasurer an application therefor, in writing, on a form furnished by the city
for that purpose. Every such application shall:
   A.   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is made.
   B.   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done, by lot,
block, tract and house and street address or similar description that will
readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work.
   C.   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is intended.
   D.   Be accompanied by two (2) sets of plans and specifications, when
required by the city building official.
   E.   State the valuation of the proposed work.
   F.   Be signed by the permittee or his authorized agent.
   G.   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
building official for the city.
   H.   State the applicant's Idaho contractor's registration number or that
the applicant is exempt from registration as provided for in Idaho Code
sections 54-5201 through 54-5219. (1974 Code § 3-302)
8-2-3: BUILDING PERMIT AND PLAN REVIEW FEES:
The fees for building permits and plan review, computed as set forth below,
shall be paid to the city prior to the issuance of a building permit:
   A.   Valuation: The valuation of all construction for the purpose of setting
building permit fees shall be seventy five percent (75%) of the ICBO building
valuation data as it now exists or is hereafter amended.
   B.   Building Permit Fee: The building permit fees set forth in a resolution
adopted by the city council and approved by the mayor of the city shall be
applied to such valuation of construction as computed under subsection A of
this section.
   C.   Plan Review Fees: Plan review fees for reviewing proposed construction
plans, etc., shall be determined by the city building inspector on an
individual construction project basis, based upon time and costs incurred by
the city; but, in no case shall the plan review fee exceed sixty five percent
(65%) of the building permit fee for the plans reviewed. (1974 Code § 3-303)
8-2-4: ISSUANCE:
The application, plans and specifications filed by an applicant for a permit
shall be checked by the building inspector for the city. Such plans may be
reviewed by other departments of the city to check compliance with the laws and
ordinances under their jurisdiction. If the building inspector is satisfied
that the work described in an application for permit and plans filed therewith
conform to the requirements of the several codes adopted under section
8-1-1 of this title and section
8-2-2 of this chapter, as well as Idaho Code sections 54-5201 through 54-5219
and 54-5209 in particular and all other pertinent laws and ordinances, and that
the fee specified in subsection
8-2-3B of this chapter has been paid, he shall issue a building permit therefor
to the applicant. (1974 Code § 3-304)
8-2-5: EXPIRATION:
Every permit issued by the city building inspector under the provisions of this
chapter shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the building or
work authorized by such permit is not commenced within one hundred twenty (120)
days from the date of issuance of such permit or if the building or work
authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work
is commenced for a period of one hundred twenty (120) days. Before such work
can be recommenced, a new permit shall be first obtained, and the fee therefor
shall be one-half (1/2) the amount required for a new permit for such work
provided no changes have been made or will be made in the original plans and
specifications for such work; and provided, further, that such suspension or
abandonment has not exceeded one year, in which case, the full fee for a new
permit shall be required. (1974 Code § 3-305)
8-2-6: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
The city building inspector may, in writing, suspend or revoke a permit issued
under the provisions of this chapter whenever the permit is issued in error or
on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or in violation of any
ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this code. (1974 Code § 3-
306)
8-2-7: WORK DONE WITHOUT REQUIRED PERMIT:
Where work for which a building permit is required by this chapter is started
or proceeded with prior to obtaining said permit, the fee specified in section
8-2-3 of this chapter shall be doubled, but the payment of such double fee
shall not relieve any persons from fully complying with the various codes
adopted by section
8-1-1 of this title in the execution of the work, nor will the payment of such
double fee relieve any persons from other penalties prescribed herein. (1974
Code § 3-307)
8-2-8: INSPECTIONS:
All construction or work for which a permit is required shall be subject to
inspection by the city building inspector. The building inspector shall make
periodic inspections, and no work shall be done on any part of the building or
structure beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without
first obtaining written approval of the building inspector. There shall be a
final inspection and approval on all buildings when completed and ready for
occupancy. No building or structure shall be used or occupied until the
building inspector has issued a certificate of occupancy. Nothing herein shall
prevent the building inspector from issuing a temporary certificate of
occupancy for the use of a portion or portions of a building or structure prior
to the completion of the entire building or structure. (1974 Code § 3-308)
8-2-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Every person, firm, corporation, or his/her/their servant, agent,
representative or employee violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The imposition of one penalty for any one violation shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall
be required to correct or remedy such violation or defect within a reasonable
time. (1974 Code § 3-309; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE CODE AND FIRE PROTECTION
SECTION:
8-3-1: Fire Protection
8-3-2: Fire Code
8-3-3: Enforcement
8-3-4: Alternative Safety Procedures
8-3-5: National Fire Underwriters Standards
8-3-6: Flammable Liquids
8-3-7: Liability Of City
8-3-8: Violation; Penalty
8-3-1: FIRE PROTECTION:
The city fire department shall provide fire protection within the city limits
and to areas covered by mutual reciprocal agreements with other cities and fire
districts. (1974 Code § 3-101)
8-3-2: FIRE CODE:
   A.   Adoption: The edition of the international fire code adopted from time
to time by the state fire marshal is hereby adopted by the city and shall apply
in all instances within the corporate limits and impact area of the city. (1974
Code § 3-102)
   B.   Copy: One copy of the aforementioned code, together with such official
supplements thereto, which are adopted have been and now are filed in the
office of the city clerk-treasurer, such copy shall be retained in the office
of the city clerk-treasurer after its adoption. (1974 Code § 3-102; amd. 2010
Code)
   C.   Amendments:
      1.   Whenever the word "jurisdiction" is used in the international fire
code, it is in reference to the city of Buhl, Idaho.
      2.   Whenever the word "chief" or "fire chief" is used in the
international fire code, said code is amended to mean the fire chief of the
city of Buhl, Idaho. (1974 Code § 3-103)
8-3-3: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Fire Department: The international fire code shall be enforced by the
city fire department under the provision of the chief of the fire department.
The city fire department may designate such members of the fire department and
inspectors as shall from time to time become necessary. (1974 Code § 3-103)
   B.   Authority To Arrest: The city fire chief shall have authority to
arrest, without a warrant, whenever he has reasonable cause to believe that the
person to be arrested has committed a misdemeanor in his presence which he has
the discretionary duty to enforce and to issue a notice to appear and release
such person on his or her written promise to appear in court. (1974 Code § 3-
103; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Appeal: Whenever the fire chief disapproves an application or refuses
to grant a permit applied for or when it is claimed that the provisions of the
code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code may have been
misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the aggrieved party may appeal the
decision of the fire chief to the board of appeals as provided for within the
international fire code, within ten (10) days from the date of the decision
appealed. (1974 Code § 3-103)
8-3-4: ALTERNATIVE SAFETY PROCEDURES:
   A.   Reservation Of Power: Notwithstanding any provisions of the city fire
code to the contrary, the city council reserves the power to provide for
alternate safety procedures or requirements in lieu of those required by said
city fire code in cases where the occupancy of an existing building is changed
from a use or occupancy that complied with the code to a use or occupancy where
the newly required safety procedures present practical difficulties in strict
compliance with the code.
   B.   Practical Difficulties: Practical difficulties can involve cost of the
safety procedure compared to the value of the building; the nature of the
previous use, and the new use to which the building is to be put; the degree of
risk, or lack thereof, given the alternative safety procedures to be employed;
whether the required safety procedure or procedures is not present in other
buildings or structures of the same proposed occupancy; square footage of the
building and its various occupancies; and any other factor deemed relevant by
the council. Requirements which cannot be waived are those relating to exits,
kitchen hoods and connected fire suppression systems.
   C.   Request For Review: In the event a new occupant believes that the
interpretation of the fire code and/or its requirements by the fire chief give
rise to practical difficulties of the type described above, the new occupant
may request review of such requirements by the council, in which case such new
occupant shall not be required to appeal to the board of appeals created by the
fire code. Such requests shall be filed directly with the city clerk-treasurer,
and shall specify, at a minimum:
      1.   The location of the property in question;
      2.   The use to which the premises were previously put;
      3.   The use to which the occupant intends to put the property;
      4.   The requirement which the fire chief has determined should be
applied;
      5.   An explanation as to why such requirement imposes practical
difficulty; and
      6.   The alternative safety measures the applicant proposes in lieu
thereof.
   D.   Council Review Of Request: At the city council meeting at which the
matter is set on the agenda, the city council will review the written request,
hear statements from the occupant, fire chief, building inspector and any other
person attending the meeting who the mayor and/or city council feels can aid
the city council and mayor in their decision. The matter may then be tabled for
further study, denied or approved as presented or approved as amended by the
council. The decision of the council shall be reduced to writing and a copy
shall be delivered to the occupant, fire chief, building inspector and anyone
else requesting a copy of the same.
   E.   Council Order; Violation: In the event the council order allows
alternate safety procedures to be used, the order will contain the legal
description of the property involved and set forth in detail the alternate
safety procedures to be followed and such other conditions as deemed
appropriate. The order will be considered the same as an occupancy permit which
will be effective when the provisions thereof and other applicable provisions
of the fire code and building code are complied with. A violation of the order
will result in the cancellation of the occupant's occupancy permit. The order
shall be signed by the mayor, property owner and any tenants and shall be
recorded with the Twin Falls County recorder. (1974 Code § 3-104)
8-3-5: NATIONAL FIRE UNDERWRITERS STANDARDS:
The standards of the National Board of Fire Underwriters as set forth in
pamphlet 30, are hereby adopted by the city, one copy shall be on file in the
office of the city clerk-treasurer. Such standards shall provide for the
handling and use of flammable liquids. Said copies of pamphlet 30 shall be
available at the office of the clerk-treasurer and may be there inspected by
any person desiring to do so. (1974 Code § 8-603; amd. 2010 Code)
8-3-6: FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS:
   A.   Install, Remodel, Enlarge Or Change Storage Tank; Permit Required: It
shall be unlawful for any person to remodel or install any storage tank for
flammable liquids until such person has filed plans and specifications of said
tank showing the type and nature of construction of said tank and its capacity
and has also secured a permit from the fire chief to install such tank or
remodel or enlarge or change the location of a preexisting tank.
   B.   Underground Tanks Required: All tanks for the retail sale of class I
and class II flammable liquids shall be underground.
   C.   Storage In Excess Of Five Gallons:
      1.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to store
petroleum, gasoline, benzine, naphtha, distillation or products of petroleum or
hydrocarbon liquids in quantities in excess of five (5) gallons without first
obtaining a permit to do so.
      2.   Application: Any person desiring to store any such material or
substances in excess of five (5) gallons shall make application to the chief of
the fire department, setting forth the name of the applicant, the street number
and the designation of the premises to be used for storage purposes, and the
maximum quantities of the above named substances, or any or either of them,
which he desires to place in storage. (1974 Code § 8-604)
      3.   Issuance: If the chief of the fire department shall, in writing,
approve such application, but not otherwise, except by order of the council,
the clerk-treasurer shall issue a license upon the payment of ten dollars
($10.00) per year or fraction thereof. No person shall store any of the
materials or substances hereinbefore named in any other place than that
specified in his application for license and the license granted shall only be
effective as to such premises. (1974 Code § 8-604; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Delivery Of Flammable Liquids:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deliver or make delivery of
flammable liquids to any person unless such person making such delivery shall
be, at all times, in attendance of said truck. It shall be unlawful and
punishable as a misdemeanor for any person to negligently deliver said
flammable liquids to any establishment or to permit excess quantities of said
flammable liquids to spill upon the surrounding ground or upon the street.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any transport truck
containing class I and class II flammable liquids or any truck containing class
I and class II flammable liquids having a capacity in excess of one thousand
eight hundred (1,800) gallons upon any of the streets of the city, save and
except upon Main Street, west of Thirteenth Street, and upon Broadway Street,
and, excepting also, the designated truck route in the city. (1974 Code § 8-
605)
8-3-7: LIABILITY OF CITY:
This chapter shall not be construed to relieve or lessen the responsibility of
any person engaged in the storage, handling and use of flammable liquids for
damages to any person injured or damaged, whether in person or property, by any
defect herein known and, in no event, shall the municipality or any agent
thereof be held to assume any liability by reason of inspections authorized
herein or certificate of inspection issued by the fire chief. (1974 Code § 8-
606)
8-3-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
The penalty for any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions
of this chapter, or of the codes adopted by this chapter and the amendments
thereto, shall be the same as those provided for in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1974 Code § 8-607)
CHAPTER 4
PLUMBING CODE AND INSTALLATIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Purpose
8-4-2: Idaho Plumbing Code Adopted
8-4-3: Permit Required
8-4-4: Unlawful Approval
8-4-5: Liability Of City Officials Or Employees
8-4-6: Violation; Penalty
8-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is for the protection of the public health by the
application of basic plumbing principles as contained in the Idaho plumbing
code, Idaho Code title 54, chapter 26, as now adopted or as may be hereinafter
amended. (1974 Code § 3-701)
8-4-2: IDAHO PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adopted: For the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the
installation and repair of plumbing, the Idaho plumbing code, Idaho Code title
54, chapter 26, or as may be hereinafter amended, and the whole thereof, is
hereby adopted and incorporated herein as if set out at length. The provisions
thereof shall be controlling as to the plumbing of all buildings and other
structures within the corporate limits of the city, and within the area of
impact for the city.
   B.   Copy On File: One copy shall have been and now is filed in the office
of the clerk-treasurer. (1974 Code § 3-703; amd. 2010 Code)
8-4-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation,
whether acting as principal, servant, agent or employee, to do, or cause or
permit to be done, any plumbing or drainage work for which a permit is required
within the city without first securing such a permit signed by the state
plumbing inspector, or his authorized agent.
   B.   When Required: A permit shall be required when any plumbing fixture,
waste discharging device, waste pipe, special water leader or system, or water
distribution system is installed, altered, replaced, or removed.
   C.   Permit To Be Posted: No plumbing or drainage work for which a permit is
required shall be commenced in any building or premises until an official
permit therefor is posted in a conspicuous place in such building or upon such
premises. No persons shall remove or deface such permit until the work
authorized by it has been approved by the plumbing inspector or his authorized
representatives.
   D.   Covering Of Work: No drainage or plumbing system, or part thereof,
shall be covered until it has been inspected, tested, and approved.
   E.   Uncovering Of Work: If any house drainage or plumbing system, or part
thereof, is covered before being regularly inspected, tested, and approved, it
shall be uncovered upon the direction of the proper administrative authority.
(1974 Code § 3-704)
8-4-4: UNLAWFUL APPROVAL:
   A.   The issuance or granting of a permit, or the approval of plans and/or
specifications, shall not be deemed or construed to be a permit for approval of
any violation of the provisions of this chapter. No permit purporting to give
authority to violate, or cancel the provisions of this chapter shall be valid.
   B.   The issuance of a permit upon plans and specifications shall not
prevent the plumbing inspector from thereafter requiring the correction of
errors in said plans and/or specifications, or from preventing plumbing or
drainage work being carried on thereunder, when in violation of this chapter,
or of any ordinance of the city or of any law of the state of Idaho, pertaining
to plumbing or plumbers applicable in the city. (1974 Code § 3-706)
8-4-5: LIABILITY OF CITY OFFICIALS OR EMPLOYEES:
This chapter shall not be construed as imposing upon the city any liability or
responsibility for damage resulting from defective plumbing or drainage
systems, or the installation thereof; nor shall the city or any official or
employee thereof be held as assuming any such liability or responsibility by
reason of the inspection authorized thereunder. (1974 Code § 3-707)
8-4-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and each such person shall be deemed guilty of a
separate offense, for each and every day or portion thereof during which any
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is committed, continued, or
permitted, and, upon conviction of any such violation, such person shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1974 Code § 3-705; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ELECTRICAL CODE AND INSTALLATIONS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Electrical Code Adopted
8-5-2: State License
8-5-3: Persons Making Own Installations
8-5-4: Permit Required; Fee
8-5-5: Connection Before Inspection
8-5-6: Concealed Wiring
8-5-7: Inspection Requirements
8-5-8: Right Of Entry
8-5-9: Damage Not Assumed By City
8-5-10: Violation; Penalty
8-5-1: ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adopted: For the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the
installation and repair or remodeling of electrical systems within the city,
the national electrical code, 1984 edition, as recommended by the American
Standards Institute, and the whole thereof, as well as any amendments,
revisions, compilations and republications of the same, is hereby adopted by
the city, and incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein, and
the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the installation of all
electrical work of all buildings other structures within the corporate limits
of the city. (1974 Code § 3-801)
   B.   Copy On File: One copy has been and now is filed in the office of the
city clerk-treasurer. (1974 Code § 3-801; amd. 2010 Code)
8-5-2: STATE LICENSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to carry on the
business of electrical wiring without first having secured a state license to
do so and as required by Idaho Code title 54, chapter 10. (1974 Code § 3-802)
8-5-3: PERSONS MAKING OWN INSTALLATIONS:
If an owner wishes to do wiring in his own building, he may do so without a
state license, but he must first obtain any permit as may be required under the
national electrical code as herein adopted or as may be required under Idaho
Code title 54, chapter 10. (1974 Code § 3-803)
8-5-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place or install in
any building any wiring, apparatus or fixture for the use of electric current
for light, heat, or power, or to make any alterations or changes in or
additions to any wiring, apparatus or fixtures for such use, without first
obtaining a permit from the appropriate state agency and as may be required
under the national electrical code as herein adopted, or as may be required
under Idaho Code title 54, chapter 10. (1974 Code § 3-804)
8-5-5: CONNECTION BEFORE INSPECTION:
No person, persons, firm, or corporation engaged in the business of furnishing
electricity for lighting, power, heating, or cooking purposes shall connect up,
or permit to be connected up to its lines, any electric wiring, machinery,
apparatus, appliances, matters or things, until the same have been inspected
and approved by the state electrical inspector and until the city building
inspector has been notified of such requested action. (1974 Code § 3-805)
8-5-6: CONCEALED WIRING:
No person, persons, firm, or corporation shall hereafter conceal or cause to be
concealed any electric wiring or apparatus, mentioned in this chapter without
the express permission of the electrical inspector, and the electrical
inspector is hereby authorized and directed to remove any flooring, lath or
plaster, sheet metal or any other material which may conceal any electric
wiring, or apparatus contrary to the provisions of this chapter, for the
purpose of inspecting the same at the cost of the person, persons, firm or
corporation causing such concealment. (1974 Code § 3-807)
8-5-7: INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Notice Required: Upon the completion of, or the installation of any
electric wiring, machinery, apparatus, appliances, matters or things of kind
within the limits of the city, it shall be the duty of the person, persons,
firm or corporation installing the same to notify, in writing, the electrical
inspector that the same is ready for his inspection.
   B.   Inspection Results: The electrical inspector shall, within forty eight
(48) hours after receipt of such notice, make a complete inspection of the same
and, if the same passes inspection, he shall post a notice to that effect; but
should he find that the same is in an improper or unsafe and dangerous
condition, or does not comply with the rules and regulations provided by this
chapter, he shall refuse to issue and post his inspection notice for the same
until such changes shall have been made as are necessary to make the same
comply with the provisions of this chapter. (1974 Code § 3-806)
8-5-8: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
   A.   Authority And Duty To Examine And Inspect: The electrical inspector
shall have the authority and it is hereby made his duty to enter any premises
within the limits of the city, at reasonable hours, and examine and inspect all
electrical wiring and apparatus installed in said premises with such frequency
as he may deem necessary.
   B.   Defective Or Dangerous Installation:
      1.   Notice: If the electrical inspector finds that the said electrical
wiring and apparatus is installed in a defective or dangerous manner he shall
notify the owner or occupant, or agent of the owner, to remedy said defect or
remove said danger.
      2.   Failure To Remedy Defect Or Remove Danger: The owner shall thereupon
and within three (3) days thereafter remedy said defect or remove the said
danger in accordance with the order and to the satisfaction of the electrical
inspector.
      3.   Disconnection Of Service Wires: Should any person, persons, firm or
corporation fail to remedy such defect or remove such danger within three (3)
days, then the electrical inspector may disconnect all service wires from such
electrical wiring or apparatus until such time as the provisions of this
chapter have been complied with. (1974 Code § 3-809)
8-5-9: DAMAGE NOT ASSUMED BY CITY:
This chapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility of any person owning, operating or installing any electrical
wires, appliances, apparatus, construction or equipment for damages to anyone
injured or damaged either in person or property by any defect therein; nor
shall said city or any agent thereof be held as assuming such liability. (1974
Code § 3-806)
8-5-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, persons, firm or corporation who shall fail to comply with the
directions of the electrical inspector or who shall violate any of the
requirements of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1974 Code § 3-811; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 6
GAS INSTALLATIONS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Licenses And Permits Required
8-6-1: LICENSES AND PERMITS REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to do any gas
installations within the city limits without having all of the required
licenses and permits required by the state of Idaho and United States of
America. (2010 Code)
CHAPTER 7
NUMBERING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
8-7-1: Numbers Required
8-7-2: Assignment Of Numbers
8-7-3: Method Of Numbering
8-7-4: Numbers To Be Uniform
8-7-5: Violation; Penalty
8-7-1: NUMBERS REQUIRED:
Every owner, agent or person having control of any dwelling or business house
or building of any description or kind within the city limits shall cause the
same to be distinctly numbered. Every such building shall be so numbered within
thirty (30) days after the completion of its construction or repair. (1974 Code
§ 6-401)
8-7-2: ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS:
The mayor and city council are hereby given the exclusive right to determine
the building numbers as provided for in this chapter, such numbering shall be
placed on the front of residence or other building and the mayor and city
council shall determine what constitutes the front of any such residence or
other building. (1974 Code § 6-402)
8-7-3: METHOD OF NUMBERING:
Every owner, agent or person having control of any dwelling or business house
of any kind or description within the city limits shall, within thirty (30)
days after the effective date hereof, cause the same to be numbered in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   A.   Reference Point: All numbering on avenues within the original townsite
of the city shall commence and be numbered from Main Street, and all streets
within the original townsite of the city shall commence at the northeast corner
of said original townsite, and one whole number shall be allowed for every
twenty five feet (25') of ground whether improved or vacant.
   B.   Blocks: Each block on avenues shall be numbered by hundreds from Main
Street, and each block on streets shall be numbered by hundreds from the
northeast corner of the original townsite, the first block being 100 and
successive hundreds thereafter. In numbering houses, the first of the number
shall be the number of the block on the street or avenue on which it fronts
followed by the number in the block on which it is situated. In numbering
avenues, all blocks on the north and west side of Main Street shall be north.
   C.   Numbers; Odd Or Even: Even numbers shall be on the right hand and odd
numbers shall be on the left hand on avenues from Main Street, on the left hand
on streets, going from the northeast corner of the townsite. (1974 Code § 6-
403)
8-7-4: NUMBERS TO BE UNIFORM:
All numbers used in the numbering of houses under this chapter shall be not
less than three inches (3") in height and all figures making said number shall
be uniform in style, size and composition. The numbers may be made of any
durable material not less than three inches (3") in height and must be clearly
visible from the street. (1974 Code § 6-404; amd. 2010 Code)
8-7-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any owner, agent or person having control of any dwelling or business house in
the city who shall fail, neglect or refuse to number or keep and maintain on
such dwelling house or business house, a number as herein provided, or shall
fail, neglect or refuse to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1974 Code § 6-405; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 8
AWNINGS AND MARQUEES
SECTION:
8-8-1: Compliance Required
8-8-2: Permit; Fee
8-8-3: Investigation On Application
8-8-4: Record Of Permits
8-8-5: Noncombustible Materials
8-8-6: Movable Awnings, Specifications
8-8-7: Distance Over Sidewalk
8-8-8: Maintenance
8-8-9: Noncomplying Awnings
8-8-10: Enforcement
8-8-11: Violation; Penalty
8-8-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any awning or marquee, or other
covering over any sidewalk or over any portion of a sidewalk within the
corporate limits of the city, except as provided in this chapter. (1974 Code §
3-1001)
8-8-2: PERMIT; FEE:
   A.   Permit Required: Any person, firm or corporation desiring to erect or
repair an awning or marquee over any of the sidewalks, streets or alleys within
the city limits, shall file an application with the city clerk-treasurer for a
permit for such construction or repair, together with plans and specifications
covering the said proposed construction or repair. (1974 Code § 3-1005)
   B.   Permit Fee: If the building inspector has approved the application, a
permit shall be issued to the applicant. Upon issuance of the permit, the
applicant shall pay to the city clerk-treasurer a permit fee in an amount as is
set forth by resolution of the city council adopted pursuant to subsection
8-2-3B of this title. (1974 Code § 3-1007)
8-8-3: INVESTIGATION ON APPLICATION:
The city clerk-treasurer shall deliver said application to the building
inspector for his investigation and recommendation. The building inspector
shall return the application to the city clerk-treasurer within a period of
seven (7) days after delivery of the same to him, with his approval or
disapproval indicated on the same, and, if disapproved, the reason for such
action; provided, that approval can only be given if the proposed awning or
marquee comes within the provisions of this chapter. (1974 Code § 3-1006)
8-8-4: RECORD OF PERMITS:
It shall be the duty of the city clerk-treasurer to keep a record of all
permits issued under the provisions of this chapter. (1974 Code § 3-1009)
8-8-5: NONCOMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS:
The frame of any awning or marquee maintained or erected over any sidewalk
within the corporate limits of the city shall be constructed of noncombustible
materials only. (1974 Code § 3-1002; amd. 2010 Code)
8-8-6: MOVABLE AWNINGS, SPECIFICATIONS:
All movable awnings shall comply to the specifications for materials, design
and construction contained in the international building code. Awnings against
the first or grade story of the building shall be supported upon arms so as to
permit the awning to be folded or rolled compact against the building. (1974
Code § 3-1003; amd. 2010 Code)
8-8-7: DISTANCE OVER SIDEWALK:
Awnings may extend over the sidewalk portion of a public street a distance
equal to two-thirds (2/3) of the width of the walk, but not closer than two
feet (2') from a vertical line measured from the adjoining street curb. Every
such awning frame shall not be less than eight feet (8') above the sidewalk
immediately below, and that any fringe attached to such awning shall not be
less than seven feet (7') from the sidewalk level immediately below. (1974 Code
§ 3-1004)
8-8-8: MAINTENANCE:
Awnings and marquees shall be maintained in a good state of repair and kept
clean. (1974 Code § 3-1010)
8-8-9: NONCOMPLYING AWNINGS:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to re-cover or make major repairs to
any awning or frame that does not conform to this chapter. (1974 Code § 3-1011)
   B.   Unlawful Awnings To Be Removed: Any person, firm or corporation that
shall construct any awning within the city limits out of defective material, or
who shall cause, permit, suffer or allow such awning either as owner, agent or
occupant to remain in an unsafe or insecure condition or from any cause so as
to be dangerous to a passerby, shall remove the said awning within such time
period as required by the building inspector. In no case shall an awning deemed
to be dangerous to a passerby be allowed to remain in such condition for more
than thirty (30) days. Any person, firm or corporation not removing an awning
as required by the building inspector shall be deemed guilty of maintaining a
nuisance. (1974 Code § 3-1012)
8-8-10: ENFORCEMENT:
It is hereby made the duty of the building inspector to see that the provisions
of this chapter are strictly enforced and to make, or cause to be made, all
inspections necessary to that end. He shall notify the owner or occupant of any
building or premises having any awning or any other projection contrary to this
chapter, or any ordinance, to remove the same or conform them to the
requirements of the ordinances of the city. (1974 Code § 3-1013)
8-8-11: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1974 Code § 3-1014; amd. 2010 Code)
TITLE 9
ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION
SECTION:
9-1-1: Title
9-1-2: Authority
9-1-3: Jurisdiction
9-1-4: Minimum Requirements
9-1-5: Relationship With Other Laws
9-1-6: Effect On Existing Agreements
9-1-7: Fees For Copies Of Code
9-1-8: Severability Clause
9-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as the ZONING CODE OF THE CITY OF BUHL, IDAHO. (1974
Code § 4-101)
9-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This zoning code is adopted pursuant to authority granted by Idaho Code title
67, chapter 65, and the Idaho constitution, article 12, section 2, as amended
or subsequently codified. (1974 Code § 4-102)
9-1-3: JURISDICTION:
These regulations shall apply to the development of all land within the legally
defined Buhl city limits; to property outside the city limits for which
annexation has been requested; to land the city has jurisdiction over pursuant
to Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65; and land included within the area of impact
agreement between the city of Buhl and Twin Falls County. (1974 Code § 4-103)
9-1-4: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
The provisions of this title shall be held to be the minimum requirements for
the promotion of the public health, safety and general public welfare. (1974
Code § 4-104)
9-1-5: RELATIONSHIP WITH OTHER LAWS:
Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this title upon the use of
land or buildings or upon the bulk of buildings are either more restrictive or
less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other provision of
this title or any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of any
kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher
standards or requirements shall govern. (1974 Code § 4-105)
9-1-6: EFFECT ON EXISTING AGREEMENTS:
This title is not intended to nullify any easement, covenant or any other
private agreement; provided, that where the regulations of this title are more
restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than such easement,
covenants or other private agreements, the requirements herein shall govern.
(1974 Code § 4-106)
9-1-7: FEES FOR COPIES OF CODE:
Copies of the zoning and subdivision and development code shall be available
for sale to the public at the office of the city clerk-treasurer at a cost to
be determined by the city council by resolution. Such cost may be changed from
time to time by resolution as the city's cost of production changes. (1974 Code
§ 4-108)
9-1-8: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
Should any section or provision of this title be declared by the courts to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of
this title as a whole or a part thereof other than the part so declared to be
unconstitutional or invalid. (1974 Code § 4-107)
CHAPTER 2
INTENT, PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Intent; Purpose
9-2-2: Interpretation Of Terms And Words
9-2-3: Definitions
9-2-1: INTENT; PURPOSE:
The intent of this title shall be to implement a general guide for the use of
the land in the city limits and land over which the city has jurisdiction under
the area of impact agreement between the city and Twin Falls County. This title
is based on the officially adopted comprehensive plan of the city and is
enacted in order to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare and
to achieve the following objectives: (1974 Code § 4-201; amd. 2010 Code)
   A.   To promote the achievement of the proposals of the Buhl comprehensive
plan.
   B.   To improve the character and quality of Buhl's manmade environment
while maintaining its identity as a self-sufficient community.
   C.   To encourage orderly growth and development, thereby avoiding scattered
development of land that results in either of the following:
      1.   The lack of water supply, sewer service, drainage, transportation
facilities, or otherwise essential public services; and
      2.   The unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of public
funds for the supply of such services.
   D.   To protect residential, commercial, industrial and civic areas from the
intrusion of incompatible uses and to provide opportunities for establishments
to concentrate for efficient operation in mutually beneficial relationships to
each other and to shared services.
   E.   To provide for desirable and appropriately located living areas in a
variety of dwelling types and at a wide range of population and densities with
adequate provision for sunlight, fresh air and usable open space.
   F.   To promote safe, fast and efficient movement of people and goods and
the provision of adequate off street parking and loading.
   G.   To encourage excellence and creativity in the design of all future
developments and to preserve the natural beauty of the city setting.
   H.   To provide for the manner and form of preparing and processing
applications; for establishment, modification and/or variances from zoning
districts and regulations.
   I.   To encourage growth in those areas of the city which (due to
topography, soil characteristics and other compatible features) provide the
most favorable conditions for future community services such as sewer, water,
transportation, school, parks, etc.
   J.   To encourage the proper distribution and compatible integration of
neighborhood commercial into residential areas of the city.
   K.   To establish reasonable standards to which buildings or structures
shall conform.
   L.   To ensure that additions to and alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures comply with the restrictions and limitations imposed
hereunder.
   M.   To provide protection against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and other
hazards in the interest of the public health, safety, comfort and the general
welfare.
   N.   To ensure that buildings and land within the city are adequately
maintained to prevent physical deterioration and tax base erosion.
   O.   To specify the administration of the regulations of this title by
defining the powers and duties of approval authorities. (1974 Code § 4-201)
9-2-2: INTERPRETATION OF TERMS AND WORDS:
For the purpose of this title certain terms or words used herein shall be
interpreted as follows:
   A.   The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, political subdivision or corporation, as well as
an individual.
   B.   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural and the plural number includes the singular; the female
gender includes the neuter and male, the male gender includes the female and
neuter and the neuter includes the male and female.
   C.   The word "shall" is a mandatory requirement, the word "may" is
permissive usage and the word "should" is a preferred usage.
   D.   The words "used" or "occupied" include the words "intended, designed or
arranged to be used or occupied".
   E.   The word "lot" includes the words "plot", "parcel" and "tract".
   F.   A word or term which is not specifically defined by this chapter has
its common ordinary meaning as indicated by the context in which it is used.
   G.   Unless stated otherwise, these rules and definitions apply to all
zoning and subdivision codes of the city. (1974 Code § 4-202)
9-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
Words used in this title are defined as follows; provided, however, that in the
event the Idaho Code has a definition in conflict with those set forth herein,
the Idaho Code definition shall prevail:
ABUTTING: Property that is adjoining or bordering another property or separated
only by a private street, alley or easement.
ACCESS: The place, means or way by which pedestrians or vehicles shall have
safe, adequate and usable ingress and egress to a property, use or parking
space.
ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use or structure on the same lot with, and of a
nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure. An accessory use or structure does not alter the essential
characteristics of the principal permitted use and does not include a building
which is defined herein as a "dwelling unit".
ACREAGE: Any tract or parcel of land which has not been subdivided.
AESTHETIC: Those qualities of a development or natural feature which contribute
to a pleasant environment.
AFFECTED PERSON: A person having an interest in real property which may be
adversely affected by the issuance or denial of a permit authorizing the
proposed development.
AGGRIEVED PERSON: A person having an interest in real property who has been
adversely affected by the issuance or denial of a permit authorizing the
development.
AGRICULTURAL LAND: Land consisting of five (5) acres or more used for the
raising of plant crops and animals on pasture, but excluding agriculture
product processing plants, stockyards, feedlots, dairies and livestock
containment operations. (See Idaho Code section 50-226.)
AIRPORT: Any runway, land area or other facility designed or used either
publicly or privately by any person for the landing and taking off of aircraft,
including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tie down areas, hangars
and other necessary buildings.
ALLEY: A passageway providing secondary rear access with a platted width not
wider than necessary to accommodate a driving surface, drainage, utilities,
fencing and appurtenant facilities.
AMENITY: Attractive, pleasant or agreeable qualities associated with the design
of a development or buildings and equipment.
ANIMAL, SMALL AND LARGE: An animal shall be considered small if it is a
domestic pet normally kept in a house and weighs less than one hundred fifty
(150) pounds at maturity. All other animals shall be classed as large animals.
APARTMENT: A room or suite or rooms in a multiple-family structure which is
arranged, designed, or used as a single housekeeping unit and has complete and
permanently installed kitchen and bathroom facilities.
APARTMENT HOUSE: Multi-family housing complex of rental apartments.
APPEAL: A request for a rehearing or reconsideration to a higher authority for
a change of the decision on the application.
APPLICANT: Any person initiating an application or request for an action
authorized under this title.
APPLICATION: Proposals which are initiated on the appropriate forms and
properly filed with the planning and zoning clerk by a person for consideration
by the commission and council.
APPOINTED MEMBERS: All members of the planning and zoning commission appointed
by the mayor and approved by the city council and board of county commissioners
for the area of impact appointees.
ARCHITECT: A person qualified by reason of knowledge of mathematics, arts,
physical sciences and principals of architecture acquired by professional
education and experience, to engage in the practice of architecture. See Idaho
Code sections 54-301 and 67-601(s).
AREA, BUILDABLE: The space within the setback lines remaining after the minimum
open space requirements of this title have been complied with.
AREA, MINIMUM LOT: The minimum area which is allowed within the property lines
of the lot, excluding adjoining streets or rights of way.
AREA OF CITY IMPACT: The area surrounding the city as established by mutual
agreement with Twin Falls County in conformance with Idaho Code section 67-
6526.
AREA, PARKING:
   Private: An open graded area, other than street or public way, designed,
arranged and made available for the parking of private vehicles.
   Public: An open graded area, other than a street or alley, used for the
temporary parking of automobiles and available for public use or as an
accommodation for clients or customers.
AREA REQUIREMENTS: The designation given to the specific requirements set forth
in a zone or district by the text of this title. The area requirements refer to
the numerical standards established for a lot and building coverage in a
particular district.
AUTHORIZED PERSONS: Persons appointed by the mayor and approved by the city
council to assist the planning and zoning clerk and planning and zoning
commission.
AUTOMOBILE, MOBILE HOME, TRAVEL TRAILER AND FARM IMPLEMENT SALES: Sale or
rental of new and used motor homes, motor vehicles, travel trailers or farm
implements, but not including repair work, except incidental warranty, to be
displayed and sold on the premises.
AUTOMOBILE, MOTOR VEHICLE OR EQUIPMENT REPAIR: The repair, rebuilding or
reconditioning of motor vehicles or equipment, including service, painting and
steam cleaning of vehicles.
AUTOMOTIVE WRECKING YARD: Premises on which two (2) or more currently
nonlicensed motor vehicles or two (2) or more motor vehicles not in operating
condition are standing, dismantled or stored for more than thirty (30) days.
Motor vehicles include also mobile homes, trailers or trucks. Vehicles stored
in fully enclosed buildings are exempt from this definition. Farm equipment
located on a farm is also excluded from this definition.
BASEMENT: That portion of a dwelling unit all or partly underground and having
at least one-half (1/2) of its height below the average level of the adjoining
ground.
BED AND BREAKFAST: See definition of Boarding House, Rooming House, Dormitory.
BICYCLEWAY: A public way designed for the use of nonmotorized vehicles.
BILLBOARD: A rigid assembled outdoor sign, display or device permanently
affixed to the ground or permanently attached to a building or other permanent
structure constituting or used for the display or a commercial message,
unrelated to any use or activity on the property on which the sign is located.
For purposes of this definition, "commercial message" shall include all direct
or indirect advertisements for any transaction for profit involving
merchandise, goods, commodities, articles or services.
BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts or parcels within well defined boundaries,
usually streets.
BOARDING HOUSE, ROOMING HOUSE, DORMITORY: A dwelling or part thereof, other
than a hotel, motel or restaurant, where meals and/or lodging are provided for
compensation for three (3) or more persons not in the same family, and where no
cooking or dining facilities are provided in the individual rooms. See also
definition of Lodging House.
BOND, PERFORMANCE OR SURETY: A financial guarantee by a third party on behalf
of a subdivider or developer with the city in the amount of the estimated
construction cost guaranteeing the completion of physical improvements
according to plans and specifications within the time prescribed by the
agreement.
BUFFER STRIP OR ZONE: An area established to protect one type of land use from
possible undesirable characteristics of another, as between industrial and
residential zones.
BUILDING: Any structure securely fixed to the land, and which is designed or
intended for the shelter, enclosure or protection of persons, animals, chattels
or property of any kind.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A subordinate building detached from, but located on the
same lot as the principal building, the use of which is incidental and
accessory to that of the main building, or use. (See illustration in appendix
to zoning ordinance on file in the office of the clerk-treasurer.)
BUILDING CODE: The building code or codes adopted by the city.
BUILDING, EXISTING: A building erected prior to the effective date hereof or
one for which a legal building permit has been issued as of the effective date
of this title's initial adoption.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the average elevation of
the proposed finished grade at the front of the building to the highest point
of the roof for flat roofs, to the deck line of mansard roofs, and the top of
building walls for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
BUILDING, NONCONFORMING: Any building which does not conform to the
requirements of this title. (See chapter 5 of this title.)
BUILDING PERMIT: A permit issued by the city under the official building codes
adopted by the city.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which is conducted the main or principal use
of the lot on which said building is situated.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: An imaginary line established by this title that
requires all buildings to be set back from lot lines. (See illustration in
appendix to zoning ordinance on file with the city clerk-treasurer.)
BUILDING SITE: Geographic location where a vacant or occupied structure exists.
"Site" usually means the land reserved for a future building.
BULK: A term used to describe the size and relationships of buildings and other
structures, spaces, streets and parking and overall land area.
CARPORT: A stationary structure to house or protect motor vehicles which has at
least forty percent (40%) of the total area of its sides open to the weather.
CELLAR: That portion of a building between floor and ceiling which is wholly or
partly below grade.
CEMETERY: Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the human or
animal dead and dedicated for purposes, including crematories, mausoleums and
mortuaries if operated in connection with and within the boundaries of such
cemetery, for which perpetual care and maintenance is provided.
CENTRALIZED SEWER SYSTEM: Any sewage system serving one or more residences or
businesses, approved by South Central district health and department of
environmental quality and designed for treatment of sewage on site or for
collection and transmission of sewage to a larger treatment system.
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY: A permit, issued by the city, to occupy a premises
after inspection has verified compliance with the requirements and provisions
of this title and applicable building and fire codes.
CERTIFICATION OF ZONING COMPLIANCE: See definition of Zoning Permit.
CHAPTER: A chapter of the current city code.
CHILDCARE FACILITY: Any home, structure, or place where nonmedical care,
protection, or supervision is regularly provided to children under fourteen
(14) years of age, and not members of the operator's own family, for periods
less than twenty four (24) hours per day, while the parents or guardians are
not on the premises. There are three (3) types of childcare facilities:
   A.   Family Childcare Home: A childcare facility which provides care for
five (5) or fewer children throughout the day.
   B.   Group Childcare Home: A childcare facility which provides care for six
(6) to twelve (12) children throughout the day.
   C.   Childcare Center: A childcare facility which provides care for more
than twelve (12) children throughout the day.
In determining the type of childcare facility that is being operated, the total
number of children cared for during the day and not the number of children at
the facility at any one time is determinative.
CITY: The city of Buhl, which has jurisdiction over the land under
consideration in this title.
CLINIC: A building used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing,
infirm or injured persons and those who are in need of medical and surgical
attention; but which building does not provide board, room or regular hospital
care and services.
CLINIC, SMALL ANIMAL: Business establishment in which veterinary services are
rendered to small domestic pets on an outpatient basis with no overnight
boarding allowed.
CLUB OR LODGE: A building or premises owned or operated by an organized
association for a social, literary, political, educational or recreational
purpose primarily for the exclusive use of members and their guests.
CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT:
   Industrial And Commercial: Units which are concentrated in one area and
served by common parking, roads and utilities.
   Residential: Units which are concentrated in one area and surrounded by
common open space.
CODE: The Buhl city code.
COMMERCIAL DAIRY FARM: A farm whose principal function is the production of
milk and milk products and which may include the processing of milk; and
produces, ships or sells milk off the premises. A dairy farm further refers to
a dairy barn, processing facility or feeding area where animals are kept,
raised or fed in a restricted area, and where the milking area is subject to
the approval of the proper state and federal regulatory agencies.
COMMERCIAL ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES: Any profit making activity which is
generally related to the entertainment field, such as motion picture theaters,
carnivals, nightclubs, cocktail lounges and similar entertainment activities.
COMMERCIAL MEATPACKING FACILITIES: Includes meat canning, curing, smoking,
salting, packing, and freezing or other similar establishments in which meat
products are so processed for sale to the public and where the inspection of
meat, meat byproducts and meat food products are maintained.
COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission members appointed by the mayor
with the approval of the city council, and the members appointed by the board
of commissioners of Twin Falls County.
COMMON AREA: Lands or real estate intended for the common use of a group of
persons having an undivided common interest therein.
COMMON WALL: A wall located upon or at the division line between adjoining
premises used, intended to be used or available to be used by both owners of
such premises.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A plan, or any portion thereof, adopted pursuant to Idaho
Code title 67, chapter 65, by the city council, including such things as the
general location and extent of present and proposed physical facilities
including housing, industrial and commercial uses, major transportation, parks,
schools and other community facilities.
CONDITIONAL USE; SPECIAL USE: A use otherwise prohibited by the terms of this
title in a given zone, but which may be allowed with conditions under specific
provisions of this title when not in conflict with the comprehensive plan.
CONDOMINIUM: A system of individual fee ownership of units in a multi-unit
structure which is usually combined with joint ownership of common areas of the
structure and land.
CONTIGUOUS: Two (2) parcels of land which, at some point, have a common border.
CONTRACTOR YARD (AGENCY MAINTENANCE YARDS): Any parcel of land used for
storage, maintenance or processing incidental to the business of building,
hauling, excavation, demolition or similar activity and including any parcel of
land used for the incidental repair of machinery used for any of the above
listed activities.
CONVALESCENT OR NURSING HOME, REST HOME: Any home, place or institution which
operates or maintains facilities providing convalescent, or chronic care, or
both, for a period in excess of twenty four (24) consecutive hours for two (2)
or more patients not related by blood or marriage to the operator, and said
patients, who by reason of illness or infirmity, are unable to properly care
for themselves.
CONVENIENCE CENTER: A commercial development offering goods at retail and
personal services to a limited area.
CONVENIENCE STORE: A store offering goods, including gasoline, for sale at
retail. The offering for sale of services or goods pertaining to the repair or
servicing of vehicles shall not be included within this definition. (See also
definition of Service Station.)
COUNCIL: The city council of Buhl, Idaho.
COUNTY: Twin Falls County, Idaho, and its governing board.
COUNTY RECORDER: The office of the Twin Falls County recorder.
COURT: An open, unoccupied space, other than a yard, bounded on two (2) or more
sides by a building.
COVENANTS: A written restriction, promise or pledge, which, when recorded,
attaches to affected realty and which cannot be separated from the land without
the consent of all affected landowners.
CULVERT: A drain to channel water under a bridge, street, road or driveway.
CURB GRADE: The established elevation of the curb measured at the center of the
front of the building. Where no curb grade has been established, the city shall
establish such curb level or its equivalent for the purpose of this title.
DAIRY: See definition of Commercial Dairy Farm.
DEDICATION: Property given and accepted as a grant to the public.
DENSITY: A unit of measurement; the number of dwelling units per acre of land.
   Gross Density: The number of dwelling units per acre of total land to be
developed, including public rights of way.
   Net Density: The number of dwelling units per acre of land when the acreage
involved includes only the land devoted to residential uses, excluding public
rights of way.
DEVELOPED AREA: That portion of development which contains all structures,
roads and site improvements. Common open space shall be deemed to be part of
the developed area.
DEVELOPER: The owner, or the owner's legally authorized agent, of lands that
are being platted or mapped.
DEVELOPMENT: Lands within the boundaries of an area that is platted or mapped
in accordance with this title that are intended to be improved by the
construction or addition of buildings or other structures; by mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling.
DEVELOPMENT PLAN; PRELIMINARY AND FINAL: All plats, plans and/or submissions by
a developer, in whole or part, describing a development.
DISTRICT OR ZONE: Geographic location with designated boundaries within which
certain regulations apply under the provisions of this title.
DIVIDE OR DIVISION: Any partition of a parcel of real property whether by deed,
mortgage, deed of trust, sales agreement, will, trust, court order or decree,
or otherwise.
DOMESTIC LIVESTOCK: Cattle, dairy animals, horses, mules, sheep, goats,
alpacas, llamas, and other grazing animals as would be found on a normal farm
livestock operation.
DRIVE-IN: An establishment (other than a service station or truck stop) which
is designed to accommodate motor vehicles and patrons in such a manner as to
permit occupants of such vehicles to remain in their vehicle while receiving
services or making a purchase.
DRY LINE SEWER: Sewer lines which have been installed as per city
specifications before connections to a municipal wastewater treatment facility
become a reality.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof designed exclusively for residential
occupancy, including manufactured homes, but not including hotels, motels,
boarding and lodging houses, trailers, campers, RVs or trailer houses.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A dwelling consisting of three (3) or more attached
dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A dwelling consisting of a single dwelling unit only,
separated from other dwelling units by open space, including however, any home
in which eight (8) or fewer unrelated mentally and/or physically handicapped or
elderly persons reside with supervision. See Idaho Code sections 67-6531 and
67-6532.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY (DUPLEX): A dwelling designed to be used by two (2)
families consisting of two (2) dwelling units which may be either attached side
by side or one above the other.
DWELLING UNIT: Any building or portion thereof which meets adopted building
codes and is used as a residence or living quarters.
EASEMENT: A right, privilege, service or convenience, possessed by one person,
either through agreement or through condemnation, to use for a specified
purpose, a designated portion of a property owner's land.
ENGINEER: A person who is qualified to engage in the practice of professional
engineering. See Idaho Code section 54-1202(s).
EQUESTRIANWAY: A public way designed for horseback riding.
FAMILY: One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, provided all
members are related by blood, adoption, marriage or guardianship.
FARM: Land which is being used for the purpose of raising of plant crops and
animals on pasture. See Idaho Code section 50-226.
FEEDLOTS: Any parcel of land having greater than five (5) animal units per acre
in a confined area or any parcel of land containing twenty (20) acres or more
having more than one hundred (100) animal units total. All livestock shall have
the following animal unit equivalents:
Slaughter or feeder cow = 1.0 animal unit
Dairy heifer            = 1.0 animal unit
Beef cow/calf pair      = 1.2 animal units
Mature dairy cow        = 1.4 animal units
Swine                   = 0.5 animal unit
Sheep or lamb           = 0.2 animal unit
Horse                   = 1.0 animal unit
Goat                    = 0.3 animal unit
All others not listed   = 1.0 animal unit per 750 pounds
 
FENCE: An enclosure to prevent straying from within or intrusion into.
FENCE, OPEN: A fence that does not restrict or impede vision or sight through
the fence by more than twenty percent (20%).
FLOODPLAIN: The relatively flat area or lowland adjoining the channel of a
river, stream, lake or other body of water which has been or may be covered by
water of a flood of 100-year frequency. The floodplain includes the channel,
floodway and floodway fringe, as established by the engineering practices as
specified by the army corps of engineers.
FRONTAGE ROAD: A road which has unlimited access to collector and access
streets but has limited access to arterial streets.
GARAGE, ATTACHED: A garage having all or part of one wall common to the
dwelling or to a covered porch attached to the dwelling.
GARAGE, DETACHED: A garage which is completely surrounded by open space.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An enclosed accessory building or an accessory portion of the
main building designed and used for indoor parking or storage of vehicles or
boats owned and operated by the occupant of the main dwelling. An unattached
garage is considered to be an accessory building.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building or portion thereof (except a private garage) used or
designed to be used for the storage of motor vehicles.
GARAGE, REPAIR: A building used for the storage, parking, care or repair of
motor vehicles, or where such vehicles are kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
See also definition of Service Station.
GLARE: To shine with a harsh, uncomfortably bright light.
GOVERNING BOARD: The city council of the city of Buhl, Idaho, for areas within
the corporate boundaries of the city of Buhl and the board of county
commissioners for areas within the city of Buhl area of impact.
GOVERNMENTAL FACILITIES: Facilities operated or occupied by a governmental
agency.
GRADE: The ground elevation at a building site.
GRADE, ESTABLISHED: The curb line grade at lot lines as approved by the city
highway district engineer or appropriate agency.
GRANDFATHER RIGHTS: See definition of Nonconforming Use.
GUESTHOUSE: A structure for human habitation containing one or more rooms with
bath and toilet facilities, but not including a kitchen or facilities which
would provide a complete housekeeping unit.
HABITAT: Character of natural environment.
HEALTH AUTHORITY: The local district health department or state department of
health and welfare that has jurisdictional authority.
HIGHWAY: A street designated as a highway by an appropriate state or federal
agency.
HISTORICAL SITES: Sites established by city, county, state or federal
government as historical monuments that should be preserved.
HOME OCCUPATIONS, URBAN AND RURAL: Any gainful operation, profession or craft,
which is customarily conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried on by the
inhabitants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use
of the structure for dwelling purposes and which use does not change the
character thereof or does not adversely affect the uses permitted in the zone
of which it is a part.
HOME, RETIREMENT: A residence for several families or individuals in apartment
like quarters, which feature one or more of the following services to retired
and/or handicapped persons such as limited nursing facilities, minimum
maintenance, living accommodations, rehabilitation and recreation programs and
facilities.
HOSPITAL: An institution devoted primarily to the maintenance and operation of
facilities for the medical or surgical care of patients for twenty four (24)
hours or more. The term hospital does not include convalescent, nursing or
boarding homes and does not include institutions devoted to the care of the
mentally ill or drug or alcohol addicted.
HOTEL/MOTEL: Any building or group of buildings, connected or detached, used
for transient residential purposes containing six (6) or more guestrooms
without housekeeping facilities which are intended or designed to be used, or
which are used, rented or hired out to be occupied for sleeping purposes by
guests. See definition of Motel.
HOUSEHOLD PET: Animals, fish or fowl customarily permitted in the house and
kept for company or pleasure, including dogs, cats, canaries and similar pets.
IMPACT AREA: That area duly negotiated and adopted pursuant to Idaho Code
section 67-6526 by the city of Buhl and Twin Falls County, state of Idaho, by
means of a separate ordinance.
IMPROVEMENT: Any alternation to the land or other physical construction
associated with building site developments.
INDUSTRIAL: The manufacture, processing and testing of goods, materials,
including the production of power.
INGRESS AND EGRESS: Entrance and exit.
INSTITUTION: Building and/or land designed to aid individuals in need of
mental, therapeutic, rehabilitative counseling or other correctional services.
JUNKYARD: An outdoor space where waste and discarded or salvaged materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled, stored or handled,
including house wrecking yards, used lumber yards and places where such uses
are conducted entirely within a completely enclosed building, such as pawnshops
and establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of used furniture and
household equipment or for used cars in operable condition, or salvaged
materials incidental to manufacturing operations.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises or portion on which four (4) or more dogs, cats and
other household domestic animals are maintained, harbored, possessed, boarded,
bred or cared for in return for compensation or kept for sale including
privately or publicly owned, operated or managed dog pounds.
LABORATORY: A place devoted to experimental study such as testing and
analyzing.
LAND USE: A term used to indicate the utilization of any piece of land whether
it be lot, plat, tract or acreage. Land use is an indication of the existing
development within a community and becomes the basis to formulate district
boundaries.
LAND USE MAP: The map showing generalized land use.
LAND USE PLAN: The Buhl comprehensive plan.
LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT OPERATION (LCO): Any lot, corral or facility where more
than ten (10) livestock are confined, stabled and fed, or maintained for a
total of forty five (45) days or more in any twelve (12) month period; and on
which crops, vegetation, forage growth or postharvest residues are not
sustained in the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility.
LOADING SPACE, OFF STREET: Space logically and conveniently located for bulk
pick ups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected when required off
street parking spaces are filled. Required off street loading space is not to
be included as off street parking space in computation of required off street
parking space. All off street loading spaces shall be located totally outside
of any street or alley right of way.
LODGING HOUSE: See definition of Boarding House, Rooming House, Dormitory.
LOT: A parcel of land which is of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and other
open spaces as are required in this title. A lot shall have frontage on an
approved street and may consist of: a) a single lot; b) a portion of a lot; and
c) a combination of complete lots, or of portions of lots.
LOT AREA: The area of any lot shall be determined exclusive of street, highway,
alley, road or other rights of way.
LOT CORNER: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection
or upon two (2) parts of the same street, such streets or parts at the point of
intersection of the street lines is the "corner".
LOT COVERAGE: The area of a zoning lot which is occupied by the principal
building, buildings or accessory buildings and the horizontally projected area
of the lot. The ratio is expressed as a percentage.
LOT, DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot
lines. Where the lot is irregular and the lot lines converge, the rear lot line
shall be deemed to be a line at a point where the side lot lines are not less
than ten feet (10') apart.
LOT DIVISION: See definition of Lot Split.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot with frontage on two (2) streets.
LOT, FLAG: A lot in the shape of a flag on a pole or similar design. A flag lot
shall have frontage on a public street of sufficient width for ingress and
egress of fire equipment, the exact frontage width to be determined by the Buhl
city fire chief.
LOT FRONTAGE: The distance across the lot along the street right of way line.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot with only one frontage on a street.
LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT: The act of moving or reestablishing the common boundary
line between two (2) adjacent lots or parcels of land in such a manner that the
legal description of each lot or parcel of land is changed.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The line separating the lot from the principal street on which
it fronts.
LOT LINE, REAR: The lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot line
or conforming to lot depth.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line. A side lot
line separating a lot from a street is also called a side street or flanking
street lot line. A side lot line separating a lot from another lot or lots is
also called an interior side lot line.
LOT LINES: Property lines bounding the lot.
LOT MEASUREMENT:
   A.   Depth: Depth of a lot shall be considered to be the distance between
the midpoints of straight lines connecting the foremost points of the side lot
lines in front and the rearmost points of the side lines in the rear.
   B.   Width: Width of lot shall be considered to be the distance between
straight lines at each side of the lot, measured across the rear of the
required front yard, provided the width between side lot lines at their
foremost points (where they intersect with the street line) shall not be less
than eighty percent (80%) of the required lot width, except in the case of lots
on the outer radius of cul-de-sacs, where the eighty percent (80%) requirements
shall not apply.
LOT, MINIMUM AREA OF: The area of a lot computed exclusive of any portion of
the right of way of any public or private street.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot shown as a part of a recorded subdivision, or any parcel
of land described by metes and bounds in a recorded deed, record of survey or
other appropriate document recorded in the office of the county recorder.
LOT SPLIT: Dividing a tract of land into two (2) lots, parcels or sites for the
purpose of sale or building development. (See resolution 199.)
LOT, THROUGH: A lot other than a corner lot having frontage on two (2) parallel
or approximately parallel streets. On a through lot, both lines facing a street
shall be deemed front lot lines.
MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS: A fabricated, transportable building (other than a
mobile home) designed to be incorporated at a building site into a structure to
be used for residential, commercial, industrial or agricultural purposes and
which has attached to the building a valid insignia which states that the
manufactured building is built in accordance with the international building
code and applicable laws, rules and regulations. Buildings to be used for
residential purposes shall also include in the insignia that such building is
in compliance with HUD minimum property standards for such construction.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure built since June 15, 1976, that bears the seal
of HUD indicating it has met the mobile home construction and safety standards
of the United States department of housing and urban development (HUD
standards) and is used as a permanent dwelling. Manufactured homes shall comply
with the development standards found in section
9-11-3 of this title.
MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed and intended for
exclusive manufactured home residential use.
MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARK: Any site or tract of land under single ownership
upon which two (2) or more mobile homes or travel trailers are parked or placed
either free of charge or for revenue purposes.
MANUFACTURING, EXTRACTIVE: Any mining, quarrying, excavating, processing,
storing, separating, cleaning or marketing of any mineral natural resource.
MANUFACTURING, HEAVY: Manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing, testing
and similar industrial uses which are generally major operations and extensive
in character, requiring large sites, open storage and service areas, extensive
services and facilities, ready access to regional transportation and normally
generating some nuisances such as smoke, noise, vibration, dust, glare, air
pollution or water pollution.
MANUFACTURING, LIGHT: Industrial uses which are usually controlled operations,
relatively clean, quiet and free of objectionable or hazardous elements such as
smoke, noise, odor or dust; which operates and stores within enclosed
structures, and which generates little industrial traffic and no nuisances.
MARQUEE: A permanent roofed structure attached to and supported by the building
and projecting over public property.
MEATPACKING (COMMERCIAL): A facility which includes the canning, curing,
smoking, salting, packing and freezing of meat products, or a facility in which
meat products are processed for sale to the retail trade and where the
inspection of meat, meat byproducts and meat food products are maintained. See
definition of Slaughterhouse And Meatpacking (Commercial).
MOBILE HOME: A structure of over four hundred (400) square feet in interior
area that is transportable in one or more sections, built on a permanent
chassis, and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities, which has attached to the
structure a valid insignia which states that the mobile home is in compliance
with federal mobile home construction and safety standards (HUD); not to
include recreational vehicles or travel trailers.
MOBILE OFFICE: A detached mobile unit not intended for occupancy as a dwelling
designed to be transported on its own wheels or on a flatbed trailer.
MODULAR HOME: Any building or building component, other than a manufactured
home, which is constructed according to standards contained in the
international building code and Idaho division of building safety standards, as
adopted or any amendments thereto, which is closed construction and is either
entirely or substantially prefabricated or assembled at a place other than the
building site.
MONUMENT: Any permanent marker (either concrete, galvanized iron pipe or iron
or steel rods) used to identify any tract, parcel, lot or street lines, as
specified in Idaho Code section 50-1303.
MOTEL: A building, or group of buildings on the same premises (whether detached
or in connected rows), containing sleeping or dwelling units independently
accessible from the outside, or central hallway, with garage space or parking
space located on the premises, and designed for, or occupied by, travelers. The
term includes, but is not limited to, any buildings or building groups
designated as auto courts, motor lodges, tourist courts or by any other title
or sign intended to identify them as providing lodging to motorists. See also
definition of Hotel/Motel.
MOTOR HOME: See definition of Recreational Vehicle.
MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR: Incidental repairs, replacement of parts and motor
service.
MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER COLLECTION AND TREATMENT SYSTEM: City facilities for the
central collection and treatment of domestic wastewater.
NONCONFORMING USE: A building, structure or use of land existing at the time of
enactment hereof, and which does not conform to the regulations of the district
in which it is situated.
NURSERY OR GREENHOUSE FOR FLOWERS AND PLANTS: Land, building structure or
combination thereof for the storage, cultivation and transplanting of live
trees, shrubs or plants offered for sale on the premises including products
used for gardening or landscaping.
OPEN SPACE: An area substantially open to the sky which may be on the same lot
with a building. The area may include (along with the natural environmental
features) water areas, swimming pools, tennis courts and any other recreational
facilities. Streets, parking areas, structures for habitation, buildings,
covered structures and the like shall not be included.
OPEN SPACE (COMMON): Any private open space intended for use by occupants of a
development. The space may include, but is not limited to, recreation areas,
landscaped plazas, fountains, sitting areas, natural areas and is meant to
provide an open atmosphere. Common private open space does not include parking
areas, vacant or undeveloped lots, or any other space which does not contribute
to the aesthetic quality of the development.
OPEN SPACE (PUBLIC): Land in public ownership or control which includes, but is
not limited to, parks, recreation areas, water bodies, historical sites, public
utility easements, scenic routes, floodplains, slide areas, areas too steep for
safe construction, wildlife refuges, natural areas, forests, fisheries and
watersheds.
ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND: A lot or tract as recorded on any plat or survey of
record on file in the office of the county recorder or any unplatted contiguous
parcel of land held in one ownership and of record at the effective date of
October 1, 1981, for land within the city limits of Buhl, Idaho, and as of
November 15, 1981, for real property located within the city area of impact.
See resolution 199.
OWNER: The proprietor of the land, having legal title. Idaho Code section 50-
1301(3).
OWNERSHIP: The individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership or
corporation holding title to property.
PARCEL SPLIT: The division of a parcel of land described by metes and bounds,
and not included in a subdivision, into two (2) building sites. See also
definition of Lot Split.
PARKING AREA OR LOT (PRIVATE): An open, hard surfaced area (other than a street
or public way) designed, arranged and made available for private passenger
automobiles of occupants of the building or buildings for which the parking
area is developed.
PARKING AREA OR LOT (PUBLIC): An open, hard surfaced area (other than a street
or public way) to be used for the storage (for limited periods of time) of
operable passenger automobiles or commercial vehicles and available to the
public, whether for compensation, free or as an accommodation to clients or
customers.
PARKING SPACE, OFF STREET: An off street parking space shall consist of an area
adequate for parking an automobile with dimensions conforming to the
requirements of this title.
PASTURE: An enclosure for animals in which no feed is provided except that
obtained by grazing during the growing season. Feed may be brought into a
pasture during the nongrowing season.
PEDESTRIANWAY: A public way designed to be used as a walkway for pedestrians.
PERFORMANCE OR DESIGN STANDARDS: Standards which are often applied to
industrial, residential and commercial districts and place limits on such
things as noise, dust, glare, smoke, vibration, radioactivity and odors; any
proposed use which cannot meet these standards is not to be allowed, and once a
use has been permitted, it must maintain its ability to meet the standards or
else have its certificate of occupancy revoked.
PERFORMANCE OR SURETY BOND: See definition of Bond, Performance Or Surety.
PERMANENT: Six (6) months or more.
PERMIT: A document authorizing the use of land and structures, and the
characteristics of the uses.
PERMITTED USE: The utilization of land which shall be permitted to take place
in any district as set forth by this title.
PERSON: Any individual or any corporation, joint venture, limited partnership,
partnership, firm, association, trustee or other similar entity or
organization.
PERSONAL SERVICES: Any enterprise conducted for gain primarily offering
services such as shoe repair, watch repair, barbershops, beauty parlors.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): A tract of land on which a variety of
residential, commercial and manufacturing uses may coexist in a preplanned
environment with more flexible standards than normally apply to the use of land
in a standard zoning district. See chapter 24, article F of this title.
PLANNING AND ZONING CLERK: A person appointed by the council for the purpose of
carrying out the provisions of this title.
PLAT: The drawing, map or plan of a subdivision, cemetery, townsite or other
tract of land, or a replatting of such, into two (2) or more lots, including
certifications, descriptions and approvals. See Idaho Code section 50-1302(4).
PREMISES: A parcel of land or contiguous parcels of land with their
appurtenances and buildings which are under one ownership or control.
PRIVATE: Belonging to an individual or group and not for the public or open to
the public.
PRIVATE ROAD: A road within a subdivision plat that is not dedicated to the
public and not a part of a public highway system. See Idaho Code section 50-
1301(5).
PROFESSIONAL OFFICES: Structures where those engaged in a profession conduct
their business and activity.
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES: Services offered by persons engaged in legal,
engineering, architectural, design, planning, accounting, banking, auditing,
educational and related professions.
PUBLIC: Owned by federal, state or local government or subdivisions thereof.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: A right of way open to the public and under the
jurisdiction of a public highway agency, where the public highway agency has no
obligation to construct or maintain said right of way for vehicular traffic.
See Idaho Code section 50-1301(8).
PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITY: Buildings, power plants or substations, water storage
tanks, public garages, water treatment plants, sewage disposal or pumping
plants and other similar public service structures owned and/or operated by a
public utility, railroad or municipal or other governmental agency.
PUBLIC STREET: A street, road, thoroughfare, alley, highway or bridge under the
jurisdiction of a public highway agency. See Idaho Code section 50-1301(9).
PUBLIC USES: Public parks, schools, administrative and cultural buildings, and
structures, but not including public land or buildings devoted solely to the
storage and maintenance of equipment and materials and public service
facilities; also, public owned buildings, fire and police stations, libraries,
post offices and public utility administration buildings.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Any person, entity or municipal department that is duly
authorized to furnish to the public, under regulation, such as, but not limited
to, electricity, gas, steam, telephone, transportation or water.
QUASI-PUBLIC USE: Churches, Sunday schools, parochial schools, hospitals,
convalescent or retirement homes, colleges and other facilities of an
educational, religious, charitable, philanthropic or nonprofit nature.
REAL PROPERTY: Real estate consisting of: a) lands, possessory rights to land,
ditch and water rights, and mining claims, both lode and placer; b) that which
is affixed to land; and c) that which is appurtenant to land.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular unit primarily designated as temporary living
quarters for recreation, camping, or travel which either has its own power or
is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle. The basic entities are: travel
trailer, camping trailer, truck camper, fifth wheeler and motor home.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A plot of land upon which two (2) or more
recreational vehicle sites are located, established or maintained for occupancy
by recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary living quarters for
recreation or vacation purposes.
REPAIR: The reconstruction, renewal or maintenance of real or personal
property.
RESEARCH ACTIVITIES: Research, development and testing related to such fields
as chemical, pharmaceutical, medical, electrical, planning and engineering.
RESERVE STRIP: A strip of land between a partial street and adjacent property
which is reserved or held in public ownership for future street extension or
widening.
RESTAURANT: Any land, building or part thereof (other than a boarding house)
where meals are provided for compensation.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public way
which normally includes streets, sidewalks and other public utilities or
service areas. In addition to the roadway, it incorporates the curbs, special
features required by the topography or treatment such as grade separation,
landscaped areas, viaducts and bridges.
ROADSIDE STAND: A temporary or mobile structure designed or used for the
display or sale of products or services.
ROOMING HOUSE: See definition of Boarding House, Rooming House, Dormitory.
SALVAGE YARD: A place where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are bought,
sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled, handled or stored, including auto
wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards and places or yards for
storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials and
equipment. This does not include places where such uses are conducted entirely
within a completely enclosed building, and does not include pawnshops or
establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of used furniture and
household equipment, used cars in operable condition or salvaged materials
incidental to manufacturing operations.
SANATORIUM: Any place where resident patients are kept and which specializes in
clinical, temporary and emergency services of a medical or surgical nature as
distinguished from treatment of mental and nervous disorders.
SCHOOL (KINDERGARTEN, ELEMENTARY, INTERMEDIATE, MIDDLE, JUNIOR OR HIGH): An
institution of learning (either public or privately supported) which offers
instruction in the several branches of learning and study required to be taught
in the public schools by the state of Idaho. High school includes junior and
senior high.
SCHOOL, COMMERCIAL: A building where instruction is given in arts, crafts or
trades and operated as a commercial enterprise as distinguished from schools
endowed and/or supported by taxation.
SCREENING: See definition of Buffer Strip Or Zone.
SECONDARY USE (INCIDENTAL OR ACCESSORY): A minor or second use for which a lot,
structure or building is designated or employed in conjunction with but
subordinate to its primary use.
SEMIPRIVATE FACILITY: Any facility to which a group of the public is permitted
to attend or use subject to regulations of a club or organization owning such
facility.
SERVICE BUILDING: Any permanent building designed to provide service facilities
to inhabitants or users of any development.
SERVICE STATION: Buildings and premises where gasoline, oil, grease, batteries,
tires and motor vehicle accessories may be supplied and dispensed at retail and
where minor motor repair and services may be rendered. Uses permissible at a
service station do not include major body work, straightening of body parts,
painting, welding, storage of automobiles not in operating condition, or other
work involving noise, glare, fumes or smoke. See definition of Garage, Repair.
SETBACK LINE: A line established by this title, generally parallel with and
measured from the lot line, defining the limits of a yard in which no building
may be located aboveground except as may be provided in this title.
SHELTER HOME: Building or facility however named, operated on either a profit
or nonprofit basis for the purpose of providing a home with necessary
supervision for three (3) or more persons not related to the owner and who are
unable to care for themselves.
SHOPPING CENTER: A group of commercial establishments, planned, developed,
owned and/or managed as a unit.
SIDEWALK: That portion of the road right of way outside the roadway which is
improved for the use of pedestrian traffic.
SIGN: Any device designed to inform or attract the attention of persons on
which the sign is located.
   Sign, Illuminated: Any sign illuminated by electricity, gas or other
artificial light including reflecting or phosphorescent light.
   Sign, Lighting Device: Any light, string of lights or group of lights
located or arranged so as to cast illumination on a sign.
   Sign, Off Premises: Any sign unrelated to a business or profession
conducted, or to a commodity or service sold or offered upon the premises where
such sign is located.
   Sign, On Premises: Any sign related to a business or profession conducted,
or a commodity or service sold or offered upon the premises where such sign is
located.
   Sign, Projecting: Any sign which projects from the exterior of a building.
SITE PLANNING: The location of buildings and activities within a physical
environment. A site plan includes shapes and location of buildings and
structures, circulation and parking layouts, landscaping features and numerous
other design factors that relate to the improvement of a parcel of land.
SLAUGHTERHOUSE AND MEATPACKING (COMMERCIAL): A facility which includes the
slaughtering, meat canning, curing, smoking, salting, packing, rendering or
freezing of meat products, or a facility in which meat products are so
processed for sale to the public and where the inspection of meat, meat
byproducts and meat food products are maintained.
SPECIAL USE: See definition of Conditional Use; Special Use.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory structure for the keeping of one or more
horses, mules, llamas, alpacas or cows owned and used by occupants of the
premises and not for remuneration, hire or sale.
STABLE, RIDING: A structure used or designed for the boarding or care of riding
horses.
STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS: The specifications as specified by the city.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STOCKYARD OR FEEDLOT (COMMERCIAL): See definition of Livestock Confinement
Operation (LCO).
STORY: That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost
story shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of
the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level
(directly above a basement, cellar or unused underfloor space) is more than six
feet (6') above "grade" as defined in this section for more than fifty percent
(50%) of the total perimeter or is more than twelve feet (12') above "grade" as
defined in this section at any point, such basement, cellar or unused
underfloor space shall be considered a story.
STREET: A right of way which provides vehicular and pedestrian access to
adjacent properties. The term street also includes the terms highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, road, route, avenue, boulevard, lane, place, loop,
circle, drive and other such terms.
STREET, HALF: A portion of the width of a street, usually along the edge of a
subdivision or development, where the remaining portion of the street could be
provided in another subdivision or development.
STREET LINE: A line separating an abutting lot or parcel from a street.
STREET, PROPOSED: The undedicated portion of a street alignment, or proposed
widening of an existing street as proposed on the city master street plan, Twin
Falls County master thoroughfares plan, or any state or federal highway, the
alignment of which is officially approved.
STREETS:
   Collector: Those which provide both land access, service and traffic
circulation within residential neighborhoods, commercial and industrial areas.
Collectors also collect traffic from local streets in residential neighborhoods
and channel it into the arterial system.
   Local: Those which comprise all facilities not on the other of the higher
systems.
   Minor Arterials: Those which interconnect with and augment the principal
arterial system and provide service of moderate length at a somewhat lower
level of travel.
   Principal Arterials: Should carry the major portion of trips entering and
leaving the area as well as the majority of the through trips desiring to
bypass the central city.
STRIP DEVELOPMENT: Usually found along a major roadway which is developed
simply as a pattern following the outline of the road and without foundation in
the comprehensive study or in fact.
STRIP ZONING: Zoning usually found along a major roadway.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in the structural members of a building such
as walls, columns, beams or girders.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected in which the use requires permanent
location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent location
on the ground. Among other things, structures include buildings, mobile homes,
walls and billboards. Fences shall be deemed a structure. Public utility power
poles shall not be deemed a structure.
SUBDIVIDER: The person who executes an application or initiates proceedings for
the subdivision of land in accordance with the provisions of this title, and
his acts or representations shall be binding upon the owners.
SUBDIVISION: Any land which is divided or proposed to be divided into two (2)
or more lots, whether contiguous or not, for the purpose of sale, lease,
transfer or development as part of a common plan and where subdivided land is
offered for sale, lease, transfer or development by a single subdivider, or a
group of subdividers acting in concert, and such land is contiguous or is
known, designated or advertised as a common unit or by a common name. Such land
shall be presumed, without regard to the number of lots covered by each
individual offering, as being offered for sale, lease, transfer or development
as part of a common plan. However, this shall not apply to any of the
following:
   A.   An adjustment of lot lines as shown on a recorded plat which does not
reduce the area, frontage, width, depth or building setback lines of each
building site below the minimum zoning requirements and does not change the
original number of lots in any block of the recorded plat.
   B.   The unwilling sale of land as a result of "legal condemnation" as
defined and allowed in the Idaho Code.
   C.   Widening of existing streets to conform to the comprehensive plan.
   D.   The acquisition of a street right of way by a public agency in
conformance with the comprehensive plan.
   E.   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundaries which does not result in the change of the present land usage.
   F.   A sale or exchange of lands used exclusively and solely for
agricultural purposes.
SUPPLY YARD: A commercial establishment storing and offering for sale building
supplies, steel supplies and similar goods.
SURVEYOR: A person qualified by reason of his knowledge of the principles of
surveying acquired by education and experience, and who is authorized by the
laws of the state of Idaho to practice land surveying. See Idaho Code section
54-1202(e).
THEATER, OUTDOOR DRIVE-IN: An open lot or part thereof with its appurtenant
facilities devoted primarily to the showing of moving pictures or theatrical
productions, on a paid admission basis, to patrons seated in automobiles or on
outdoor seats.
TITLE: The meaning of the word "title" will depend upon the context of the
sentence or paragraph it is used in:
   A.   A title or chapter in the city code.
   B.   The legal right of an ownership interest in a property.
TOWNHOUSE OR ROW HOUSE: A row of two (2) or more attached single-family
dwellings, each being built with similar architectural treatment and separated
by vertical divisions or lot line walls and each with private entrances.
TRANSITIONAL USE: Use of land designed to serve as a buffer between conflicting
land uses such as residential and commercial uses or between residential and
heavily traveled traffic arterials.
TRAVEL TRAILER: See definition of Recreational Vehicle.
TRIP GENERATION: An element of a traffic volume survey which indicates the
number of automobile, bus, pedestrian or bicycle trips produced or generated in
a specific area or by a specific use. As an example, an office building
generates "x" number of trips to work by its employees and "x" number of trips
home from work.
TRUCK STOP: A service station or commercial enterprise using the premises
primarily to sell and supply motor fuel, lubricating oils and greases to on
premises trade including large trucks as well as automobiles and including the
sale of tires, batteries, automotive accessories, related services, major and
minor motor vehicle repairs, as well as special services to operators and
drivers of trucks operating on an interstate basis.
UNDEVELOPED AREA: That portion of a development which is left unimproved or a
parcel of land which is unimproved.
UNPLATTED AREA: Any area that has not been subdivided according to the
provisions of Idaho Code section 50-1300 et seq.
URBAN SERVICES: According to this title, urban services shall include, but not
be limited to, the following, where applicable: municipal central sewer and
water facilities, pedestrian walkways and bicycle paths, open space, parks,
recreation lands, police and fire protection, public transit, schools,
libraries, storm drainage, and urban standard streets and roads.
URBAN SPRAWL: Scattered development which is not contiguous to the urbanized
part of a municipality.
USE: The specific purposes for which land or a building is designated,
arranged, intended or for which it is or may be occupied, maintained, let or
leased.
UTILITY: Any public or private corporation or company which supplies the public
or a group of individuals with the following commodity, service or both:
telephone, gas, electricity, water, or sewage disposal.
VARIANCE: A modification of the requirements of this title as to lot size, lot
coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear yard, setback, parking
space, height of buildings or other title provisions affecting the size or
shape of a structure or the placement of the structure upon lots, or the size
of lots and public ways. A variance shall not be considered a right or special
privilege, but may be granted to an applicant only upon a showing of undue
hardship because of characteristics of the site, and the variance is not in
conflict with the public interest.
VESTED RIGHTS: Rights which have so completely and definitely accrued to or
settled in a person that they are not subject to being defeated or canceled by
the act of any other private person, and which it is right and equitable that
the government should recognize and protect, as being lawful in themselves, and
settled according to the then current rules of law, and of which the individual
could not be deprived arbitrarily without injustice, or of which he could not
justly be deprived otherwise than by the established methods of procedure and
for the public welfare. Vested rights cannot be interfered with by
retrospective laws, they are interests which it is proper for the state to
recognize and protect and of which an individual cannot be deprived of
arbitrarily. The enjoyment of a vested right may be in the present or may be
postponed until the happening of some future event which is certain to occur.
VETERINARY, ANIMAL HOSPITAL OR CLINIC: A place used for the care, grooming,
diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing, infirm or injured animals and those
who are in need of medical or surgical attention and may include overnight
accommodations on the premises for treatment, observation or recuperation. It
may also include boarding that is incidental to the primary activity.
VICINITY MAP: A drawing which sets forth, by dimensions or other means, the
relationship of the proposed development to other nearby developments,
landmarks or community facilities and services within the general area in order
to better locate and orient the area in question.
WALKWAY: A public way for pedestrian use only, whether or not along the side of
the road.
WET SEWER LINE: Sewer lines connected to a municipal wastewater treatment
facility.
WRECKING YARD: See definition of Automotive Wrecking Yard.
YARD: A required open space, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed by
a structure or portion of a structure from three feet (3') above the general
ground level of the graded lot upward; provided, that accessories, ornaments
and furniture may be permitted in any yard subject to height limitations and
requirements limiting obstruction of visibility. (For illustration, see
appendix of the zoning ordinance on file in the office of the city clerk-
treasurer.)
   Front Yard: A yard extending between side lot lines across the front of a
lot and from the front lot lines to the front of the principal building.
   Interior Side Yard: A yard extending from the principal building to the side
lot line on both sides of the principal building between the lines establishing
the front and rear yards.
   Rear Yard: A yard extending between side lot lines across the rear of a lot
and from the rear lot line to the rear of the principal building.
   Street Side Yard: A yard extending from the principal building to the
secondary street that adjoins the lot between the lines establishing the front
and rear yards.
ZERO LOT LINE: A building design which allows for a dwelling to be built right
on the side lot line and which may include an easement to a neighboring lot for
the purpose of upkeep and maintenance.
ZONING MAP: The graphic depiction of the zones or districts within the city
limits of the city and the area of city impact.
ZONING PERMIT: A document issued by the city authorizing the uses of land and
structures.
ZONING POLICY: The policy as adopted by the city. (1974 Code § 4-203; amd. Ord.
929, 5-14-2007; 2010 Code; Ord. 970, 4-22-2013)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-3-1: Planning And Zoning Clerk
9-3-2: Planning And Zoning Commission
9-3-3: Building Inspector
9-3-4: Violation; Penalty
9-3-1: PLANNING AND ZONING CLERK:
   A.   Position Created: There is hereby created the position of planning and
zoning clerk.
   B.   Appointment: The planning and zoning clerk shall be appointed by the
mayor and the appointment approved by the city council. (1974 Code § 4-301)
   C.   Duties: The planning and zoning clerk shall administer the provisions
of this title and provide assistance and guidance to the planning and zoning
commission (hereinafter referred to as "commission") and the council, and, in
addition, shall have the following duties: (1974 Code § 4-301; amd. 2010 Code)
      1.   Advise interested persons of the provisions of this title;
      2.   Notify the news media regarding matters of public interest;
      3.   Aid and assist applicants in the preparation and expedition of
required applications;
      4.   Issue, or supervise the issuance of permits, notifications and such
similar administrative duties;
      5.   Investigate all alleged violations of this title and, after
completing such investigation, notify the complaining party, if any, and the
person responsible for any violation that such violation exists, in writing, of
the decision reached, including action necessary to correct such violation. In
performing the investigation and drafting the written notification, the
planning and zoning clerk shall be in contact with the city attorney who will
participate as the planning and zoning clerk and city attorney see fit.
      6.   In the event a proposed use is not specifically set forth in this
title, the planning and zoning clerk shall require the applicant for said use
to furnish the planning and zoning clerk with a detailed written description of
the proposed use, and shall orally review said written description with the
applicant and gather such other information as the planning and zoning clerk
deems necessary to classify such use. Based upon such information, the planning
and zoning clerk shall determine, in writing, whether or not the proposed use
is, or should be, included within the definition of one or more of the specific
uses set forth in this title. Once the planning and zoning clerk has classified
the proposed use, the use will be permitted, subject to all rights and
restrictions set forth in this title for the use for which the proposed use is
classified. The planning and zoning clerk may elect to defer the classification
of the proposed use to the commission and then enter a written opinion as
directed by the commission. The classification by the planning and zoning
clerk, or by the commission, if referred to the commission by the planning and
zoning clerk, shall be final, unless the decision is appealed as allowed by
this title. (1974 Code § 4-301)
9-3-2: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Created:
      1.   Membership; Qualifications: The commission shall consist of seven
(7) members. All members must have been residents of Twin Falls County for at
least two (2) years, and must reside within Twin Falls County while serving on
the commission. Five (5) members must reside within the corporate limits of the
city and two (2) members must reside within the "area of impact" surrounding
the city and as established pursuant to state law.
      2.   Appointment: The five (5) members that reside within the corporate
limits of the city shall be appointed by the city mayor and confirmed by the
city council. The two (2) members residing within the area of impact
surrounding the city shall be residents within the area of impact and appointed
by the board of commissioners for Twin Falls County, which appointment shall be
subject to the approval of the City Council.
      3.   Youth Member; Term: In addition to the members provided for above,
the City Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, may appoint one ex
officio youth member under twenty one (21) years of age, who lives within the
City or its impact area. The youth member shall participate in all discussions,
but will not have a vote. The youth member's term shall be one year, from
October 1 to September 30 of the following year and may be reappointed up to
four (4) successive terms. In computing the number of terms one can serve, the
completion of less than one-half (1/2) of the term of a previous youth member
shall not be counted as a term.
      4.   Guidance For Creation: The guidance for creating the Planning and
Zoning Commission is directed by Idaho Code section 67-6504.
      5.   Vacancies: Filling vacancies is done by selections reflecting an
experienced majority of the commission by maintaining flexibility by varying
years of appointment. (1974 Code § 4-302)
      6.   Term: The term of office for members shall be six (6) years from the
time of their appointment. No members shall serve more than two (2) consecutive
terms. (Ord. 990, 10-11-2018)
      7.   Removal From Commission: Members may be removed for cause by a
majority vote of the Governing Body. Members are expected to attend meetings of
the commission. Missing two (2) consecutive meetings may be grounds for removal
by the Governing Board.
      8.   Political Affiliation; Compensation: Members shall be selected
without respect to political affiliations, and shall serve without
compensation. Members may receive such mileage or per diem compensation as
provided by the Governing Board.
   B.   Organization, Rules, Records And Meetings:
      1.   Officers: The commission shall annually elect its own Chairman who
shall serve a term of one year. The commission shall create and fill such
offices as it may determine necessary for the proper conduct of its affairs and
business. The Planning and Zoning Clerk, if a member of the commission, may not
serve as Chairman thereof.
      2.   Meetings; Quorum; Voting: Meetings of the commission shall be held
when duly called by the Chairman by written or oral notice. At least one
regular meeting shall be held each month for not less than nine (9) months in a
year. A majority of currently appointed voting members of the commission shall
constitute a quorum. All members of the commission shall have a single vote on
all matters presented to the commission. All meetings shall be open to the
public.
      3.   Rules; Written Records: Written rules consistent with this title and
laws of the State of Idaho for the transaction of business of the commission
shall be adopted. Written records of meetings, hearings, resolutions, findings,
studies, permits, and actions shall be maintained and open to the public.
      4.   Receipt And Expenditure Of Funds; Employees; Technical Advisors:
With approval of the Council, the commission may receive and expend funds,
goods and services from the Federal government or agencies and
instrumentalities of State or local governments or from civic and private
sources, and may contract with these entities and sources and provide
information and reports as necessary to secure aid. Expenditures by the
commission shall be within the amounts appropriated by the Council. Within such
limits, the commission is authorized to hire employees and technical advisors,
including, but not limited to, planners, engineers, architects and legal
assistants.
   C.   Commission Duties: It shall be the duty of the commission to:
      1.   Conduct a planning process designed to prepare, implement, review
and update a comprehensive plan that includes all land within the Governing
Board's jurisdiction.
      2.   Provide ways and means to obtain citizen participation in the
planning process.
      3.   Review and hold public hearings prior to submitting findings and
recommendations to City Council regarding applications for:
         a.   City comprehensive plan.
         b.   Zoning ordinances, text and maps.
         c.   Subdivisions and planned unit development proposals.
         d.   Preliminary and final plats.
         e.   Plan and ordinance changes upon annexation of unincorporated
area.
      4.   Grant conditional use (special use) permits under the conditions as
herein specified with such additional safeguards as will uphold the intent of
this title.
      5.   Authorize such variances as are allowed under chapter 19 of this
title.
   D.   Maps; Plats; Replats: Any and all maps, plats and replats of lands
which require approval of the Governing Board shall first be submitted to the
commission for its suggestions and recommendations.
   E.   Conflict Of Interest: Any member or employee of the Council or
commission shall not participate in any proceeding or action when the member,
employee, his employer, business partner, business associate or any person
related to him by affinity or next of kin within the second degree has an
economic interest in the procedure or action. Any actual or potential interest
in any proceeding shall be disclosed at or before any meeting at which the
action is being heard or considered. For purposes of this section the term
"participation" means engaging in activities which constitute deliberation
pursuant to the Open Meeting Act. No member of the Governing Board or the
Planning and Zoning Commission with a conflict of interest shall participate in
any aspect of the decision making process concerning a matter involving the
conflict of interest. A member with a conflict of interest shall not be
prohibited from testifying at, or presenting evidence to a public hearing or
similar public process after acknowledging nonparticipation in the matter due
to a conflict of interest. A knowing violation of this section shall be a
misdemeanor.
   F.   Right Of Appeal: For required procedures, see article D of this
chapter. (1974 Code § 4-302)
9-3-3: BUILDING INSPECTOR:
The building inspector shall assist the Planning and Zoning Clerk in matters,
as requested, and shall:
   A.   Inspect residential, commercial, and industrial buildings or structures
and projects for compliance with Building Codes, ordinances, zoning and safety
requirements;
   B.   Perform other duties as assigned;
   C.   Issue occupancy permits; and
   D.   Perform all administrative duties assigned to him by the Planning and
Zoning Clerk, Commission or Council. (1974 Code § 4-303)
9-3-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6527, unless otherwise
provided in this title, a violation of this title is hereby declared to be a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
   B.   Civil Action: Whenever it appears to the City Council that any person
has engaged or is about to engage in any act or practice violating any
provisions of this title, the City Council may institute a civil action in the
District Court to enforce compliance with this title. Upon a showing that a
person has engaged or is about to engage in an act or practice constituting a
violation of this title, a permanent or temporary injunction, restraining order
or other such relief as the court deems appropriate may be granted. The
Governing Board shall not be required to furnish any bond in said civil
processing.
   C.   Costs; Civil Suit For Collection: The City Council may file a civil
suit to collect any costs the City incurred which were not paid upon billing
the same to the petitioners.
   D.   Costs And Attorney Fees: The City shall be entitled to costs and
reasonable attorney fees on any suits brought to enforce this title. (1974 Code
§ 4-3001)
ARTICLE A. CERTIFICATION OF ZONING COMPLIANCE
SECTION:
9-3A-1: Certification Required
9-3A-2: Building Permit Requirement
9-3A-3: Application
9-3A-4: Record Of Certification
9-3A-1: CERTIFICATION REQUIRED:
No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to or
structurally altered, nor shall any building, structure or land be established
or changed in use without a certification of zoning compliance issued by the
planning and zoning clerk. Certification of zoning compliance shall be issued
only in conformity with the provisions of this title and shall be required
before the issuance of a building permit. (1974 Code § 4-2101; amd. 2010 Code)
9-3A-2: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIREMENT:
No person shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, convert or
demolish any building or structure in the city or the city's area of legal
jurisdiction, or cause the same to be done without first obtaining a separate
building permit for each such building or structure from the city building
inspector. (1974 Code § 4-2102)
9-3A-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   When To Make Application: In cases where a building permit is also
required by the city building code, application for certification of zoning
compliance shall be made coincidentally with application for building permit.
In all other cases, it shall be made prior to the date when a new or enlarged
use of a building or premises, or part thereof, is intended to begin. (1974
Code § 4-2103)
   B.   Transmittal To Planning And Zoning Commission: When the planning and
zoning clerk receives an application for zoning compliance certification for a
use which requires a permit from the governing board, such application,
together with all supporting data, shall be transmitted by the planning and
zoning clerk to the planning and zoning commission.
   C.   Site Plan Required: When the planning and zoning clerk receives an
application for a zoning compliance certification for a use which requires a
conditional use permit, or for which site plan approval by the planning and
zoning commission is required, such application shall be transmitted to the
planning and zoning commission and zoning compliance certification shall not be
issued by the planning and zoning clerk until the planning and zoning
commission and the governing board have approved the site plans. Site plans
shall include, but not be limited to, the following: (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
      1.   Legal description of the property by township, range, and section
coordinates, and by metes and bounds, or if the property is a part of a
recorded plat, by name, book and page number of plat and lot number or parcel
designation;
      2.   Name, address and telephone number of the property owner and of the
person who prepared the site plan;
      3.   Dimensions of all lot and property lines showing the relationship of
the property to abutting properties; boundaries of all lots or parcels under
separate ownership contained therein, or abutting thereon;
      4.   Precise location, dimensions, height and use of all buildings and
structures existing on the property and on abutting lots within fifty feet
(50');
      5.   Location, alignment and right of way width of all streets, alleys
and utility easements existing in or abutting the property;
      6.   Location and dimensions and number of spaces contained in all
existing and proposed off street parking lots and loading areas;
      7.   Location, right of way width and alignment of all proposed public
streets, alleys and utility easements in or abutting the site, and location and
width of all access drives to the property from public streets;
      8.   Precise location, size and height of all buildings and structures
proposed to be erected or altered;
      9.   Proposed uses of buildings, structures and land, including the
number of dwelling units, amount of usable floor area, etc.; and
      10.   Any additional information required to show how all special
regulations pertaining to the proposed use are to be met. (1974 Code § 4-2103)
9-3A-4: RECORD OF CERTIFICATION:
Certification of zoning compliance shall be noted on the certificates of
occupancy and be maintained by the building department, and copies shall be
furnished upon request to any person upon payment of a fee set by the governing
board. (1974 Code § 4-2105; amd. Ord. 929, 5-14-2007; 2010 Code)
ARTICLE B. CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
SECTION:
9-3B-1: Certificate Required
9-3B-2: Issuance
9-3B-3: Construction And Use
9-3B-4: Temporary Certificate
9-3B-5: Minor Modifications
9-3B-6: Record Of Certificates
9-3B-7: Failure To Obtain Certificate
9-3B-1: CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to use, occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any
building or premises, or both, or part thereof thereafter created, erected,
changed, converted or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in its use or
structure until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued by the
building inspector and all other required signatures stating that the proposed
use of the building or land conforms to the requirements of this title and with
all conditional provisions that may have been imposed. (1974 Code § 4-2201)
9-3B-2: ISSUANCE:
Within five (5) regular workdays after receipt of notice that the building,
structure or premises, or part thereof, has been completed and is ready for use
or occupancy, the building inspector shall make a final inspection thereof to
determine whether construction has been completed in conformity with provisions
of this title. If he finds construction in conformity, he shall issue an
occupancy permit to the owner of the building, structure or premises. (1974
Code § 4-2202)
9-3B-3: CONSTRUCTION AND USE:
Certification of zoning compliance or certificate of occupancy issued on the
basis of plans and application, which are approved by the planning and zoning
clerk and building inspector authorize only the use and arrangement which are
set forth in such approved plans, applications or amendments thereto. Any other
use, arrangement or construction contrary to that authorized shall be deemed a
violation of this title. (1974 Code § 4-2203)
9-3B-4: TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE:
The building inspector may issue a temporary occupancy permit for a part of a
building, structure or use prior to completion of the entire building,
structure or use; provided, that such a part has been completed in conformity
with all provisions of this title and is considered safe and suitable for use
or occupancy. Such temporary occupancy permit may remain in force until the
expiration date set forth thereon or it is canceled by the city. No property
owner has the right to receive a temporary certificate of occupancy. As a
condition for issuing a temporary certificate of occupancy, the city shall set
forth an itemized list of what must be accomplished in order to obtain an
occupancy permit required by this title. The date for the completion of such
items, a bond or other security to ensure that the work is completed on time
and such other items that the city may require, including, but not limited to,
the right of the city to have the work completed and charge the owner for the
cost thereof as a tax or lien upon said property may be included as a condition
of the temporary certificate of occupancy being granted. (1974 Code § 4-2204)
9-3B-5: MINOR MODIFICATIONS:
The building inspector may, upon request and following investigation and report
to the planning and zoning commission chairman, approve minor modifications of
certain terms of this title upon a finding in each separate case that such
modification is consistent with the interest of this title and is in no way
detrimental to adjacent properties or to the general public welfare. Such
permitted modifications shall be restricted to the following provisions and to
the extent hereinafter specified:
   A.   Minimum required interior side and rear yards: Permit reduction by not
more than ten percent (10%).
   B.   Minimum distance between single-family dwellings on adjacent lots:
Permit reduction by not more than ten percent (10%).
   C.   Minimum distance between multi-family dwellings: Permit reduction by
not more than twenty percent (20%).
   D.   Off street parking spaces: Permit reduction of number of required space
by not more than ten percent (10%), or reduction of minimum required width of
spaces by not more than six inches (6").
   E.   Trash enclosures: Permit minor modifications to the requirements
regulating trash enclosures consistent with the interest of such requirements.
(1974 Code § 4-2205)
9-3B-6: RECORD OF CERTIFICATES:
The building inspector shall maintain a record and index of all certificates of
occupancy. (1974 Code § 4-2207)
9-3B-7: FAILURE TO OBTAIN CERTIFICATE:
Failure to obtain a certificate of occupancy shall be a violation of this
title. (1974 Code § 4-2206)
ARTICLE C. SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES
SECTION:
9-3C-1: Zoning And Planning Fees
9-3C-2: Fee Calculation
9-3C-3: Fee Waivers
9-3C-4: Refunds
9-3C-5: Payment Of City Costs
9-3C-1: ZONING AND PLANNING FEES:
A petitioner or applicant for any of the zoning or planning matters in this
title shall pay the fees established by the city council, by resolution. No
petition or application, except as hereafter provided, shall be accepted by the
city council unless accompanied by the required filing fee. (1974 Code § 4-
2901)
9-3C-2: FEE CALCULATION:
For any requested public hearing involving more than one classification of a
petition or application, the filing fee shall be calculated on the basis of the
highest fee for an individual classification or application. (1974 Code § 4-
2902)
9-3C-3: FEE WAIVERS:
Notwithstanding any of the preceding fee schedules, the city council shall have
the authority to waive, in whole or in part, any fee for any hearing before the
planning and zoning commission for petitions by any governmental agency or for
any other party when such a fee would present a hardship. An applicant for a
hardship waiver must present their request, in writing, to the city council,
outlining the degree of such hardship. (1974 Code § 4-2903)
9-3C-4: REFUNDS:
The fees to be charged for the various procedures stated in this chapter are
not refundable except where a petition or application is withdrawn at least one
week before the date of publication for the scheduled public hearing, and then
only by order of the city council. (1974 Code § 4-2904)
9-3C-5: PAYMENT OF CITY COSTS:
If all fees are not paid, the city may revoke any zoning permit, conditional
use permit, accessory use permit, variance, occupancy permit, zoning
certification or other grant of authority initially given the applicant, and in
the case of an annexation procedure, the city may deannex said property. (1974
Code § 4-2905)
ARTICLE D. APPEALS
SECTION:
9-3D-1: Purpose
9-3D-2: Appeals
9-3D-3: Procedure
9-3D-4: Stay Of Procedures
9-3D-5: Appeal Of Action Of Planning And Zoning Clerk Or Commission
9-3D-6: Notification To Appellant
9-3D-7: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
9-3D-8: Appeals Of Actions Of Governing Board
9-3D-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to standardize the appeal procedure for any
party from any adverse ruling of either the planning and zoning clerk,
commission, or governing board. All time limits set out in this chapter shall
be deemed controlling unless a specified time limit is set out in another
section. Any party aggrieved by the final action of the planning and zoning
clerk, commission or governing board may appeal in accordance with the
appellant procedures set forth in this article. Time limits shall be deemed
jurisdictional. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
9-3D-2: APPEALS:
The governing board or commission, as appropriate, shall consider and decide
administrative appeals. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
9-3D-3: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any party aggrieved or affected by any decision may
file a notice of appeal, in writing, with the planning and zoning clerk.
   B.   Notice Of Appeal: All appeals shall be filed within fifteen (15) days
after the notice of decision and shall specify the grounds upon which the
appeal is filed. (1974 Code § 4-3103)
   C.   Upon receipt of an appeal, the planning and zoning clerk shall transmit
to the governing board or commission the appeal and all papers constituting the
record upon which the appeal is filed. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
9-3D-4: STAY OF PROCEDURES:
An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action unless the
planning and zoning clerk certifies to the governing board (after notice of
appeal is filed) that, by reason of acts stated in the application, a stay
would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril of life and property. (Ord. 929, 5-
14-2007)
9-3D-5: APPEAL OF ACTION OF PLANNING AND ZONING CLERK OR COMMISSION:
   A.   Action Of Planning And Zoning Clerk: Twenty (20) days after receipt of
an appeal of the action of the planning and zoning clerk, or at the next
regular meeting, the commission shall reach a decision to uphold or overrule
the action of the planning and zoning clerk by majority vote. If the appeal is
granted, the commission may make the final decision or remand the decision to
the planning and zoning clerk for further consideration and findings in light
of the commission decision. The matter shall then be processed through the
application process as if there had been no appeal. (1974 Code § 4-3105)
   B.   Action Of Commission: Twenty (20) days after receipt of an appeal of
the action of the commission, or at the next regular governing board meeting,
the governing board shall reach a decision to uphold or overrule the action of
the commission by majority vote. If the matter being appealed required a public
hearing at the commission level, the governing board will hold a public hearing
after proper notification. If the appeal is denied, the applicant may appeal
the governing board's decision. If the appeal is granted, the governing board
may make the decision or remand the decision to the planning and zoning clerk
or commission for further consideration and findings in light of the governing
board decision. The matter shall then be processed through the application
process as if there had been no appeal. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
9-3D-6: NOTIFICATION TO APPELLANT:
Within ten (10) days after a decision has been rendered by the governing board,
the planning and zoning clerk shall communicate to the aggrieved appellant,
interested parties and commission, the governing board's decision relative to
the appeal. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
9-3D-7: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
In granting an appeal, the governing board may prescribe appropriate conditions
and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violations of such conditions and
safeguards when made a part of the terms under which the appeal is granted,
shall be deemed a violation of this title. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
9-3D-8: APPEALS OF ACTIONS OF GOVERNING BOARD:
Appeals of the action of the governing board concerning the administration of
this title may be taken by any aggrieved person. Within twenty eight (28) days
after notice of the governing board has been given to the appellant and after
all remedies have been exhausted under this title, an aggrieved person may seek
judicial review of the governing board's action under provisions provided by
Idaho Code sections 67-5270 through 67-5278. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Scope
9-4-2: Change, Expansion Or Enlargement Of Use; Improvements Required
9-4-3: Use And Bulk Regulations
9-4-4: Lot/Parcel Splits; Divisions
9-4-5: Lot Line Adjustment
9-4-6: Lot Coverage
9-4-7: Lot Area And Dimension
9-4-8: Access To Public Street
9-4-9: Number Of Buildings On Lot
9-4-10: Existing Conditional Uses
9-4-11: Modification Or Amendment Of Application In Process
9-4-1: SCOPE:
   A.   Changes In Structure Or Use: Within the corporate limits of the city
and the city impact area, except as may otherwise be provided in this title,
all uses of land or buildings established hereafter, and all structural
alterations or relocation of existing buildings occurring hereafter, shall be
subject to all the regulations of this title which are applicable to the
districts in which such buildings, uses or land shall be located.
   B.   Building Permits: Where a building permit for a building or a structure
has been issued in accordance with law prior to the effective date hereof; and
provided that construction is begun within one hundred eighty (180) days from
such effective date and diligently pursued to completion, said building or
structure may be completed in accordance with the approved plans on the basis
of which the building permit was issued, and further, may, upon completion, be
occupied upon the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, subject thereafter to
the provisions of this title. Loss of the building permit by failure to proceed
will result in the loss of this right and any building permit issued after the
passage hereof shall be subject to this title. (1974 Code § 4-401)
   C.   Certificates Of Occupancy: Upon any change, expansion or enlargement of
use, application shall be made for a certificate of occupancy. Pursuant to the
international building code section 110, and the provisions of this title, no
building or structure shall be used or occupied until the certificate of
occupancy is issued. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
9-4-2: CHANGE, EXPANSION OR ENLARGEMENT OF USE; IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
Improvements required in this section shall be provided whenever a principal
building or structure is expanded or enlarged or when there is a change of use
of a building, structure or parcel of land.
   A.   Scope Of Requirements:
      1.   Whenever, in any zoning district, a building, structure or land
occupied by any permitted use is: a) changed from one land or building use to
another; or b) expanded or enlarged to the extent of twenty five percent (25%)
or greater in gross floor area, structure area or land area, or increased in
gross floor area over ten thousand (10,000) square feet, whichever is less,
said change of use or expansion or enlargement shall include installation of
improvements required herein.
      2.   If a single building of a premises containing multiple buildings is
expanded over twenty five percent (25%) of that building's square footage but
less than a total of twenty five percent (25%) of the combined square footage
of all buildings, the improvements required in this section shall be provided
for the building being expanded only. If the expansion is the combined footage
of all buildings, the improvements required shall be provided for the entire
premises.
   B.   Change Of Use: "Change of use" shall be defined as any change of use
from one use category to another.
   C.   Improvements Required:
      1.   Landscaping as required by this title.
      2.   Street, curb, gutter, driveway approach, and sidewalk improvements
as required by standards and specifications of the city.
      3.   Loading and parking space improvements as required by chapter 13 of
this title.
   D.   Completion Of Improvements And Deferrals:
      1.   Unless otherwise provided, all improvements shall be a condition of
any building permit, and they shall be completed prior to final inspection and
occupancy of the building or property.
      2.   If cost of improvements required herein exceeds twenty five percent
(25%) of the cost of the proposed private improvements, upon recommendation of
the city engineer and approval of the city council, an agreement may be
negotiated to allow the required improvements to be staged over a period of
time, not to exceed one year. The terms of any deferral agreement will be in a
written development agreement signed by the parties and recorded with the Twin
Falls County recorder. (1974 Code § 4-402)
9-4-3: USE AND BULK REGULATIONS:
   A.   Use: A building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied,
and a building or part thereof, or other structure, shall be erected, raised,
moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged or altered only as in conformity with
the regulations in this title specified for the district in which it is
located.
   B.   Bulk: All new buildings and structures shall conform to the regulations
established in this title for the district in which each building shall be
located. (1974 Code § 4-403)
9-4-4: LOT/PARCEL SPLITS; DIVISIONS:
   A.   Lot Split: The splitting of one lot in a subdivision into two (2)
building sites.
   B.   Parcel Splits: The splitting of a parcel under single ownership, which
has not been platted as part of a subdivision after 1981, into two (2) parcels.
   C.   Conditions To Be Met: Such splits will only be considered under the
following conditions:
      1.   No public improvements are required because of such split;
      2.   The newly created lot(s)/parcel(s) shall have access to a public
conveyance meeting the minimum requirements of the district in which it is
located;
      3.   Applicant meets all other requirements of this title.
   D.   Application Process: In order to qualify for a lot/parcel split
provided for in this section, an applicant must complete and file with the
planning and zoning clerk a standard application form, together with a filing
fee established by council resolution. The application must be accompanied by:
      1.   Proof of ownership of the land;
      2.   A map of the lot(s)/parcel(s) drawn to scale showing the proposed
division;
      3.   A legal description of the proposed lot or lot/parcel or parcels.
   E.   Approval: If the application and its attachments meet the requirements
of this chapter, planning and zoning clerk will issue a certificate approving
the split. The planning and zoning clerk may require clustering of the lots/
parcels to be split to minimize interference with any agricultural use and/or
to minimize necessary road access.
   F.   Record Of Survey With Metes And Bounds Description Required: When a
lot/parcel split of land has been approved by the planning and zoning clerk
pursuant to this chapter, the applicant must, at his/her expense, furnish a
record of survey with a metes and bounds description prepared by a professional
land surveyor. When the city certifies that the record of survey and
description correctly evidences the split as approved, the applicant must then
record the record of survey, a deed with the appropriate description when
conveying title, and the planning and zoning clerk certificate with the office
of the Twin Falls County recorder. The applicant must also file one copy of the
record of survey, one copy of the deed and two (2) copies of the recorded
documents with the city who shall maintain a record of the split. Recordings
should not be made until after time for appeal has expired.
   G.   Appeal By Affected Persons: Any affected persons who are aggrieved by
the planning and zoning clerk's decision as to an application for a lot/parcel
split pursuant to this chapter may appeal such decision as provided in chapter
3, article D of this title.
   H.   Limitation: Once one split has been approved, there shall be no
additional splits from that land, regardless of ownership. Any additional
splits of the land must follow the subdivision procedures outlined in this
title. (1974 Code § 4-404)
9-4-5: LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT:
Requirements for lot line adjustment:
   A.   It is advisable to meet with the planning and zoning clerk to discuss
the proposed adjustment to verify the process before employing a surveyor;
   B.   Nonconforming lots may not be created;
   C.   All requirements of area, setbacks and road frontage for the applicable
zoning must be adhered to for all parcels;
   D.   The new parcels must be described by a metes and bounds description, or
a description acceptable under state law, and recorded with the county
recorder;
   E.   No additional buildable parcels may be created;
   F.   The record of survey shall be submitted to the planning and zoning
clerk for review before recordation;
   G.   A record of survey is required when any property is divided for the
purpose of lot line adjustment. The record of survey shall include the
following statements:
      1.   Record of survey of "          " for the purpose of lot line
adjustment;
      2.   Description of new parcels: "          ". (1974 Code § 4-406)
9-4-6: LOT COVERAGE:
   A.   Maintenance Of Yards, Courts And Other Open Spaces: The maintenance of
yards, courts, other open spaces and minimum lot area legally required for a
building shall be a continuing obligation of the owner or his successor in
title of such building or of the property on which it is located as long as the
building is in existence. Furthermore, no legally required yards, courts, other
open space or minimum lot area allocated to any building shall (by virtue of
change of ownership or for any other reason) be used to satisfy yard, court,
other open space or minimum lot area requirements for any other building.
   B.   Location Of Required Open Space: All yards, courts and other open
spaces allocated to a building or dwelling group shall be located on the same
lot as such building or dwelling group except as permitted in an approved
planned unit development (PUD). (1974 Code § 4-407)
9-4-7: LOT AREA AND DIMENSION:
   A.   Two Or More Contiguous Lots Under One Ownership: When two (2) or more
lots or parcels of land are contiguous and are held in one ownership, the owner
may elect to use such lots or parcels as one lot or parcel to build on by
recording an instrument, which the city has previously approved, in writing,
with the Twin Falls County recorder that the owner has elected to do so and
filing a copy thereof with the city. Thereafter, the yard requirements,
percentage of occupancy and similar rules will apply to the entire parcel as if
it were always one parcel.
   B.   Two Or More Contiguous Lots Under One Ownership Lacking Adequate Area
And Dimension: When two (2) or more lots or parcels of land (each of which
lacks adequate area and dimension to qualify for a permitted use under the
requirements of the use district in which they are located) are contiguous and
are held in one ownership, they shall be used as one lot for such use as is
permitted in the use district. To do so, the owner must comply with subsection
A of this section. (1974 Code § 4-408)
9-4-8: ACCESS TO PUBLIC STREET:
Except as otherwise provided for herein by planned unit developments (PUD),
every residential building shall be constructed or erected upon a lot or parcel
of land which abuts upon a public street or has permanent access to a public
street by means of a recorded permanent easement or right of way approved by
the city. Permanent access may also be by flag lot design or private shared
driveways. (1974 Code § 4-409)
9-4-9: NUMBER OF BUILDINGS ON LOT:
The number of principal detached buildings allowed in each district shall be
specified by that district or as allowed or provided for in the case of planned
unit development (PUD), duplex or multi-family area. When the number is not
specified it shall be considered to be one. (1974 Code § 4-410)
9-4-10: EXISTING CONDITIONAL USES:
Where a use is classified as a legal conditional use and exists as a legal
conditional use at the date of the adoption hereof, it shall be considered a
legal conditional use without further action of the commission or council.
(1974 Code § 4-411)
9-4-11: MODIFICATION OR AMENDMENT OF APPLICATION IN PROCESS:
All applications for amendment, alteration or modification of an approved
application or use shall be treated as an initial application and must be
processed in the same fashion and under the same procedures as an initial
application. (1974 Code § 4-412)
CHAPTER 5
NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
SECTION:
9-5-1: Intent
9-5-2: Nonconforming Uses
9-5-3: Nonconforming Structures
9-5-4: Repairs And Maintenance
9-5-5: Nonconforming Use Of Land For Grazing Or Keeping Of Domestic Farm
Animals
9-5-6: Uses Under Conditional Use Provisions Not Nonconforming Uses
9-5-1: INTENT:
   A.   It is the intent of this chapter to permit nonconformities to continue
until they are removed but not to encourage their survival. It is further the
intent that nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended
nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere
in the same district, except as herein otherwise provided.
   B.   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this title shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building
on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this title and upon which actual building construction
has been diligently carried on. (1974 Code § 4-501)
9-5-2: NONCONFORMING USES:
Where, at the effective date of adoption hereof or amendment of this title,
lawful use of land exists that is made no longer permissible under the terms of
this title, such use may be continued subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Intensity Not Enlarged, Increased, Or Extended: No such nonconforming
use or the intensity of such use shall be enlarged or increased nor extended to
occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this title.
   B.   Moved: No such nonconforming use shall be moved, in whole or in part,
to any other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this title. (1974 Code § 4-504)
   C.   Use Ceases:
      1.   Request Declaration Of Intention: If any such nonconforming use of
land ceases, for any reason, for a period of more than one year or longer, the
city may, by written request, require that the owner declare his intention with
respect to the continued nonuse of the improvements, in writing, within twenty
eight (28) days of receipt of the request.
      2.   Notice Of Intent To Continue: If the owner elects to continue the
nonuse, he shall notify the city, in writing, of his intention and shall post
the property with notice of his intent to continue the nonuse of the
improvements. He shall also publish notice of his intent to continue the nonuse
in the Buhl Herald. If the owner complies with the requirements of this
subsection, his right to use such improvements in the future for their designed
purpose shall continue for a period not to exceed a total of ten (10) years,
notwithstanding any changes in the zoning of the property.
      3.   Right Of Nonconforming Use Lost; Affidavit Of Withdrawal: If the
property owner does not follow this procedure within twenty eight (28) days,
the right of nonconforming use will be lost. The property owner may voluntarily
elect to withdraw the use by filing with the planning and zoning clerk an
affidavit of withdrawn use.
      4.   Property Redesigned: If the property is redesigned for a different
use, the property owner shall be deemed to have abandoned any grandfather right
to prior use of the property.
      5.   Designed Purpose Defined: For purposes of this section "designed
purpose" means the use for which the improvements were originally intended,
designed and approved pursuant to this title.
      6.   Other Laws Or Ordinances: The provisions of this subsection shall
not be construed to prohibit the city from passing or enforcing any other law
or ordinance for the protection of the public health, safety and welfare. (1974
Code § 4-502)
   D.   Change To Another Nonconforming Use: Any nonconforming use of a
structure or of a structure and land, may, upon the issuance of a nonconforming
use permit by the commission, be changed to another nonconforming use;
provided, that the commission finds that the proposed use is equally
appropriate or more appropriate to the now existing zoning district than the
existing nonconforming use. In making its decision the commission should
compare the differences, if any, between the requirements of the existing
nonconforming use and the proposed nonconforming use as to traffic density,
parking, customer or client coming and going, air, light and noise pollution
and such other comparisons of effects the change will have on the surrounding
property and neighborhood. Once a nonconforming use has been changed, the
original nonconforming use cannot be returned unless a nonconforming use permit
is issued as provided for above. In permitting such change, the commission may
allow structural and land changes found necessary for such change of
nonconforming use and may require appropriate structural and land changes and
impose conditions and safeguards before the new nonconforming use may commence.
(1974 Code § 4-502)
9-5-3: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
If it is a lawful use of a structure or of structures and premises in
combination which exist at the effective date of the terms of this title, the
lawful use may be continued subject to the following conditions: (1974 Code §
4-503; amd. 2010 Code)
   A.   Enlarged, Extended, Constructed, Reconstructed, Or Structurally
Altered: No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted in the district
in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed
or structurally altered except in changing the use of the structure to a use
permitted in the district in which it is located, nor shall the intensity of
such use be increased or extended.
   B.   Extended Within Building: Any nonconforming use may be extended
throughout any parts of a building which were manifestly arranged or designed
for such use at the time of adoption or amendment of this title, but no such
use shall be extended to occupy any land outside such building.
   C.   Damage By Fire, Flood, Explosion, War, Riot, Or Act Of God: Any
nonconforming building or structure damaged by fire, flood, explosion, war,
riot or act of God, may be restored, reconstructed or used as before. (1974
Code § 4-503)
9-5-4: REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Permitted Repairs: On any building devoted in whole or in part to any
nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs or on repair or
replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing; provided, that
the cubic content of the building as it existed at the time of passage or
amendment of this title shall not be increased except as above provided.
   B.   Replacement Of Nonbearing Walls, Fixtures, Wiring Or Plumbing: Nothing
in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the replacement of nonbearing walls,
fixtures, wiring or plumbing; provided that the cubic content of the building
as it existed at the time of passage or amendment of this title shall not be
increased except as above provided.
   C.   Strengthening Or Restoring To Safe Condition: Nothing in this chapter
shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition
of any building or part thereof declared to be unsafe by any official charged
with protecting the public safety, upon order of such official. (1974 Code § 4-
504)
9-5-5: NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND FOR GRAZING OR KEEPING OF DOMESTIC FARM
ANIMALS:
Land previously zoned for the keeping of domestic farm animals which has been
or is subsequently annexed and/or rezoned to a residential district not
permitting such use shall be subject to the following:
   A.   Front Or Side Yard Area: In no case shall domestic farm animals be
permitted in the front or side yard area of a home.
   B.   Extending Existing Pasture Or Animal Keeping Area: In no case shall any
existing pasture or animal keeping area be extended in any way either on the
same or adjoining land.
   C.   Animal Keeping Activities: Animal keeping or grazing activities for
personal pleasure or use and 4-H projects may be continued subject to
compliance with the following: (1974 Code § 4-505)
      1.   Cows, horses, mules, sheep, llamas, alpacas, emus and goats may be
kept, provided the lots upon which said animals are kept have an area of at
least one acre. The total number of all such animals (other than their young)
under the age of six (6) months allowed on a lot shall be limited to the square
footage of the pasture or animal raising area divided by the total minimum area
required for each animal as listed below: (1974 Code § 4-505; amd. 2010 Code)
         a.   Horse, mule or cow, forty thousand (40,000) square feet of area
per animal.
         b.   Goat or sheep, ten thousand (10,000) square feet of area per
animal. Four (4) such animals may be kept on a one acre parcel.
         c.   Animals not listed in subsection C1a and C1b of this section will
be placed in a category by the commission on a need basis. If a proposed animal
does not fit into subsection C1a or C1b of this section, the commission may
reject the owners' petitions to keep such animal. The decision of the
commission may be appealed to the council within fifteen (15) days.
         d.   Young over the age of six (6) months or young on their own
without parents shall also comply with these area requirements.
      2.   If use of a lot for animal keeping or grazing activities is
discontinued from actual use for a continuous period of one year, such use
shall be considered to be abandoned and may not be resumed.
   D.   Grandfather Right; Permit Required: The planning and zoning clerk shall
issue permits to parties desiring to continue to keep animals by virtue of a
nonconforming use (grandfather right). These permits shall be issued annually
and shall set forth the name of the permittee, the legal description of the
real estate and its street address, and the number and type of animals kept on
said land. The building inspector shall have the right to go onto said land to
confirm that the animals kept on the land comply with the permit. If a
landowner fails to obtain a permit for two (2) consecutive years, such
landowner will be deemed to have abandoned their nonconforming use. The number
of animals cannot be increased from the original number. The form of the permit
and the fee for the permit shall be set by resolution of the city council and
approved by the mayor.
   E.   Complaint Procedures: Complaints regarding offensive animal related
activities shall be handled by the planning and zoning clerk or the authorized
representative in the following manner: Objections shall be reviewed upon
receipt of a written complaint from any household located within three hundred
feet (300') of the affected property. Said complaints shall set forth the
nature of the objection.
   F.   Complaint Investigation: Such complaints shall be investigated and
findings reported, in writing. Standards for judging complaints shall include:
      1.   Noise in excess of that compatible with normal residential use
(either in terms of volume or hours of occurrence).
      2.   Odors, flies or dust in excess of that compatible with normal
residential use.
      3.   Trespassing of animals onto adjacent property.
      4.   Lack of maintenance of animal raising or grazing area. This
includes, but is not limited to, cleanup of manure and proper repair of fencing
or other enclosures.
   G.   Action By Planning And Zoning Clerk: The planning and zoning clerk or
the authorized representative, upon investigation and in consultation with area
residents, may:
      1.   Approve the situation as it exists.
      2.   Require all or a portion of the animals to be eliminated.
      3.   Impose appropriate restrictions such as, repair of fencing or other
enclosures, limiting the location of animals on the property, cleanup of
manure, establishing a phase out period, or other measures to ensure
compatibility with a residential setting.
      4.   Action by the planning and zoning clerk shall become final fifteen
(15) calendar days after the date of notification of the decision to the
affected party unless appealed to the commission.
   H.   Appeals: Appeals shall be handled as set forth in chapter 3, article D
of this title. (1974 Code § 4-505)
9-5-6: USES UNDER CONDITIONAL USE PROVISIONS NOT NONCONFORMING USES:
Any use which is permitted as a conditional use in a district under terms of
this title shall not be deemed a nonconforming use in such district, but shall,
without further action, be considered a conforming use. (1974 Code § 4-506)
CHAPTER 6
ZONING DISTRICTS; MAP
SECTION:
9-6-1: Zoning Districts And Purposes
9-6-2: Zoning District Map
9-6-1: ZONING DISTRICTS AND PURPOSES:
The following zoning districts are hereby established for the purpose of
promoting the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the community:
   A.   Agriculture Districts: (1974 Code § 4-601)
      1.   AG-20 Agricultural District: Parcels of land which are twenty (20)
acres or more and located within the city area of impact shall be subject to
zoning laws as provided in the impact area agreement with Twin Falls County.
Parcels of land less than twenty (20) acres or parcels used for other than
agricultural purposes and located within the city area of impact shall be under
the jurisdiction of city zoning laws. AG-20 land may not be subdivided nor
split into parcels of land smaller than twenty (20) acres without prior written
approval of the city. The meaning of "agricultural land" is found in the
definitions in section
9-2-3 of this title. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
      2.   AG-R5 Agricultural-Residential Five Acre District: To provide for
the transition of agricultural land no longer used for extensive agricultural
purposes into residential areas, while preserving agricultural uses compatible
with residential development, gross density will not exceed one single-family
dwelling unit per five (5) acres. This district also is established to control
the infiltration of urban development into agricultural areas which will
adversely affect agriculture and to provide a district, the boundary of which
will provide the transition between rural and urban. (1974 Code § 4-601)
         a.   Animals: Animals may be kept on pasture only. The total number of
animals (other than their young under the age of 6 months) allowed on a lot or
parcel shall be limited to the square footage of the lot excluding roads,
buildings, yard, etc. (see definitions) divided by the total minimum area
required for each animal as follows: 1) horse, mule or cow, forty thousand
(40,000) square feet of area per animal; 2) llama, alpaca, emu, goat or sheep,
ten thousand (10,000) square feet of area per animal. (1974 Code § 4-601; amd.
2010 Code)
         b.   Enclosures: Any building or enclosure in which animals or fowl,
except domestic pets, of not more than four (4), are contained, shall be a
distance of at least fifty feet (50') from any lot in any R-1, R-4, R-6 and R-
16, B-2 or B-3 districts or from any school or institution for human care.
   B.   Residential Districts: To provide regulations and districts for various
residential neighborhoods, density in an R district shall be determined by the
minimum lot sizes contained in chapter 9 of this title. Centralized water and
sewer facilities are required in all districts exceeding one dwelling unit per
acre. Centralized water, sewer facilities and annexation may be required in R-
1 districts.
      1.   R-1: This district is intended to permit the establishment of estate
lot density single-family dwellings.
      2.   R-4: This district is intended to permit the establishment of low
density single-family and multi-family dwellings and to protect the integrity
of residential areas by prohibiting the intrusion of incompatible
nonresidential uses.
      3.   R-6: This district is intended to permit the establishment of medium
density single-family dwellings and multi-family dwellings.
      4.   R-16: This district is intended to permit the establishment of
medium high density, single-family attached, and multi-family dwellings at a
density not exceeding sixteen (16) dwelling units per acre. All such districts
must have direct access to a transportation arterial or collector street. The
city may require that such developments require the developer to provide
neighborhood park or open area.
      5.   R-P: The residential professional district provides for a low
density mixture of residential land uses with light commercial land uses in
possible close proximity to adjacent residential districts. The light
commercial uses allowed in this district are selected for their compatibility
with residential uses. Such a district is typically appropriate along
thoroughfares.
   C.   Business/Commercial Districts: Centralized water and sewer facilities
are required in all business/commercial districts.
      1.   B-1 Central Business District: The B-1 central business district is
intended to accommodate and encourage further expansion and renewal in the
historical core business area of the community. A variety of business, public,
quasi-public, cultural, residential and other related uses are encouraged. The
greatest possible concentration of retail sales and business will occur in this
district.
      2.   B-2: The neighborhood business district is intended to create,
preserve and enhance areas of retail establishments serving frequently
recurring needs in convenient locations, and is typically appropriate to small
shopping clusters or integrated shopping centers located nearby or within
residential neighborhoods.
      3.   B-3: The community business district is intended to create, preserve
and enhance areas with a wide range of retail sales and service establishments
serving both long and short term needs in compact locations typically
appropriate to commercial clusters near intersections of major thoroughfares.
This district also includes some development which does not strictly fit the
description of this chapter but also does not merit a zoning district.
   D.   Industrial Districts: Centralized water and sewer facilities are
required for all industrial districts, unless waived by a conditional use
permit.
      1.   I-1 Light Industrial: The purpose of the I-1 light industrial
district is to provide for light industrial development and to encourage the
development of manufacturing and wholesale establishments which are clean,
quiet and relatively free of hazardous or objectionable elements, such as
noise, odor, dust, smoke or glare and that are operated entirely or almost
entirely within enclosed structures; to delineate areas best suited for
industrial development because of location, topography, existing facilities and
relationship to other land uses. Uses incompatible with light industry are not
permitted and strip development is prohibited.
      2.   I-2 Heavy Industrial: The purpose of the I-2 heavy industrial
district is intended to create, preserve and enhance areas containing
manufacturing or related establishments which are potentially incompatible with
most other establishments, and is typically appropriate to areas which are most
distant from residential areas and which have good rail or highway access.
   E.   District Review Areas:
      1.   FP Floodplain Overlay District: The purpose of the FP district is to
guide development in the flood prone areas of any watercourse that is
consistent with the requirements for the conveyance of flood flows, and to
minimize the expense and inconveniences to the individual property owners and
the general public through flooding. Uses permitted in this district are
generally associated with open space, recreational and agricultural land uses
and shall not hinder the movement of the floodwaters. (The FP district is
superimposed over the other districts.)
   F.   Airport Zone:
      1.   AZ airport zone shall be that land, the boundaries of which are
described in section
6-4-1 of this code.
      2.   It is intended that all lands within the airport zone or district
shall be primarily available for municipal airport purposes. Excepting other
nonconforming uses or buildings now conducted or located on the property within
the airport district, all such land shall be used or occupied and any
buildings, structure or improvement thereon shall only be used, occupied,
placed, replaced, erected, reerected, constructed, reconstructed, altered,
extended, enlarged, modified, removed or moved upon obtaining from the planning
and zoning commission for the city, a conditional use permit.
      3.   Except as modified herein, all provisions of this title shall apply
to those lands located within the airport zoning district.
      4.   The administration of this title, as well as the provisions herein
as concerns those lands located within the airport zoning district shall be
vested with the planning and zoning commission of the city. (1974 Code § 4-601)
   G.   Public Use Areas:
      1.   Public use areas are areas designated for use by the public, they
shall have no zoning designation.
      2.   Public use areas shall be shown as such in the city zoning map and
related records. (Ord. 960, 6-11-2012)
9-6-2: ZONING DISTRICT MAP:
   A.   Map Adopted: The districts established in section
9-6-1 of this chapter are shown on the official zoning map, as now existing or
as may hereafter be amended, together with all explanatory matter thereon, are
hereby incorporated into this title as if set forth in full within this
chapter.
   B.   Boundaries Of Districts: Where uncertainty exists with respect to the
boundaries of any of the zoning districts as shown on the official zoning map,
the following shall apply:
      1.   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following
the centerline of street lines, highway right of way lines, streams, lakes or
other bodies of water, the centerline shall be construed to be such boundary;
      2.   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow the lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be said boundaries;
      3.   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are
approximately parallel to the centerlines or street lines of streets, or the
centerlines or right of way lines of highways, such district boundaries shall
be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance therefrom as
indicated on the official zoning map. If no distance is given, such dimensions
shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on the official zoning map;
and
      4.   Where the boundary of a district follows a railroad line, such
boundary shall be deemed to be located in the middle of the main tracks of said
railroad line. (1974 Code § 4-701)
   C.   Compliance With Zoning District Regulations: The regulations for each
district set forth by this title shall be minimum regulations and shall apply
uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land. (1974 Code § 4-702)
   D.   Official Schedule Of District Regulations Adopted:
      1.   District regulations shall be as set forth in the zoning schedule of
land use control, and zoning schedule of bulk and coverage controls, and
performance standards for district uses of this title.
      2.   The districts of the city are divided into four (4) land use groups:
agricultural, residential, business/commercial and industrial. When several
combined land uses exist, or are proposed, the most intensive land use shall be
considered as the primary activity. (1974 Code § 4-703)
   E.   Uses Not Specifically Permitted Or Listed In Districts: When a use is
not specifically listed as a permitted use, such use shall be hereby expressly
prohibited unless by application and authorization (as provided for under
conditional use) it is determined that said use is similar to and compatible
with listed permitted uses. Such uses may then be permitted as conditional
uses. (1974 Code § 4-704)
CHAPTER 7
AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
9-7-1: Integration Of Recitals
9-7-2: Geographic Area Of City Impact
9-7-3: Standards
9-7-4: Governing Plan And Ordinance
9-7-5: Administration Of The Buhl Area Of City Impact
9-7-6: Enforcement Within The Buhl Area Of Impact
9-7-7: Annexation
9-7-8: Renegotiation Of This Chapter
9-7-1: INTEGRATION OF RECITALS:
The recitals set forth in this Ordinance are on file in the office of the City
Clerk, are incorporated in the Chapter and by this reference made a part
hereof. (Ord. 2024-03, 2-12-2024)
9-7-2: GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
The agreed upon area of city impact for the city of Buhl is established and set
forth herein and described as: the current adopted Buhl Zoning/Area of City
Impact map, adopted per Buhl Ordinance No. 2024-2, dated 2-12-2024 and the Buhl
Comprehensive map, adopted per Buhl Resolution No. 391, dated 4-24-2017 or
herein after modified by the parties (“Area of City Impact”). (Ord. 2024-03, 2-
12-2024)
9-7-3: STANDARDS:
The following standards shall apply whenever an agency, planning and/or zoning
commission, hearing examiner, or governing body of the city or county considers
a zone change, comprehensive plan change, request for a special or conditional
use permit, planned unit development, variance request, or subdivision plat
within the area of city impact. Within the area of city impact, the following
standards shall apply:
   A.   The City of Buhl Comprehensive Plan;
   B.   The zoning and subdivision regulations set forth in Buhl City Code
Title 9;
   C.   Except as set forth above, all other applicable standards set forth in
this code; and
   D.   Except as set forth above, all other standards of applicable special
districts having jurisdiction within the identified area of city impact. (Ord.
2024-03, 2-12-2024)
9-7-4: GOVERNING PLAN AND ORDINANCE:
   A.   The City of Buhl Comprehensive Plan, Comprehensive Plan Land Use map,
Zoning Districts map, Area of Impact map, and Buhl City Code Title IX shall
comprise the governing plan and ordinance in the Buhl Area of City Impact.
   B.   Within the Area of City Impact, any parcel of land used solely for
agricultural purposes, may continue said use until a change of use occurs.
(Ord. 2024-03, 2-12-2024)
9-7-5: ADMINISTRATION OF THE BUHL AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
   A.   Administration:
      1.   The Board of Commissioners of Twin Falls County hereby appoints and
authorizes the Twin Falls County Community Development Services Director, its
agents and employees to enforce and administer the provisions of title 9 of the
Buhl City Code, to charge and collect fees for such administrative duties as
adopted by reference herein for the area of city impact.
      2.   The County Community Development Services Director accepts the
appointment and authorization.
   B.   Commission:
      1.   The Board of Commissioners of Twin Falls County here by appoints the
County Planning and Zoning Commission as the area of city impact commission to
administer Title 9 of the Buhl City Code in the area of city impact.
      2.   All applications for preliminary plat of subdivisions, vacations,
rezones, special use permits, variances, and other such permit shall be
submitted to the County Planning and Zoning Commission. All applications for
final plat of subdivisions, for vacations and rezones shall be submitted to the
County Planning and Zoning Commission for their recommendation and action,
prior to submission to the Board of County Commissioners. The Board of County
Commissioners may approve, deny, or remand the application. The County shall
provide the City with notice and an opportunity to provide comment on these
applications pursuant to the standards provided within Idaho Code § 67-6509.
(Ord. 2024-03, 2-12-2024)
9-7-6: ENFORCEMENT WITHIN THE BUHL AREA OF IMPACT:
   A.   Twin Falls County shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of the county’s ordinances listed in subsection 8-9-19F of this
article within the area of city impact, and shall receive all permit fees for
inspections performed to recapture direct costs of inspections, administration,
legal publications, any development fees or other costs arising from fulfilling
the terms of each ordinance or regulation.
   B.   Building Code Enforcement Program: The Board of Commissioners of Twin
Falls County hereby appoints and authorizes the Twin Falls County Community
Development Services Director to contract, subject to Board approval, with the
City to administer the County building code enforcement program within the Buhl
Area of City Impact pursuant to Idaho Code § 39-4116, in the event the City
requests the ability to maintain building code enforcement in its Area of City
Impact. (Ord. 2024-03, 2-12-2024)
9-7-7: ANNEXATION:
   A.   Annexation by the city of Buhl shall be limited to those lands lying
within the area of city impact and being contiguous to the city limits of the
city of Buhl. Upon annexation, the provisions of this article, which is the
agreement between the city of Buhl and Twin Falls County, shall no longer apply
to the annexed area.
   B.   The City of Buhl shall send notice of all annexations, de-annexations,
Zoning Code and Comprehensive Plan changes and updates along with maps to the
County Community Development Services office.
   C.   All Twin Falls County land use applications and public notices within
the Buhl area of city impact shall be sent to the Buhl city council for review
and comment. The city shall have fifteen (15) calendar days after receipt of
the notice prior to the public hearing to comment. (Ord. 2024-03, 2-12-2024)
9-7-8: RENEGOTIATION OF THIS CHAPTER:
   A.   Renegotiation: The area of city impact may be reviewed and renegotiated
at any time upon written request of either party hereto. In any event, pursuant
to Idaho Code 67-6526(e), the city and the county shall review the agreement
every ten (10) years.
   B.   While renegotiation is occurring, all provisions of this chapter shall
remain in effect until this chapter is amended or a substitute ordinance is
adopted by the City of Buhl and Twin Falls County, in accordance with the
notice and hearing procedures provided in title 67, chapter 65 of Idaho Code,
or until declaratory judgment from the District Court is final. Provided,
however, that this chapter or stipulated portions thereof shall be of no
further force and effect if both jurisdictions so agree by mutually adopted
ordinance.
   C.   Repeal of Conflicting Provisions: All ordinances and code sections or
parts thereof in conflict with this subsection are hereby repealed. (Ord. 2024-
03, 2-12-2024)
CHAPTER 8
SCHEDULE OF USES
SECTION:
9-8-1: Schedule Of Land Use Controls
9-8-1-1: Land Use Violation
9-8-2: Livestock And Poultry
9-8-1: SCHEDULE OF LAND USE CONTROLS:
The following zoning schedule of land use controls is hereby adopted for the
City and its impact area:
 
(Blank) = Not allowed
P = Permitted use
C = Conditional use
P-A = Permitted as accessory use
 
Land Uses Zoning Districts
          AG-20 AG-R5 R-1 R-4 R-6 R-16 R-P B-1 B-2 B-3 I-1 I-2
Land Uses          Zoning Districts
                   AG-20 AG-R5 R-1 R-4 R-6 R-16 R-P B-1 B-2 B-3 I-1 I-2
Agricultural:
 Accessory uses,  P                                            P   P
  agricultural1
 Agricultural,    P     P                                      P   P
  general1
  Animal, grazing
 and keeping of   P     P                                      P   P
  domestic farm
  animals2
 Berry and bush   P     P     P                                P   P
  crops
 Flower gardening P     P     P   P   P   P                    P   P
  Gardening (for
 home             P     P     P   P   P   P
  consumption)
 Gardening, truck P     P                                      P   P
 Kennels,         C     C
  noncommercial
  Mineral
  resources,
 natural (subject C                                            C   C
  to State law
  provisions)
 Orchards, tree   P     P     P                                P   P
  crops
 Plant nurseries  P     P                                  P   P   P
 Poultry, fowl,   P     P     4   4   4   4    4               C   CRoa dside
  rabbits, bees                                                     stands 3PC
 Roadside stands3 P     C
 Rock crushing    C
 
Notes:
    1.    Any enterprise customarily carried on in the field of general
agricultural which is not obnoxious or detrimental to the public welfare. No
commercial slaughterhouses, dairy, or feedlot or livestock confinement
operation is allowed in the city limits or city impact area.
    2.    Except pigs. Cows, horses, sheep and goats may be kept provided lots
have an area of at least 5 acres. (Subject to section
9-5-5 of this title.)
    3.    For the display and sale of only those products raised upon the
premises, provided it does not exceed an area of 200 square feet and 4 off
street parking spaces are provided.
    4.    Except as provided in section
9-8-2 of this chapter concerning chickens.
 
 
(Blank) = Not allowed
P = Permitted use
C = Conditional use
P-A = Permitted as accessory use
 
Land Uses Zoning Districts
          AG-2 0 AG-R5 R-1 R-4 R-6 R-16 R-P B-1 B-2 B-3 I-1 I-2
Land Uses                 Zoning Districts
                          AG-2 0 AG-R5 R-1 R-4 R-6 R-16 R-P B-1 B-2 B-3 I-1 I-2
Residential:
 Accessory uses,         P      P     P   P   P   P    P
  residential1
 Boarding and rooming                             C    C
  houses
 Childcare centers                            C   C    C   C   C   C   C   C
 Dwelling, multiple-                              P                    C   C
  family
 Dwelling, single-family P      P     P   P   P   P    P   C   C   C   C   C
 Dwelling, two-family                         P   P                    C   C
  duplex
 Dwelling units2                                           P       C
  Family childcare home
 (section 9-12-3 of this P-A    P-A   P-A P-A P-A P-A  P-A C   C   C   C   C
  title)
 Group care home         C      C     C   C   C   C    C   C   C   C   C   C
 Group childcare home    C      C     C   C   C   C    C   C   C   C   C   C
  Home for the aged (see
 Idaho Code section 67-  C      C     C   C   C   C    C   C   C   C   C   C
  6531)
  Home occupation
 (subject to chapter 12  P-A    P-A   C   C   P-A P-A  P-A P-A
  of this title)3
  Manufactured home
 (subject to chapter 11  P      P     P   P   P
  of this title)
  Mobile home (see
 chapter 22 of this
  title)
  Mobile home park (see
 chapter 22 of this                           C   C                    C
  title)
 PUD general planned                                   C   C   C       C
  residential
 PUD planned residential              C   C   C   C        C
  development
 RV park                                                           C   C
 Retirement home         C      C                 C    P
  Temporary homes for
 care or lodging of                                        C
  adult indigent persons
 
Notes:
    1.    Uses normal and incidental to the uses permitted in each respective
zoning district.
    2.    Provided the dwelling units are actually above any use permitted. No
density limitation. Parking shall be provided in private parking areas or
garages on the basis of 1 space per dwelling.
    3.    Certain types of home occupations require application for and
issuance of a conditional use permit prior to establishment, see chapter 12 of
this title.
 
(Blank) = Not allowed
P = Permitted use
C = Conditional use
P-A = Permitted as accessory use
 
Land Uses   Zoning Districts
            AG-20 AG-R5 R-1 R-4 R-6 R-16 R-P B-1 B-2 B-3 I-1 I-2
Commercial:
Land Uses                  Zoning Districts
                           AG-20 AG-R5 R-1 R-4 R-6 R-16 R-P B-1 B-2 B-3 I-1 I-2
Commercial:
 Accessory uses,          P     P             P   P    P   P   P   P   P   P
  commercial1
 Ambulance services                                            C   C   P   P
 Antique                                               C   P   P   P   P
 Appliance sales and                                       P   P   P
  service
 Art supply                                                P   P   P   P
  Auction sales (no
 livestock auction in B-  C     C                          C   C   C   C   C
  1, B-2, B-3)
 Automobile parts and                                      P   P   P   P
  accessories
 Automobile sales, new                                     C   C   P   P   P
  and used
 Bakery retail (wholesale                                  P   P   P   P   P
  allowed in I-1)
 Banks                                                 P   P   P   P
 Barber and beauty shops                               P   P   P   P
 Bars or nightclubs                                        C       C
 Bicycle shop                                              P   P   P   P
 Blood banks                                               P       P
 Blueprinting                                              P       P   P
 Boat storage                                                      C
 Bookstores                                                P   P   P
 Bowling alleys                                            C       P
 Building maintenance                                              P   P   P
  service
 Business offices,                                         P   P   P
  general
 Camera and supplies                                       P   P   P
 Car washes                                                P   C   P   P   P
  Carnivals, circuses,
 amusement parks          C                                C       C   C   C
  (duration of more than 2
  weeks)
 Catering services                                         P       P   P
 Chapels                                                   P   P   P
 Clinics, medical, dental                              C   P   P   P
  and optical
 Clothing                                                  P   P   P
 Cocktail lounges                                          C       C
 Community shopping                                        P   C   P
  center
 Confectionery                                             P   P   P
  Convenience stores
 (subject to performance                                   P   P   P   P   P
  standards)
 Curio and novelty                                         P   P   P
 Dairy products, retail                                    P   P   P
  only
 Dance halls                                               C       C
 Dancing and music                                         P   P   P
  schools
 Data processing                                       C   P   P   P   P
 Day nursery                                  C   C    C   C   C   C   C
 Delicatessen                                              P   P   P   P   P
 Department stores                                         P   P   P
 Drapery stores                                            P   P   P
 Dress millinery                                           P   P   P   P
  Dry cleaners, coin
 operated, custom and                                      P   P   P   P
  self- service
  Dry cleaners, coin or
 attendant operated, no                                    P   P   P   P
  on site cleaning plant
  Electrical and
 electronic supplies,                                      P   P   P   P
  retail
  Entertainment and
 amusement (within a                                       P   P   P   P
  wholly enclosed
  building)
 Fabric                                                    P   P   P
 Florist                                               C   P   P   P
 Furniture                                                 P   P   P
 Game rooms                                                P   P   P
 Garden supply                  C                          C   C   P   P
 Gift                                                      P   P   P
 Golf, miniature                                                   C   C
 Grocery                                                   P   P   P   P
 Hardware                                                  P   P   P   P
 Health clubs                                              P   P   P
 Hobby shops                                               P   P   P
 Hotels                                                    P   C   C
 Jewelry                                                   P   P   P
 Kennels, commercial      C     C                                  C   C   C
 Laboratories,                                         C   C   C   C   C
  biochemical and X-ray
 Laboratories, medical                                 C   P   P   P   C
  and dental
 Laundromat                                                P   C   C
 Leather goods                                             P   P   P
 Liquor stores, package                                    P   P   P
 Lockers, cold storage,                                            P   P
  retail use only
 Locksmith                                                 P   P   P   P
 Meat market                                               P   P   P
 Mini-storage units                                                C   P   P
  Mobile home,
 manufactured home and                                             P   P
  recreational vehicle
  sales
 Mortuaries                                            C   P   P   P
 Motels, and motor hotels                                          P   P
 Museums                                                   P   P   P
 Music                                                     P   P   P
 Neighborhood shopping                                         P   P
  center
 Newspaper printing                                        P   P   P   P   P
 Nurseries, plant         P     P                                  P   P   P
 Office supplies and                                   C   P   P   P
  equipment
 Paint and wallpaper                                       P   P   P   P
 Pawnshops                                                 P   P   P
 Pets                                                      P   P   P
 Pharmacy or drugstore                                     P   P   P
  Photographic film
 processing,                                               P   P   P   P
  photoengraving,
  photocopying, etc.
 Printing                                                  P   P   P   P   P
 Professional offices                                  P   P   P   P
  Racetracks, including
 drag strips, go-cart                                              C   C   C
  tracks, etc.
 Radio and television                                      P   P   P   P
  broadcasting
 Recreational vehicle                                              C
  storage
 Repair garage                                             C   C   C   P   P
  Restaurants (except no
 drive-ins, walk-ups or                                C   P   P   P
  alcoholic beverages)
 Restaurants - drive-in                                    P   P   P
 Restaurants - lounge                                      P   P   P   P   P
  with alcoholic beverages
 Riding academy2          C
  Secondhand (if conducted
 within a wholly enclosed                                  P   P   P
  building)
 Service station                                           C   C   P   P   P
 Sewing machine sales and                                  P   P   P
  service
 Shoe repair                                               P   P   P
 Shoes                                                     P   P   P
 Skating rinks, indoor                                             P
 Small animal hospitals                                            C   P   P
  and clinics
 Sporting goods                                            P   P   P
 Stables, commercial2     C
  Studios (artists,
 interior decorators,                                  P   P   P   P
  photographers, etc.)
  Surgical, medical and
 dental supplies and                                   C   P   P   P
  equipment
 Tailor or dressmaking                                     P   P   P   P
 Taverns                                                   C   C   C   C
 Telephone, computer,                                      P   P   P   P
  etc.
 Theaters, drive-in3                                                   P   P
 Theaters, movie                                           P   P   P
 Tobacco shops                                             P   P   P
 Toys                                                      P   P   P
 Travel agencies                                       C   P   P   P
  Treatment center for
 alcoholism/chemical                                       C   C   C
  dependency4
 Upholstery, automobile                                    P   P   P   P
  and furniture
 Variety                                                   P   P   P
 Veterinary, animal                                            C   C   P   P
  hospital or clinic
 Wrecking yard, motor                                                      C
  vehicle, trailer, truck
 
Notes:
    1.    Uses normal and incidental to the uses permitted in each respective
zoning district.
    2.    Provided the lot area shall be no less than 10 acres.
    3.    Except at locations designated for future residential use or
development on the comprehensive plan.
    4.    Conditional use permit required for residential or outpatient
facilities.
 
(Blank) = Not allowed
P = Permitted use
C = Conditional use
P-A = Permitted as accessory use
 
Land Uses   Zoning Districts
            AG-20 AG-R5 R-1 R-4 R-6 R-16 R-P B-1 B-2 B-3 I-1 I-2
Industrial:
Land Uses                  Zoning Districts
                           AG-20 AG-R5 R-1 R-4 R-6 R-16 R-P B-1 B-2 B-3 I-1 I-2
Industrial:
 Accessory uses,                                                       P   P
  industrial1
  Administrative and sales
 offices related to                                                    P   P
  industrial uses
 Agricultural machinery,                                           P   P   P
  sales and service
 Agricultural supplies                                                 P   P
 Asphalt batching                                                      C   C
 Automobile body, paint                                            C   P   P
  shop
 Building materials                                                P   P   P
 Concrete batching and                                                 C   C
  mixing
 Equipment rental yards                                                P   P
 Equipment sales                                                   P   P   P
 Feed and seed processing                                              P   P
  and sales
 Grain storage, shipping                                               P   P
  and handling
 Hatcheries                                                            P   P
 Impound/storage yard,                                                 C   P
  vehicles
  Incineration or
 reduction of garbage,                                                     C
  dead animals, offal or
  refuse
  Laboratories,
 experimental, film or                                                 P   P
  testing
  Manufacture and
 preparation of food                                                   P   P
  products
 Manufacture, assembly or                                              P   P
  packaging of products2
  Manufacture of
 electronic instruments                                                P   P
  and devices
  Manufacturing,
  compounding, bottling,
 processing, packaging or                                              P   P
  treatment of food and
  beverage products
  Manufacturing,
  compounding, processing,
  assembling, packaging
 treatment, or                                                         P   P
  fabrication of products
  listed4, provided the
  applicable performance
  standards are adhered to
  Manufacturing,
  warehousing,
  wholesaling,
  compounding, assembling,
 processing, storing,                                                  C   P
  researching, treating or
  testing or a combination
  thereof of items,
  materials or goods
 Plumbing supplies and                                             P   P   P
  services
 Public utility buildings                                              P   P
 Radiator service and                                                  P   P
  repairs
  Research facilities,
 administrative and                                                    P   P
  executive
  Retail sales/service
 incidental and directly                                               P   P
  related to industrial
  uses
 Salvage yards                                                             C
 Slaughterhouses
 Subdivisions                                                          P   P
 Truck repair shops                                                        P
 Truck sales                                                           P   P
 Trucking yards and                                                        P
  terminals
 Utility buildings and                                                 P   P
  uses
 Warehouse, distribution                                               P   P
  and wholesale3
 
Notes:
    1.    Uses normal and incidental to the uses permitted in each respective
zoning district.
    2.    From previously prepared materials such as cloth, plastic, metal,
paper, leather, and precious or semiprecious stones.
    3.    In I-1 zones all items shall be enclosed within site obscuring walls
or fences.
    4.    Blueprints, boats, ceramics, communication components and systems,
cosmetics, creameries, drugs, electrical components and systems, farm
equipment, films, garments, glass, greenhouses, instruments, iron, steel, and
sheet metal, provided no blast furnaces allowed; leather, novelties, paint,
provided no boiling is allowed; paper and cellophane, except no manufacturing;
perfumes, plaster and plastics, except no manufacturing; signs, soil, stone
monuments, textiles, tires, limited recapping, retreading and rebuilding,
tobacco, toiletries, upholstery, wood but excluding operation of planing mills,
and other similar items (except food) which shall not have any different or
more detrimental effect upon the adjoining neighborhood areas.
 
(Blank) = Not allowed
P = Permitted use
C = Conditional use
P-A = Permitted as accessory use
 
Land Uses Zoning Districts
Land Uses                  Zoning Districts
                           AG-20 AG-R5 R-1 R-4 R-6 R-16 R-P B-1 B-2 B-3 I-1 I-2
Public/semipublic:
 Accessory uses, public/  P     P     P   P   P   P    P   P   P   P   P   P
  semipublic1
 Airports, heliports,                                                      C
  landing fields, etc.
 Animal shelters          C                                        C   C   C
 Auditoriums                                               C       C
 Bus terminals                                             C       P
 Cemeteries, mausoleums   C
 Churches                 C     C     C   C   C   C    C   C   C   C
  Clubs, lodges, meeting
 halls (public or                                 C    C   P   P   P
  private)
 Community centers        C     C     C   C   C   C    C   C   C   C   P
 Crematories              C                                C   C   C   C
 Garbage dumps, sanitary                                                   C
  landfills
 Golf courses, driving    C     C                                      P   P
  ranges
 Grange halls             P                                P   P   P
Public/semipublic:
 Hospitals/clinics        C     C                 C    C   C   C   C   P
 Parking areas, private                       P   P    P   C   C   C   C   C
 Parking areas, public                        C   C    C   P   P   P   P   P
  Parking garages, public
 (no vehicle sales or                             C    C   P   P   P   P   P
  storage areas in B-2)
  Parks, playgrounds, open
 space (subject to        P     P     P   P   P   P    P   P   P   P
  chapter 12 of this
  title)
  Planned unit development
 (subject to chapter 24,  P     P     P   P   P   P    P   P   P   P   P   P
  article F of this title)
 Post offices                                              P   P   P
 Prisons, jails, etc.     C                                        C       C
 Public/semipublic        P     P     P   P   P   P    P   P   P   P   P   P
  buildings2
 Public service           C     C     C   C   C   C    C   C   C   C   C   C
  facilities
 Public uses              C     C     C   C   C   C    C   C   C   C   C   C
 Public utility/utility   C     C     C   C   C   C    C   C   C   C   C   C
 Radio towers/            C     C                                      P   P
  transmitters
 Sewage and waste                                                          C
  treatment plants
 Schools and colleges     C     C     C   C   C   C    C   C       C
 Sports facilities        C     C     C   C   C   C    C   C   C   C   C   C
Notes:
    1.    Uses normal and incidental to the uses permitted in each respective
zoning district.
    2.    Only those uses essential to the physical or economical welfare of an
area. Interior yards for these uses shall be a minimum of 25 feet and there
shall be no stockpiling or storage of materials.
(1974 Code § 4-901; amd. Ord. 970, 4-22-2013; Ord. 973, 12-9-2013; Ord. 2025-1,
1-27-2025; Ord. 2025-3, 3-24-2025; Ord. 2025-4, 3-24-2025; Ord. 2025-9, 6-9-
2025)
9-8-1-1: LAND USE VIOLATION:
Any person or corporation, whether owner, lessee, principal, agent, or
otherwise, who uses any land in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of an infraction. Each week's continued violation shall
constitute a separate additional violation. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
9-8-2: LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY:
   A.   Within any of the residential zoning districts of the City, which are
located within the City limits, it shall be unlawful to use the land for the
keeping or housing of poultry or livestock, except chickens (hens only) may be
kept in the back yard of a residence subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Permitted Location: Kept in a fenced in back yard of a residence.
      2.   Roosters Prohibited: No roosters are allowed.
      3.   Running At Large Prohibited: Not allowed to run at large.
      4.   Prohibited Locations: Not allowed in front or side yards of the
residence.
      5.   Noncommercial Use Only: Kept for noncommercial use only, such as for
family consumption, or 4-H or school projects, etc.
      6.   Application: Any person or persons desiring to keep chickens on real
property inside the City, regardless of the ownership of the real property
where such chickens shall be kept or the ownership of the chickens themselves,
must first file an application with the City.
      7.   License Required: A license for keeping or maintaining chickens
shall be granted subject to the application meeting the following
specifications and requirements:
         a.   Four Or Less Chickens: For four (4) or fewer chickens the base
application process will consist of the application form with name, address,
phone number, type and number of chickens and type and size of property where
chickens are confined and ranged.
         b.   More Than Four Chickens: For more than four (4) but not to exceed
ten (10) chickens with no more than one chicken per five hundred (500) square
feet of open back yard space. The application process will consist of the
application form with name, address, phone number, type and number of chickens,
type and size of property where chickens are confined and ranged and written
consent to such chicken license by at least seventy five percent (75%) of all
the persons in possession of premises within a radius of one hundred feet
(100') of the premises upon which such chickens are to be maintained.
         c.   Fee: The application shall be accompanied by the deposit of a
license fee set by resolution of the City Council.
         d.   License Nontransferable; Addition To Number Of Chickens: Chicken
license shall not be transferable to another location or to other individuals
and shall expire December 31 of the year issued. Whenever additions are made to
the number of chickens for which a chicken license has been issued, the
licensee shall, within three (3) days, report to the Office of the Clerk-
Treasurer and pay the required license fee; provided, however, that whenever
chicks are hatched, such chicks shall not be counted in computing the number
allowed and the license fee until four (4) months old.
         e.   Renewal: Chicken licenses may be renewed upon expiration by
filing an application and paying required fees.
         f.   Distance Requirements: All chicken enclosures must be at least
ten feet (10') from any fence line, and be located in the back yard.
         g.   Free Range: Chickens are allowed to be free range in a fenced
back yard.
         h.   Inspection; Right Of Entry: It shall be the duty of the Code
Enforcement Officer to inspect, or cause to be inspected, chicken facilities
for which licenses under this section have been issued as often as it may be
necessary for the adequate control and supervision of such facilities. The Code
Enforcement Officer, or designee, shall have the right to enter all such
facilities at any reasonable time for the purpose of making necessary
investigations and inspections, and shall be charged with the responsibility of
enforcing and administering the provisions of this section.
         i.   Certain Dwellings And Facilities Prohibited: No permit will be
issued for two-family dwellings (duplex), multi-family dwellings, or commercial
facilities.
      8.   Nuisance Prohibited: The keeping of chickens shall not create a
nuisance as defined in subsection 4-5A-1C of this Code.
      9.   Disposal Of Waste: The disposal of offal or waste materials from
chickens and dead chickens are items excluded from City collection as defined
in section
7-3-8 of this Code.
      10.   Complaint Procedures: Complaints regarding offensive animal related
activities shall be handled by the Code Enforcement Officer or the authorized
representative in the following manner: Objections shall be reviewed upon
receipt of a written complaint from any household located within three hundred
feet (300') of the affected property. Said complaints shall set forth the
nature of the objection.
      11.   Complaint Investigation: Such complaints shall be investigated and
findings reported, in writing. Standards for judging complaints shall include:
         a.   Noise in excess of that compatible with normal residential use
(either in terms of volume or hours of occurrence).
         b.   Odors, flies or dust in excess of that compatible with normal
residential use.
         c.   Trespassing of animals onto adjacent property.
         d.   Lack of maintenance of animal raising or grazing area. This
includes, but is not limited to, cleanup of manure and proper repair of fencing
or other enclosures.
      12.   Action By Code Enforcement Officer: The Code Enforcement Officer or
the authorized representative, upon investigation and in consultation with area
residents, may:
         a.   Approve the situation as it exists.
         b.   Require all or a portion of the animals to be eliminated.
         c.   Impose appropriate restrictions such as, repair of fencing or
other enclosures, limiting the location of animals on the property, cleanup of
manure, establishing a phase out period, or other measures to ensure
compatibility with a residential setting.
         d.   Action by the Code Enforcement Officer shall become final fifteen
(15) calendar days after the date of notification of the decision to the
affected party unless appealed to the City Council.
      13.   Appeals: Appeals shall be brought before the City Council.
   B.   Poultry or livestock presently kept or maintained prior to passage of
this title shall be allowed to continue subject to the restrictions set forth
in chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 973, 12-9-2013)
CHAPTER 9
SCHEDULE OF BULK AND COVERAGE CONTROLS
SECTION:
9-9-1: Zoning Schedule Of Bulk And Coverage Controls
9-9-1: ZONING SCHEDULE OF BULK AND COVERAGE CONTROLS:
The following zoning schedule of bulk and coverage controls area have been
adopted by the city and its impact area:
   MINIMUM YARD SETBACK REQUIREMENTS
         Minimum Lot            Interior Side             Minimum Lot Maximum
District Area6       Front Rear (Per Story)   Street Side Coverage    Building
                                                          Percentage  Height
                                      Interior             Minimum Lot Maximum
District Minimum    Front    Rear     Side     Street Side Coverage    Building
         Lot Area6                    (Per                 Percentage  Height
                                      Story)
         43,560
         square
R-1      feet per   25 feet  15 feet  7.5 feet 30 feet     40          35 feet
         dwelling
         unit
         8,000
         square
         feet per
         dwelling
         unit3
         6,000
         square     30 feet1 15 feet5 5 feet   25 feet1    60          35 feet
R-47     feet per   20 feet2 15 feet5 5 feet   20 feet2    60          35 feet
         dwelling   30 feet1 15 feet5 5 feet   25 feet1                35 feet
         unit4
         6,000
         square
         feet per
         dwelling
         unit3
         4,400
         square
R-67     feet per   20 feet2 15 feet5 5 feet   20 feet2                35 feet
         dwelling
         unit4
         2,400
         square
R-16     feet per   20 feet  15 feet5 5 feet   20 feet                 40 feet
         dwelling
         unit
         Same as R-
         6          30 feet1 20 feet  5 feet   25 feet1
R-P      "P" 7,000  20 feet2 20 feet  5 feet   20 feet2    60          35 feet
         square
         feet
B-1                                            0                       40 feet
B-2                                            0                       35 feet
B-3      See district regulations of corresponding use proposed
I-1                                                                    40 feet
I-2                                   0                                40 feet
 
Notes:
1.   Arterial and collector streets.
2.   Local streets.
3.   Single-family dwellings.
4.   Two-family dwellings.
5.   On corner lots in residential districts, the rear setback may be the same
as the interior side setback.
6.   Minimum lot size shall be determined exclusive of land that is used for
streets, highways, alleys, roads and rights of way.
7.   Multi-family increase over duplex: 2,000 square feet per unit at grade and
1,000 square feet per unit above or below grade.
(1974 Code § 4-1000)
CHAPTER 10
SUPPLEMENTAL YARD, AREA AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-10-1: Additional Provisions
9-10-2: General Yard Regulations
9-10-3: Building Height Exceptions
9-10-4: Additional Height Allowed For Public Buildings
9-10-5: Site Planning Review
9-10-1: ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS:
In addition to all yard, area and height regulations specified in the zoning
schedule of bulk and coverage controls and in other sections of this title, the
following provisions shall be adhered to. (1974 Code § 4-1101)
9-10-2: GENERAL YARD REGULATIONS:
   A.   Yard Requirements For Property Abutting Arterial Or Future Street
Rights Of Way: No building shall be erected on a lot which abuts a street
having only a portion of its required width dedicated, unless the yards
provided and maintained in connection with such building have a width and/or
depth needed to complete the street width plus the width and/or depth of the
yards required on the lot by each use district.
   B.   Open Space And Yards Around Buildings:
      1.   No yard or open space around any building shall be considered as
providing a yard or open space for any other building.
      2.   No yard or open space on adjoining property shall be considered as
providing required yard or open space for another lot or development site.
   C.   Visibility At Intersections 1 : On a corner lot in any district,
nothing shall be erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow in such a manner
as to materially impede vision. (See the appendix attached to zoning ordinance
on file in the office of the clerk-treasurer.)
   D.   Yard Requirements For Multi-Family Dwellings: Multi-family dwellings
shall be considered as one building for the purpose of determining front, side
and rear yard requirements. The entire group, as a unit, shall require one
front, one rear and two (2) side yards as specified for dwellings in the
appropriate district.
   E.   Requirements For Nonresidential Uses Abutting Residential Districts:
Screening and/or other buffer requirements, as stipulated by the commission or
council, shall be provided. Said screening at a height of six feet (6'),
maintained in good condition and free of all advertising or other signs; for
screening required for parking areas, see subsection
9-13-4B4 of this title.
   F.   Architectural Projections: Open structures such as porches, canopies,
platforms, carports, covered patios, chimney and similar architectural
projections shall be considered parts of the building to which it is attached
and shall not project into the required minimum front, side or rear yard. (1974
Code § 4-1102)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-3B-3 of this code.
9-10-3: BUILDING HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Through Lots:
      1.   On through lots having a depth of one hundred fifty feet (150') or
less, the building height may be measured from the adjoining sidewalk level on
either street.
      2.   On through lots having a depth of more than one hundred fifty feet
(150'), the height regulations and basis of height measurements for the street
permitting the greater height shall apply to a depth of not more than one
hundred fifty feet (150') from such street.
   B.   Exceptions: The height limitations contained in the zoning schedule of
bulk and coverage controls do not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, pole
antennas, water tanks, public utility power poles, ventilators, chimneys or
other appurtenances usually required to be placed above the level and not
intended for human occupancy, except where height of such structures will
constitute a hazard to the safe landing and takeoff of aircraft at an
established airport. (1974 Code § 4-1103)
9-10-4: ADDITIONAL HEIGHT ALLOWED FOR PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
Public utility buildings, public and parochial schools and churches may be
erected to any height, provided the building is set back from required building
setback lines at least one foot (1') for each additional foot of building
height above the maximum height otherwise permitted in the district in which
the building is located. (1974 Code § 4-1104)
9-10-5: SITE PLANNING REVIEW:
In addition to any other requirements contained in this title, the city, in its
discretion, may require, as a condition of approval, that any use, development
or construction have the plans, designs, plats, specifications, drawings,
actual construction, landscaping, etc., reviewed and approved by the city. The
purpose of this review is to ensure that development and construction occurs as
it is represented it will occur. Any violations of the representations or
conditions of approval shall be violations of this title. (1974 Code § 4-1105)
CHAPTER 11
RESIDENTIAL HOUSING STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-11-1: Single-Family Detached Housing Standards
9-11-2: Multi-Family Dwelling Unit Housing Standards
9-11-3: Manufactured Housing Standards
9-11-1: SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED HOUSING STANDARDS:
   A.   Agricultural District AG-20: Those parcels of land which are twenty
(20) acres or more and located within the city area of impact shall be subject
to Twin Falls County zoning laws and the Twin Falls County building codes and
inspections as provided in the impact area agreement between the city and the
county.
   B.   Residential Districts AG-R5, R-1, R-4, R-6 And R-16:
      1.   Minimum Living Space: All new single-family detached housing in all
residential districts shall be constructed to contain at least one thousand
(1,000) square feet of living space. The garage or carport shall not be
included in determining living space.
      2.   Multi-Stories: All single-family detached housing in all residential
districts which have multi-stories shall have a minimum of eight hundred (800)
square feet of living space on the ground floor.
      3.   Off Street Parking: All single-family detached housing in all
residential districts shall have improved off street parking capable of parking
at least two (2) standard size vehicles. (1974 Code § 4-1201)
9-11-2: MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING UNIT HOUSING STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Living Space: Each unit of all multi-family dwellings
constructed after the effective date hereof shall have a minimum living space
of nine hundred (900) square feet in each dwelling unit. The garage is not to
be used to determine the size of the dwelling unit to meet the minimum square
footage of nine hundred (900) square feet per unit.
   B.   Off Street Parking: Each dwelling unit shall have improved off street
parking capable of parking two (2) standard size vehicles.
   C.   Conversion Of Single-Family Residence To Duplex: Should the owner of a
single-family residence within the R-4 and R-6 zoning districts desire to
convert such single-family residence to a multi-family dwelling, in addition to
any other standards contained in this title, the following standards must be
complied with:
      1.   Minimum Lot Size: The minimum lot sizes prescribed in chapter 9 of
this title for multi-family dwellings must be met. (1974 Code § 4-1202)
9-11-3: MANUFACTURED HOUSING STANDARDS:
   A.   Intent: The intent of this section is to establish standards and
regulations governing the location and approval of manufactured housing in the
jurisdiction of the city and that these regulations allow a mix of housing
types; however, this should occur in a manner which will not adversely affect
existing neighborhoods. For this reason, standards have been set that will
regulate the appearance of the manufactured home, allowing only those that are
acceptably similar in appearance to site built dwellings on individual lots or
parcels in all residential zoning districts. (1974 Code § 4-1203)
   B.   Manufactured Housing Defined: Manufactured housing-manufactured homes
shall be considered single-family dwellings within the zoning districts of the
city and its impact area, provided such structures meet or exceed all building
code standards as adopted by the state of Idaho and the city (including, but
not limited to, plumbing, electrical, fire, and gas codes) and meet the
development standards for manufactured homes on individual lots or parcels and
provided that such housing is not restricted by restrictive covenants which
apply to the lots or subdivision. (1974 Code § 4-1203; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Development Standards For Individual Lots: Development standards for a
manufactured home on an individual lot area are as follows:
      1.   Shall consist of more than one section, shall be at least twenty
feet (20') wide, and shall have a minimum floor area of five hundred (500)
square feet per section. The minimum floor areas for two (2) sections that will
qualify as a dwelling unit shall be one thousand (1,000) square feet.
      2.   Shall have a nonmetallic, wood shake or asphalt shingle roof or
better with a minimum slope of three to twelve (3:12) and minimum six inch (6")
eaves, or gutter and eaves attached to the entire perimeter of the roof.
      3.   Shall have simulated wood or wood siding as a minimum.
      4.   Shall have a masonry or concrete foundation which surrounds the
entire perimeter of the structure and completely encloses the space between the
siding and the finished grade.
      5.   Shall be permanently affixed, with the running gear and towing hitch
removed, to a foundation base having an anchoring system that is totally
concealed under the structure.
      6.   Shall obtain a zoning permit and building permit from the proper
city officials to ensure that the manufactured home is located in an allowed
zoning district and is assembled on site to standards regulating the anchoring
of the structure to its foundation and other building requirements.
      7.   Shall comply with all other applicable requirements of the zoning
district in which the manufactured home is located, such as minimum housing
standards within the zoning district in which it is located, lot size, setback
requirements and percent of occupancy.
      8.   Shall comply with any floodplain provisions of this title relating
to the location of homes in floodplain areas and any other applicable
requirements of this title.
      9.   Shall be designed to ensure compatibility with adjacent existing and
proposed development.
      10.   Shall have improved off street parking for two (2) standard sized
vehicles at a minimum. The improved off street parking is not to be used to
determine the size of the manufactured home to meet the minimum square footage
of one thousand (1,000) square feet.
   D.   Accessory Structures: Development standards for an accessory structure
to a manufactured home on an individual lot are as follows:
      1.   Attached accessory structure, as permitted in the zoning district
for which a manufactured home may be located, shall be similar in material and
integrated into the design of the manufactured home. (1974 Code § 4-1203)
      2.   Accessory structures must meet all building code standards as
adopted by the state of Idaho and the city. (1974 Code § 4-1203; amd. 2010
Code)
   E.   Administration And Enforcement: Application for approval of
manufactured housing on individual lots or parcels shall be submitted to the
planning and zoning clerk on a standard prescribed form in addition to such
information as is generally required for zoning permits, such application shall
also include all information necessary to determine the manufactured home's
conformity with the development standards for a manufactured home on an
individual lot or parcel. Applicant shall sign and certify the application and
provide any additional information necessary to certify that such structure
does meet the standards prior to moving the structure to the building site. The
building inspector, following issuance of a zoning permit and a building permit
and upon inspection of the site for the attachment of the structure to a
foundation base, shall verify, in writing, that all standards have been met, as
certified in the signed application form.
   F.   Real Property Taxes: All manufactured houses shall be deemed to be, and
shall be treated as, real property and shall be taxed as such and not as
personal property.
   G.   Restrictive Covenants: The party applying to the city for a building
permit to locate a manufactured home on a lot or parcel shall represent to the
city that there are no restrictive covenants on the proposed building site
which prohibits the construction of a manufactured home on said land. (1974
Code § 4-1203)
CHAPTER 12
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR DISTRICT USES
SECTION:
9-12-1: General Provisions
9-12-2: Accessory Building Standards
9-12-3: Accessory Uses
9-12-4: Commercial And Industrial Uses
9-12-5: FP Floodplain Overlay District
9-12-6: Unique Land Uses
9-12-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
In addition to all other regulations as specified in this title, the following
provisions shall be adhered to:
   A.   Temporary Buildings: Temporary buildings, construction trailers,
equipment, and materials used in conjunction with construction work may be
permitted only in any district during the period the construction work is in
progress; however, such temporary facilities shall be removed upon completion
of the construction work.
   B.   Required Trash Area: All trash and/or garbage collection areas for
commercial, industrial, and multi-family residential uses shall be enclosed on
at least three (3) sides by a solid wall or fence of at least four feet (4') in
height or within an enclosed building or structure. Adequate vehicular access
to and from such area or areas for collection of trash or garbage as determined
by the planning and zoning clerk shall be provided.
   C.   Parking And Storage Of Certain Vehicles: Automotive vehicles or
trailers of any kind or type without current license plates shall not be parked
or stored on any residentially zoned property other than in a completely
enclosed building or carport. However, one boat and one travel trailer or
recreation vehicle may be stored in the side or rear yards behind the front
yard. (1974 Code § 4-1301)
9-12-2: ACCESSORY BUILDING STANDARDS:
   A.   Located Within Lot Of Ownership; Vacated Alley: All parts of an
accessory building shall be located within the lot of ownership. Where an alley
has been vacated, permitted uses may be located at the centerline of such
alley, provided:
      1.   Proof of ownership is established;
      2.   Disclaimer by the city of any utility easements; and
      3.   Written disclaimer by all utility companies waiving use of the
portion of alley to be improved by a structure.
   B.   Front Yard Area: The accessory building will not be located in any
front yard area.
   C.   Distance From Side Or Rear Property Line: The accessory building will
not be located closer than five feet (5') from any side or rear property line.
   D.   Detached Or Connected To Principal Building: An accessory building may
be erected detached from the principal building, or it may be connected thereto
by a breezeway or similar structure.
   E.   Prohibited Locations; Exception: No accessory building shall be erected
in any required court, or in any required yard other than a rear yard, except
that where the natural grade of a lot at the front line of the principal
building is such as to result in a driveway having a grade of ten percent (10%)
or greater, a private garage may be erected within the front yard, but not
within fifteen feet (15') of any street line.
   F.   Rear Yard Requirements: If located in a rear yard, both detached and
connected accessory buildings shall be subject to the requirements set forth in
the following subsections:
      1.   No part of an accessory building on a corner lot located within
twenty five feet (25') of an adjacent residentially zoned lot (either directly
or across an alley) shall be nearer to such adjacent lot than the least depth
of the existing front yard or required street side yard for a building on such
adjacent lot, nor shall accessory buildings project into the side or front yard
for the principal building to which it is accessory.
      2.   Coverage of rear yard by accessory buildings shall not exceed twenty
five percent (25%).
      3.   No accessory building or portion thereof located in a required rear
yard shall exceed fifteen feet (15') in height. (1974 Code § 4-1302)
9-12-3: ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   Accessory Use Review Process: The planning and zoning clerk shall make
the initial determination as to whether a building, structure or use is
accessory to a principal permitted use, and may issue zoning certifications for
those which are determined to be accessory and which otherwise comply with this
section. Nonimpacting (i.e., no vehicular or foot traffic, noise etc.) home
occupations may be approved by the planning and zoning clerk as an accessory
use. All other home occupation permits shall follow the procedures of
subsection C1 of this section.
   B.   Basis For Determination: The accessory determination shall be based
upon the relationship of the building, structure or use to the principal
permitted use. Specifically, it must be habitually or commonly established as
reasonably incidental to the principal permitted use and located and conducted
on the same premises as the principal permitted use. In determining whether it
is accessory, the following factors shall be used:
      1.   The size of the lot in question;
      2.   The nature of the principal permitted use;
      3.   The use made of adjacent lots;
      4.   The actual incidence of similar use in the area;
      5.   The potential for adverse impact on adjacent property; and
      6.   The applicant must be the occupant of the property under
consideration and the user of the accessory use. If the occupant is not the
owner, written consent of the owner must accompany the application.
   C.   Uses:
      1.   Family Childcare Homes And Home Occupations: Family childcare homes
and home occupations may be considered to be permissible accessory uses in the
residential districts if they are approved after applying the following
additional review procedures and the applicable accessory use standards of
section
9-12-2 of this chapter:
         a.   Notice Of Application:
            (1)   Notice of the application shall be mailed by first class mail
to owners of property which abut the external lot boundary lines of the
property under consideration.
            (2)   Applicant shall provide the city with a list of property
owner names from the tax records of Twin Falls County.
            (3)   Properties across a street or alley or kitty corner to the
subject property shall be deemed abutting properties. Fifteen (15) days from
the date of publication referenced in subsection C1b of this section shall be
allowed for written comments.
         b.   Publication Of Notice: Notice of the application shall be
published in the Buhl Herald and fifteen (15) days after publication shall be
allowed for written comments. (1974 Code § 4-1303)
         c.   Additional Water, Sewer And Trash Charges: The applicant shall be
required to pay any additional sewer, water and sanitation charges or fees, if
any are required. (1974 Code § 4-1303; amd. 2010 Code)
         d.   Fee: Pay a fee established by resolution of the city council.
         e.   Decision Of Commission: The commission, using the standards set
forth in this chapter and considering any written comments, shall grant the
application together with restrictions, if necessary, or deny the application
after making findings of fact and conclusions. If there are no appeals filed,
the decision shall be final.
         f.   Appeal: Any aggrieved party may appeal the decision to the
council within fifteen (15) days of the commission decision in accordance with
the procedures in chapter 3, article D of this title.
      2.   Group Childcare Homes And Childcare Centers: Are not accessory uses
and are regulated as conditional uses. (See chapter 18 of this title for
conditional use procedures.)
      3.   Family Childcare Home Standards:
         a.   Intent: It is the intent of this subsection to provide for
accessory family childcare homes which will not adversely impact surrounding
properties due to children's noise, traffic and other activities, and which are
located away from and properly screened from adverse impacts to the health,
safety and welfare of the children.
         b.   Applicable Conditions: The following conditions shall apply:
            (1)   Secure and maintain a childcare license from the Idaho state
department of health and welfare, childcare licensing division, if required.
            (2)   Acquire zoning certification and receive approval after the
review process.
            (3)   Provide one off street parking space per employee which may
be the driveway to the home.
            (4)   Provide for a child pick up area located off of arterial or
collector streets.
            (5)   Provide for screening of adjacent properties to protect
children from adverse impacts and to provide a buffer between properties.
            (6)   Provide for a fence of appropriate height/construction, to
enclose play areas, protecting children from traffic on arterial or collector
streets.
         c.   Revocation Of Zoning Certification: Violation of any of the above
conditions shall be cause to revoke a zoning certification for a family
childcare home.
      4.   Home Occupation Standards:
         a.   Intent: It is the intent of this subsection to permit home
occupations in residential dwellings which do not change the appearance of the
residence nor the condition of its residential character.
         b.   Applicable Conditions: The following conditions shall apply:
            (1)   No persons other than members of the family residing on the
premises shall be engaged in such occupation;
            (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants and not more than twenty five percent (25%) of floor area of the
dwelling unit shall be used in the conduct of the home occupation;
            (3)   No article shall be sold or offered for sale on the premises
except such as is produced by the occupants on the premises and no mechanical
or electrical equipment shall be installed or maintained other than such as is
customarily incidental to domestic use;
            (4)   No significant traffic shall be generated by such home
occupation, and any need for parking generated by the conduct of such home
occupation shall meet the off street parking requirements as specified in this
title and shall not be located in a required front yard;
            (5)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation
which creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odor, or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot if the occupation is conducted in a
single-family residence;
            (6)   In no way shall the appearance of the residence be altered
nor the occupation be conducted in a manner which would cause the premises to
differ from its residential character in the use of construction, lighting, and
in the emission of noise, fumes, odors, vibrations or electrical interference;
            (7)   One sign, not exceeding four (4) square feet in area,
nonilluminated, or mounted flat against the wall of the principal building, or
placed in one window of the principal dwelling shall be allowed. A sign permit
is required.
         c.   Revocation Of Accessory Use Permit: Violation of any of the above
conditions shall be cause to revoke an accessory use permit for a home
occupation. (1974 Code § 4-1303)
9-12-4: COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL USES:
   A.   Performance Standards: No land or building in any district shall be
used or occupied in any manner creating dangerous, injurious, noxious, or
otherwise objectionable conditions which could adversely affect the surrounding
areas or adjoining premises except that any use permitted by this title may be
undertaken and maintained if acceptable measures and safeguards to reduce
dangerous and objectionable conditions to acceptable limits as established by
the following performance requirements: (1974 Code § 4-1304)
      1.   Fire Hazards: Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable
or explosive materials shall be protected by adequate firefighting and fire
prevention equipment and by such safety devices as are normally used in the
handling of any such material. Such hazards shall be kept removed from adjacent
activities to a distance which is compatible with the potential danger involved
as specified in the fire code and the national safety foundation publications;
(1974 Code § 4-1304; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Radioactivity Or Electrical Disturbances: No activity shall emit
harmful radioactivity at any point adversely affecting the operation of any
equipment at any point other than that of the creator of such disturbance;
      3.   Noise: Objectional noise which is due to volume, frequency, or beat
shall be muffled or otherwise controlled. Air raid sirens and related apparatus
used solely for public purposes are exempt from this requirement;
      4.   Vibration: No vibration shall be permitted which is discernible
without instruments on an adjoining lot or property;
      5.   Air Pollution: Air pollution shall be subject to the requirements
and regulations established by the health authorities;
      6.   Glare: No direct or reflected glare shall be permitted which is
visible from any property outside an industrial district or from any street;
      7.   Erosion: No erosion by man, wind, or water shall be permitted which
will carry objectionable substances onto neighboring properties;
      8.   Water Pollution: Water pollution shall be subject to the
requirements and regulations established by the health authorities.
   B.   Enforcement Provisions: The planning and zoning clerk, prior to the
issuance of a certification of zoning compliance, may require the submission of
statements and plans indicating the manner in which dangerous and objectionable
elements involved in the processing and in equipment operations are to be
eliminated or reduced to acceptable limits and tolerances.
   C.   Measurement Procedures: Methods and procedures for the determination of
the existence of any dangerous and objectionable elements shall conform to
applicable standard measurement procedures published by the American Standards
Institute, New York, the Manufacturing Chemists' Association, Inc., Washington,
D.C., the United States Bureau of Mines, and the health authority. (1974 Code §
4-1304)
9-12-5: FP FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the FP district is to guide development in the
floodway and floodway fringe areas of any watercourse that flood flows, and to
minimize the expense and inconveniences to the individual property owners and
the general public through flooding. Uses permitted and conditional uses that
are authorized in this district are generally associated with open space,
recreational and agricultural land uses and shall not hinder the movement of
floodwaters. The FP district is superimposed over other districts.
   B.   Uses: All uses are permitted in the respective districts with which the
FP district is combined with the exception that structures used in carrying out
those permitted activities must be approved by the commission and the council
under the conditional use permit procedure and deemed appropriate to be located
within the floodway or floodway fringe.
   C.   Conditional Use: When authorized under the procedure provided for
conditional uses in this title, the following uses will be permitted in a
floodplain overlay zone:
      1.   Structures used in carrying out permitted activities provided
detailed engineering data is supplied by the applicant who bears the burden of
proof that such structures can be located in areas of plateaus, benches or upon
manmade fills or can be otherwise elevated so as not to be affected by
floodwaters; provided, that:
         a.   Sewer and water systems shall be floodproofed and approved by the
district health department of the department of health and welfare that has
jurisdiction; and
         b.   No building or structure shall be erected and no existing
building or structure shall be extended or moved unless the main floor of said
building or structure is placed a minimum of one foot (1') above the elevation
of the 100-year flood level. No basement floor shall be below this one foot
(1') safety margin. Foundations of all structures shall be designed and
constructed to withstand flood conditions at the site; and
         c.   The applicant will provide an engineer's certification that the
above requirements have been fulfilled.
      2.   Other structures used in carrying out permitted activities, provided
such structures will not be subject to substantial flood damage and will not
increase flood related damages on other lands. These may include structures
which can be readily removed from flood hazard areas during periods of high
water.
   D.   Conditions:
      1.   Conditions that may be required by the commission in approving the
use of structures in a floodplain overlay zone shall include:
         a.   Limitations on periods of use operation;
         b.   Imposition of deed restrictions;
         c.   Location and arrangement of structures within the floodway and
floodway fringe areas to avoid an increase in flood heights during the
recurrence of the 100-year flood discharge;
         d.   Requirement for construction of channel modification, dikes,
levees and other protective measures;
         e.   Placement of survey bench marks; and
         f.   Floodproofing measures designed to be consistent with flood
protection elevation for a particular area:
            (1)   Anchorage to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement;
            (2)   Installation of watertight doors, bulkheads and shutters;
            (3)   Reinforcement of walls to resist water pressures;
            (4)   Use of paints, membranes or mortars to reduce seepage of
water through walls;
            (5)   Addition of mass or weight to structures to resist flotation;
            (6)   Installation of pumps to lower water levels in structures;
            (7)   Construction of on site water supply and waste treatment
systems to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system
and discharges from the system into floodwaters;
            (8)   Pumping facilities for subsurface external foundation wall
and basement flood pressures;
            (9)   Construction to resist rupture or collapse caused by water
pressure or floating debris;
            (10)   Cutoff valves on sewage lines or the elimination of gravity
flow basement drains; and
            (11)   Location of on site waste disposal systems so as to avoid
impairment of them or contamination from them during flooding.
   E.   Storage Of Materials And Equipment: Materials that are buoyant,
flammable, noxious, toxic or otherwise injurious to persons or property if
transported by floodwaters are prohibited. Storage of materials and equipment
not having these characteristics is permissible only if the materials and
equipment have low damage potential and are anchored or are readily removable
from the area within the time available after forecasting and warning.
   F.   Other Considerations: The evaluation of the effect on a proposed use in
the floodway and floodway fringe areas causing increases in flood heights is
based not just on the effect of the single use acting alone, but upon the
reasonable assumption that other landowners within the floodplain may need to
be allowed to develop to an equivalent extent within the floodway and,
therefore, the accumulative effects of all such encroachments must be
considered by the commission in making any decision.
   G.   Nonliability Clause: The granting of approval of any structure or use
shall not constitute a representation, guarantee or warranty of any kind or
nature of the city or the commission, or by any officer or employee thereof,
the practicality or safety of any structure or use proposed and shall create no
liability upon or cause action against such public body, officer or employee
for any damage that may result pursuant thereto.
   H.   Restrictions: Restrictions regarding height, rear yards, side yards,
front yard setback, minimum lot area, signs, vision clearance and parking space
shall be the same as set forth in each specific district located within the
floodplain overlay zone area.
   I.   Prohibited Uses: It shall be unlawful to erect, alter, maintain or
establish in a floodplain overlay zone any building, use or occupancy not
permitted or allowed in the foregoing provisions, except existing,
nonconforming uses may continue as herein provided. (1974 Code § 4-1305)
9-12-6: UNIQUE LAND USES:
Certain unique land uses may influence surrounding land uses. The following
performance standards for such unique land uses shall be complied with in
addition to other provisions of this title, such as land use and zoning:
   A.   Animal uses, animal clinics, animal hospitals, veterinary office and
kennel:
      1.   Will be located at least five hundred feet (500') from any residence
including motels and hotels except for an owner's residence. The commission may
modify these requirements if the animals are completely housed in soundproof
structures that completely screen them from view of the abutting residential
property; and
      2.   Will comply with all regulations relative to such an operation, and
maintain adequate housekeeping practices designed to prevent the creation of a
nuisance and to reduce to a minimum the factors of noise and odor.
   B.   Meatpacking and processing plant:
      1.   Will be located not less than six hundred feet (600') from any
residence except for an owner's residence. Such facilities shall have a minimum
setback of thirty feet (30') from any property line;
      2.   Will be designed and located with full consideration to their
proximity to adjacent uses, to their effect upon adjacent and surrounding
properties, and to the reduction of such nuisance factors as odor; and
      3.   Will be adequately maintained with housekeeping practices to prevent
the creation of a nuisance, and shall also be subject to the requirements of
the health authority as to the elimination of waste materials and maintenance
of water quality control.
   C.   Bulk storage of flammable liquids and gases, aboveground and for
resale: (1974 Code § 4-1306)
      1.   Will be located and constructed according to the regulations of the
fire code; (1974 Code § 4-1304; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Will be erected subject to the approval of the city fire chief; and
      3.   Will have suitable loading and unloading spaces and off street
parking facilities subject to the approval of the city fire chief.
   D.   Chemicals, pesticide and fertilizer storage and manufacturing:
      1.   Will have adequate fire protection, storage area, handling and
disposal as approved by the city fire chief; and (1976 Code § 4-1306)
      2.   Will be located and constructed according to the regulations of the
fire code. (1976 Code § 4-1306; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Contractor's yard (agency maintenance yard):
      1.   Will be located a minimum distance of three hundred feet (300') from
any residence except for an owner's residence;
      2.   Will have a screening fence around areas utilized for storage of
equipment; and
      3.   Will be limited to storage, maintenance and processing incidental to
contracting work. There shall be no general industrial or commercial uses.
   F.   Drive-in establishment: Will avoid the direction of night lighting
toward any residence.
   G.   Drive-in restaurant:
      1.   Will be enclosed on the property line with landscaping and fencing,
except for ingress and egress, to prevent trash from moving onto other
properties;
      2.   Will have a six foot (6') high sight obscuring fence along the
property lines that adjoin a residence;
      3.   Will provide for adequate trash receptacles; and
      4.   Will avoid the direction of night lighting toward any residence.
   H.   Filling, grading, lagooning, dredging or other earthmoving activity:
      1.   Will result in the smallest amount of bare ground exposed for the
shortest time feasible;
      2.   Will provide temporary ground cover such as mulch;
      3.   Will use diversions, silting, basins, terraces, and other methods to
trap sediment;
      4.   Will provide lagooning in such a manner as to avoid creation of fish
trap conditions;
      5.   Will not restrict a channel or natural drainageway;
      6.   Will construct and stabilize sides and bottom of cuts, fills,
channels and artificial watercourses to prevent erosion or soil failure;
      7.   Will not have below grade excavation except for drainageway within
fifty feet (50') of any lot line or public right of way; and
      8.   Will restore topsoil or loam to a depth of not less than four inches
(4").
   I.   Gravel pits, rock quarries, sand and clay pits and other natural
resources of commercial value:
      1.   The extent and method of rehabilitation shall be determined in
advance of issuing certification of zoning compliance, with due consideration
given to what is suitable and compatible with the surrounding area;
      2.   Upon depletion of the area, all temporary buildings and structures
(except property line fences and structures for the loading, measuring or
weighing of salable material in storage) shall be entirely removed from the
property; and
      3.   Safety fences shall be erected around all pits that create a safety
hazard.
   J.   Mobile home/manufactured home parks: See chapter 22 of this title.
   K.   Outdoor storage of commercial and industrial materials:
      1.   Will be screened from view from any existing adjoining residence or
residentially zoned area whether or not such property is separated by an
alleyway or streets; and
      2.   Will not be located in any front yard setback area.
   L.   Public and semipublic parks, and playgrounds:
      1.   Purpose:
         a.   To foster the appropriate location and layout of public parks and
playgrounds and recreational areas.
         b.   To harmonize the various features and facilities of parks and
playgrounds with surrounding area, so as to produce sound, stable residential
neighborhoods.
         c.   To foster a coordination of public recreational facilities on the
part of the city and other public and semipublic agencies.
      2.   Conditional Use:
         a.   Required: A conditional use permit issued by the city is required
for establishing new locations and site plans for the construction of a public
or semipublic park.
         b.   Application And Plan: An application for approval of a
conditional use permit shall be accomplished by plans showing the general
layout and location of roadways, entrances, exits, walks, paths, buildings,
structures, landscaped areas, off street parking, drainage, water supply,
sewerage and other features of design.
         c.   Planning And Zoning Commission: Prior to the issuance of a
conditional use permit, the overall plan and said park or playground shall be
prepared and submitted to the commission.
         d.   Hearings: Public hearings shall be held pursuant to chapter 18 of
this title.
      3.   Standard Requirements:
         a.   Trees, shrubs, grass and other forms of landscaping shall be
provided in sufficient quantities to ensure a parklike appearance. The
materials selected shall be in accordance with standards set by the
beautification committee.
         b.   Facilities involving lights shall be located and the lights shall
be designed and located so that glare and discomfort will not unreasonably
affect surrounding residences.
         c.   Off street parking areas and other facilities which attract or
are intended to accommodate spectators, shall be screened or located so that
the detrimental effects of noise and traffic on any surrounding residential
area will be kept to a minimum. Further, no required front yard of the lot on
which the building is located shall be used for play or parking purposes.
         d.   The entire layout and design shall be arranged to harmonize with
the objectives and characteristics of the district in which they are located.
         e.   Adequate ingress and egress and off street parking shall be
provided for vehicles and pedestrians which the park playground is intended to
serve.
   M.   Schools:
      1.   Purpose:
         a.   To foster appropriate locations to accommodate students.
         b.   To harmonize various features and facilities with surrounding
areas, so as to produce sound, stable residential neighborhoods.
         c.   To foster a coordination of facilities on the part of the city
and the school districts and other public and semipublic agencies.
      2.   Conditional Use:
         a.   Requirement: A conditional use permit shall not be required to
establish a new school building on property designated as "Schools" on the
zoning map adopted with this title. The procedures set forth under subsection
L2 of this section shall be followed for construction in all other locations.
         b.   Coordination With City: The school district shall coordinate with
the city engineer and maintenance departments in regards to the construction of
new sewer and water lines and street and traffic requirements for a new school
prior to the beginning of a new school so that the school district may be made
aware of any costs it will be expected to bear prior to making cost estimates
for construction and bond elections.
      3.   Standard Requirements:
         a.   Trees, shrubs, grass and other forms of landscaping shall be
provided in sufficient quantities to enhance the neighborhood. The materials
selected shall be coordinated with the beautification committee.
         b.   Facilities involving lights shall be located and designed so that
glare and discomfort will not unreasonably affect surrounding residences.
         c.   Off street parking areas and other facilities which attract or
are intended to accommodate spectators, shall be located so that the effects of
noise and traffic on any surrounding residential area will be kept to a
minimum. Further, no required front yard of the lot on which any building is
located shall be used for play or parking purposes.
         d.   The entire layout and design shall be arranged to harmonize with
the objectives and characteristics of the district in which they are located.
         e.   Adequate ingress and egress and off street parking shall be
provided for vehicles and pedestrians which the school is designed to serve.
   N.   Recreational vehicle parks: See chapter 23 of this title.
   O.   Riding stables and riding schools:
      1.   Will locate all stables or loafing sheds not nearer than three
hundred feet (300') from any residence except for an owner's residence. All
facilities shall be set back a distance of thirty feet (30') from any property
line;
      2.   Will be designed and located with full consideration being given to
their proximity to adjacent uses and their effect upon adjacent and surrounding
properties as to the storage of horse trailers and the factors of noise and
odor;
      3.   Will require that the owner or operator of such use shall have a
continuous obligation to maintain adequate housekeeping practices to prevent
the creation of a nuisance; and
      4.   Will have a minimum total area for the riding stable and/or school
of ten (10) acres.
   P.   Rifle and pistol range:
      1.   Will be designed with a backstop or designed to avoid a line of fire
that is directed towards any residence or business within one mile;
      2.   Will incorporate landscaping that is compatible with the surrounding
landscaping; and
      3.   Will provide supervision and security measures during periods of
use.
   Q.   Storage Facility, RV Storage, Boat Storage, Self-Service Storage, and
Outdoor-only Self-Service Storage: Specific standards for storage facilities to
ensure the aesthetic, structural, and safety standards of self-storage
facilities within the city limits and area of impact shall be as follows:
      1.   General Provisions:
         a.   Prohibited Materials: Metal storage containers, including Conex
(shipping) containers, are prohibited for commercial self-storage units or
facilities.
         b.   Construction Types: Storage facilities must be constructed using
one (1) or more of the following construction methods in compliance with
international building code standards:
         (1)   Stick-Built Construction: Traditional wood-frame construction
methods.
         (2)   Post-Frame Buildings: Vertical post and wood framing techniques;
also known as pole barns.
         (3)   Pre-Engineered Steel Building (PEMBs): High-quality,
prefabricated steel structures designed specifically for self-storage.
         (4)   Masonry (Concrete of CMU): Durable, fire-resistant concrete
block construction.
         (5)   Tilt-Up Concrete Panels: Precast or site-cast reinforced
concrete wall panels, lifted into place to form exterior and/or interior walls.
         c.   Storage: The storage of any items and materials other than
vehicles, RVs, or trailers is prohibited unless otherwise approved by the
commission; provided that items and materials contained within a vehicle, RVs,
or trailer are permitted.
      2.   Operational Standards:
         a.   Storage areas shall not be used as dwellings, or for commercial
or industrial business places.
         b.   The manufacture or sale of items at self-service storage
facilities is prohibited except for storage company auctions of delinquent
accounts.
         c.   Yard sales and online marketplace pickups at storage facility
areas are also prohibited.
         d.   Maximum size of individual storage areas shall be five hundred
(500) square feet.
         e.   Hours Of Operation: Public operating hours shall be limited to
seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. to ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. unless otherwise approved
or restricted through the conditional use permit.
         f.   Noise: Use of the property shall comply with title 4, chapter 3,
article C “Offenses Affecting Public Peace and Quiet” of the Buhl city code.
      3.   Design And Access:
         a.   Spacing:
         (1)   Minimum travel lane width: twenty feet (20') for emergency
vehicles.
         (2)   Each space must be accessible from an access aisle that is at
least twenty feet (20') wide.
         b.   Perimeter:
         (1)   Facilities must be fully fenced, walled, or enclosed and
screened from the public right-of-way, and comply with chapter 15 of this
title.
         (2)   Landscaping and screening along the perimeter, shall refer to
the property lines of the specific facility boundaries.
         c.   Screening:
         (1)   Facilities must be screened from public view year-round and
adhere to chapter 15 of this title. This article outlines the minimum screening
requirements.
         (2)   Screening materials should complement the exterior building
materials.
         (3)   The commission may also mandate additional or modified screening
and/or buffering to minimize views of nearby residences and to preserve the
character of the surrounding neighborhood.
         d.   Access:
         (1)   Access locations into the facility shall be approved by the
applicable transportation jurisdiction.
         e.   Residential Buffers:
         (1)   Structures, drive lanes, parking areas, or loading areas must be
at least twenty feet (20') from residential districts unless a six-foot (6')
sound-reduction wall is provided.
         (2)   All parking, storage and drive aisles within the facility shall
be improved with a compacted gravel base, not less than four inches (4") thick,
surfaced with asphaltic concrete or some comparable all-weather dustless
material.
      4.   Prohibited Uses:
         a.   Storage of hazardous materials as defined in title 40 of the code
of federal regulations, part 261, subsequent amendments thereto, is prohibited.
         b.   Use Of Site: The site shall not be used as a “pit, mine, or
quarry”, “junkyard”, “automobile wrecking yard” or “contractor’s yard” as
herein defined unless such use has been approved.
         c.   Materials shall not be stored within the required yards. Stored
items shall not block sidewalks or parking areas and may not impede vehicular
or pedestrian traffic.
      5.   On-Site:
         a.   An on-site office within the confines of the storage facility is
permitted.
         b.   The office shall not be used as a dwelling unless approved by the
commission and included as a condition in the conditional use permit.
      6.   Outdoor-Only, Self-Service Storage Standards: For outdoor-only,
self-service storage facilities, the following standards apply:
         a.   Parcel Requirements:
         (1)   Minimum Parcel Size: one (1) acre.
         (2)   No facility shall be greater than fifteen (15) acres in size.
         (3)   Frontage to an arterial street is required.
         b.   Layout And Screening:
         (1)   Stored vehicles, including RVs, trailers, and boats, must be
spaced ten feet (10') apart side-to-side, while maintaining a minimum of twenty
feet (20') access aisle on at least one end or as approved by the local fire
authority.
         (2)   Distance between parking rows shall be a minimum of twenty feet
(20') of travel lane for emergency vehicle access or as approved by the local
fire authority.
         (3)   Each space shall have access from an access aisle that is a
minimum of twenty feet (20').
         c.   Screening:
         (1)   Fencing must be at least six feet (6') high. Where a fence
greater than six feet (6') is proposed, the applicant for the fence shall
submit for a permit to the planning and zoning commission for design review.
         (2)   Cyclone or chain-like fencing (with or without slat) shall not
be deemed a screening to soften the appearance of such features.
         (3)   The landscaping plan incorporate vegetative materials along the
length of the screening to soften the appearance of such features.
      7.   Prohibited Activities:
         a.   Stored vehicles may not be used as dwellings or places of
business.
         b.   Maintenance, repairs, or rebuilding of vehicles or machinery on
the property is prohibited.
      8.   Compliance And Permits:
         a.   A building permit is required for all self-storage facilities,
subject to review and approval by the building department.
         b.   Facilities found in violation of this code with be subject to
penalties, including fines and possible revocation of operating permits.
         c.   All storage stalls shall be clearly defined on the site plan. The
facility shall designate and maintain storage stall locations on-site at all
times.
         d.   A conditional use permit is required for the operation of a self-
storage facility in the appropriate commercial zoning district as outlined in
title 9 chapter 8 section 1.
      9.   Compliance And Inspections:
         a.   For the duration of the approval, the use shall be subject to
zoning inspection upon advanced notice and request by the planning and zoning
department.
         b.   If a permit holder refuses to allow inspection of the premises by
the planning and zoning department, the approved zoning certificate or
conditional use permit may be revoked.
      9.   Compliance And Inspections:
         a.   For the duration of the approval, the use shall be subject to
zoning inspection upon advanced notice and request by the planning and zoning
department.
         b.   If a permit holder refuses to allow inspection of the premises by
the planning and zoning department, the approved zoning certificate or
conditional use permit may be revoked.
      10.   Additional Standards For Outdoor Storage As An Accessory Use:
Accessory outdoor storage shall be allowed for approved uses subject to the
following standards:
         a.   The location of the outdoor storage area shall be noted on the
master site plan and reviewed as part of that application.
         b.   Storage areas shall not be rented, leased, let or otherwise used
as a commercial business.
         c.   Outdoor storage for commercial or industrial uses shall be
limited to those items owned or used by the business.
         d.   Outdoor storage for a multi-family development, recreational
vehicle park, or manufactured home park shall be only for recreational vehicles
or personal recreation items of the tenants.
      11.   Additional Standards For Structures Over 10,000 Square Feet: For
structures exceeding a footprint of ten thousand (10,000) square feet, the
structure shall be designed such that the building mass and bulk are
distributed. The following standards shall not apply to dwellings or
agricultural structures as herein defined:
         a.   Mechanisms for such distribution shall include, but not be
limited to, one (1) or more of the following:
         (1)   Variation in the horizontal offsets of the structure facade.
Facades greater than one hundred feet (100') in length must incorporate
recesses and projections along a minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the length
of the facade. Windows, awnings, and arcades must total a minimum of sixty
percent (60%) of the facade length abutting a public street.
         (2)   Variation in the height of a minimum of five feet (5').
         (3)   Changes in the grade of a minimum of three feet (3').
         (4)   Variation in rooflines.
         b.   The maximum footprint area for the distributed portion of the
structure shall be ten thousand (10,000) square feet. The minimum footprint
area for the distributed portions of the structure shall be one thousand
(1,000) square feet.
         c.   The commission may approve, or recommend approval of, an
alternative development proposal when the overall design, as proposed by the
applicant, meets or exceeds the intent and the requirements of this chapter and
shall not be detrimental to public health, safety, and welfare.
      12.   Application Review Standards: The following shall be considered as
part of the review of an application:
         a.   The proximity of existing dwellings;
         b.   The number of vehicles anticipated to be stored on the property;
         c.   The hours of operation;
         d.   Dust;
         e.   Noise;
         f.   Traffic And Circulation;
         g.   Landscaping And Screening;
         h.   Lighting;
         i.   On-Site Manager Residence;
   R.   Sanitary landfill:
      1.   Will conform to time limits for daily operation as defined by the
council;
      2.   Will provide a performance bond for privately owned sites to ensure
compliance with the provisions of the certificate of zoning;
      3.   Will provide for a paved street to the facility; and
      4.   Will be supervised during the hours of operation.
   S.   Wrecking Yard:
      1.   Will be completely enclosed by a solid six foot (6') high site
obscuring fence and/or berm;
      2.   Will not result in the storage of automobile, junk, or salvage
material that is visible from any public right of way;
      3.   Will not result in storage of automobiles that exceeds the height of
the fence; and
      4.   Will have such landscaping that is appropriate with the surrounding
area. (1974 Code § 4-1306; amd. Ord. 2025-4, 3-24-2025)
CHAPTER 13
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES
SECTION:
9-13-1: General Requirements
9-13-2: Use Of Parking Facilities And Parking Regulations
9-13-3: Location Of Off Street Parking
9-13-4: Design Standards For Off Street Parking
9-13-5: Schedule Of Parking Space Requirements
9-13-6: Off Street Loading Requirements
9-13-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Off Street Parking And Loading Spaces Required: No building or
structure shall be erected, substantially altered or its use changed unless
permanently maintained off street parking and loading spaces have been provided
in accordance with the provisions of this title.
   B.   Change Of Use: When the intensity of use of any building structure or
premises shall be increased through addition of dwelling units, gross floor
area, seating capacity (a horizontal unit of width of 18 inches per seat or
other units of measurement specified herein for required parking), or loading
facilities, parking and loading facilities as required in this chapter shall be
provided for such increase in intensity of use. However, no owner of a building
or structure lawfully erected or use lawfully established prior to the
effective date hereof shall be required to provide such additional parking or
loading facilities.
   C.   New Use: Whenever the existing use of a building or structure shall
hereafter be changed to a new use, parking or loading facilities shall be
provided as required for such new use.
   D.   Existing Facilities: Accessory off street parking or loading facilities
that are located on the same lot as the building or use served and that were in
existence on the effective date hereof, or were provided voluntarily after such
effective date, shall not thereafter be reduced below or (if already less than)
shall not further be reduced below the requirements of this title for a similar
new building or use.
   E.   Permissive Facilities: Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
prevent the voluntary establishment of off street parking or loading facilities
to serve any existing use of land or buildings; provided, that all regulations
of this chapter governing the location, design, improvement and operation of
such facilities are adhered to.
   F.   Damage Or Destruction Of Facilities: For any conforming or legally
nonconforming building or use which is in existence on the effective date
hereof (which subsequent thereto, is damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse,
explosion, or other cause and which is reconstructed, reestablished, or
repaired), off street parking and loading facilities shall be provided which
are equivalent to any maintained at the time that such damage or destruction is
restored or continued in operation.
   G.   Required Submission Of Parking Site Plan: All development applications
shall include a site plan drawn to a minimum scale of one inch equals fifty
feet (1" = 50') which is fully dimensioned and shows any parking or loading
facilities to be provided in compliance with this chapter. Such site plan shall
be submitted to the city engineer for approval when the required off street
parking is more than six (6) parking spaces and shall indicate ingress and
egress to the area and traffic patterns in adjacent streets and alleys and
appropriate landscaping.
   H.   Parking Area Improvements: The plan of the proposed parking area shall
be submitted to the city engineer at the time of the application for the
building permit for which the parking area is required. When new or additional
parking area is to be established adjacent to an existing building, development
plans shall be submitted to the city engineer prior to actual development. The
plan shall indicate the proposed development including location, size, shape,
design, curb cuts, lighting, landscaping, construction details and other
features and appurtenances deemed necessary by the city engineer. Development
plans require approval of the city engineer prior to parking area development.
Any improvements in the right of way, including curb and gutter, sidewalk,
driveway approaches or cuts in existing curbs, etc., shall require application
for and issuance of a right of way approval from the city engineer prior to
actual construction.
   I.   Joint Parking Facilities:
      1.   Off street parking facilities for different buildings, structures,
uses, or for mixed uses may be provided collectively in any district in which
separate parking facilities for each constituent use would be permitted;
provided, that the total number of spaces so located together shall not be less
than the sum of the separate requirements for each use. The applicants shall
present to the council properly drawn legal instruments to be recorded with the
county recorder, executed by the parties involved in the proposed mixed use of
off street parking facilities. Upon commission approval, such instrument must
be filed with the planning and zoning department.
      2.   The council may authorize the mixed use of parking facilities for
the following:
         a.   Up to fifty percent (50%) of the parking facilities required by
this section for primarily "nighttime", i.e., theaters, bowling alleys, bars,
restaurants and related uses, may be supplied by other types of buildings or
uses herein referred to as "daytime", i.e., banks, offices, retail, personal
service shops, clothing, food, furniture, manufacturing or wholesale and
related uses;
         b.   Up to fifty percent (50%) of the parking facilities required by
this section for primarily "daytime" uses may be supplied by primarily
"nighttime" uses. (1974 Code § 4-1401)
9-13-2: USE OF PARKING FACILITIES AND PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Off Street Parking: Off street parking facilities accessory to
residential use and developed in any residential district in accordance with
the requirements of this section shall be used solely for the parking of
vehicles used by occupants of the dwelling structures to which such facilities
are accessory. Under no circumstances shall required parking facilities (which
are accessory to residential structures) be used for the storage of commercial
vehicles.
   B.   Parking And Storage Of Certain Vehicles: Automotive vehicles or
trailers of any kind or type without current license plates shall not be parked
or stored on any residentially zoned property other than in a completely
enclosed building or carport. However, one boat, one RV vehicle or travel
trailer may be stored in the side or rear yard.
   C.   Vehicles, Commercial: The parking of vehicles at a commercial repair or
body shop may extend beyond two (2) weeks if the vehicle repairs cannot be
completed because of delays in receiving parts or insurance settlements,
however, the number of vehicles parked outside at any one time shall not exceed
ten (10) vehicles. (Ord. 946, 2-8-2010)
9-13-3: LOCATION OF OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Access: Each required off street parking space shall open directly upon
an aisle or driveway of such width and design as to provide safe and efficient
means of vehicular access to such parking space and shall conform to the
minimum standards as established by the city. All off street parking facilities
shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or
alley in a manner which will least interfere with traffic movement.
   B.   Residential Accessory Off Street Parking: Parking spaces accessory to
dwellings shall be located on the same zoning lots as the use served.
   C.   Additional Off Street Parking For Narrow Public Or Private Streets:
Whenever any developer is allowed by the planning and zoning commission to
plat, map or construct a public or private trafficway without sufficient width
for on street parking, the adjacent property shall provide, in addition to off
street parking requirements of this chapter, off street parking equal to the
amount of on street parking eliminated.
   D.   Commercial Accessory Off Street Parking: All required parking spaces
shall be within three hundred feet (300') of the use served. However, no
parking spaces accessory to a use in a commercial district shall be located in
a residential district except that private, free, off street parking accessory
to such uses as municipal parking lots may be allowed by conditional use permit
in the residential districts and within two hundred feet (200') of and adjacent
to any commercial district.
   E.   Parking In Setback Area: When abutting another commercial use, parking
shall be permitted within the setback area. When abutting residential uses,
parking shall not be permitted in the setback area.
   F.   Wheel Blocks: Whenever a parking lot extends to a property line, wheel
blocks or other suitable devices shall be installed to prevent any part of a
parked vehicle from extending beyond the property line.
   G.   Minimum Distance And Setbacks: No part of any parking area for more
than ten (10) vehicles, excluding handicapped accessible parking areas and
parking and loading areas for school buses, shall be closer than twenty feet
(20') to any dwelling unit, school, hospital, or other institution for human
care located on an adjoining lot unless separated by an acceptably designed
screen. If on the same lot with a single-family dwelling, the parking area
shall not be located within the front yard required for such building, unless
subsection H1b of this section is complied with. In no case shall any part of a
parking area be closer than four feet (4') to any established street or alley
right of way.
   H.   Yard Requirements: Off street parking spaces in yards shall conform to
the following:
      1.   Front Yards:
         a.   No parking shall be permitted in a front yard unless it is as
provided in subsection H1b of this section;
         b.   Parking is allowed in a front yard on a private driveway serving
one-family and two-family dwellings, if the driveway is concrete or asphalt
parking pad and landscaped;
         c.   Parking between the front line of any portion of the building and
the street shall be limited to private passenger automobile (except as
otherwise permitted);
         d.   Concerning front yard parking for multi-family dwelling units,
parking spaces shall be twenty five feet (25') in length.
      2.   Side Yards: Parking is not permitted in any side yard except in
residential districts of R-4, R-6, R-16 and R-P.
      3.   Rear Yards: In any commercial district, when a rear yard is adjacent
to a residential district, there shall be no parking in the four feet (4')
adjacent thereto. (See screening requirements, subsection
9-13-4B of this chapter.)
   I.   Other Parking: Any other type of parking shall be prohibited. (1974
Code § 4-1403)
9-13-4: DESIGN STANDARDS FOR OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Size And Dimension: The size and design of off street parking shall be
in accordance with the standards as shown in subsection F of this section.
   B.   Screening, Landscaping And Drainage:
      1.   Landscaping: Landscaping shall be required for all off street
parking areas for multi-family residential, commercial, and industrial
developments.
      2.   Sprinkler System: Underground sprinkling systems may be required to
maintain screening, planting strips and other landscaping.
      3.   Landscaping Requirements: In addition to, and as part of, the
landscaping requirements specified elsewhere in this title, the following
landscaping shall be provided, retained and maintained on all properties in
commercial or industrial districts and fronting gateway arterials:
         a.   A landscaped strip at least ten feet (10') in width shall be
provided immediately behind the sidewalk or future sidewalk.
         b.   Any continuous landscaped strip exceeding forty feet (40') in
length shall contain a twelve inch (12") minimum height undulating berm.
         c.   Each separate section of the landscaping strip shall contain
trees or shrubs.
         d.   Each landscaped strip shall be kept clean and free of noxious and
other weeds.
      4.   Screening:
         a.   Whenever a commercial off street parking area is located in or
adjacent to a residential district, it shall be effectively screened on all
sides which adjoin or face any property used for residential purposes by a
wall, fence, earth berm or planting screen that is not less than four feet (4')
in height plus a planting strip of four feet (4') minimum width or in an
alternate arrangement as approved by the commission.
         b.   Suitable landscaping and ground cover shall be provided and
maintained on a continuing basis within the planting strip. Planting screens or
hedges shall not exceed two feet (2') in height where location is such that
sight lines are necessary for vehicular movement across pedestrianways.
         c.   At least one tree of not less than three inches (3") diameter
size class shall be provided for every one thousand five hundred (1,500) square
feet of pavement area.
      5.   Drainage: A drainage plan designed by an architect or an engineer
shall be submitted and required for all off street parking areas and shall be
approved by the city engineer.
   C.   Lighting: The illumination of the parking lot shall be designed so that
the light from lighting fixtures in the parking lot does not reflect direct
rays or spill over into adjacent residential districts. All parking lot
lighting arrangements shall be installed as approved by the city engineer. The
following standards shall apply to all off street parking lots:
      1.   All lighting fixtures shall not be placed higher than thirty five
feet (35') above the finished grade;
      2.   Fixtures shall be of the nonspill type and hooded to prevent glare;
      3.   Candlepower per fixture shall be in accordance with the standards
established by the city; and
      4.   Minimum security lighting shall be provided from eleven o'clock (11:
00) P.M. to sunrise as approved by the city engineer.
   D.   Paving: All open off street parking areas shall be paved in accordance
with the specifications and standards established by the city.
   E.   Striping: Parking spaces shall be marked with striping which outlines
each parking space and designates direction of traffic in access aisles to and
from public rights of way. All parking areas with a capacity over twelve (12)
vehicles shall be striped with double lines six inches (6") both sides of
center between stalls to facilitate the movement into and out of the parking
stalls.
   F.   Off Street Parking Design And Dimensional Tables:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d2ea58a43e5211563e88b14b810f497a6f7ec858/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1525.gif]
 
 
                        45°    60°    90°    Parallel
Width of parking space  10 feet 9 feet  9 feet  9 feet
Length of parking space 15 feet 18 feet 19 feet 23 feet
Width of driveway aisle 13 feet 17 feet 25 feet 12 feet
 
   G.   Petition For Compact Space: Upon petition, parking spaces may be
allowed to fulfill the above requirements which are classified as compact car
parking spaces, and which are so properly designated and which have dimensions
of seven and one-half feet (71/2') in width and fifteen feet (15') in length.
   H.   ADA Requirements: The size and design of off street parking shall be in
accordance with the standards as required by the Americans with disabilities
act of July 26, 1990. (1974 Code § 4-1404)
9-13-5: SCHEDULE OF PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Computation Of Parking Spaces: When the required number of off street
parking spaces results in a fractional space, any fraction of one-half (1/2) or
less may be disregarded, while a fraction in excess of one-half (1/2) shall be
counted as one parking space.
   B.   Required Spaces: For the purpose of this title, the following parking
space requirements shall apply:
Type Of Use Parking Space Required
Type Of Use    Parking Space Required
RESIDENTIAL:
Boarding house 1 for each sleeping room, plus 1 space for each employee
Dwelling,      2 per dwelling unit on a single lot
duplex
Dwelling,      2 per dwelling unit on a single lot
single-family
Hotel or motel 1 for each room, plus 1 for each 2 employees
Mobile home    2 for each unit, plus 1 additional space for each block or 5 units or part thereof
park           (1–5 units require 1 additional space, 6–10 units require 2 additional spaces,
               11–15 units require 3 additional spaces)
Multi-family   2 for each unit, plus 1 additional space for each block or 5 units or part thereof
dwelling       (1–4 units require 1 additional space, 6–10 units require 2 additional space,
               11–15 units require 3 additional spaces)
COMMERCIAL:
Clinic
(medical,
dental,
optical,       1 for each 200 square feet of gross floor area of examination, treating room,
veterinary,    office and waiting room
animal
hospital or
clinic)
Department     1 for each 400 square feet of gross floor area
store
Drive-in       5 reserved spaces per customer service window
establishment
Financial      1 for each 200 square feet of gross floor area
institutions
Mortuaries     1 for every 3 seats, plus 1 parking space for each funeral vehicle kept on the
               premises
Professional   1 for each 400 square feet of gross floor area
offices
Retail stores  1 for each 200 square feet of gross floor area
Sales (auto,
mobile homes,
travel         1/3 of the sales lot for designated customer parking
trailers, farm
implements)
Service        2 for each service bay
station
COMMUNITY SERVICE USES:
Churches       1 for each 5 seats
Clubs and      1 for each 300 square feet of floor area
lodges
Community
centers,
exhibition     1 for each 300 square feet of floor area, plus spaces adequate in number as
halls and      determined by the governing board to serve the public
other places
of assembly
Hospitals      3 for each bed
Libraries, art
galleries and  1 for each 400 square feet of floor area
museums
Public service 1 for each 600 square feet of floor area, plus 1 for each vehicle used in the
utility        conduct of the enterprise
Sanatoriums,
nursing home,  1 for each 5 beds
rest home and
similar use
School and     1 for each 4 auditorium seats with adequate spaces for buses in connection with
other          the activity of the institution. All loading and unloading of passengers shall
institutional  take place upon the premises
auditoriums
MANUFACTURING:
All types of
manufacturing,
storage and    1 for every 2 employees on the largest shift for which the building is designed,
wholesale uses plus 1 for each motor vehicle used in the business
permitted in
any industrial
district
Warehouses and 1 for each 1,000 square feet of floor area, plus 1 for each vehicle used in the
storage        conduct of the enterprise
buildings
RECREATION:
Bowling alleys 4 for each alley or lane, plus 1 additional space for each 100 square feet of the
               area used for restaurant, cocktail lounge or similar use
Outdoor
swimming       1. 1 for each 5 persons' capacity, plus 1 for each 4 seats;
pools, public  2. 1 for each 30 square feet of floor area used for seating purposes; or
or community   3. The greater of the above 2 options
club
Restaurants,
nightclubs,
cocktail       1 for each 200 square feet of floor area
lounges, and
taverns
Skating rinks  1 for each 5 seats
SCHOOLS (PRIVATE OR PUBLIC):
Elementary,
intermediate,
middle or      2 parking spaces for each classroom
junior high
school
High schools   10 parking spaces for each classroom, plus 1 for each 10 seats in an auditorium or
               gymnasium
Nursery school
for children,
daycare center 1 space for every 10 children, plus 1 space per staff member
and
kindergarten
INDUSTRIAL TYPES:
Except as
specifically
mentioned
herein,
industrial     1 per 500 square feet of gross floor area
uses listed as
permitted in
the industrial
districts
Laboratories
and research   1 per 800 square feet of gross floor area
facilities
Machinery or
equipment      1 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area
sales
Wholesale and
storage        1 per 700 square feet of gross floor area
operations
               When 2 or more uses are located on the same zoning lot or within the same
               building, parking spaces equal in number to the sums of the separate requirements
MIXED USES:    for each such use shall be provided; no parking space or portion thereof shall
               serve as a required space for more than one use unless otherwise authorized by
               variance as approved by the governing board
               For uses not listed in this section, parking spaces shall be provided on the same
OTHER USES:    basis as required for the most similar listed use or as determined by the
               governing board
 
(1974 Code § 4-1405)
9-13-6: OFF STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Design And Location: The design and location of entrances and exits for
required off street loading areas shall be subject to review of the city
engineer. Off street loading facilities shall not project into the public right
of way or setback area. In no case shall the required off street loading berths
be part of the area used to satisfy the off street parking requirements.
   B.   Access: Each off street loading berth shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which
will least interfere with traffic movement.
   C.   Surfacing: All open off street loading berths shall be improved in
accordance with the specifications and standards established by the city.
   D.   Maintenance: The owner of property used for loading shall maintain such
area in good condition without holes and free of all dust, trash, and other
debris.
   E.   Drainage: All loading areas shall provide for proper drainage of
surface water to prevent the drainage of such water onto adjacent properties or
walkways.
   F.   Lighting: Any loading area which is intended to be used during
nondaylight hours shall be properly illuminated to avoid accidents. Any lights
used to illuminate a loading area shall be so arranged as to reflect the light
away from the adjoining property. (1974 Code § 4-1406)
CHAPTER 14
SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
SECTION:
9-14-1: Purpose
9-14-2: International Sign And Building Codes
9-14-3: Definitions
9-14-4: Prohibited Signs
9-14-5: Types Of Signs Allowed
9-14-6: Exempted Signs
9-14-7: Permits; Fees
9-14-8: Administration
9-14-9: City Held Harmless
9-14-10: Violation; Penalty
9-14-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this section is to establish standards for the fabrication,
erection, and use of signs, symbols, markings, and advertising devices within
the city. These standards are enacted to protect the public health, safety and
welfare of persons within the community. They are intended to aid in the
development and promotion of business and industry by providing sign
regulations which encourage aesthetic creativity, effectiveness and flexibility
in the design of such devices without creating detriment to the public. (Ord.
953, 12-12-2011)
9-14-2: INTERNATIONAL SIGN AND BUILDING CODES:
The sign code and building code as published by the International Conference Of
Building Officials, shall be used as a guide concerning standards and
regulations for all signs within the city, and one certified copy of the sign
code and building code is on file with the city clerk-treasurer and one copy
shall be kept and maintained in the office of the building inspector. (Ord.
953, 12-12-2011)
9-14-3: DEFINITIONS:
Words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meanings set forth in
this section. All other words and phrases shall be given their common, ordinary
meaning, unless the context clearly requires otherwise. Section headings or
captions are for reference purposes only and shall not be used in the
interpretation of this chapter.
ABANDONED SIGN: A sign, which no longer advertises a bona fide business,
lessor, owner, product or activity.
ALTERATIONS: The change or alteration of a sign structure or design, whether by
extension, enlargement, or in moving from one location or position to another.
ANIMATED SIGN: Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting to depict
action or create a special effect or scene.
AREA OF SIGN/SIGN AREA: The area of all faces of a sign within a perimeter,
which forms the outside shape, excluding any necessary supports upon which the
sign may be placed. Where a sign consists of more than one face, section, or
module, all areas shall be totaled.
BANNER: Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material mounted to a pole or
poles or building or buildings located outdoors.
BEACON: Any light with one or more beams directed at any point not on the same
property as the light source; also, any light with one or more beams that
rotate or move.
BUILDING FRONTAGE: The width of a building facing the street to which the
building or business is oriented. In the case of corner lots, the frontage
shall be one of the streets to which the building is oriented, to be determined
by the building inspector.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN: A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters, or
illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the face of
the sign. A sign on which the message changes more than one time per day shall
be considered an animated sign.
COMMUNITY OR CIVIC EVENT: A public event, which is of interest to the community
as a whole rather than the promotion of any product, political candidate,
religious leader, or commercial goods or services.
COPY: Any graphic, letter, numeral, symbol, insignia, text, sample, model,
device, or combination thereof, which is intended to advertise, identify, or
notify.
FLAG: Any fabric banner or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns or
symbols used as a symbol of a government or political subdivision.
FREESTANDING SIGN: Any sign erected on a freestanding frame, platform, base,
mast, or pole or poles and not structurally attached to any building.
HANGING SIGN: A sign attached below an awning, colonnade or some other
permanent part of a structure.
HEIGHT OF SIGN: The vertical distance measured from the ground plane to the top
of the sign, including the air space between the ground and the sign.
INDIRECT ILLUMINATION: A source of light separate from the sign itself.
MARQUEE SIGN: Any sign attached to or made part of any permanent rooflike
structure projecting beyond a building, generally designed and constructed to
provide protection from the weather.
MOBILE SIGN: Any sign that is mounted on wheels, a trailer or similar movable
platform.
MONUMENT SIGN: A freestanding sign that stands directly on the ground or ground
level foundation.
NEON SIGN: Any sign or portion of a building illuminated or outlined by tubes
using electrically stimulated neon or other gas, or light emitting diode (LED),
liquid crystal display (LCD), plasma and/or similar illumination technologies.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: Any advertising structure or sign which was lawfully
erected and maintained prior to the effective date of this section, and which
fails to comply with any applicable regulations and restrictions herein.
PENNANT: Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material whether or not
containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire or string,
usually in a series, designed to move in the wind.
PORTABLE SIGN: Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or to a
building, and designed to be easily relocated (e.g., "sandwich board" signs).
PROJECTING SIGN: Any sign affixed to a building or wall in such a manner that
its leading edge extends more than nine inches (9") beyond the surface of a
building or wall.
SHORT TERM SIGN: Short term signs are those signs installed on a property with
the intent of being displayed for more than seventy two (72) hours and may not
be displayed longer than six (6) weeks.
SIGN: Every advertising message, announcement, declaration, demonstration,
display, illustration, insignia, surface or space erected or maintained in view
of the observer thereof for identification, advertisement, or promotion of the
interest of any person, entity, product, or service. The definition of a sign
shall also include the sign structure, supports, lighting system, and any
attachments, ornament, or other features used to draw the attention of others.
SIGN FACE: That portion of the sign structure that carries a message and/or a
graphic.
TEMPORARY SIGN: A sign installed on a property for seventy two (72) hours or
less.
WALL SIGN: Any sign attached parallel to, but within nine inches (9") of, a
wall, painted on the wall surface, or erected and confined within the limits of
an outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by such wall
or building, and which displays only one sign surface.
WINDOW SIGN: Any sign installed upon or within three feet (3') of a window on
either side for viewing from outside the premises. This term does not include
merchandise displayed. (Ord. 953, 12-12-2011)
9-14-4: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
The following types of signs are expressly prohibited in all use districts,
except as otherwise provided by this chapter:
   A.   Public Right Of Way: Signs which are placed in any public right of way,
except publicly owned signs, traffic control signals, directional signs, and
signs which direct and guide traffic and parking on private property but bear
no advertising matter and signs which are allowed by permit granted by the
public agency owning land right of way.
   B.   Signs Creating Traffic Hazards: A sign at or near any public street or
at the intersection of any public streets, situated in such a manner as to
create a traffic hazard by obstructing vision. Additionally, any sign at any
location, which would interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with
any authorized traffic sign.
   C.   Lighted: Flashing lights or strobe lights of any color. Message center
signs shall not be considered as flashing.
   D.   Bright Or Reflective Paint: No "Day-Glo", fluorescent, reflective
colored material that gives the appearance of changing color, or brilliant
luminescent colors.
   E.   Signs On Vacant Property: No sign over four (4) square feet per face,
except freestanding signs advertising the property "For Sale" or "For Lease Or
Rent" on properties or subdivisions.
   F.   Roof Signs: Any sign either erected in a manner so that it projects
partially or wholly over any roof or is mounted to any roof. This section shall
not pertain to mansard roof signs if the highest portion of any sign attached
to a mansard roof is no more than one-half (1/2) the height of the building to
which it is attached.
   G.   Bench Signs: Any outdoor furniture with commercial signage.
   H.   Vehicle Signs: Signs mounted on the roof or antenna of automobiles,
with the exception of student driver and auto transportation services, or those
painted on vehicles parked and visible from the public right of way, unless
said vehicle is licensed, registered and used as a vehicle in the normal day to
day operations of the business.
   I.   Hazardous Or Unsafe Signs: Any sign that, in the opinion of the
building inspector, engineer or traffic officer, creates a hazard to vehicular
or pedestrian traffic or a hazard to the public in general.
   J.   Electronic Interference Prohibited: No sign transformer or other
mechanical or electrical device used in connection with sign or outline wiring
shall be permitted to operate if such device interferes with electronic
reception; if such device cannot be silenced with condensers or otherwise, they
shall be disconnected.
   K.   Abandoned Or Unsightly Signs: Signs located on property which becomes
vacant and unoccupied for a period of six (6) months or more. Any sign
remaining thirty (30) days or longer which pertains to a time, event or purpose
which no longer applies, or any sign which is weak, unsafe or constructed of
broken, unsightly, inferior or old, worn materials. (Ord. 953, 12-12-2011)
9-14-5: TYPES OF SIGNS ALLOWED:
   A.   Setback Requirements: All signs shall meet minimum setback requirements
for the district in which said sign is placed.
   B.   Items Placed On Public Right Of Way: Notwithstanding any other
provision of this chapter, a property owner, tenant, lessee or lawful occupant
of property in commercial or industrial districts may locate items for display
related to their specific business in a public right of way upon the issuance
of a signed permit by the city. Application for a special permit for that
purpose shall be made to the city clerk-treasurer. The application shall
include: 1) a description of the specific items for display, 2) their location
in the right of way, 3) the length of time proposed for such display, and 4)
shall warrant that the display will not materially obstruct any pedestrian or
vehicular way within said right of way. Application for this special permit
shall be subject to amendment and approval by the city council. This special
permit shall be subject to cancellation without notice or hearing if the
application contains any false or misleading information or the items for
display interfere with pedestrian or vehicle traffic.
   C.   Types Of Signs:
      1.   Wall: Wall signs may be placed on a structure if they meet the
standards and requirements of this section.
      2.   Hanging: Hanging signs may be placed on a building or underneath an
approved canopy, awning or colonnade, but may not project beyond the same.
Signs hanging over a public right of way must have at least eight feet (8') of
ground clearance and be installed and maintained in secure and safe order.
      3.   Projecting: No projecting sign may extend, at any point, more than
four feet (4') from the surface to which it is attached. Signs projecting over
a public right of way must have at least eight feet (8') of ground clearance
and be installed and maintained in a secure and safe order.
      4.   Freestanding:
         a.   Freestanding signs shall be located within the property line and
only one freestanding sign per principal building will be allowed or two (2)
for corner properties or frontages of one hundred eighty feet (180') or more.
         b.   Height of freestanding signs will not exceed ten feet (10') above
the highest structural point of the building.
         c.   Subdivisions over twenty (20) lots shall be allowed one
freestanding identification sign at each major entrance to the subdivision. On
those below twenty (20) lots, limit is one freestanding sign. These signs will
not exceed a total of sixty four (64) square feet, or thirty two (32) square
feet per side. Signs will not be permitted on any public right of way, shall be
no higher than eight feet (8') above the natural grade.
      5.   Portable:
         a.   Portable signs are limited to nine (9) square feet per side,
limited to three feet (3') in height and limited to two (2) sides.
         b.   Portable signs shall be weighted or anchored in some manner to
prevent them from being moved or blown over by the wind.
         c.   Portable signs may not be located to obstruct pedestrian or
vehicular traffic, or visibility for vehicles at intersections.
         d.   Portable signs in the public right of way shall be displayed only
during the associated business' hours of operation (they shall be removed after
hours).
      6.   Awning: The copy area of awnings shall be included in the sign area
permitted if no more than twenty five percent (25%) per side of the awning is
used for signage.
      7.   Window: Permanent window signs may be placed in or on any window if
no more than fifty percent (50%) of the total transparent area of the window is
obscured.
      8.   Mobile Signs And Inflatable Signs Or Displays: Any signs on wheels
or an inflatable object used for promotional or sign purposes shall be allowed
as temporary signs installed for seventy two (72) hours or less.
      9.   Changeable Copy Signs: Changeable copy signs shall be maintained in
a legible and serviceable manner.
      10.   Electronic Message Sign: A permanent sign, which changes copy
electronically more than once per day using switches and electric lamps, is
permitted in all zones except R-1 through R-16 and R-P.
         a.   Based on brightness measured in nit (an illuminative brightness
measurement equivalent to 1 candle/square meter measured perpendicular to the
rays of the source); automated and/or electronic signs that utilize light to
change frames shall contain an auto dimmer allowing for no more than five
thousand two hundred (5,200) nit illumination between sunset and sunrise.
         b.   All automated and/or electronic signs that utilize light to
create change may change frame content through dissolve, fade, or scroll
features only. No sign shall be operated in a manner which the sign, sign
structure, design or pictorial segment of the sign shows full animation,
growing, flashing, rotating content, or otherwise create an illusion of
movement.
         c.   All automated and/or electronic signs shall change frame content
not more than every four (4) seconds.
         d.   Automated and/or electronic signs shall be allowed in either
freestanding or monument signs. The automated sign portion of any sign should
be constructed into the sign in a manner in which it is subordinate to the
overall design of the sign. The automated sign portion of any sign shall not
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the face of the sign.
   D.   Size Of Signs:
      1.   Maximum aggregate area of all signs, both permanent and short term,
shall not exceed the total allowable sign area established by this chapter. All
sign faces displayed shall be included in determining the sign area for a
building.
         a.   Total signage allowance per building will not exceed a total of
three (3) square feet of sign area per linear foot of building frontage for the
principal building. In addition, in no case will any total sign area for any
use, occupancy or development exceed two hundred (200) square feet. Internally
lighted signs shall not exceed a total of one hundred (100) square feet.
         b.   Total sign area permitted for all wall, window, or other surface
mounted signs shall not exceed, in total, ten percent (10%) of the facade to
which they are attached.
   E.   Lighting Of Signs: Allowed methods of illumination are divided into the
types described below. All other forms of sign lighting are prohibited. All
lighted signs shall comply with the city lighting standards as set forth in
various sections of this code.
      1.   Lighting Allowed:
         a.   Unlighted: A sign with neither an internal light nor an external
source intended specifically for lighting the sign.
         b.   Internally Lighted: A sign with an internal light intended to
illuminate translucent portions of the sign.
         c.   Externally Lighted: A sign with an external light source intended
specifically to illuminate the sign.
      2.   Neon Signs: Neon used to draw attention to any business or building
in any manner is considered a sign and shall be regulated according to the
provisions of this chapter. A maximum of four (4) neon signs per business shall
be allowed. (Ord. 953, 12-12-2011)
9-14-6: EXEMPTED SIGNS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all signs erected in the city,
except for the following which shall be exempt in accordance with the following
provisions:
   A.   Legal Notices: Posting of legal notices by public officers.
   B.   Directional Or Instructional Signs: Direction or instructional signs
which do not advertise a business, but which identify restrooms, public
telephones, walkways or signs providing direction such as parking lot entrance
and exit signs and those of similar nature. Neon open or closed signs are
subject to the provisions of section
9-14-5 of this chapter.
   C.   Governmental Signs: Governmental signs for traffic control, for
direction to public facilities, or for regulatory notice, warning or other
public purposes.
   D.   Holiday Decorations: Holiday decorations and signs of a decorative
nature or signs and decoration for a civic or community event. These types of
decorations and signs shall be allowed as short term signage.
   E.   Flags, Symbols, Or Insignias: Flags of recognized governments or of
United States government military units, or any other flag adopted or
sanctioned by the legislative body of Idaho or the United States may be
displayed providing the flag is no larger than sixty (60) square feet and is
flown from a pole the top of which is no higher than forty feet (40').
   F.   Temporary Signs: Temporary signs (displayed 72 hours or less).
   G.   Political Signs: Political signs advertising candidates or issues may
be erected during an election campaign. Such signs shall conform to the
requirements of the state. (Ord. 953, 12-12-2011)
9-14-7: PERMITS; FEES:
   A.   Permits Required: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it
shall be unlawful for any person to erect, move, construct, alter or enlarge
any sign without first obtaining a sign permit. In addition, electrical permits
shall be obtained for electrical signs.
      1.   A permit shall not be required for sign maintenance.
      2.   Authorized work under a sign permit shall be completed within one
hundred eighty (180) days after date of issuance.
   B.   Short Term Signs And Banners: Persons wishing to place short term signs
or banners across streets, highways, sidewalks or alleys of the City shall
first obtain a permit from the City Clerk-Treasurer's Office prior to the
placement of such sign or banner. Such sign or banners shall be timely removed
following the time allowed in such permit for the sign or banner to be on
display.
   C.   Application For Permit: Application for a sign permit shall be made
upon forms furnished by the building inspector and shall be accompanied by such
information as may be required to ensure compliance with all appropriate laws
and regulations for the City.
   D.   Fees: All fees for permitted signs by this Code shall be as outlined in
the fee schedule of the Building Code as adopted or modified by the Buhl City
Council. (Ord. 953, 12-12-2011)
9-14-8: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Inspection And Maintenance: The building inspector and his/her duly
authorized representatives are authorized and directed to enforce all the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Maintenance: It is the affirmative obligation of the owner of every
sign within the City to maintain the sign in a good state of repair at all
times. Nonconforming signs may be repaired and maintained provided the repairs
are for maintaining the sign in its original condition, do not increase the
degree of nonconformity in the sign, and are in accordance with this chapter.
   C.   Computations Of Dimensions For Sign Area: The area of a sign face shall
be computed by means of the smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle, or
combination thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the sign display,
together with any color or material forming an integral part of the sign. (Ord.
953, 12-12-2011)
   D.   Violations: Any person erecting, constructing, enlarging, altering,
repairing, moving, improving, removing, converting or demolishing, equipping,
using or maintaining any sign or sign structure in the City of Buhl, or causing
or permitting the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
9-14-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
   E.   Notice To Comply: Upon finding that any sign is in violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter or endangers public safety, enforcement officers
may declare the sign illegal. The building inspector shall provide the owner
written notice that the sign has been declared unlawful, specifying the reasons
why the sign is unlawful and ordering that the sign be repaired, modified or
removed within thirty (30) calendar days of said notice.
   F.   Nonconforming Signs: Nonconforming signs shall not be transferred to a
new tenant or occupant of the premises on which the sign is erected, but shall
be removed within thirty (30) days of the termination of the tenancy to which
it applies. Any nonconforming signs damaged to the extent of more than thirty
three percent (33%) of the sign's replacement value shall not be repaired or
restored.
   G.   Appeals: The City Council shall hear and decide appeals from any
decision, requirement or interpretation made by the building inspector, or his/
her duly authorized representatives, in the enforcement of this chapter. Such
appeals must be made within thirty (30) days from the date of such action.
(Ord. 953, 12-12-2011)
9-14-9: CITY HELD HARMLESS:
All persons, firms or corporations erecting, using, and maintaining signs or
billboards shall save the City of Buhl harmless from all damage arising from
the erection, use, and maintenance of the same. (Ord. 953, 12-12-2011)
9-14-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of this
chapter or fail to obtain a permit before any act is done for which permit is
required shall be deemed guilty of an infraction, and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
CHAPTER 15
FENCES AND WALLS
SECTION:
9-15-1: Regulations
9-15-2: Residential District Requirements
9-15-3: Provisions For Public Right Of Way
9-15-4: Height Restrictions
9-15-1: REGULATIONS:
Fences are permitted accessory uses in all districts and shall be regulated by
the city building inspector. The following regulations shall govern the type,
location, and construction of all fences. When a fence is erected not in
conjunction with a building permit for a principal use or building, a separate
permit is required.
   A.   Electric Fences And Barbed Wire Fences: Electric fences and barbed wire
fences are prohibited within the city except in those instances where it can be
demonstrated to the building inspector that such use is solely for the
containment of animals kept in compliance with city animal control regulations
and the fence is not located on the public right of way. The building inspector
shall have authority to revoke authorization for an electric fence or barbed
wire fence upon declaration of a finding by him that such fence would be
detrimental to public health, safety or welfare, or would be potentially
injurious to persons, properties or improvements in the vicinity.
   B.   Barbed Wire In Commercial And Industrial Districts: Barbed wire may be
permitted in commercial and industrial districts only when used as the top
section for security fences and shall be a minimum of seventy two inches (72")
above grade to the bottom wire.
   C.   Access To Utility Meter; Fire Hydrant: Any existing fence or fence to
be constructed which restricts access to any utility meter shall provide a way
of access through the fence by hand gate. In addition, no fence shall be
constructed within thirty six inches (36") of a fire hydrant.
   D.   Open Vision Fences: Open vision fences may be built to the property
line in commercial and industrial districts.
   E.   Walls, Latticework And Screens: For the purposes of this chapter,
walls, latticework, and screens shall be considered to be fences and shall be
built and maintained in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   F.   Use Of Unsightly Materials: The use of boxes, sheet metal, old or
decayed wood, broken masonry blocks, or other like unsightly materials for
fencing shall be prohibited. (1974 Code § 4-1601)
9-15-2: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS:
Fences may be erected in all residential districts subject to the following:
   A.   Solid or closed vision fences to a height of thirty six inches (36"),
or open vision type fences to a height of forty eight inches (48") may be built
from the front of the dwelling unit to and including the front property line.
Fences to a height of seventy two inches (72") may be built from the front of
the dwelling unit to and including the rear property line;
   B.   Any open vision fence, wall, or planting on or within the clear vision
triangle shall be limited to thirty six inches (36") in height measured from
the crown of the street; and
   C.   Solid or closed nonvision fences to a height of thirty six inches (36")
or open vision type fences to a height of forty eight inches (48") may be built
along the front property line and along the side property line to the front of
the dwelling unit, except that a fence of seventy two inches (72") in height
may be built upon street and side property lines from the front of the dwelling
to the rear property line; provided, that no closed nonvision fence which
exceeds thirty six inches (36") in height may be erected in the clear vision
triangle.
   D.   When fences greater than six feet (6') are proposed, the applicant for
the fence building permit shall submit the request for permit to the planning
and zoning commission for design review.
   E.   Any developer intending to construct a boundary fence on the boundaries
of a proposed subdivision shall show the fence on the preliminary plat and
shall include with the preliminary plat the design, placement, height,
specifications and drawings of said fence. (1974 Code § 4-1602)
9-15-3: PROVISIONS FOR PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY:
The policy for the permission to and the conditions and restriction imposed by
the permission to construct and erect fences within the public right of way is
hereby established as follows:
   A.   Sidewalk Or Walkway: Where a sidewalk five (5) or more feet wide
exists, an applicant may construct a fence immediately adjacent to the sidewalk
on the dwelling side. When a sidewalk does not exist, the applicant must
provide a reasonably level walkway not less than five feet six inches (5'6")
wide if adjacent to a collector or arterial street, or four feet six inches
(4'6") wide if adjacent to a local street, measured from the back of the curb
or curb line;
   B.   Design: The design of the fence shall receive prior approval by the
city building inspector and must be built in compliance with such prior
approval and in accordance with plans and specifications submitted;
   C.   Height: Fences shall not exceed four feet (4') in height in the front
setback area or six feet (6') in height elsewhere on property to be fenced and
shall otherwise comply with this title; (1974 Code § 4-1603)
   D.   Compliance With Building Code: Regardless of the type of material used,
fences shall be built of materials meeting building code requirements for
structural stability, fire resistance, and safety; (1974 Code § 4-1603; amd.
2010 Code)
   E.   Removal Required: Fences and all appurtenant structures or footings
constructed on easements or public rights of way shall be removed at the
expense of the property owner within thirty (30) days after proper notification
by the city building inspector;
   F.   Work Between Fence And Curb Or Street: All work (i.e., grading,
seeding, or paving between the proposed fence to be erected on public property
and the curb or street travelway) shall be at the expense of the property owner
and in accordance with the requirements and specifications of the city;
   G.   Building Permits Required: If the city building inspector approves the
application, the applicant must obtain a building permit from the city, Buhl
highway district or state DOT as applicable before commencing the construction
or erection of said fence;
   H.   Revocation: With or without notice, the license, privilege and
permission to construct and erect a fence upon and within a public right of way
is subject to revocation at the will of the city or owner of said right of way,
and any expense incurred by the applicant in the construction and erection of a
fence within the public right of way shall be done at the applicant's own
expense and risk; and
   I.   Agreement: The applicant will, upon the approval of the city building
inspector of the right, privilege and permission to so construct and erect a
fence, execute an agreement that the applicant shall acquire no property or
contractual right in and to such public right of way, that the applicant will
reimburse the city for any damage to the city and third parties, and such other
provisions as the city may request. Whenever the city, Buhl highway district,
or state DOT, deems it necessary as a proper police measure to vacate and
revoke such fence permit, the applicant has no alternative but to comply with
the order of revocation.
   J.   Illustration Of Fence Regulations: For an illustration of fence
regulations, see appendix attached to the zoning ordinance on file in the
office of the city clerk-treasurer. (1974 Code § 4-1603)
9-15-4: HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
Subject to the other restrictions contained in this chapter, the maximum fence
heights in each zoning district shall be as follows:
 
Zone        Height
Residential 6.0 feet
Commercial  6.0 feet
Industrial  8.0 feet
 
However, in all cases in subsection
9-15-2D of this chapter, where a fence greater than six feet (6') is proposed,
the applicant for the fence building permit shall submit the request for permit
to the planning and zoning commission for design review. (1974 Code § 4-1604)
CHAPTER 16
ZONING AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
9-16-1: Authority To Amend
9-16-2: Initiation Of Zoning Amendments
9-16-3: Amendment Application, Contents
9-16-4: General Procedures For Amendments
9-16-5: Public Hearing
9-16-6: Action By Commission And Council
9-16-7: Effect Of Amendment Approved
9-16-8: Resubmission Of Application
9-16-9: Zone Boundary Change; Publication Of Notice
9-16-10: Development Agreement
9-16-1: AUTHORITY TO AMEND:
Whenever the public necessitates, the council may, by ordinance, after receipt
of recommendation thereon from the commission and subject to procedures
provided by law, amend, supplement, change or repeal the regulations,
restrictions and boundaries or classification of property as well as the
regulations and provisions of this title. Zoning amendments may consist of
title or map revisions. (1974 Code § 4-1701)
9-16-2: INITIATION OF ZONING AMENDMENTS:
Amendments to this title may be initiated in one of the following ways:
   A.   By adoption of a motion by the commission.
   B.   By adoption of a motion by the council.
   C.   By the filing of an application by a property owner or a person who has
an existing interest in property within the area proposed to be changed or
affected by said amendment. (1974 Code § 4-1702)
9-16-3: AMENDMENT APPLICATION, CONTENTS:
Applications for amendments to the official zoning map adopted as part of this
title shall be provided by the planning and zoning clerk and shall contain at
least the following information:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
   B.   Proposed amending ordinance, approved as to form by the council.
   C.   Legal description of property.
   D.   Present land use.
   E.   Present zoning district.
   F.   Proposed use.
   G.   Proposed zoning district.
   H.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the planning and zoning clerk
showing the property lines, thoroughfares, existing and proposed zoning and
such other items as the planning and zoning clerk may require.
   I.   A list of all property owners and their mailing addresses from
authentic tax records of Twin Falls County, who are within three hundred feet
(300') of the external boundaries of the land being considered.
   J.   A statement on how the proposed amendment relates to the comprehensive
plan, availability of public facilities and compatibility with the surrounding
area.
   K.   A fee as established by the council. (1974 Code § 4-1703)
9-16-4: GENERAL PROCEDURES FOR AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Zoning Districts: Zoning districts shall be amended in the following
manner:
      1.   Requests for an amendment to this title shall be submitted to the
commission which shall evaluate the request to determine the extent and nature
of the amendment requested;
      2.   If the request is in accordance with the comprehensive plan, the
commission may recommend and the council may adopt or reject the title
amendment under the notice and hearing procedures as herein provided; and
      3.   If the request is not in accordance with the comprehensive plan, the
request shall be submitted to the commission or, in its absence, to the
council, which shall recommend and the council may adopt or reject an amendment
to the comprehensive plan under the notice and hearing procedures provided in
Idaho Code section 67-6509. After a comprehensive plan has been amended, this
title may then be amended as hereinafter provided for. (1974 Code § 4-1704)
9-16-5: PUBLIC HEARING:
The commission shall hold a public hearing and make recommendations on proposed
zoning amendments. Zoning amendments may consist of title or map revisions.
   A.   Zoning Title Amendment: The commission, prior to recommending a zoning
title amendment to the council, shall conduct at least one public hearing in
which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard. At least
fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of time and place and the
amendment shall be published in the official newspaper or paper of general
circulation within the jurisdiction of this city. Following the commission
hearing, if the commission makes a material change from what was presented at
the public hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided before the
commission forwards the amendment with its recommendation to the council.
   B.   Zoning Map Amendment: The commission, prior to recommending a zoning
map amendment that is in accordance with the comprehensive plan to the council,
shall conduct at least one public hearing in which interested persons shall
have an opportunity to be heard. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing, notice of time and place and the amendment shall be published in the
official newspaper or paper of general circulation within the jurisdiction.
Additional notice shall be provided by mail by the planning and zoning clerk to
property owners and residents within the land being considered, within three
hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being considered,
and any additional area that may be impacted by the proposed change as
determined by the commission.
   C.   Notice: When notice is required to two hundred (200) or more property
owners or residents, notice of said proposed change and the hearing thereon
shall be published in the official newspaper or paper of general circulation
within the jurisdiction for three (3) consecutive weeks with at least one of
said publications being fifteen (15) days prior to the date set for hearing on
the proposed change and for which said notice is given.
   D.   Simultaneous Passage: When required, both amendments may be handled
simultaneously. (1974 Code § 4-1705)
9-16-6: ACTION BY COMMISSION AND COUNCIL:
   A.   Recommendation By Commission: Within forty five (45) days from the
receipt of the proposed amendment, the commission shall transmit its
recommendation to the council. The commission may recommend the amendment be
granted as requested, or it may recommend the amendment or modification of the
amendment requested, or it may recommend that the amendment be denied. The
commission shall ensure that any favorable recommendations for amendments are
in accordance with the comprehensive plan and established goals and objectives.
   B.   Action By Council:
      1.   The council, prior to adopting, revising or rejecting the amendment
to this title as recommended by the commission, shall conduct at least one
public hearing using the same notice and hearing procedures as the commission.
Following the council hearing, if the council makes a material change from what
was presented at the public hearing, further notice and hearing shall be
provided before the council adopts the amendment.
      2.   The council shall accept the recommendation of the commission report
unless rejected by a vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the council members.
      3.   Upon granting or denying an application to amend this title, the
council shall specify:
         a.   The regulations and standards used in evaluating the application;
         b.   The reason for approval or denial;
         c.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain an
amendment. (1974 Code § 4-1706)
9-16-7: EFFECT OF AMENDMENT APPROVED:
In the event the council shall approve an amendment, such amendment shall
thereafter be made a part of this title upon the preparation and passage of an
ordinance. (1974 Code § 4-1707)
9-16-8: RESUBMISSION OF APPLICATION:
No application for reclassification of any property which has been denied by
the council shall be resubmitted in either substantially the same form or with
reference to substantially the same premises for the same purposes within a
period of one year from the date of such final action; unless there is an
amendment in a comprehensive plan which resulted from a change in conditions as
applying to the specific property under consideration. (1974 Code § 4-1708)
9-16-9: ZONE BOUNDARY CHANGE; PUBLICATION OF NOTICE:
Whenever a zoning district boundary change is contemplated by the city, notice
of said proposed zoning district boundary change and the hearing thereon shall
be by publication in the official newspaper once a week for three (3)
consecutive weeks, with at least one of said publications being fifteen (15)
days prior to the date set for hearing on the proposed zoning district boundary
change and for which said notice is given. (1974 Code § 4-1709)
9-16-10: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT:
If property is rezoned, the city may require or permit, as a condition of the
rezoning, that an owner or developer make a written commitment concerning the
use or development of the subject property. If a commitment is required or
permitted, it shall be recorded in the office of the Twin Falls County recorder
and shall take effect upon the adoption of the ordinance rezoning the property,
or prior if agreed to by the owner of the parcel. Unless the commitment is
modified or terminated by the city council, the commitment shall be binding on
the owner of the parcel, each subsequent owner, and each other person acquiring
an interest in the property even if it is unrecorded; however, an unrecorded
commitment is binding on subsequent owners and each other person acquiring an
interest in the property only if the subsequent owner and each other person
acquiring an interest in the property has actual notice of the commitment. The
city council is hereby authorized to adopt, by resolution, rules governing the
creation, form of recording, modification, enforcement and termination of
commitments. The recording of the agreement shall be deemed notice of the terms
of the agreement to all subsequent owners. (1974 Code § 4-1710)
CHAPTER 17
ANNEXATION AND ZONING UPON ANNEXATION
SECTION:
9-17-1: Annexation And Zoning
9-17-2: Application For Annexation And Zoning Fee
9-17-1: ANNEXATION AND ZONING:
The city hereby adopts, by reference, as if set forth fully herein, Idaho Code
sections 50-222 through 50-233 and all of Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65, as
the rules and procedures for the annexation and zoning of new lands to the
city. (Ord. 927, 3-12-2007)
9-17-2: APPLICATION FOR ANNEXATION AND ZONING FEE:
An application for annexation and zoning shall be on a form established by the
planning and zoning commission. Payment of such fees as are established by the
city council must be paid with said application. (Ord. 927, 3-12-2007)
CHAPTER 18
CONDITIONAL USE
SECTION:
9-18-1: Definition
9-18-2: Authority To Grant
9-18-3: Application
9-18-4: Standards Applicable To All Conditional Uses
9-18-5: Conditions And Safeguards
9-18-6: Public Hearing
9-18-7: Action By Commission
9-18-8: Notification To Applicant
9-18-9: Appeal To Governing Board
9-18-10: Transfer
9-18-11: Review By Governing Board And/Or Revocation
9-18-1: DEFINITION:
A "conditional use" is a use otherwise prohibited by the terms of this title in
a given district, but which may be allowed with conditions under specific
provisions of this title and when not in conflict with the city comprehensive
plan. (1974 Code § 4-1901)
9-18-2: AUTHORITY TO GRANT:
The commission may authorize, in special cases, a conditional use permit,
subject, however, to the minimum conditions and requirements of the zoning
district in which they are located and subject to additional conditions and
requirements necessary to protect the best interests of affected persons and
the city as a whole. (1974 Code § 4-1902)
9-18-3: APPLICATION:
An application for conditional use permit shall be filed with the planning and
zoning clerk by at least one owner or lessee of property for which such
conditional use is proposed or for which an expansion of more than twenty five
percent (25%) over the original square footage approved through the conditional
use permit process or a total increase in square footage over ten thousand
(10,000) square feet, whichever is less, or relocation of an existing
conditional use is proposed. At a minimum, the application shall contain the
following information:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
   B.   Legal description of property;
   C.   Description of existing use;
   D.   Zoning district;
   E.   Description of proposed conditional use;
   F.   A plan of the proposed site for the conditional use showing the
location of all buildings, parking and loading areas, traffic access and
traffic circulation, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service areas,
utilities, signs, yards and such other information as the commission may
require to determine if the proposed conditional use meets the intent and
requirements of this title;
   G.   A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining property; the
effect of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes and vibration on adjoining
property; a discussion of the general compatibility with adjacent and other
properties in the district; and the relationship of the proposed use to the
comprehensive plan. (1974 Code § 4-1903)
9-18-4: STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL CONDITIONAL USES:
The commission shall review the particular facts and circumstances of each
proposed conditional use in terms of the following standards and shall find
adequate evidence showing that such use at the proposed location will:
   A.   In fact, constitute a conditional use as established by zoning
requirements for the district involved;
   B.   Be harmonious with and in accordance with the comprehensive plan and/or
zoning regulations;
   C.   Be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be harmonious and
appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended character of the
general vicinity and that such use will not change the essential character of
the same area;
   D.   Not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring uses;
   E.   Be served adequately by essential public facilities and services such
as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures, refuse
disposal, water, sewer or that the person responsible for the establishment of
proposed conditional use shall be able to provide adequately any such services;
   F.   Not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for public
facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic welfare of
the community;
   G.   Not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment and
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any person, property or the
general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare or odors;
   H.   Have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so designed as
not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public streets; and
   I.   Not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural or scenic
feature of major importance. (1974 Code § 4-1904)
9-18-5: CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
In granting any conditional use, the commission may prescribe conditions, bonds
and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violations of such conditions,
bonds, or safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the conditional
use is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title. (1974 Code § 4-1905)
9-18-6: PUBLIC HEARING:
Upon receipt of the application for a conditional use permit, the commission
shall hold a public hearing, publish notice in the official newspaper and give
written notice to all parties as required for variance permits. (1974 Code § 4-
1906; amd. 2010 Code)
9-18-7: ACTION BY COMMISSION:
   A.   Issuance: Within forty five (45) days after the public hearing, the
commission shall either approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the
application as presented. If the application is approved or approved with
modifications, the commission shall direct the planning and zoning clerk to
issue a conditional use permit listing the specific conditions specified by the
commission for approval.
   B.   Conditions Attached: Upon granting of a conditional use permit,
conditions may be attached to a conditional use permit, including, but not
limited to:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on other developments;
      2.   Controlling the sequence and timing of developments;
      3.   Controlling the duration of development;
      4.   Assuring that development is maintained properly;
      5.   Designating the exact location and nature of development;
      6.   Requiring the provision for on site or off site public facilities or
services;
      7.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in this title.
   C.   Request Studies: Prior to granting a conditional use permit, the
commission may request studies from the planning and zoning staff or public
agencies concerning social, economic, fiscal and environmental effects of the
proposed conditional use. A conditional use permit shall not be considered as
establishing a binding precedent to grant other conditional use permits.
   D.   Specifications By Commission: Upon granting or denying an application
the commission shall specify:
      1.   The regulations and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial;
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant can take to obtain a permit.
(1974 Code § 4-1907)
9-18-8: NOTIFICATION TO APPLICANT:
Within ten (10) days after a decision has been rendered, the planning and
zoning clerk shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on
the request. (1974 Code § 4-1908)
9-18-9: APPEAL TO GOVERNING BOARD:
   A.   Right Of Appeal: The applicant or any affected person who appeared in
person or in writing before the commission may appeal the decision of the
commission to the governing board, provided a written appeal is submitted to
the governing board within fifteen (15) days from the commission's action.
   B.   Hearing: Upon receipt of an appeal from the action of the commission,
the governing board shall set a hearing date, under the same provisions as the
commission hearing, to consider all information, testimony and the commission's
minutes of the public hearing to reach a decision to uphold, conditionally
uphold or overrule the decision of the commission. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
9-18-10: TRANSFER:
A conditional use permit is not transferable from one parcel of land to
another, but may be transferable from one owner to another, provided all
conditions of the conditional use permit continue to be met as follows:
   A.   Not Established For One Year: Conditional uses which have not been
established within one year of the date of issuance of the conditional use
permit, may be reviewed by the commission to determine if the facts and
circumstances have changed; the commission may call for a new conditional use
permit application.
   B.   Discontinued For One Year: A conditional use which has been
discontinued for a period of one year shall not be reestablished without a new
conditional use permit. (1974 Code § 4-1910)
9-18-11: REVIEW BY GOVERNING BOARD AND/OR REVOCATION:
All conditional use permits or variances approved by the commission are subject
to review by the governing board. If the governing board decides to revoke a
conditional use or variance, either on its own objection or upon complaint of
an interested or affected person, the governing board shall notify the permit
holder of its intention to revoke the permit and provide the permit holder with
the opportunity to contest the revocation. If the permit holder contests the
revocation of the permit by delivering to the planning and zoning clerk a
letter of contest, the governing board shall hold a hearing on the revocation.
Fifteen (15) days' prior notice of the hearing shall be given to the permit
holder and all property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the
boundaries of the land which was issued the permit. The governing board shall
make findings of fact and conclusions of law supporting its decision to revoke
the permit. If the governing board does not decide to revoke the permit, no
findings of fact and conclusions of law shall be made. An aggrieved permit
holder or complainant may, within twenty eight (28) days, appeal the decision
of the governing board under the administrative procedures act of the state of
Idaho, Idaho Code sections 07-5270 through 67-5278. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
CHAPTER 19
VARIANCES
SECTION:
9-19-1: Definition
9-19-2: Authority To Grant
9-19-3: Application
9-19-4: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
9-19-5: Public Hearing
9-19-6: Action By Commission
9-19-7: Appeal Of Commission Action
9-19-8: Appeal To Governing Board
9-19-9: Variance Issued
9-19-10: Review By Governing Board
9-19-1: DEFINITION:
A "variance" is a modification of the requirements of this title as to lot
size, lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear yard, setbacks,
parking space, height of buildings or other title provisions affecting the size
or shape of a structure or the placement of the structure upon lots or the size
of lots and public ways. A variance shall not be considered a right or special
privilege, but may be granted to an applicant only upon a showing of undue
hardship because of characteristics of the site and the variance is not in
conflict with the public interest. (1974 Code § 4-2001)
9-19-2: AUTHORITY TO GRANT:
The commission may authorize, in specific cases, such variance from the terms
of this title as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this title would
result in unnecessary hardship. No nonconforming use of neighboring lands,
structures or buildings in the same district, and not permitted or
nonconforming use of lands, structures or buildings in other districts, shall
be considered grounds for issuance of a variance. Variances shall not be
granted on the grounds of convenience or profit, but only where strict
application of the provisions of this title would result in unnecessary
hardship or the loss of a building or site that is on a national, state or
local register of historic places or sites. (1974 Code § 4-2002)
9-19-3: APPLICATION:
A variance from the terms of this title shall not be granted by the commission
unless and until a written application for a variance is submitted to the
planning and zoning clerk and the commission containing:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
   B.   Legal description of property;
   C.   Description of nature of variance requested;
   D.   A narrative statement and documentation demonstrating that the building
or site is on a national, state or local register of historic places or sites
or that the requested variance conforms to all the following standards, that:
      1.   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to the
land, structure or building involved and which are not applicable to other
lands, structures or buildings in the same district;
      2.   A literal interpretation of the provisions of this title would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this title;
      3.   Special conditions and circumstances did not result from the actions
of applicant;
      4.   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant any
special privilege that is denied by this title to other lands, structures or
buildings in the same district.
   E.   A variance shall not be granted unless the commission makes specific
findings of fact based directly on the particular evidence presented to it
which support conclusions that the above mentioned standards and conditions
have been met by the applicant. (1974 Code § 4-2003)
9-19-4: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
Under no circumstances shall the commission grant a variance to allow a use not
permissible under the terms of this title in the district involved, or any use
expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of this title in said
district. In granting the variance, the commission may prescribe appropriate
conditions and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violation of such
conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the
variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title. (1974 Code § 4-
2004)
9-19-5: PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Required; Notice: The commission, prior to granting a variance permit,
shall conduct at least one public hearing in which interested persons shall
have an opportunity to be heard. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing, notice of time and place and the variance shall be published in the
official newspaper or paper of general circulation within the jurisdiction of
the city. Additional notice shall be provided by mail by the planning and
zoning clerk to property owners and residents within the land being considered,
within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being
considered, and any additional area that may be impacted by the proposed change
as determined by the commission.
   B.   Two Hundred Or More Property Owners Or Residents, Notice: When notice
is required to two hundred (200) or more property owners or residents, notice
of said proposed change and hearing thereon shall be published in the official
newspaper once a week for three (3) consecutive weeks, with at least one of
said publications being fifteen (15) days prior to the date set for hearing on
the proposed change and for which said notice is given. (1974 Code § 4-2005)
9-19-6: ACTION BY COMMISSION:
   A.   Action: Within forty five (45) days after the public hearing, the
commission shall either approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the
request for a variance.
   B.   Specifications By Commission: Upon granting or denying application, the
commission shall specify:
      1.   The regulations and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reason for approval or denial;
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
variance. (1974 Code § 4-2006)
9-19-7: APPEAL OF COMMISSION ACTION:
The applicant or any affected person may appeal the decision of the commission
to the governing board, provided a written appeal is submitted to the governing
board within fifteen (15) days from the commission's decision. (Ord. 929, 5-14-
2007)
9-19-8: APPEAL TO GOVERNING BOARD:
Upon receipt of an appeal from the action of the commission, the governing
board shall set a hearing date under the same provisions as the commission
hearing to consider all information, testimony and commission minutes of the
public hearing to reach a decision to uphold, conditionally uphold or overrule
the decision. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
9-19-9: VARIANCE ISSUED:
A variance shall be issued, in writing, and shall contain the names of the
owners of the property, the legal description of the property, describe the
variance granted, state whether the variance runs with the land or terminates
on sale or some particular date, and any other information the governing board
feels is pertinent. It shall be signed by the owners and the governing board
before a notary public and be recorded with the Twin Falls County recorder at
the owner's expense. The planning and zoning clerk shall maintain a record and
index of all variances issued. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
9-19-10: REVIEW BY GOVERNING BOARD:
All variances approved by the commission are subject to review by the governing
board as set forth in section
9-18-11 of this title. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
CHAPTER 20
WELLHEAD PROTECTION PLAN
SECTION:
9-20-1: Short Title; Purpose
9-20-2: Definitions
9-20-3: Establishment Of Wellhead Protection Overlay District
9-20-4: Area 1A Restrictions
9-20-5: Area 1B Restrictions
9-20-6: Area 2 Restrictions
9-20-7: Area 3 Restrictions
9-20-8: Requirements For New Wells
9-20-9: Administration
9-20-10: Notice Of Proposed Action To Operator Of Public Or Community Water
Supply
9-20-11: Nonconforming Uses
9-20-12: Right To Appeal
9-20-13: Violation; Penalty
9-20-14: Environmental Threat And/Or Public Nuisance
9-20-15: Appendices
9-20-1: SHORT TITLE; PURPOSE:
   A.   Short Title: This chapter shall be known as the WELLHEAD PROTECTION
PLAN.
   B.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses
due to contamination of the public water supply, and to formalize groundwater
protection/pollution abatement and control procedures. Specific goals are:
      1.   Protect human life and health;
      2.   Ensure that the public is provided with a sustainable, safe, potable
water supply;
      3.   Minimize expenditure of public money for pollution remediation
projects;
      4.   Minimize business interruptions. (1974 Code § 4-2301)
9-20-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given in this section:
COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM: A public system which serves at least fifteen (15)
service connections used by year round residents or regularly serves at least
twenty five (25) year round residents.
FACILITY: Refers to any installation or business that is built, installed or
established to serve a particular purpose.
HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY: A hazardous waste treatment, storage, or
disposal facility which receives hazardous material as described in the code of
federal regulations, part 40, chapter 260.1.
HAZARDOUS WASTE OR MATERIAL: Any waste or material, which because of its
quantity, concentration, physical, chemical or infectious characteristics, may:
   A.   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
   B.   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or to
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed; or
   C.   Any material or substance designated as a "hazardous or toxic
substance" defined by the code of federal regulations, part 40, chapter 261.3,
or any material or substance designated as a hazardous or toxic substance by
the state of Idaho, acting through the division of environmental quality or any
successor agency.
INJECTION: The subsurface emplacement of fluids.
LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT OPERATIONS: Any parcel of land having greater than five
(5) animal units per acre in a confined area or any parcel of land containing
twenty (20) acres or more having more than one hundred (100) animal units
total. All livestock shall have the following animal unit equivalents:
Slaughter or feeder cow = 1.0 animal unit
Dairy heifer            = 1.0 animal unit
Beef cow-calf pair      = 1.2 animal units
Mature dairy cow        = 1.4 animal units
Swine                   = 0.5 animal unit
Sheep or lamb           = 0.2 animal unit
Horse                   = 1.0 animal unit
Goat                    = 0.3 animal unit
All others not listed   = 1.0 animal unit per 750 pounds
 
NONCOMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM: A public water system that is not a community water
system.
OVERLAY WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREAS: Overlay wellhead protection areas are
delineated based on groundwater gradients and geology of the area of Buhl.
PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM: A system that provides the public with piped water for
human consumption, if such system has at least fifteen (15) service connections
or regularly serves an average of at least twenty five (25) individuals daily
at least sixty (60) days out of the year. Such term includes:
   A.   Any collection, treatment, storage, and distribution facilities under
control of the operator of such system, and used primarily in connection with
such system; and
   B.   Any collection or pretreatment storage facilities not under such
control that are used in connection with such system. A public water system is
either a "community water system" or a "noncommunity water system".
SANITARY LANDFILL: A solid waste disposal operation where the wastes are spread
on land in thin layers, compacted to the smallest practical volume, and covered
with cover material once each day of operation in order to safeguard against
environmental pollution, nuisances and health hazards.
UNDERGROUND INJECTION WELL: Any excavation or artificial opening into the
ground which meets the following three (3) criteria:
   A.   It is a bored, drilled or dug hole, or is a driven mine shaft or a
driven well point; and
   B.   It is deeper than its largest straight line surface dimension; and
   C.   It is used for or intended to be used for injection.
WELLHEAD: The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals,
valves and other attachments.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY AREA 1A: A minimum fixed radius extending no less
than fifty feet (50') radially from the wellhead supplying potable water to
city/county public water supplies.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY AREA 1B: This area is based on a three (3) year
time of travel to the wellheads as shown in appendix 1, section
9-20-15 of this chapter.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY AREA 2: This area is based on a six (6) year time
of travel to the wellheads as shown in appendix 1, section
9-20-15 of this chapter.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY AREA 3: This area is based on a ten (10) year time
of travel to the wellheads as shown in appendix 1, section
9-20-15 of this chapter.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT (WHP): A land use designation on the land
use map, or a zoning designation on a zoning map, that modifies the basic
underlying designation in some specific manner. The wellhead protection overlay
district will also appear in the hazardous component of the comprehensive plan.
A map will define specific area districts centering around wells supplying
drinking water to a public water system. (1974 Code § 4-2302; amd. 2010 Code)
9-20-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT:
There is hereby established a wellhead protection overlay district identified
and described as follows: The district shall be composed of the four (4) areas
described in section
9-20-2 of this chapter. (1974 Code § 4-2303)
9-20-4: AREA 1A RESTRICTIONS:
Uses permitted within area 1A shall be limited to necessary public water supply
wellhead equipment including the following: wellhead facility buildings, water
storage tanks, disinfection equipment, disinfection chemical storage and
approved landscaping. All other uses shall be prohibited except as specifically
permitted by the director of public works of the city. (1974 Code § 4-2304)
9-20-5: AREA 1B RESTRICTIONS:
The following uses or conditions are prohibited within area 1B of the wellhead
protection area:
Disposal of waste oil, oil filters, tires and all other petroleum products or
hazardous waste.
Hazardous waste disposal facilities.
Injection well construction or use is prohibited except for the following:
   A.   Cooling water return,
   B.   Geothermal water return,
   C.   Heat pump return.
Land use activities posing a hazard or threat to existing groundwater quality
as deemed by the city engineer of the city during review process applications.
(See section
9-20-12 of this chapter for the right to appeal process.)
Livestock confinement operations.
Sanitary landfills.
Wells deeper than three hundred feet (300') except under specific license.
Construction of such wells shall be done in accordance with appendix 2, section
9-20-15 of this chapter. (1974 Code § 4-2305)
9-20-6: AREA 2 RESTRICTIONS:
The following uses or conditions shall be and are prohibited within area 2 of
the wellhead protection area:
Injection wells deeper than eighteen feet (18') except for the following uses
in closed systems:
   A.   Cooling water return,
   B.   Geothermal water return,
   C.   Heat pump return.
Land use activities posing a hazard or threat to existing groundwater quality
as deemed by the city engineer during review process applications. (See section
9-20-12 of this chapter for the right to appeal process.)
Livestock confinement operations.
Wells deeper than three hundred feet (300') except under specific license.
Construction of such wells shall be done in accordance with appendix B, section
9-20-15 of this chapter. (1974 Code § 4-2306)
9-20-7: AREA 3 RESTRICTIONS:
The following uses or conditions are prohibited within area 3 of the wellhead
protection area:
Injection wells deeper than eighteen feet (18') except for the following uses
in closed systems:
   A.   Cooling water return,
   B.   Geothermal water return,
   C.   Heat pump return.
Land use activities posing a hazard or threat to existing groundwater quality
as deemed by the city engineer during review process applications. (See section
9-20-12 of this chapter for the right to appeal process.)
Livestock confinement operations. (1974 Code § 4-2307)
9-20-8: REQUIREMENTS FOR NEW WELLS:
Prior to the development of new wells for the purpose of supplying potable
water to any community water system, the proposed well site will be delineated
in accordance with section
9-20-3 of this chapter. The delineated areas will then be inventoried for
potential contamination sources and the proposed site evaluated as to potential
adverse impact to the well site. (1974 Code § 4-2308)
9-20-9: ADMINISTRATION:
The mayor and city council shall be authorized to adopt policy and procedures
for the administration of any wellhead protection area established under this
chapter, including, without limitation, those applicable to nonconforming uses,
exceptions, enforcement and penalties for all sites within the impact area of
the city and administration of areas of the wellhead protection area lying
outside of the impact area of the city in accordance with Twin Falls County
"wellhead protection plan". (1974 Code § 4-2309; amd. 2010 Code)
9-20-10: NOTICE OF PROPOSED ACTION TO OPERATOR OF PUBLIC OR COMMUNITY WATER
SUPPLY:
Whenever there is a request which requires a special use permit from the
planning and zoning commission for land lying within a wellhead protection
area, written notice of hearing shall be given to the entity operating the
public or community water supply within that overlay district. The planning and
zoning commission may require a granting of easements for monitoring wells if
the commission deems it appropriate for protection of the public water supply.
(1974 Code § 4-2310; amd. 2010 Code)
9-20-11: NONCONFORMING USES:
Any legal use existing at the time of the adoption hereof and listed as a
prohibited use herein, shall become a legal nonconforming use and may not be
expanded or improved except as otherwise provided in this title. (1974 Code §
4-2311)
9-20-12: RIGHT TO APPEAL:
Any person, firm or corporation desiring to use the land within the area
designated or areas 1A, 1B, 2 or 3, in a manner contrary to the provisions of
this chapter shall have the right to appeal or apply for a waiver from the
restrictions. For property located within the city limits, the mayor and city
council shall act as the hearing board and enter a decision in regards to the
appeal and/or waiver request. After full hearing, further appeal shall be
referred to the district court in accordance with Idaho Code. For property
located outside the city limits, the mayor and city council shall act as the
hearing board and make recommendation as to the appeal and/or waiver to the
county commissioners. (1974 Code § 4-2312; amd. 2010 Code)
9-20-13: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
occupy or use the land within the area designated areas 1A, 1B, 2 or 3 contrary
to, or in violation of, any of the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Misdemeanor: Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction of any such violation, such person shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1974 Code § 4-2313; amd. 2010 Code)
9-20-14: ENVIRONMENTAL THREAT AND/OR PUBLIC NUISANCE:
The city shall be authorized to protect the wellheads in other areas which are
not included in areas 2 and 3 as defined in sections
9-20-6 and
9-20-7 of this chapter by relying upon environmental water resources and public
nuisance laws already in effect within the state of Idaho, if it appears that
any person, firm or corporation is engaging in acts that put the city wellheads
or water supply at risk. (2010 Code)
9-20-15: APPENDICES:
This chapter has three (3) appendices. Appendix A is a map showing the wells
supplying the city and the overlay of the wellhead protection district,
appendix 1 is the city well delineations, and appendix B defines the method of
construction for wells deeper than three hundred feet (300'). (2010 Code)
APPENDIX A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d2ea58a43e5211563e88b14b810f497a6f7ec858/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1527.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d2ea58a43e5211563e88b14b810f497a6f7ec858/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1529.gif]
 
APPENDIX B
CONSTRUCTION OF DEEP WELLS WITHIN WELLHEAD PROTECTION DISTRICT OF THE CITY OF
BUHL
Wells three hundred feet (300') deep below ground surface shall be protected
against seepage of near surface water as follows:
      1.   A surface seal casing shall be installed extending not less than ten
feet (10') into rock. The annulus between the casing and walls of the hole
shall be completely filled with Portland cement grout, this casing shall extend
not less than twelve inches (12") above surrounding ground. At completion, the
well shall be protected by concrete not less than eight inches (8") thick
extending for a radial distance of three feet (3') from the well in all
directions. The surface of the concrete surround shall be sloped at not less
than one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot away from the well in all directions. The
casing of the surface seal shall be steel having a wall thickness not less than
one-fourth inch (1/4") or approved equal.
      2.   A solid casing shall be installed extending to at least three
hundred feet (300') below ground surface. This shall be steel not less than
one-fourth inch (1/4") thick or approved equal. There shall be no perforations
in the casing except in the bottom twelve inches (12") where holes as may be
needed for grouting will be permitted. All welds shall be full penetration butt
welds unless sleeves are used for joints in which case complete circumference
fillet welds shall be used. If threaded couplings are used, the joints shall be
seal welded.
The annulus between the casing and the wall of the hole shall be completely
filled with Portland cement grout extending to the ground surface.
Grout mixes shall be water, cement and plasticizer. Bentonite may be added as
suspension agent in amounts not to exceed ten percent (10%) by dry weight of
the weight of cement. Bentonite, if used, shall be high activity Wyoming
bentonite, volclay or equal, and shall be ground to 200 mesh. It shall be
hydrated for twenty four (24) hours before incorporating it in the grout mix.
Other fillers may be used if approved. Such fillers shall not settle out of the
grout mix nor cause bridging or blockage of the annulus. The annulus shall be
completely filled from the bottom up with grout and kept filled until the grout
takes its final set. The method to be used for placing the grout shall be
reviewed and approved by the public works director of the city before starting
grouting of the casing.
      3.   Drilling for the remaining depth and completing the well shall not
be done until the grout around the casing has hardened to strength of at least
one thousand (1,000) psi in cube tests. (1974 Code § 4-2314)
CHAPTER 21
COMMERCIAL WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
SECTION:
9-21-1: Purpose
9-21-2: Interpretation Of Terms; Definitions
9-21-3: General Performance Standards
9-21-4: Location
9-21-5: Application Procedures
9-21-6: Standards
9-21-1: PURPOSE:
In order to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare of the
community, while accommodating the communication needs of residents and
businesses, these regulations are necessary in order to:
   A.   Facilitate the provision of wireless telecommunication services to the
residents and businesses of the municipality;
   B.   Minimize adverse visual effects of towers through careful design and
siting standards;
   C.   Encourage the location of towers in nonresidential areas through
performance standards and incentives;
   D.   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure
through structural standards and setback requirements; and
   E.   Provide mechanisms for the mitigation of tower proliferation through
tower sharing requirements for all new tower applicants and those existing
towers that are physically capable of sharing. (1974 Code § 4-2401)
9-21-2: INTERPRETATION OF TERMS; DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Incorporation: Sections
9-2-2, "Interpretation Of Terms And Words" and
9-2-3, "Definitions", of this title are incorporated into this chapter by
reference.
   B.   Additional Definitions: Additional definitions of words used in this
chapter:
   COLLOCATION: The use of a single support system on the ground by more than
one carrier or several support systems on an existing building or structure by
more than one carrier.
   FACADE MOUNTED: Directly attached or affixed to the elevation of a building,
tank, or other structure.
   FREESTANDING TOWER: A tower not physically attached to a building or
structure. A tower is attached to the ground by a foundation.
   LATTICE TOWER: A support structure that consists of a network of crossed
metal braces, forming a tower that is usually triangular or square in cross
section.
   MASTER DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A plan showing a carrier's expected network of
wireless communication facilities within the city and its area of impact.
   TEMPORARY WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY: Any tower, pole, antenna, etc.,
designed for use while a permanent wireless facility is under repair, or for a
special event or conference where the existing communication capabilities will
not meet the requirements.
   UTILITY POLE: A telephone, power, light, cable television, or flag pole.
Light poles shall include street, stadium and security light poles.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY: An unstaffed commercial facility that
transmits and/or receives electromagnetic signals, including antennas,
microwave dishes, parabolic antennas, directional antennas and other types of
equipment for the transmission or reception of such signals, towers or similar
structures supporting the equipment, equipment buildings, shelters, cabinets,
and other facilities. (1974 Code § 4-2402)
9-21-3: GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Collocation Requirements:
      1.   A proposal for a new commercial wireless telecommunication service
tower shall not be approved unless the planning and zoning commission finds
that the telecommunications equipment planned for the proposed tower cannot be
accommodated on an existing or approved tower or building within a one mile
search radius (1/2 mile search radius for towers under 120 feet in height, 1/
4 mile search radius for towers under 80 feet in height) of the proposed tower
due to one or more of the following reasons:
         a.   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of the
existing or approved tower or building, as documented by a qualified and
licensed professional engineer, and the existing or approved tower cannot be
reinforced, modified, or replaced to accommodate planned or equivalent
equipment at a reasonable cost.
         b.   The planned equipment would cause interference materially
impacting the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the tower or
building as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer and
the interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost.
         c.   Existing or approved towers and buildings within the search
radius cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary to
function reasonably as documented by a qualified and licensed professional
engineer.
         d.   Other unforeseen reasons that make it unfeasible to locate the
planned telecommunications equipment upon an existing or approved tower or
building.
         e.   The fees, costs or contractual provisions required by the owner
in order to share an existing tower or structure or to adapt an existing tower
or structure for collocation are unreasonable. Costs exceeding new tower
development are presumed to be unreasonable.
   B.   Tower Lighting: Towers shall not be illuminated by artificial means and
shall not display strobe lights unless such lighting is specifically required
by the federal aviation administration or other federal or state authority for
a particular tower.
   C.   Temporary Wireless Communications Facilities: Any facility designed for
temporary use is subject to the following:
      1.   Use of a temporary facility is allowed only if the owner has
received a temporary use permit from the planning and zoning clerk.
      2.   Temporary wireless facilities are permitted for use for the period
of time determined to be reasonable by the planning and zoning clerk based upon
the requirements of the permit request.
   D.   Abandonment Or Unused Wireless Communication Facility:
      1.   Upon abandonment or discontinuation of use, the carrier shall
physically remove the wireless communication facility within ninety (90) days
of the date of abandonment or discontinuation of use, and restore the site to
its original condition.
      2.   Unused portions of towers above a manufactured connection shall be
removed within ninety (90) days of the time of discontinuance of use. The
replacement of portions of a tower previously removed requires the issuance of
a new wireless facility permit.
      3.   The carrier shall provide to the city, prior to issuance of a
permit, a performance bond in the amount of twenty thousand dollars
($20,000.00) or a bond equal to a written estimate from a qualified tower
removal contractor to guarantee that the facility will be removed when no
longer in use. The city shall be named as an obligee in the bond and must
approve the bonding company.
   E.   Signs And Advertising: The use of any portion of a tower for signs
other than warning or equipment information signs is prohibited. (1974 Code §
4-2403)
9-21-4: LOCATION:
   A.   Use: The placement, use or modification of any wireless communication
facility is subject to the provisions of this section.
      1.   Residential Zones: New freestanding towers are prohibited. Wireless
communication facilities attached to utility poles, existing towers or facades
attached to nonresidential buildings are permitted subject to the provisions of
this section.
      2.   Nonresidential Zones: Lattice towers are prohibited. Other wireless
communication facilities are permitted subject to the provisions of this
section.
      3.   Preferred Locations And Facility Types:
         a.   Site Selection Criteria: A master development plan is to be
created, prior to any wireless communication facility permit request, based
upon engineering constraints and desired areas of service. Wireless
communication facilities shall be located on a master development plan in the
following priority order:
            (1)   Collocation on an existing tower, structure or building. The
applicant shall have the burden of proving that there are no feasible existing
structures upon which to locate as described in this section.
            (2)   Publicly owned property.
            (3)   Other nonresidential buildings or vacant nonresidentially
zoned land.
         b.   Facility Type Preferred:
            (1)   Roof mounted.
            (2)   Facade mounted.
            (3)   Utility pole mounted.
            (4)   Freestanding.
      4.   Prohibitions: The following are prohibited or restricted:
         a.   Lattice towers are prohibited.
         b.   Interference with city and public safety communication systems
and/or area television or radio broadcast is prohibited.
         c.   Freestanding towers within residentially zoned areas are
prohibited.
         d.   Diagonal bracing is permitted only to anchor the antenna to an
existing building to which the antenna is attached. (1974 Code § 4-2404)
9-21-5: APPLICATION PROCEDURES:
The planning and zoning clerk shall have the authority to approve applications
for wireless communication facilities collocating on existing structures or
utility poles provided they meet all the requirements of this chapter. All
other wireless communication facilities shall require a conditional use permit
from the planning and zoning commission. An application for a conditional use
permit for a wireless communication facility shall contain the information set
forth below in addition to the standard application information required for
all conditional use permits:
   A.   Site Plan: A site plan including location, type and height of the
proposed wireless communication facility with setbacks, property lines,
adjacent land uses, structures and zoning.
   B.   Elevation Drawings: Elevation drawings or before and after photographs/
drawings simulating and specifying the location and height of the antennas,
support structures, equipment enclosures and other accessory uses.
   C.   Master Development Plan: The master development plan showing the
location of all existing and proposed wireless communication facility sites of
the applicant within the city and its area of impact, including the service
area of each wireless communication facility.
   D.   Evidence Of Unavailability: Evidence demonstrating the unavailability
of collocation, as set forth in this section.
   E.   Agreement: A signed and notarized statement by the applicant agreeing
to accommodate collocation of additional antennas on the tower and that the
applicant agrees to enter into leases with other providers allowing use of the
tower at a monthly lease rate not to exceed one-half (1/2) the capital cost of
the tower, excluding the equipment to be used exclusively by the applicant,
paid over fifteen (15) years at seven percent (7%) interest. The maximum
monthly lease rate shall be included in the application.
   F.   Lease Agreement: A lease agreement with the landholder that allows
other providers to locate equipment on the subject property, and provides that
if the provider fails to remove the wireless communication facility and
equipment within ninety (90) days of its discontinued use, the responsibility
for removal shall belong to the landholder. (1974 Code § 4-2405)
9-21-6: STANDARDS:
   A.   Roof Mounted:
      1.   Height: Roof mounted wireless communication facilities may extend
above the highest portion of the roof, including parapet walls, by a distance
equal to its distance to the nearest exterior wall.
      2.   Setback: Roof mounted wireless communication facilities shall be set
back from the edge of the building the height of the antenna and support
system.
      3.   Lighting: Lighting of antennas or support structures shall be
prohibited except as required by the FAA.
   B.   Facade Mounted:
      1.   Height: Facade mounted wireless communication facilities may not
exceed five feet (5') above the facade to which it is attached.
      2.   Projection: Maximum projection of eighteen inches (18"), but may not
encroach into the public right of way.
      3.   Attachment: The antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical
equipment must be the same color as the supporting structure so as to make the
antenna and related equipment as unobtrusive as possible.
   C.   Utility Pole Mounted:
      1.   Height: Maximum height of one hundred thirty three percent (133%) of
the height of the original utility pole or an additional fifteen feet (15'),
whichever is greater.
      2.   Lighting: Lighting of antennas or support structures shall be
prohibited except as required by the FAA.
      3.   Attachment: The antenna shall be either fully concealed within the
utility pole or face mounted (not to exceed 18 inches from the face of the
pole). Standoffs and amps platforms are prohibited.
      4.   Pole Replacement: Existing utility poles may be replaced with a new
utility pole of the same height, dimensions and appearance as the existing
utility pole.
      5.   Equipment Enclosures: Aboveground equipment enclosures on utility
poles in the right of way shall not exceed twelve (12) cubic feet in volume and
shall be constructed so as to minimize their visual impact. Aboveground
equipment enclosures off the right of way shall meet building line setbacks in
the underlying district, and shall be finished to blend in with the surrounding
area. If a security fence is installed, landscaping and screening shall be
installed to visually screen the aboveground equipment enclosure. Landscaping
and screening shall consist of a combination of trees, foliage and shrubs of
dense spacing in the form of either: a) a screening wall or fence surrounded by
a five foot (5') wide landscape planter; or b) a ten foot (10') wide landscape
planter without a screening wail or fence. All landscaping shall be watered,
fertilized and maintained as necessary. All dead plantings shall be replaced
within thirty (30) days.
      6.   Relocation Of Utilities: In the event the utilities located on a
utility pole are relocated underground, the wireless communication facility
shall be relocated to another location pursuant to the requirements of this
section.
   D.   Freestanding:
      1.   Height: Freestanding towers shall not exceed one hundred feet (100')
in height as measured from the ground.
      2.   Setback: Setbacks shall be measured from the base of the tower to
the property line of the parcel on which it is located. Towers shall be set
back from all residential and residentially zoned property one hundred twenty
five percent (125%) of the tower height as measured from ground level.
      3.   Color: Freestanding towers shall be painted a neutral earth tone
color, simulate a standard utility pole, or otherwise be camouflaged or
disguised so as to make the tower as unobtrusive as possible.
      4.   Attachment: The antenna shall be either fully concealed within the
tower or face mounted (not to exceed 18 inches from the face of the tower).
Standoffs and amps platforms are prohibited.
      5.   Landscaping: Landscaping and screening shall be installed to
visually screen the support structure and aboveground equipment enclosures.
Landscaping and screening shall consist of a combination of trees, foliage and
shrubs of dense spacing in the form of either: a) a screening wall or fence
surrounded by a five foot (5') wide landscape planter; or b) a ten foot (10')
wide landscape planter without a screening wall or fence. All landscaping shall
be watered, fertilized and maintained as necessary. All dead plantings shall be
replaced within thirty (30) days. (1974 Code § 4-2406)
CHAPTER 22
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
9-22-1: Interpretation Of Terms; Definitions
9-22-2: Purpose; Intent
9-22-3: Zoning Approval Required; Procedure
9-22-4: General Requirements
9-22-5: Site Requirements
9-22-6: Mobile Home Space Requirements
9-22-7: Improvement Requirements
9-22-8: Fire Protection
9-22-9: Refuse Disposal
9-22-10: Variances
9-22-11: Mobile Homes Outside A Mobile Home Park
9-22-12: Notices, Hearings And Orders
9-22-13: Violation; Penalty
9-22-14: Interpretation
9-22-1: INTERPRETATION OF TERMS; DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Incorporation: Sections
9-2-2, "Interpretation Of Terms And Words" and
9-2-3, "Definitions", of this title are incorporated into this chapter by
reference.
   B.   Additional Definitions: Additional definitions of words used in this
chapter:
   ACCESSWAY: An unobstructed way of specified width containing a drive or
roadway which provides vehicular access within a mobile home park and connects
to a public street.
   AWNING: Any stationary structure, other than a window awning, used in
conjunction with a mobile home for the purpose of providing shelter from the
sun and rain and having a roof with supports and not more than one wall or
storage cabinet substituting for a wall.
   ESTABLISHED GRADE: The high point of the sidewalk at the front or side lot
line as established by the city.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE: A plot of land within a mobile home park designed for the
accommodation of one mobile home.
   PARK: A mobile home park. (1974 Code § 4-2501)
9-22-2: PURPOSE; INTENT:
This chapter establishes minimum standards and requirements for the occupation
of mobile homes and for the construction and operation of mobile home parks,
especially as they relate to adjacent land uses and to the development of the
whole community, in order to protect and secure the public health, safety and
general welfare of the city. (1974 Code § 4-2502)
9-22-3: ZONING APPROVAL REQUIRED; PROCEDURE:
No building permit shall be issued for the construction of a new mobile home
park or expansion of an existing mobile home park within the city limits and/or
the city area of impact until the proposed location is approved by the planning
and zoning commission and a conditional use permit for mobile home park
purposes is granted following a public hearing held in accordance with the
procedures set forth in this title. The conditional use permit shall only be
granted upon a showing being made to the satisfaction of the commission that
such action will be compatible with the overall development of the area where
the mobile home park is proposed to be constructed. Such showing shall be made
in accordance with the following procedures:
   A.   Application; Fee: Application for a conditional use permit shall be
made to the planning and zoning clerk. The application shall be accompanied by
a filing fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00), which shall not be refundable.
The planning and zoning clerk shall in turn transmit the application to the
planning and zoning commission.
   B.   Plot Plan Required: The application for a conditional use permit to
construct a new mobile home park or the expansion of an existing mobile home
park shall be accompanied by four (4) copies of the plot plan of the proposed
park. The plot plan should show the general layout of the entire mobile home
park, and should be drawn to a scale not smaller than one inch representing
fifty feet (1" = 50'). The following information is required on the plot plan:
      1.   Name of the person who prepared the plan.
      2.   Name of the mobile home park and address.
      3.   Scale and north point of the plan.
      4.   Vicinity map showing relationship of mobile home park to adjacent
properties.
      5.   Boundaries and dimensions of the mobile home park.
      6.   Location and dimensions of each mobile home space. Designation of
each space by number or letter combination.
      7.   Location and dimensions of each existing or proposed building.
      8.   Location and width of accessways.
      9.   Location and width of walkways.
      10.   Location of each lighting fixture for lighting the mobile home
spaces and grounds.
      11.   Location of recreation areas and buildings, and area of recreation
space in square feet.
      12.   Location and type of landscaping plantings, fence, wall or
combination of any of these or other screening materials.
      13.   Location of point where mobile home park water and sewer and
electric and gas services system connect with the public systems.
      14.   Location of available fire and irrigation hydrants.
      15.   Enlarged plot plan of a typical mobile home space, showing location
of the patio, parking, sidewalk, utility connections and landscaping.
   C.   Detailed Plans: In addition to the plot plan, detailed plans are
required for all of the following showing:
      1.   New structures.
      2.   Water and sewer systems.
      3.   Electrical systems.
      4.   Natural gas, propane or butane systems, where applicable.
      5.   Cable TV or similar systems, where applicable.
      6.   Road, sidewalk and patio construction.
      7.   Drainage system.
      8.   Recreation area improvements.
      9.   Swimming pool specifications, where applicable.
      10.   Any system which provides services of any kind to two (2) or more
mobile home spaces.
   D.   Conditional Use Permit Required: A conditional use permit shall be
subject to the plans and other conditions upon the basis of which it was
granted.
   E.   Failure To Comply; Revocation: In the event of failure to comply with
the plans and/or other conditions of the conditional use permit, the planning
and zoning commission may, after notice and hearing, revoke the conditional use
permit.
   F.   Additional Permits: A conditional use permit to install a mobile home
park shall not be construed as a substitution for regularly required permits
such as for building, plumbing, electrical or gas installation. (1974 Code § 4-
2503)
9-22-4: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Density: With approval of the commission, the density may exceed the
zoning district density by twenty five percent (25%), but, in no case, shall
exceed eight (8) mobile homes per gross acre. If a street widening or
terminating dedication is required, the amount of land dedicated shall be
subtracted from the gross site area when calculating the proposed density.
   B.   Setback Regulations: Mobile home parks shall be set back at least ten
feet (10') from any interior property line abutting residentially, commercially
or industrially zoned property. The setback from any abutting public street
right of way shall be at least twenty five feet (25'). Said required setback
shall be a line parallel to and measured at right angles from the front, side
or rear property line.
   C.   Established Boundaries: A minimum six foot (6') ornamental fence or
wall, chainlink fence, evergreen plantings or combination of fence and planting
shall surround the mobile home park. Such fence, wall or planting may be placed
up to the front property line if adequate vision clearance for entrance and
exits is maintained.
   D.   Parking Requirements:
      1.   Mobile Home Space: There shall be two (2) vehicle parking spaces at
least nine feet by nineteen feet (9' x 19') in size for each mobile home space,
with clear and unobstructed access to an accessway. Any parking in the
accessway shall not fulfill this requirement.
      2.   Guest Parking: Guest parking shall be provided on a mobile home park
parking site at the rate of one space for each mobile home space if the
required accessway is less than thirty four feet (34') of surfaced roadway.
   E.   Access To A Public Street: A mobile home park must have two (2)
accesses to a public street or streets having not less than fifty six feet
(56') of right of way width. Each park shall have not less than sixty feet
(60') of frontage on a public street, except as authorized by the planning and
zoning commission. No mobile home space shall be located in such a manner that
a public street must be used to maneuver the mobile home into the space.
   F.   Service Buildings: Service buildings housing sanitation facilities,
where provided, shall be permanent structures complying with all applicable
city and state ordinances and statutes regulating buildings, electrical
installations and plumbing and sanitation systems.
   G.   Structures: Structures located on any mobile home space shall be
limited to a storage building, carport or garage.
   H.   Skirting: Skirting of mobile homes is required within thirty (30) days
of installation.
   I.   Permitted Uses Within The Park: No building, structure or land within
the boundaries of a mobile home park shall be used for any purpose except for
the following:
      1.   Mobile homes or manufactured homes for residential use only,
together with the normal accessory uses to residential living such as cabana,
ramada, patio slab, carport or garage, and a storage or washroom building.
      2.   Private and public utilities.
      3.   Community recreation facilities, including swimming pools.
      4.   A fixed residence for the use of a caretaker or a manager
responsible for maintaining the operation.
      5.   Recreational vehicle parking spaces for temporary parking if a
permit for a recreational park is obtained as part of the mobile home park
permit 1 . (1974 Code § 4-2504)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  9-23-4F of this title.
9-22-5: SITE REQUIREMENTS:
The following shall be considered the minimum site requirements for a new
mobile home park or the expansion of an existing mobile home park:
   A.   Accessways: Accessways shall connect each mobile home space to a public
right of way and shall be a minimum of thirty four feet (34') in width. Where
the entrance accessway is divided by a median planting strip, the minimum width
shall be fifty feet (50') and each side shall then be one-way.
   B.   Recreation Area: A minimum of two hundred (200) square feet of
recreation area shall be provided for each mobile home space. The recreation
area may be in one or more locations in the park. At least one recreation area
shall have a minimum size of five thousand (5,000) square feet, and be of a
shape that will make it usable for its intended purpose. (1974 Code § 4-2505)
   C.   Electrical Outlets:
      1.   Installation of outlets to serve each mobile home shall comply with
provisions of the electrical code. (1974 Code § 4-2505; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   An electrical permit is required for inspection of any placement or
replacement of mobile homes in the park. (1974 Code § 4-2505)
   D.   Natural Gas, Propane And/Or Butane:
      1.   Installation Of Outlets: Installation of outlets to serve each
mobile home shall comply with provisions of the codes relating to such
installation. (1974 Code § 4-2505; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Permit Required: A gas, propane or butane permit is required for
inspection of any placement or replacement of mobile homes in the park. (1974
Code § 4-2505)
   E.   Sewage Disposal:
      1.   Connection To Public System Required: All plumbing in the mobile
home park must connect to the public sewer system and shall comply with the
plumbing code adopted by the city. (1974 Code § 4-2505; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Connection: Each mobile home space shall be provided with at least a
three inch (3") sewer connection. The sewer connection shall be provided with
suitable fittings, so that a watertight connection can be made between the
mobile home drain and sewer connection. Such individual mobile home connections
shall be so constructed that they can be closed when not linked to a mobile
home, and shall be trapped in such a manner as to maintain them in an odor free
condition.
      3.   Connection Fees: Sewer connection fees for each mobile home space
will be that amount established by resolution of the city council.
      4.   Permit Required: A plumbing permit is required for inspection of the
placement or replacement of each mobile home in the park.
   F.   Water Supply:
      1.   Accessible, Adequate, Safe And Potable Supply Required: An
accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall be furnished in
each mobile home park, capable of furnishing a minimum of five (5) gallons per
minute per mobile home space.
      2.   Piping: All water piping shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with state of Idaho regulations for public drinking water systems.
      3.   Individual Water Service Connections: Individual water service
connections which are provided for direct use by mobile homes shall be so
constructed that they will not be damaged by the parking of such homes. The
mobile home park water system shall be adequate to provide thirty five (35)
pounds per square inch of pressure at all mobile home connections.
      4.   Connection Fees: Fees for connecting to the city water system will
be charged in accordance with the water line extension policy and service costs
established by resolution of the city council. (1974 Code § 4-2505)
   G.   Fire Hydrants: Hydrants will be installed in accordance with the fire
code. An adequate water supply of three hundred (300) gallons per minute shall
be provided. (1974 Code § 4-2505; amd. 2010 Code)
   H.   Building Permit: Construction or alteration of a mobile home park
requires a permit from the building department.
   I.   Inspection Permit: An inspection permit shall be obtained prior to
placement of an individual mobile home in a mobile home park. The cost of the
permit shall be ten dollars ($10.00) and application shall be made to the
building inspector. It will be the responsibility of the park owner and/or
manager to ensure a permit has been obtained prior to the placement of a mobile
home in the park. This permit will not be required for temporary parking of
recreational vehicles. (1974 Code § 4-2505)
9-22-6: MOBILE HOME SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum mobile home space requirements for a new mobile home park or the
expansion of an existing mobile home park are as follows:
   A.   Lot Size:
      1.   Mobile Homes And Singlewides: Mobile homes up to and including
fourteen foot (14') singlewides shall be placed on lots not less than thirty
five feet (35') wide with not less than two thousand eight hundred (2,800)
square feet of space.
      2.   Doublewides And Expansion Mobile Homes: Doublewides and expansion
mobile homes shall be placed on lots not less than forty five feet (45') wide
with not less than four thousand five hundred (4,500) square feet of space.
   B.   Occupied Mobile Homes: Occupied mobile homes shall be parked only on
spaces provided, shall be set back a minimum of five feet (5') from the edge of
all accessways and shall observe all other setbacks as established in
subsection
9-22-4B of this chapter.
   C.   Minimum Space Requirements Between Mobile Homes:
      1.   End to end, fifteen feet (15').
      2.   Side to side, fifteen feet (15').
   D.   Recreational Vehicle Spaces: Recreational vehicle spaces shall comply
with the requirements of chapter 23 of this title. (1974 Code § 4-2506)
9-22-7: IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   New Mobile Home Parks: Improvement requirements for a new mobile home
park or the expansion of an existing park are as follows:
      1.   Roadways Within Accessway And Sidewalks:
         a.   Paving: Roadways within an accessway and sidewalks shall be paved
with a crushed rock base and asphaltic or concrete surfacing according to
structural specifications established by the city engineer.
         b.   Minimum Surfaced Width: The minimum surfaced width of the roadway
within an accessway shall be twenty four feet (24') if there is no parking
allowed, and thirty four feet (34') if parking is allowed on one side. The
first fifty feet (50') of the accessway measured from the street shall be
surfaced to a width of thirty four feet (34') and shall be connected to an
existing street in accordance with plans approved by the city engineer.
      2.   Adjacent Unimproved Public Street: Any unimproved public street
adjacent to a new mobile home park must be improved by the developer with curb,
gutter and pavement to a width of one-half (1/2) plus seven and one-half feet
(71/2') of roadway.
      3.   Patios: Patios shall be paved with asphalt, concrete, or suitable
hard surfaced materials.
      4.   Lighting Of Accessways And Sidewalks: All accessways and walkways
within the park shall be lighted at night to provide a minimum of one and one-
half (11/2) foot-candles of illumination.
      5.   Wires For Services: Wires for services to light poles and mobile
home spaces shall be underground.
      6.   Drainage: The mobile home park shall be well drained. Provisions for
drainage shall be made in accordance with a drainage plan approved by the city
engineer.
      7.   Recreation Areas: Recreation areas shall be suitably improved and
maintained for recreational purposes and shall be appropriate for the residents
of the park.
      8.   Storage Area: A fenced storage area shall be provided by each mobile
home park for the storage of accessory items such as boats, recreational
vehicles, campers and related equipment owned by the park residents. Such items
shall be stored in the storage area and not be parked beside the mobile home.
Said storage area shall contain a minimum of sixty (60) square feet per mobile
home space. (1974 Code § 4-2507)
   B.   Existing Mobile Home Parks:
      1.   Plot Plan Required: The owner or operator of a mobile home park
existing at the time of passage hereof shall file with the building inspector
two (2) copies of a plot plan of said park within one hundred twenty (120) days
of the date of passage hereof. The plot plan shall be drawn to a scale of one
inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50') on eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17")
paper and shall contain the following information:
         a.   Name of person who prepared the plan.
         b.   Name of the mobile home park and address.
         c.   Scale and north point of the plan.
         d.   Boundaries and dimensions of the mobile home park, including
location of screening fence.
         e.   Location and dimensions of each mobile home space and designation
of each space by number or letter.
         f.   Location and dimensions of each existing building.
         g.   Location and width of accessways.
         h.   Location and width of walkways.
         i.   Location of recreation areas and dimensions.
         j.   Location of connection of park to city water and sewer systems as
supplied from city records.
         k.   Location of all utilities, including, but not limited to, water
and sewer system, electric power, gas lines, cable TV and any other system that
serves two (2) or more mobile home spaces.
         l.   Location of available fire hydrants and irrigation risers.
         m.   Enlarged plot of typical mobile home space showing location of
patio, parking, sidewalk, landscaping and utility connections. (1974 Code § 4-
2508)
      2.   Inventory; Deficiency Report: Within sixty (60) days of receipt of
the park plot plan, the plan shall be inventoried and reviewed by the planning
and zoning clerk and building inspector for compliance with standards set by
this chapter. Deficiencies in utilities, space or service building requirements
shall be identified and a report of same, known as a deficiency report, shall
be forwarded to the owner. (1974 Code § 4-2508; amd. 2010 Code)
      3.   Improvement Plan Required: Within one hundred twenty (120) days of
receipt of a deficiency report, the owner shall submit to the city council for
its approval a mobile home park improvement plan approved by the city building
inspector that will correct all deficiencies identified in the deficiency
report. Life safety standards shall be corrected immediately. Other required
improvements may be corrected over a five (5) year time frame with a scheduled
park improvements plan or, with approval of the commission, these improvements
may be treated as a nonconforming use, subject to being lost or abandoned under
the terms and conditions of the nonconforming use restrictions set out in this
title, if such existing improvements or status complied with the code
requirement existing at the time of such original construction.
      4.   Compliance With Improvement Plan Required: Compliance with the
improvement plan schedule shall be required. Placement permits shall be
withheld until compliance with the schedule is achieved.
      5.   Space Improvement Requirements:
         a.   Utility connections shall be brought up to standards for new
mobile home parks.
         b.   Utility connections shall include power, water and sewer.
Existing electrical services may remain overhead.
      6.   Service Buildings: Service buildings, where provided, shall be made
to conform to applicable city and state ordinances and statutes regulating
buildings, electrical and gas installations, and plumbing and sanitation
systems.
      7.   Accessway Improvements: Accessways shall be improved to a minimum
width of twenty four feet (24') with an all weather surfacing, the minimum
depth of which shall be at least eight-tenths of a foot (8/10'). If a hard
surface or a surfacing width greater than twenty four feet (24') is desired by
the park owner or operator, the minimum specifications shall be determined by
referring to subsection A of this section. The surfacing shall be completed
within two (2) years of passage hereof, or when fifty percent (50%) of the
mobile home spaces have been improved and brought up to code. (1974 Code § 4-
2508)
9-22-8: FIRE PROTECTION:
The mobile home park shall comply with the fire code. (1974 Code § 4-2509; amd.
2010 Code)
9-22-9: REFUSE DISPOSAL:
Storage, collection and disposal of solid waste in the park shall be so managed
as to comply with the provisions of the city for the control of solid waste.
(1974 Code § 4-2510)
9-22-10: VARIANCES:
   A.   Criteria For Approval: The planning and zoning commission may approve
variances to any portion of the standards of design or required improvements
set forth herein where the applicant can show that:
      1.   Because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site, a
departure may be made without destroying the intent of such provisions; and
      2.   The granting of the exception will not be detrimental to the public
welfare nor injurious to other property in the vicinity in which the mobile
home park is situated.
   B.   Application: Application for any such exception shall be made by a
petition of the applicant, stating fully the grounds for the request. Such
petition shall be filed with the application for a conditional use permit.
   C.   Decision Of Commission: The decision of the Planning and Zoning
Commission on exceptions to the provisions of this chapter shall be considered
final unless further appealed to the City Council as set forth in this title.
(1974 Code § 4-2511)
9-22-11: MOBILE HOMES OUTSIDE A MOBILE HOME PARK:
   A.   Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park
or store a mobile home on any street, alley, highway or other public place or
on any privately owned tract of land located within the City limits or Impact
Area of the City, whether said mobile home is occupied or unoccupied, except in
a licensed mobile home park.
   B.   Preexisting Mobile Homes: A mobile home which is legally parked or
stored at the time of the adoption hereof, in violation of subsection A of this
section, may remain in place as a nonconforming use subject to chapter 5 of
this title. If such mobile home was unoccupied at the time of the adoption
hereof, any subsequent occupation shall constitute a loss of such mobile home's
nonconforming use status.
   C.   Recreational Vehicles: The parking, storing and use of recreational
vehicles is covered in chapter 23 of this title. (1974 Code § 4-2512)
9-22-12: NOTICES, HEARINGS AND ORDERS:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever the building inspector determines that
there has been a violation or there are reasonable grounds to believe that
there has been a violation of any provision of this chapter, or of any
regulation adopted pursuant thereto, he shall give notice of such alleged
violation to the person responsible.
   B.   Contents Of Notice: Such notice shall:
      1.   Be written.
      2.   State the alleged violation.
      3.   Allow a period of thirty (30) days or longer as may be determined
reasonable by the building inspector, for the performance of any act required
to cure the alleged violation.
      4.   Be served upon the owner or his agent or the occupant as the case
may require; provided, that such notice or order shall be deemed to have been
properly served upon such owner or agent, or upon such occupant by registered
mail to his last known address, or when a copy has been posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises affected by the notice, when he has been served with such
notice by any other method authorized or required by State law.
      5.   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and with regulations adopted
pursuant thereto.
      6.   When the violation is a violation of the Life Safety Codes, no
further permits shall be issued for any purpose within the park until the
violation is corrected. (1974 Code § 4-2513)
9-22-13: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: Any person or corporation, whether owner, lessee, principal,
agent, employee or otherwise, who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter or permits any such violation or fails to comply with any of the
requirements thereof, or who erects, constructs, reconstructs, alters,
enlarges, converts, moves, or uses any building or uses any land in violation
of any detailed statement or plans submitted by him and approved under the
provisions of this chapter, shall be guilty of an infraction. Each week's
continued violation shall constitute a separate additional violation. (Ord.
991, 10-11-2018)
   B.   Institution Of Action Or Proceedings: In case any building or structure
is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted or maintained, or
any building, structure or land is used in violation of this chapter, the
proper legal authorities of the City, in addition to other remedies, may
institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or
use, to restrain, correct or abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy of
said building, structure, or land, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct,
business or use in or about such building, structure or land. (1974 Code § 4-
2514)
9-22-14: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, said
provisions shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of
the public health, safety, convenience, comfort, general welfare and other
purposes.
   B.   It is not the intention of this chapter to interfere with any more
strict requirements which may be imposed by a covenant, deed restriction, or
City, County, State or Federal Health Officer that has jurisdiction in the
City.
   C.   Where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of
buildings, the provisions of this chapter shall govern. (1974 Code § 4-2515)
CHAPTER 23
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
SECTION:
9-23-1: Interpretation Of Terms; Definitions
9-23-2: Purpose; Intent
9-23-3: Zoning Approval And Conditional Use Permit Required; Procedure
9-23-4: Site Requirements
9-23-5: Improvement Requirements
9-23-6: Authority Of Planning And Zoning Commission
9-23-7: Driveways
9-23-8: Electricity
9-23-9: Fire Protection
9-23-10: Insect And Rodent Control
9-23-11: Inspection Of Premises
9-23-12: Permits Required
9-23-13: Pets
9-23-14: Plumbing
9-23-15: Gas Service Connections
9-23-16: Water Supply
9-23-17: Refuse Disposal
9-23-18: Service Buildings
9-23-19: Recreational Areas
9-23-20: Recreational Park Operations
9-23-21: Recreational Vehicles Within The City And Area Of Impact
9-23-22: Notices; Orders
9-23-23: Violation; Penalty
9-23-1: INTERPRETATION OF TERMS; DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Incorporation: Sections
9-2-2, "Interpretation Of Terms And Words" and
9-2-3, "Definitions", of this title are incorporated into this chapter by
reference.
   B.   Additional Definitions: Additional definitions of words used in this
chapter:
   ACCESSWAY: An unobstructed way of specified width containing a drive or
roadway which provides vehicular access within a mobile home park and connects
to a public street.
   ESTABLISHED GRADE: The high point of the sidewalk at the front or side lot
line as established by the city.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: Any park, court, camp, site, lot, parcel or tract
of land designated, maintained or intended for the purpose of supplying a
location of accommodations for any recreational vehicle to park overnight or
for a limited extended stay. The park includes all buildings and open space
used or intended for use as part of the facilities.
   UNIT: A section of ground in a recreational vehicle park designated as the
location for one automobile and one recreational vehicle or motorized
recreational vehicle. (1974 Code § 4-2601)
9-23-2: PURPOSE; INTENT:
This chapter establishes minimum standards and requirements for the
construction and occupation of recreational vehicle parks, especially as they
relate to adjacent land uses and to the development of the whole community, in
order to protect and secure the public health, safety and general welfare of
the city. (1974 Code § 4-2602)
9-23-3: ZONING APPROVAL AND CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED; PROCEDURE:
No building permit shall be issued for the construction of a new recreational
vehicle park or expansion of an existing recreational vehicle park within the
city limits and the city area of impact until the proposed location is approved
by the planning and zoning commission and a conditional use permit for
recreational vehicle park purposes is granted following a public hearing held
in accordance with the procedures set forth in this title. Such conditional use
permit shall only be granted upon a showing being made to the satisfaction of
the commission that such action will be compatible with the overall development
of the area where the recreational vehicle park is proposed to be constructed.
Such showing shall be made in accordance with the following procedures:
   A.   Application: Application for a conditional use permit shall be made to
the planning and zoning clerk. The planning and zoning clerk shall in turn
transmit the application to the planning and zoning commission.
   B.   Plot Plan Required: The application for a conditional use permit to
construct a new recreational vehicle park or the expansion of an existing
recreational vehicle park shall be accompanied by four (4) copies of the plot
plan of the proposed park. The plot plan should show the general layout of the
entire recreational vehicle park, and should be drawn to a scale not smaller
than one inch representing forty feet (1" = 40'). The following information is
required on the plot plan:
      1.   Name of the person who prepared the plan.
      2.   Name of the recreational vehicle park and address.
      3.   Scale and north point of the plan.
      4.   Vicinity map showing relationship of recreational vehicle park to
adjacent properties.
      5.   Boundaries and dimensions of the recreational vehicle park.
      6.   Location and dimensions of each recreational vehicle space.
Designation of each space by number or letter combination.
      7.   Location and dimensions of each existing or proposed building.
      8.   Location and width of accessways.
      9.   Location and width of walkways.
      10.   Location of each lighting fixture for lighting the recreational
vehicle spaces and grounds.
      11.   Location of recreation areas and buildings, and area of recreation
space in square feet.
      12.   Location and type of landscaping plantings, fence, wall or
combination of any of these or other screening materials.
      13.   Location of point where recreational vehicle park water and sewer
systems connect with the public system.
      14.   Location of available fire and irrigation hydrants.
      15.   Enlarged plot plan of a typical recreational vehicle space, showing
location of the patio, parking, sidewalks, utility connections and landscaping.
(1974 Code § 4-2603)
9-23-4: SITE REQUIREMENTS:
The following shall be considered the minimum site requirements for a new
recreational vehicle park or the expansion of an existing recreational vehicle
park:
   A.   Location: The recreational vehicle park shall be located on a well
drained site and shall be so located that its drainage will not endanger any
water supply.
   B.   Size Of RV Space: Each recreational vehicle space shall contain a
minimum of one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) square feet, shall be at
least twenty five feet (25') wide and shall abut on a driveway or other clear
area with unobstructed access to a public street. Such spaces shall be clearly
defined and marked. Recreational vehicles shall be parked in such spaces so
that there will be a minimum of fifteen feet (15') between vehicles and so that
no vehicle will be less than five feet (5') from the exterior boundary of the
park.
   C.   Setback From Street Or Highway: A recreational vehicle park must be at
least twenty feet (20') back from any street or highway.
   D.   Access Roads: Access roads shall be provided to each recreational
vehicle space. Each access road shall be continuous, shall connect with a
street or highway, and shall have a minimum width of twenty four feet (24'). No
recreational vehicle site shall have direct frontage on any public street.
Areas shall be provided for the parking of motor vehicles. Such areas shall
accommodate at least the number of vehicles equal to the number of recreational
vehicle spaces provided.
   E.   Electric, Water And Sewer Hookups: Electric, water and sewer hookups
shall comply with all city, state and federal standards. If sites are provided
for self-contained units without a sewer hookup, then a waste dump station with
easy access must be provided.
   F.   Included As Part Of Mobile Home Park 1 : In the event the recreational
vehicle park is included as part of a mobile home park, no separate
recreational vehicle park permit will be required as long as there is a valid
mobile home park permit issued for the park. (1974 Code § 4-2604)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  9-22-4H5 of this title.
9-23-5: IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
Improvement requirements for a new recreational vehicle park or the expansion
of an existing park are as follows:
   A.   Roadways Within Accessways And Sidewalks:
      1.   Paving: Roadways within accessways and sidewalks shall be paved with
a crushed rock base and asphalt or concrete surfacing according to structural
specifications established by the city engineer.
      2.   Minimum Surfaced Width: The minimum surfaced width of the roadway
within an accessway shall be twenty four feet (24') if there is no parking
allowed, and thirty four feet (34') if parking is allowed on one side. The
first fifty feet (50') of the accessway measured from the street shall be
surfaced to a width of thirty four feet (34') and shall be connected to an
existing street in accordance with plans provided by the city engineer.
   B.   Patios: Patios shall be paved with asphalt, concrete, or suitable hard
surfaced materials.
   C.   Lighting Of Accessways And Walkways: All accessways and walkways within
the park shall be lighted at night to provide a minimum of one and one-half
(11/2) foot-candles of illumination.
   D.   Wires For Services: Wires for services to light poles and recreational
vehicle spaces shall be underground.
   E.   Drainage: The recreational vehicle park shall be well drained.
Provisions for drainage shall be made in accordance with a drainage plan
approved by the city engineer.
   F.   Recreational Areas: Recreational areas shall be suitably improved and
maintained for recreational purposes. (1974 Code § 4-2605)
9-23-6: AUTHORITY OF PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
The commission shall have authority to vary any of the provisions of this
chapter when there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in
carrying out the strict letter of this chapter. No conditional use or variance
shall be approved, however, until after a hearing has been held on an
application therefor in accordance with this title. (1974 Code § 4-2606)
9-23-7: DRIVEWAYS:
Entrance driveways shall be located not closer than one hundred fifty feet
(150') from any intersection of public streets. Entrance driveways to the park
shall have a minimum width of forty feet (40'). In cases where the entrance
driveway is divided by a median planting strip, the minimum width shall be
fifty feet (50'). All access roads must comply with provisions of the fire
code. (1974 Code § 4-2607; amd. 2010 Code)
9-23-8: ELECTRICITY:
The electrical and lighting system and installation of outlets to serve each
recreational vehicle shall comply with provisions of the electrical code. (1974
Code § 4-2608; amd. 2010 Code)
9-23-9: FIRE PROTECTION:
The recreational vehicle park shall comply with the fire code. (1974 Code § 4-
2609; amd. 2010 Code)
9-23-10: INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL:
Insect control and rodent control measures to safeguard public health, as
recommended by the South Central district health department, shall be applied
in the recreational vehicle park. (1974 Code § 4-2610)
9-23-11: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
Properly constituted enforcement representatives shall have the power to enter,
at reasonable times and upon proper notification to the manager, the premises
of said park for the purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions
relating to the enforcement of this chapter, or of regulations promulgated
thereunder. Enforcement of this chapter shall be vested in the city chief of
police upon written complaints made by the building inspector, planning and
zoning clerk, planning and zoning commission, fire chief, South Central
district health department inspector or any of their designated
representatives. (1974 Code § 4-2611)
9-23-12: PERMITS REQUIRED:
Building permits shall be required for and inspection made of all buildings
within the park. The park shall be inspected by the building inspector during
and after completion of construction of the park and a permit will be required
for this inspection. Plumbing and electrical permits shall be obtained prior to
construction of those facilities and city designated inspectors will make
inspection of the systems and of the individual installations. (1974 Code § 4-
2612)
9-23-13: PETS:
Pet control will be in accordance with title 4, chapter 5 of this code. (1974
Code § 4-2613)
9-23-14: PLUMBING:
   A.   Connection To Public Sewer System Required: All plumbing in the
recreational vehicle park shall connect to the public sewer system and shall
comply with the plumbing code and adopted appendices. All sewage disposal
apparatus, including appurtenances thereto, shall be provided, maintained and
operated so as to not create a nuisance or health hazard. (1974 Code § 4-2614;
amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Connection Fees: Sewer connection fees for each unit will be the same
as for mobile home parks. (1974 Code § 4-2614)
9-23-15: GAS SERVICE CONNECTIONS:
The park shall not provide gas service connections to any vehicles within the
park. All gas service to recreation vehicles must be from installed gas bottles
and may not be supplied by separate external exchange tanks. (1974 Code § 4-
2615)
9-23-16: WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   Accessible, Adequate, Safe And Potable Water Supply Required: An
accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall be furnished in
each recreational vehicle park capable of furnishing a minimum of five (5)
gallons per minute per recreational vehicle space.
   B.   Piping: All water piping shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with state of Idaho regulations for public drinking water systems,
section 1.8500.
   C.   Connection Fees: Fees for connecting to the city water system will be
charged in accordance with the water line extension policy and service costs
established by resolution of the city council. (1974 Code § 4-2616)
9-23-17: REFUSE DISPOSAL:
The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the park shall be so managed
as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding areas,
accident hazards or air pollution. All refuse shall be stored in flytight,
watertight, rodentproof containers which shall be provided in sufficient number
and capacity to prevent any refuse from overflowing. Satisfactory container
racks or holders shall be provided and shall be located no more than one
hundred fifty feet (150') from any recreational vehicle space. (1974 Code § 4-
2617)
9-23-18: SERVICE BUILDINGS:
Service buildings housing sanitation and laundry facilities shall be permanent
structures complying with all applicable city and state ordinances and statutes
regulating buildings, electrical and plumbing installations and sanitation
systems. (1974 Code § 4-2618)
9-23-19: RECREATIONAL AREAS:
Each park shall provide at least one hundred (100) square feet of recreational
area per recreational vehicle. Said recreation area shall be landscaped and
maintained in a dust free condition. (1974 Code § 4-2619)
9-23-20: RECREATIONAL PARK OPERATIONS:
   A.   Assigned Space Required: No recreational vehicle shall be allowed to
remain in the park without an assigned recreational vehicle space.
   B.   Duration Of Stay: Stays within the park shall be limited to:
      1.   Not more than ninety (90) consecutive days or for not more than one
hundred eighty (180) days out of a calendar year; or
      2.   The duration of one of the recreational vehicle owner's employment
at a seasonal job, plus ten (10) days after the seasonal job ends; or
      3.   The duration of one of the recreational vehicle owner's employment
at a construction project, plus ten (10) days after the construction job ends.
      4.   If subsection B2 or B3 of this section exceed the time allowed under
subsection B1 of this section, then the actual period of employment plus ten
(10) days will control. (1974 Code § 4-2620)
9-23-21: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES WITHIN THE CITY AND AREA OF IMPACT:
   A.   Use As Permanent Dwelling: Recreational vehicles cannot be used for a
permanent dwelling within the city and its area of impact whether located
within or outside a recreational vehicle park.
   B.   Parking Or Storage Outside RV Park: Recreational vehicles may be parked
or stored outside of a recreational vehicle park within the city limits and its
area of impact in the following manner only:
      1.   The recreational vehicle must be located within the setbacks for the
district.
      2.   The recreational vehicle may be parked in an accessory garage,
building, or an accessory car garage or port.
      3.   The recreational vehicle shall not be parked to provide living
quarters, either temporary or permanent, nor shall any recreational vehicle be
parked or stored to provide for any accessory business uses.
      4.   The recreational vehicle shall not be hooked up to or connected with
any sewer lines, water lines or electrical utilities nor shall it be skirted.
      5.   The recreational vehicle shall not be parked, located or stored for
rental purposes or other financial gain outside of an approved recreational
vehicle park or storage area.
      6.   There shall only be one recreational vehicle parked, stored or
located on any residential lot. No recreational vehicle shall be parked, stored
or located on any vacant lot, street, alley or public property in the city or
in its area of impact. (1974 Code § 4-2621)
9-23-22: NOTICES; ORDERS:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever the planning and zoning clerk determines
that there has been a violation or there are reasonable grounds to believe that
there has been a violation of any provision of this chapter, or of any
regulation adopted pursuant thereto, notice of such alleged violation shall be
given to the person responsible by the planning and zoning clerk.
   B.   Notice Requirements: Such notice shall:
      1.   Be written.
      2.   State the alleged violation.
      3.   Allow a reasonable period of time to cure the alleged violations. In
cases where the violation is a violation of life safety codes or is an
immediate danger to life and/or property or is a violation which cannot be
corrected, the violation shall be cause to close the recreational vehicle park
until the violation is corrected. In all other cases, the reasonable time for
correcting the violation shall be set forth in the notice by the planning and
zoning clerk based upon the type of violation and what action must be taken to
correct or cure the violation. The original reasonable time set may be extended
by the planning and zoning clerk in cases where availability of materials or
the weather justifies such an extension.
      4.   Be served upon the owner or his agent or the occupant, as the case
may require; provided, that such notice or order shall be deemed to have been
properly served upon such owner or agent, or upon such occupant by registered
mail to his last known address, or when a copy has been posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises affected by the notice, or when he has been served with
such notice by any other method authorized or required by state law.
      5.   Contain an outline of remedial action, which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and with regulations, adopted
pursuant thereto. (1974 Code § 4-2622)
9-23-23: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Violation; Infraction: Any person or corporation, whether owner,
lessee, principal, agent, employee or otherwise, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter or permits any such violation or fails to comply
with any of the requirements of this chapter, or who erects, constructs,
reconstructs, alters, enlarges, converts, moves or uses any building or uses
any land in violation of any detailed statement or plans submitted by him and
approved under the provisions of this chapter, shall be guilty of an
infraction. Each week's continued violation shall constitute a separate
additional violation. (Ord. 991, 10-11-2018)
   B.   Institution Of Proceedings Or Action: In case any building or structure
is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted or maintained, or
any building, structure or land is used in violation of this chapter, the
proper legal authorities of the City, in addition to other remedies, may
institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or
use, to restrain, correct or abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy of
said building, structure or land, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct,
business or use in or about such building, structure or land. (1974 Code § 4-
2623)
CHAPTER 24
SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
9-24-1: General Provisions
9-24-2: Rules; Definitions
9-24-3: Application For Subdivision Approval Generally
9-24-4: Preapplication Procedure
9-24-5: Fees
9-24-6: Record Of Lot, Plat Approval
9-24-7: Sale Of Lot, Plat To Be Recorded
9-24-8: Amendment Procedures
9-24-9: Variances
9-24-10: Vacations And Dedications
9-24-11: Exceptions Made To Avoid Hardships
9-24-12: Detection Of Violation, Enforcement And Penalties
9-24-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The following general provisions are applicable in connection with this
chapter:
   A.   Title: This chapter shall be known as the SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE OF
BUHL, IDAHO.
   B.   Authority: These regulations are authorized by Idaho Code title 50,
chapter 13; title 67, chapter 65; and the Idaho constitution article 12,
section 2, as amended or subsequently codified.
   C.   Jurisdiction: The subdivision regulations as contained in this chapter
shall apply to the subdividing of land within the corporate limits of city, the
city's legal jurisdiction outside of the city limits and within the "area of
impact" as established pursuant to state law and agreement with the county of
Twin Falls and the city.
   D.   Minimum Requirements: The provisions herein shall be held to be the
minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety and general
public welfare.
   E.   Relationship With Other Laws: Where the conditions imposed by any
provisions herein upon the use of land or buildings or upon the bulk of
buildings are either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable
conditions imposed by any other provision herein or any other law, ordinance,
resolution, rule or regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more
restrictive or which impose higher standards or requirements shall govern.
   F.   Intent; Purpose: The purpose of these regulations is to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare, and to provide for:
      1.   The harmonious development of the area;
      2.   The coordination of streets and roads within the subdivision with
other existing or planned streets and roads;
      3.   Adequate open space for travel, light, air and recreation;
      4.   Adequate transportation, water drainage and sanitary facilities;
      5.   The avoidance of scattered subdivision of land that would result in
either of the following:
         a.   The lack of water supply, sewer service, drainage, transportation
or other public services; and
         b.   The unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of public
funds for the supply of such services.
      6.   The requirements as to the extent and the manner in which:
         a.   Roads shall be created and improved; and
         b.   Water and sewer and other utility mains, piping connections or
other facilities shall be installed;
      7.   The manner and form of making and filing of any plat; and
      8.   The administration of these regulations by defining the powers and
duties of approval authorities. (1974 Code § 4-2801)
9-24-2: RULES; DEFINITIONS:
The rules and definitions as set forth in sections
9-2-2 and
9-2-3 of this title shall apply to this chapter. (1974 Code § 4-2802)
9-24-3: APPLICATION FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL GENERALLY:
Any person desiring to create a "subdivision" as herein defined shall submit
all necessary applications to the planning and zoning clerk. (1974 Code § 4-
2803)
9-24-4: PREAPPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Submission Of Preapplication: The subdivider may submit a
preapplication to enable the planning and zoning clerk to review and comment on
the proposed subdivision.
   B.   Sketch Plan: The preapplication shall include at least one copy of a
sketch plan. The sketch plan shall include the entire developmental scheme of
the proposed subdivision, in schematic form, and include the following:
      1.   The general layout and approximate dimension of streets, blocks and
lots in sketch form;
      2.   The existing condition and characteristics of the land on and
adjacent to the proposed subdivision site; and
      3.   The areas set aside for schools, parks and other public facilities.
   C.   Action By Planning And Zoning Clerk: The planning and zoning clerk
shall notify the subdivider within fifteen (15) days from the date of receipt
of an acceptable preapplication as to the general conformance or nonconformance
of the proposal with this chapter, shall provide the necessary forms and
checklists and shall comment on the following:
      1.   Compliance of the proposed development with existing local or state
governmental goals and objectives of the comprehensive plan;
      2.   Determination if additional conditional use permits or ordinance
conflicts, such as rezone, special development permit or variance, are needed
and the manner of coordinating such permits;
      3.   Consideration of any unique environmental features or hazardous
concerns that may be directly or indirectly associated with the subject
property such as areas that have been designated by the state of Idaho as areas
of critical environmental concern, unique plant or animal life, floodplain,
airport flight pattern and the like; and
      4.   Consideration of other local and state governmental agencies that
the subdivider should contact before preparing a preliminary plat. (1974 Code §
4-2804)
9-24-5: FEES:
At the time of submission of an application for a preliminary plat and
application for a final plat, a fee, as established in the official fee
schedule of the city, shall be paid. There shall be no additional fee for a
preapplication. (1974 Code § 4-2807)
9-24-6: RECORD OF LOT, PLAT APPROVAL:
No final plat shall be filed with the county recorder or improvements made on
the property until the plat has been acted upon by the commission and approved
by the governing board. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
9-24-7: SALE OF LOT, PLAT TO BE RECORDED:
No lots shall be sold until the plat has been recorded in the office of the
county recorder. (1974 Code § 4-2809)
9-24-8: AMENDMENT PROCEDURES:
The council may, from time to time, amend, supplement or repeal the regulations
and provisions of this chapter upon recommendation from the commission or upon
its own motion in the following manner:
   A.   Commission Action:
      1.   Hearing; Notice: The commission, prior to recommending an amendment,
supplement or repeal of the provision, shall conduct at least one public
hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard. At
least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time and place and
a summary of the amendment, supplement or repeal to be discussed shall be
published in the official newspaper or paper of general circulation within the
jurisdiction.
      2.   Material Change: Following the commission hearing, if the commission
makes a material change in this chapter other than that published for the
present hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided before the
commission forwards its recommendation to the council.
      3.   Record: A record of the hearings, findings made and actions taken
shall be maintained.
   B.   Council Action:
      1.   Hearing; Notice: The council, prior to adopting an amendment,
supplement or repeal of this chapter, shall conduct at least one public hearing
using the same notice and hearing procedures as the commission. The council
shall not hold a public hearing, give notice of a proposed hearing, or take
action until recommendations have been received from the commission.
      2.   Material Change Not Included In Notice: Following hearing of the
council, if the council makes a material change in this title other than that
published for the present hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided
before the council adopts the amendment, supplement or repeal. (1974 Code § 4-
2810)
9-24-9: VARIANCES:
See chapter 19 of this title. (1974 Code § 4-2816)
9-24-10: VACATIONS AND DEDICATIONS:
   A.   Application Procedure:
      1.   Application: Any property owner desiring to vacate an existing
subdivision, public right of way or easement, or desiring to dedicate a street
right of way or easement, shall complete and file an application with the
commission. These provisions shall not apply to the widening of any street or
the dedication of streets, rights of way, or easements to be shown on a
recorded subdivision.
      2.   Commission Action: Upon receipt of the completed application, the
commission or its representative shall affix the date of application acceptance
thereon. The commission shall place the application on the agenda for
consideration at its next regular meeting. (1974 Code § 4-2817)
   B.   Action:
      1.   Commission Recommendation: The commission shall review the request
and all agency response and make a recommendation to the governing board for
either approval, conditional approval, or denial.
      2.   Governing Board Action:
         a.   Vacation: When considering an application for vacation
procedures, the governing board shall establish a date for a public hearing and
give such public notice as required by law. The governing board may approve,
deny, or modify the application. Whenever public rights of way or lands are
vacated, the governing board shall provide adjacent property owners with a
quitclaim deed for the vacated rights of way in such proportions as are
prescribed by law.
         b.   Dedication: When considering an application for dedication
procedures, the governing board may approve, deny or modify the application.
When a dedication is approved, the required street improvements shall be
constructed or a bond furnished assuring the construction, prior to acceptance
of the dedication. To complete the acceptance of any dedication of land, the
owner shall furnish to the governing board a deed describing and conveying such
lands to be recorded with the county recorder.
         c.   Acceptance: The governing board's acceptance of such vacation or
dedication shall be in writing. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
9-24-11: EXCEPTIONS MADE TO AVOID HARDSHIPS:
   A.   Whenever the tract to be subdivided is, in the opinion of the governing
board, of such unusual shape or size, or is surrounded by such development or
unusual conditions, that the strict application of the requirements contained
herein would result in real difficulties and substantial hardships or
injustices, the governing board may vary or modify such requirements by an
official entry in the minutes of the governing board proceedings so that the
subdivider is allowed to develop his property in a reasonable manner, but so
that at the same time, the public welfare and interests of the city and
surrounding area are protected and the general intent and spirit of this
chapter are preserved. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
   B.   The fact that an owner could realize a greater financial return from
his property by subdividing said property contrary to these regulations is not
sufficient reason for hardship. Hardship cannot be proved where it can be shown
that property was purchased with the knowledge of existing restrictions, nor
can hardship be claimed in terms of prospective sales or potential customers.
(1974 Code § 4-2818)
9-24-12: DETECTION OF VIOLATION, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement: No subdivision plat required by this chapter or the Idaho
Code shall be admitted to the public land records of the county, or recorded by
the county recorder, until such subdivision plat has received final approval by
the council. No public board, agency, commission, official or other authority
shall proceed with the public improvements required by this chapter until the
final plat has received the approval of the council. The city attorney shall,
in addition to taking whatever criminal action deemed necessary, take steps to
enjoin any violation of this code.
   B.   Penalties: See section
9-3-4 of this title. (1974 Code § 4-2819)
ARTICLE A. PRELIMINARY PLAT
SECTION:
9-24A-1: Filing Application And Data
9-24A-2: Combining Preliminary And Final Plat
9-24A-3: Required Information And Data
9-24A-4: Procedure For Approval Of Preliminary Plat
9-24A-5: Approval Period
9-24A-1: FILING APPLICATION AND DATA:
The subdivider shall file with the planning and zoning clerk a complete
subdivision application form and preliminary plat data as required in this
chapter. (1974 Code § 4-2805)
9-24A-2: COMBINING PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLAT:
The applicant may request that the subdivision application be processed as both
a preliminary and final plat if all the following exist:
   A.   The proposed subdivision does not exceed ten (10) lots;
   B.   No new street dedication or street widening is involved;
   C.   No major special development considerations are involved such as
development in a floodplain, hillside development or the like;
   D.   All required information for both preliminary and final plat is
complete and in an acceptable form; and
   E.   The proposed subdivision is not in conflict with the comprehensive plan
or any provision of this title.
A request to combine both preliminary and final plat into one application shall
be acted upon by the commission upon recommendation of the planning and zoning
clerk. (1974 Code § 4-2805)
9-24A-3: REQUIRED INFORMATION AND DATA:
   A.   Form: The contents of the preliminary plat and related information
shall be in such a form as stipulated by the city council; however, any
additional maps or data deemed necessary by the planning and zoning clerk may
also be required.
   B.   Submitted With Application: The subdivider shall submit to the planning
and zoning clerk at least the following:
      1.   Preliminary Plat: The required number of copies of the preliminary
plat as determined by the planning and zoning clerk, with the approval of the
city council, drawn in accordance with the requirements hereinafter stated:
each copy of the preliminary plat shall be on good quality paper, shall have
the dimensions of not less than twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x
36"), shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one inch to one hundred feet
(1" = 100'), shall show the drafting date, and shall indicate thereon, by
arrow, the generally northerly direction;
      2.   Engineering Plans: The required number of copies of the engineering
plans, as determined by the planning and zoning clerk, with the approval of the
city council (not meant to be cross sections or detailed designs) for streets,
water, sewers, sidewalks and other required public improvements; however, such
engineering plans shall contain sufficient information and detail to make a
determination as to conformance of the proposed improvements to applicable
regulations, ordinances and standards;
      3.   Written Application: A written application requesting approval of
the preliminary plan; and
      4.   Information Regarding Special Development Area: Appropriate
information that sufficiently details the proposed development within any
special development area such as hillside, planned unit development,
floodplain, cemetery, mobile home park, large scale development, hazardous and
unique areas of development.
   C.   Submitted Separately: The following shall be submitted separately:
      1.   Name Of Subdivision: The name of the proposed subdivision;
      2.   Name Of Subdivider And Engineer Or Surveyor: The name, address and
telephone numbers of the subdivider or subdividers and the engineer or surveyor
who prepared the plat;
      3.   Name And Address Of Adjoining Owners Of Property: The name and
address of all adjoining owners of property and residents within three hundred
feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being considered, whether or
not bisected by a public right of way as shown on record in the county
assessor's office;
      4.   Legal Description: The legal description of the subdivision;
      5.   Statement Of Intended Use: The statement of the intended use of the
proposed subdivision, such as residential single-family, two-family and
multiple-family housing, commercial, industrial, recreational or agricultural
and a designation of any sites proposed for parks, playgrounds, schools,
churches or other public uses;
      6.   Map Of Entire Area Scheduled For Development: A map of the entire
area scheduled for development if the proposed development is a portion of a
larger holding intended for subsequent development. A map shall be submitted
showing the location of existing buildings, water bodies or courses and the
location of currently dedicated streets at the point where they adjoin and/or
are immediately adjacent; provided, that actual measured distances shall not be
required;
      7.   Vicinity Map: A vicinity map showing the relationship of the
proposed plat to the surrounding area of a one-half (1/2) mile radius, scale
optional;
      8.   Land Use And Existing Zoning: The land use and existing zoning of
the proposed subdivision and the adjacent land;
      9.   Streets: Streets, street names, rights of way and roadway widths,
including adjoining streets or roadways;
      10.   Lot Lines And Blocks: Lot lines and blocks showing the dimensions
and numbers of each;
      11.   Contour Lines: Contour lines, shown at five foot (5') intervals,
where land slope is greater than ten percent (10%) and at two foot (2')
intervals where land slope is ten percent (10%) or less, referenced to an
established bench mark, including location and elevation;
      12.   Site Report: A site report as required by the appropriate health
district where individual wells or septic tanks are proposed;
      13.   Proposed Or Existing Utilities: Any proposed or existing utilities,
including, but not limited to, storm and sanitary sewers, irrigation laterals,
ditches, drainages, bridges, culverts, water mains, fire hydrants and their
respective profiles;
      14.   Dedications And/Or Easements: Any dedications to the public and/or
easements, together with a statement of location, dimensions and purpose of
such;
      15.   Additional Required Information: Any additional required
information for specific developments as defined in this chapter; and
      16.   Statement Regarding Variance: A statement as to whether or not a
variance, as specified in this chapter, will be requested with respect to any
provision of this chapter describing the particular provision, the variance
requested and the reasons therefor. (1974 Code § 4-2805)
9-24A-4: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Administrative Review:
      1.   Certification By Planning And Zoning Clerk, Public Hearing: Upon
receipt of the preliminary plat and all other required data as provided for
herein, the planning and zoning clerk shall certify the application is complete
and shall affix the date of application acceptance thereon. The planning and
zoning clerk shall schedule a public hearing before the planning and zoning
commission, which hearing shall be held within forty five (45) days of the date
of certification of a complete application.
      2.   Review By Other Agencies: The planning and zoning clerk shall refer
the preliminary plat and application to as many governmental agencies as deemed
necessary. Such agencies may include the following:
         a.   Other governing bodies having joint jurisdiction;
         b.   The appropriate utility companies, irrigation companies or
districts and drainage districts;
         c.   The superintendent of the school district; and
         d.   Other agencies having an interest in the proposed subdivision.
      3.   Recommendation By Planning And Zoning Clerk: The planning and zoning
clerk shall provide that any transmittal as provided in subsection A2 of this
section will be returned within fifteen (15) days. At the end of the fifteen
(15) day period, the planning and zoning clerk shall prepare a recommendation
to the commission. All agency responses shall be supplied by the planning and
zoning clerk to the planning and zoning commission.
   B.   Public Notice: The planning and zoning clerk shall notify all adjoining
property owners whose names and addresses have been provided by the subdivider.
Such written notice shall be mailed by first class mail at least fifteen (15)
days prior to the commission meeting. The planning and zoning clerk's failure
to comply with the notice provision shall not invalidate the commission's
action, provided the spirit of the procedure is observed.
   C.   Action By Commission:
      1.   Hearing By Commission: The commission shall review the preliminary
plat, comments from the concerned persons and agencies and the report from the
planning and zoning clerk to arrive at a decision on the preliminary plat.
      2.   Commission Findings: In determining the acceptance of a proposed
subdivision, the commission shall consider the objectives of this article and
at least the following:
         a.   The conformance of the subdivision with the comprehensive plan;
         b.   The availability of public services to accommodate the proposed
subdivision;
         c.   The continuity of the proposed development with the capital
improvement program;
         d.   The public financial capability of supporting services for the
proposed development; and
         e.   The other health, safety and environmental problems that may be
brought to the commission's attention.
      3.   Action On Preliminary Plat: The commission may recommend approval,
conditional approval, disapproval or tabling for a period not to exceed forty
five (45) days. Such action shall occur within forty five (45) days of the date
of the regular meeting at which the plat is first considered by the commission.
The action and the reasons for such action shall be stated in writing by the
planning and zoning clerk and forwarded to the applicant. The planning and
zoning clerk shall also forward a statement of the action taken and the reasons
for such action together with a copy of the preliminary plat to the commission
for its action. Upon granting or denying a preliminary plat, the commission
shall specify:
         a.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
         b.   The reason for recommending approval or denial; and
         c.   The actions if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
approval of the preliminary plat. (1974 Code § 4-2805)
      4.   Action On Combined Preliminary And Final Plat: If the commission's
conclusion is favorable to the subdivider's request for the subdivision to be
considered as both a preliminary plat and final plat, then a recommendation
shall be forwarded to the governing board in the same manner as herein
specified for a final plat. The commission may recommend that the combined
application be approved, approved conditionally or disapproved.
   D.   Action By Governing Board: Within thirty (30) days after receipt of the
commission's recommendation and following the notice and hearing requirements
as set forth in this chapter, the governing board shall make findings as
required in this chapter. The governing board shall approve, approve
conditionally or disapprove the preliminary plat within thirty (30) days of the
hearing conducted to consider the commission's recommendation. (Ord. 929, 5-14-
2007)
   E.   Appeals: See chapter 3, article D of this title for appeals procedure.
(1974 Code § 4-2805)
9-24A-5: APPROVAL PERIOD:
   A.   Failure To File And Obtain Certification: Failure to file with and
obtain the certification of the acceptance of the final plat application by the
planning and zoning clerk within one year after action by the governing board
shall cause all approvals of said preliminary plat to be null and void, unless
an extension of time is applied for by the subdivider and granted by the
governing board. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
   B.   Development In Segments: In the event that the development of the
preliminary plat is made in successive, contiguous segments in an orderly and
reasonable manner, and conforms such segments, if submitted within successive
intervals of one year, it may be considered for final approval without
resubmission for preliminary plat approval. (1974 Code § 4-2805)
ARTICLE B. FINAL PLAT
SECTION:
9-24B-1: Filing Of Final Plat
9-24B-2: Contents
9-24B-3: Procedure For Approval
9-24B-4: Conditional Approval
9-24B-5: Approval Period
9-24B-6: Required Certificates
9-24B-7: Record Of Final Plat
9-24B-1: FILING OF FINAL PLAT:
After the approval or conditional approval of the preliminary plat, the
subdivider may cause the total parcel or any part thereof to be surveyed and a
final plat prepared in accordance with the approved preliminary plat. The
subdivider shall submit to the planning and zoning clerk the following:
   A.   Three (3) copies of the final plat; and
   B.   Three (3) copies of the final engineering construction drawings for
streets, water lines, sewers, sidewalks and other public improvements. (1974
Code § 4-2806)
9-24B-2: CONTENTS:
The final plat shall include and be in compliance with all items required under
Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13, and shall be prepared in accordance with the
specifications set forth in Idaho Code section 50-1304. The final plat shall
include at least the following: (1974 Code § 4-2806)
   A.   Written Application: A written application for approval of such final
plat as stipulated by the governing board; (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
   B.   Proof Of Current Ownership: Proof of current ownership of the real
property included in the proposed final plat; (1974 Code § 4-2806)
   C.   Other Information: Such other information as the planning and zoning
clerk or governing board may deem necessary to establish whether or not all
proper parties have signed and/or approved said final plat; (Ord. 929, 5-14-
2007)
   D.   Conformance With Preliminary Plat: Conformance with the approved
preliminary plat and meeting all requirements of conditions thereof;
   E.   Conformance With Chapter: Conformance with all requirements and
provisions of this chapter;
   F.   Engineering Practices And Standards: Acceptable engineering practices
and standards; and
   G.   Building Sites: The plat shall show building sites on each lot adjusted
to setback requirements. (1974 Code § 4-2806)
9-24B-3: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL:
   A.   Review By Planning And Zoning Clerk:
      1.   Acceptance: Upon receipt of the final plat, and compliance with all
other requirements provided for herein, the planning and zoning clerk shall
certify the application as complete and shall affix the date of acceptance
thereon. (1974 Code § 4-2806)
      2.   Resubmission Of Final Plat: The planning and zoning clerk shall
review the final plat for compliance with the approved or conditionally
approved preliminary plat. If the planning and zoning clerk determines that
there is substantial difference in the final plat from that which was approved
as a preliminary plat or conditions which have not been met, the planning and
zoning clerk may require that the final plat be submitted to the commission and
the governing board in the same manner as required in the preliminary process.
      3.   Submission To The Governing Board: Upon the determination that the
final plat is in compliance with the preliminary plat and all conditional
requirements have been met, the planning and zoning clerk shall place the final
plat on the governing board agenda within thirty (30) days from the date that
an acceptable final plat application was received and acknowledged by the
planning and zoning clerk. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
   B.   Agency Review: The planning and zoning clerk may transmit one copy of
the final plat, or other documents submitted, for review and recommendation to
the departments and agencies as he deems necessary to ensure compliance with
the preliminary approval and/or conditions of preliminary approval. Such agency
review shall also include the construction standards of improvements,
compliance with health standards, the cost estimate for all improvements and
the legal review of the performance bond. (1974 Code § 4-2806)
   C.   Governing Board Action: The governing board, at its next regular
meeting following receipt of the planning and zoning clerk report, shall
consider the commission findings and comments from concerned persons and
agencies to arrive at a decision on the final plat. The governing board shall
approve, approve conditionally, disapprove or table the final plat for
additional information within thirty (30) days of the date of the first regular
meeting at which the plat is considered. A copy of the approved plat shall be
filed with the planning and zoning clerk. Upon granting or denying the final
plat, the governing board shall specify: (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the plat;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
approval of the final plat. (1974 Code § 4-2806)
9-24B-4: CONDITIONAL APPROVAL:
With respect to financial guarantees, the approval of all final subdivision
plats shall be conditioned on the accomplishment of one of the following:
   A.   Construction Of Improvements Completed: The construction of
improvements required by this chapter shall have been completed by the
subdivider and approved by the governing board; or
   B.   Acceptable Surety: Surety acceptable to the governing board shall have
been filed in the form of a cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond,
irrevocable bank letter of credit or surety bond. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
9-24B-5: APPROVAL PERIOD:
The final plat shall be filed with the county recorder within one year after
written approval by the governing board. Otherwise, such approval shall become
null and void unless the subdivider, prior to said expiration date, applies for
an extension of time and such extension is granted by the governing board.
(Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
9-24B-6: REQUIRED CERTIFICATES:
The following certifications and signatures shall be included on the final plat
prior to recording by the county recorder:
   A.   Certification And Signature Of Governing Board: Certification and
signature of the governing board verifying that the subdivision has been
approved;
   B.   Certification And Signature Of City Clerk-Treasurer And City Engineer:
Certification and signature of the city clerk-treasurer and city engineer
verifying that the subdivision meets the requirements of the city and has been
approved by the governing board; and (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
   C.   Certification Of Sanitation Restriction: Certification of the
sanitation restriction on the face of the plat in accordance with the
provisions of Idaho Code section 50-1326. (1974 Code § 4-2806)
9-24B-7: RECORD OF FINAL PLAT:
Upon approval of the final plat by the governing board, the subdivider's
prepaying of recording fees, posting of surety bond or other acceptable
guarantee and the inclusion of those certifications and signatures on the final
plat as set forth in section
9-24B-6 of this article, the subdivider shall furnish proof to the planning and
zoning clerk that the final plat has been recorded. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
ARTICLE C. IRRIGATION WATER
SECTION:
9-24C-1: Subdivision Outside City Limits
9-24C-2: Subdivisions Inside City Limits
9-24C-3: Tiling Of Ditches
9-24C-1: SUBDIVISION OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
The subdivider of lands located outside the corporate limits of the city but
within the "area of impact" shall ensure an adequate means of irrigation for
all lands within the proposed subdivision. In the absence of alternative means
of irrigation the subdivider shall leave as appurtenant to the lands within the
proposed subdivision all water rights, including rights represented by shares
of stock in the Twin Falls Canal Company. Upon said subdivision being annexed
into the city limits, all of said water rights shall be held in the manner
provided for in section
9-24C-2 of this article. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
9-24C-2: SUBDIVISIONS INSIDE CITY LIMITS:
Subdivisions within the corporate limits of the city shall be connected to the
public water system as hereafter provided. All Twin Falls Canal Company water
shares or stock and domestic well permits or licenses shall be transferred to
the city and not to the purchaser of any one or more of the lots, tracts or
parcels of land included in the subdivision. However, Twin Falls Canal Company
irrigation water may be retained by a homeowners'/water users' association that
maintains and operates an irrigation system under the provisions of a duly
recorded water users' association agreement as approved by the city attorney.
(Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
9-24C-3: TILING OF DITCHES:
   A.   Tiling Of Irrigation Ditches, Laterals Or Canals: All irrigation
ditches, laterals or canals, exclusive of natural waterways, intersecting,
crossing or lying adjacent and contiguous, or which canals, ditches or laterals
touch either or both sides of the area being subdivided, shall be covered and
enclosed with tiling or other covering equivalent in ability to detour access
to said ditch, lateral or canal. The city may waive this requirement for
covering such ditch, lateral or canal, if it finds that the public purpose
requiring such will not be served in the individual case. Any covering program
involving the distribution system of any irrigation company or district shall
have the prior approval of that affected company or district. No subdivision
plat shall be approved where the subdivision is arbitrarily or artificially
laid out to avoid being adjacent to any waterway, irrigation ditch, lateral or
canal to which it would otherwise be naturally adjacent or which it would
otherwise naturally include.
   B.   Ditch Not Within Jurisdiction: The tiling of any irrigation or drainage
ditch not within the jurisdiction of an irrigation or drainage district or
company shall be completed so as not to impede the movement of the amount of
water crossing the property in the open ditch prior to development and the
tiling of the ditch or canal. The pipeline shall have a sloped bar grated inlet
structure made of bars and access/cleanout boxes at a maximum of four hundred
feet (400') spacing and at all angle points of the pipeline.
   C.   Ditch On Boundary Between Land Being Developed And Adjacent Land: Where
the ditch under consideration is on the boundary between the land being
developed and adjacent land not owned by the developer or the owner of the land
being developed, or is in fact the boundary, the ditch shall still be tiled.
The developer shall attempt to obtain the permission of the adjacent landowner
to tile the ditch and attempt to have the adjacent landowner share in the cost
of the tiling. If the adjacent landowner is unwilling to cooperate in sharing
the cost of the tiling but willing to allow the use of his land for tiling, the
developer shall tile the ditch at his sole cost. If the adjacent landowner is
unwilling to allow his land to be used for purposes of tiling the ditch, the
developer may request the city to condemn that part of the adjacent land
necessary to tile the waterway, but the developer shall be required to pay all
of the cost of condemnation and pay all of the costs of obtaining the adjacent
land and all of the cost of tiling the ditch, lateral or canal. (1974 Code § 4-
2806)
ARTICLE D. DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-24D-1: Minimum Design Standards
9-24D-2: Dedication
9-24D-3: Location
9-24D-4: Specifications
9-24D-5: Street Names
9-24D-6: Intersections
9-24D-7: Pedestrian Walkways
9-24D-8: Easements
9-24D-9: Linear Open Space Corridors
9-24D-10: Blocks
9-24D-11: Lots
9-24D-12: Planting Strips And Reserve Strips
9-24D-13: Public Sites And Open Spaces
9-24D-14: Protective Covenants
9-24D-1: MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Design Standards Required: All plats submitted pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, and all subdivisions, improvements and facilities
done, constructed or made in accordance with said provisions, shall comply with
the minimum design standards set forth in this article; provided, however, that
any higher standards adopted by the city, any highway district, state highway
department, or health agency shall prevail over those set forth herein. (1974
Code § 4-2812)
9-24D-2: DEDICATION:
Within a proposed subdivision, arterial and collector streets shall be
dedicated to the public in all cases; in general, all other streets shall also
be dedicated to public use. (1974 Code § 4-2812)
9-24D-3: LOCATION:
Street and road location shall conform to the following:
   A.   Street Location And Arrangements: When an official street plan or
comprehensive development plan has been adopted, subdivision streets shall
conform to such plans.
   B.   Minor Streets: Shall be so arranged as to discourage their use by
through traffic.
   C.   Stub Streets: Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement
of streets in new subdivisions shall be such that said streets extend to the
boundary line of the tract to make provisions for future extension of said
streets into adjacent areas. A reserve strip may be required and held in public
ownership. Temporary cul-de-sacs shall be required.
   D.   Relation To Topography: Streets shall be arranged in proper relation to
topography so as to result in usable lots, safe streets and acceptable
gradients.
   E.   Alleys: Alleys shall be provided in multiple-dwelling or commercial
subdivisions unless other provisions are made for service access and off street
loading and parking. Dead end alleys shall be prohibited in all cases.
   F.   Cul-De-Sac Streets: Cul-de-sac streets shall not be more than six
hundred feet (600') in length and shall terminate with an adequate turnaround
having a minimum radius of fifty feet (50') for right of way.
   G.   Driveways: Driveways providing access to no more than two (2) dwelling
units, which area is a minimum of twenty feet (20') wide, shall be allowed.
Driveways to three (3) or more dwelling units may be allowed, but only if the
width and length of the proposed driveway is approved before construction by
the city engineer after conferring with the city public works superintendent,
fire and police chiefs, and such other agency as may be affected by such a
driveway. A driveway may not be used as a private street.
   H.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited except where unusual
circumstances make such necessary to the reasonable development of a tract in
conformance with this chapter and where satisfactory assurance for dedication
of the remaining part of the street is provided. Whenever a tract to be
subdivided borders on an existing half or partial street, the other part of the
street shall be dedicated within such tract.
   I.   Loop Streets: The maximum length of a loop street shall be one thousand
feet (1,000') and a loop street over this length shall be required to conform
to the standards of a minor street in its subdivision type; provided, however,
that a loop street of up to one thousand two hundred feet (1,200') in length
containing frontage of no more than twenty four (24) building lots may be
permitted.
   J.   Private Streets: Private streets and roads shall be prohibited except
within planned unit developments. (1974 Code § 4-2812)
9-24D-4: SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Street Right Of Way Widths: Street and road right of way widths shall
conform to the adopted major street plan or comprehensive development plan and
the rules of the state department of highways and the highway district or
department having jurisdiction; minimum right of way standards are as follows:
 
Highway And Street Types  Minimum Widths
Alley                     20 feet
Collector street          60 feet
Local street              50 feet
Minor arterial street     70 feet
Principal arterial street 80 feet
Section line roads        80 feet
 
   B.   Street Grades: Street grades shall not exceed ten percent (10%) on
either minor or collector streets, and six percent (6%) for arterial streets.
   C.   Street Alignment: Street alignment shall be as follows:
      1.   Horizontal Alignment: When street lines deflect from each other by
more than ten degrees (10°) in alignment, the centerline shall be connected by
a curve having a minimum radius of five hundred feet (500') for arterial
streets, three hundred feet (300') for collector streets, and one hundred fifty
feet (150') for residential streets. Between reverse curves on collector and
arterial streets, there shall be a minimum tangent distance of two hundred feet
(200'); and
      2.   Vertical Alignment: Minimum stopping sight distances shall be two
hundred feet (200') for minor streets and designed in accordance with design
speed for collector and arterial streets. (1974 Code § 4-2812)
9-24D-5: STREET NAMES:
Street names shall not duplicate any existing street name within the city or
area of impact except where a new street is a continuation of an existing
street; street names that may be spelled differently but sound the same as
existing streets shall not be used. Street names shall be subject to the
approval of the council and shall conform to the street names and patterns
established by the city. (1974 Code § 4-2812)
9-24D-6: INTERSECTIONS:
Intersections shall conform to the following:
   A.   Angle Of Intersection: Streets shall intersect at ninety degrees (90°)
or as closely thereto as possible, and in no case shall streets intersect at
less than seventy degrees (70°).
   B.   Sight Triangles: Minimum clear sight distance at all minor street
intersections shall permit vehicles to be visible to the driver of another
vehicle when each is one hundred feet (100') from the center of the
intersection.
   C.   Number Of Streets: No more than two (2) streets shall cross at any one
intersection.
   D.   "T" Intersections: "T" intersections may be used wherever such design
will not restrict the free movement of traffic.
   E.   Vertical Alignment Of Intersection: A nearly flat grade with
appropriate drainage slopes is desirable within intersections. This flat
section shall be extended a minimum of one hundred feet (100') each way from
the intersection. An allowance of two percent (2%) maximum intersection grade
in rolling terrain, and four percent (4%) in hilly terrain, will be permitted.
(1974 Code § 4-2812)
   F.   Number Of Intersections: The number of intersections per linear section
of principal and minor arterial streets shall be limited by standards as
adopted by the city. The standards shall address the safety of the public as
regards interactions of traffic at street, alley and driveway intersections.
(Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
9-24D-7: PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS:
Right of way for pedestrian walkways in the middle of long blocks may be
required where necessary to obtain convenient pedestrian circulation to
schools, parks or shopping areas; the pedestrian easement shall be at least ten
feet (10') wide. (1974 Code § 4-2812)
9-24D-8: EASEMENTS:
Unobstructed utility easements shall be provided along front lot lines, rear
lot lines and side lot lines when deemed necessary; total easement width shall
not be less than fifteen feet (15'). Unobstructed drainageway easements shall
be provided as required by the council. (1974 Code § 4-2812)
9-24D-9: LINEAR OPEN SPACE CORRIDORS:
The extent and location of lands designed for linear open space corridors
should be determined largely by natural features and, to a lesser extent, by
manmade features such as utility easements, transportation rights of way or
water rights of way. Landscaping, screening or linear open space corridors may
be required for the protection of residential properties from adjacent arterial
streets, waterways, railroad rights of way or other features. As improved areas
(landscaped), semi-improved areas (a landscaped pathway only), or unimproved
areas (left in a natural state), linear open space corridors serve:
   A.   To preserve openness;
   B.   To interconnect park and open space systems within rights of way of
trails, walkways, bicycleways;
   C.   To play a major role in conserving area scenic and natural values,
especially waterways, drainageways and natural habitat;
   D.   To buffer more intensive adjacent urban land uses;
   E.   To enhance local identification within the area due to the internal
linkages; and
   F.   To link residential neighborhoods, park areas and recreation
facilities.
Subdivision plats or development plans shall show the location of any linear
open space corridors. (1974 Code § 4-2812)
9-24D-10: BLOCKS:
Every block shall be so designed as to provide two (2) tiers of lots, except
where lots back onto an arterial street, natural feature or subdivision
boundary; blocks shall not be longer than one thousand feet (1,000'), nor less
than five hundred feet (500') long in all cases. (1974 Code § 4-2812)
9-24D-11: LOTS:
Lots shall conform to the following:
   A.   Zoning: The lot width, depth and total area shall not be less than the
requirements of any applicable zoning provision;
   B.   Future Arrangements: Where parcels of land are subdivided into
unusually large lots (such as when large lots are approved for septic tanks),
the parcels shall be divided, where feasible, so as to allow for future
resubdividing into smaller parcels. Lot arrangements shall allow for the
ultimate extension of adjacent streets through the middle of wide blocks.
Whenever such future subdividing or lot splitting is contemplated, the plan
thereof shall be approved by the commission prior to the taking of such action;
and
   C.   Sufficient Area For Septic Tank: Where individual septic tanks have
been authorized, sufficient area shall be provided for a replacement sewage
disposal system.
   D.   Zero Lot Line Building Lots:
      1.   Yard Setbacks: In no case shall a zero lot line be allowed adjacent
to a property line which is not part of the development application. Only one
zero lot line interior side yard per lot may be permitted in the R-6 zone. A
minimum distance of ten feet (10') shall be maintained between buildings or
potential buildings on separate lots.
      2.   Easements: A perpetual six foot (6') wide maintenance/drainage
easement shall be provided on the lot adjacent to the zero lot line property
line which shall be kept clear of structures with the exception of fences,
patios and slabs at grade. Roof overhangs and below grade foundation footings
may penetrate the easement on the adjacent lot a maximum of twelve inches
(12"), but shall be so designed that runoff from the dwelling placed on the lot
line is limited to the easement area. The easement shall be shown on the
development plan/plat and incorporated into each deed transferring the title to
the property. (1974 Code § 4-2812)
9-24D-12: PLANTING STRIPS AND RESERVE STRIPS:
Planting strips and reserve strips shall conform to the following:
   A.   Planting Strips: Planting strips shall be required to be placed next to
incompatible features such as highways, principal and minor arterial streets,
railroads, commercial or industrial uses, to screen the view from residential
properties. Such screening shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') wide, and
shall not be a part of the normal street right of way or utility easement; and
shall include a landscaped six foot (6') berm topped with a six foot (6') solid
screen, or combination of structural elements, approved by the city. Said
structure may include public fixtures such as bike and/or pedestrian paths. The
landscaping shall be maintained by the developer until accepted by the city.
(Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
   B.   Reserve Strips:
      1.   Reserve Strips, Private: Privately held reserve strips controlling
access to streets shall be prohibited; and
      2.   Reserve Strips, Public: A one foot (1') reserve strip may be
required to be placed along half streets which are within the subdivision
boundaries and shall be deeded in fee simple to the county/city for future
street widening. (1974 Code § 4-2812)
9-24D-13: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
Public sites and open spaces shall conform to the following:
   A.   Public Uses: Where it is determined that a proposed park, playground,
school or other public use is located, in whole or in part, within a proposed
subdivision, the commission shall notify the appropriate public agency
concerning the land proposed to be acquired. Within thirty (30) days of the
date of notice, the public agency may request the governing body to suspend
consideration on the subdivision for sixty (60) days. If an agreement is not
reached within sixty (60) days, the commission shall resume consideration of
the subdivision;
   B.   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such
as trees, watercourses, historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets) shall
be preserved in the design of the subdivision;
   C.   Special Developments: In the case of planned unit developments and
large scale developments, the commission may require sufficient park or open
space facilities of acceptable size, location and site characteristics that may
be suitable for the proposed development; and
   D.   Solar Easements: Solar easements are strongly encouraged between
adjoining property owners. (1974 Code § 4-2812)
9-24D-14: PROTECTIVE COVENANTS:
Protective covenants, also known as restrictive covenants, may be adopted by
the developer and/or lot owners. Such covenants and all amendments or changes
thereto shall be recorded with the Twin Falls County recorder and a copy
thereof, with recording data set forth thereon, shall be filed with the
planning and zoning clerk. In cases of conflict between the requirements of
this code and the covenants, the most restrictive requirements shall prevail.
Covenants shall be enforced by private civil suits between property owners,
unless the governing board, in its sole discretion, deems that enforcement of a
covenant to be in the governing board's best interest. (1974 Code § 4-2812;
amd. 2010 Code)
ARTICLE E. IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-24E-1: Responsibility For Plans
9-24E-2: Required Public Improvements
9-24E-3: Guarantee Of Completion
9-24E-1: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PLANS:
It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed subdivision
to have prepared by a registered engineer, a complete set of construction
plans, including profiles, cross sections, specifications and other supporting
data, for all required streets, utilities and other facilities. Such
construction plans shall be based on preliminary plans which have been approved
with the preliminary plat, and shall be prepared in conjunction with the final
plat. Construction plans are subject to approval by the responsible public
agencies. All construction plans shall be prepared in accordance with the
public agencies' standards or specifications. (1974 Code § 4-2813)
9-24E-2: REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Every subdivider shall be required, at the subdivider's expense, to install the
following public and other improvements in accordance with city conditions,
standards and construction specifications as follows:
   A.   Monuments: Monuments shall be set in accordance with Idaho Code section
50-1303.
   B.   Streets And Alleys: All streets and alleys shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the city.
   C.   Curbs And Gutters: Vertical or rolled curbs and gutters shall be
constructed on all streets and service roads.
   D.   Bicycle Pathways: A bicycle pathway may be required within a
subdivision as part of the public right of way or separate easement.
   E.   Installation Of Public Utilities: Underground utilities shall be
required in all new subdivisions.
   F.   Driveways: All driveway openings, approaches and curb cuts shall be as
specified by city construction standards and specifications of the city, the
highway district, or state highway department.
   G.   Storm Drainage: An adequate storm drainage system shall be required in
all subdivisions. The requirements for each particular subdivision shall be
established by the council. (1974 Code § 4-2813)
   H.   Public Water Supply And Sewer Systems: All public water supply or sewer
systems shall be constructed in accordance with any adopted local plans and
specifications. All new public water supply or sewer systems shall be an
extension of an existing public system whenever possible. In the event that the
proposed public water supply or sewer system is not an extension of an existing
public system, the water and sewer systems shall be installed dry, if the city
superintendent determines connection to the municipal system shall be available
within five (5) years. All water and sewer plans shall be submitted to the
proper city, state and federal agencies for approval.
   I.   Fire Hydrants And Water Mains:
      1.   Fire Protection: Adequate fire protection shall be required in
accordance with standards established by the city fire officials.
      2.   Minimum Standards: The minimum standard shall be that the hydrant
pumper nozzle shall be of one piece design, compatible with five inch (5")
Storz hose couplings. The nozzle shall be an integral part of the fire hydrant
and must be furnished by the manufacturer or authorized distributor designated
by the manufacturer. Storz adapters will not be accepted. Hydrants shall be
Waterous Paccer Model WB67-250. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
   J.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall be installed in the
appropriate locations at each street intersection in accordance with the local
standards established by the city. (1974 Code § 4-2813)
   K.   Sidewalks And Pedestrian Walkways: Sidewalks shall be required on both
sides of the street in zones exceeding a residential density of dwellings per
acre. Pedestrian walkways, when required, shall have easements at least ten
feet (10') in width and include a paved walk at least five feet (5') in width.
Sidewalks and crosswalks shall be constructed in accordance with the standards
and specifications as adopted by the city. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
   L.   Greenbelt: Greenbelts or landscaping screening may be required for the
protection of residential properties from adjacent major arterial streets,
waterways, walkways, railroad rights of way or other features. Subdivision
plats shall show the location of any greenbelt areas.
   M.   Street Lighting: Streetlights shall be required to be installed at
intersections throughout the subdivision. A subdivider shall conform to the
requirements of the city and the public utility providing such lighting. (1974
Code § 4-2813)
   N.   Information Technology: Two (2) conduits and junction boxes at each lot
shall be provided for information technology connections including, but not
limited to, fiber optic and coaxial cable. The conduit and junction boxes shall
be as specified by the city engineer. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
9-24E-3: GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION:
   A.   Financial Guarantee Arrangements: In lieu of the actual installation of
required public improvements before recording the final plat, the council shall
require the subdivider to provide a financial guarantee of performance in one
or a combination of the following arrangements for those requirements which are
over and beyond the requirements of any other agency responsible for the
administration, operation and maintenance of the applicable public improvement.
   B.   Surety Bond:
      1.   Accrual: The bond shall accrue to the city covering construction,
operation and maintenance of the specific public improvement;
      2.   Amount: The bond shall be in an amount equal to one hundred percent
(100%) of the total estimated cost for completing construction of the specific
public improvement, as estimated by the city engineer and approved by the
council;
      3.   Term Length: The term length in which the bond is in force shall be
for a period to be specified by the council for the specific public
improvement; and
      4.   Bonding For Surety Company: The bond shall be with a surety company
authorized to do business in the state of Idaho, acceptable to the council.
   C.   Cash Deposit, Certified Check, Negotiable Bond, Or Irrevocable Bank
Letter Of Credit:
      1.   Escrow Agent Or Trust Company: A cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond or an irrevocable bank letter of credit acceptable by the
council shall be deposited with an escrow agent or trust company;
      2.   Dollar Value: The dollar value of the cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be equal to one
hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost of construction for the specific
public improvement, as estimated by the city engineer and approved by the
council;
      3.   Escrow Time: The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be for a period to
be specified by the council; and
      4.   Progressive Payment: In the case of cash deposits or certified
checks, an agreement between the council and the subdivider may provide for
progressive payment out of the cash deposit or reduction of the certified
check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit to the extent of
the cost of the completed portion of the public improvement, in accordance with
a previously entered into agreement.
   D.   Subdivision Improvement Agreement: The developer shall enter into a
subdivision improvement agreement with the city prior to commencing development
of the subdivision.
   E.   Bonding And One Year Guarantee: The owner and/or subdivider shall
guarantee all improvements within the public right of way for a one year period
following the date of final inspection and acceptance by the city. Any defects,
repairs or maintenance during the one year guarantee period due to faulty
workmanship or materials shall be corrected at the expense of the owner and/or
subdivider. In order to secure the guarantee, a bond shall be provided to the
city for said one year period. (1974 Code § 4-2813)
ARTICLE F. PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
9-24F-1: Purpose
9-24F-2: Applicability
9-24F-3: Categories
9-24F-4: Procedures
9-24F-5: Modification Of District Regulations
9-24F-6: General Regulations
9-24F-7: General Standards
9-24F-8: Design Standards
9-24F-1: PURPOSE:
The city policy is to encourage developers of land development and construction
projects to utilize the provisions of this article to achieve the following:
   A.   A development pattern in accord with the goals, objectives and policies
of the comprehensive plan;
   B.   A development pattern which preserves and utilizes natural topographic
and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees and other vegetation and which
maintains natural drainage patterns;
   C.   A maximum choice of living environments which allows a variety of
housing and building types, which permits an increased density per acre, and
which allows a reduction in lot dimensions, yards, building setbacks and area
requirements;
   D.   A more useful pattern of open space, parks and recreation areas;
   E.   A more convenient pattern of commercial, residential and industrial
uses as well as public services which support such uses;
   F.   A more efficient use of land and reduced costs of streets and utilities
than is generally achieved through conventional subdivisions;
   G.   A development pattern which preserves neighborhood development and
stability and encourages a socioeconomic mixture of people within a given
environment; and
   H.   A development that encompasses maximum site design flexibility. (1974
Code § 4-2814)
9-24F-2: APPLICABILITY:
Whenever there is a conflict or difference between the provisions of this
article and other sections of this title, the provisions of this article shall
prevail. Subjects not covered by this article shall be governed by the
respective provisions found elsewhere in this title. (1974 Code § 4-2814)
9-24F-3: CATEGORIES:
The city shall provide for four (4) PUD categories:
 
PUD-R Planned unit development residential
PUD-C Planned unit development commercial
PUD-G Planned unit development general
PUD-I Planned unit development industrial
 
(1974 Code § 4-2814)
9-24F-4: PROCEDURES:
Any person as the agent, or agent for the owner of any property within the
jurisdiction of the city, may apply for planned unit development approval. All
applicants shall follow the procedures as provided in section
9-24-4 and articles A and B of this chapter. In addition, the developer shall
provide the governing body with a colored rendering of adequate scale to show
the completed development that will include at least the following: (1974 Code
§ 4-2814; amd. 2010 Code)
   A.   Architectural style and building design;
   B.   Building materials and color;
   C.   Landscaping;
   D.   Screening;
   E.   Garbage areas;
   F.   Parking; and
   G.   Open space. (1974 Code § 4-2814)
9-24F-5: MODIFICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
A PUD shall be allowed only as a conditional use in each district subject to
the standards and procedures set forth in this article. A PUD shall be governed
by the regulations of the district or districts in which said PUD is located.
The approval of the final development plan for a PUD may provide for such
exceptions from the district regulations governing use, density, area, bulk,
parking, signs and other regulations as may be desirable to achieve the
objectives of the proposed PUD, provided such exceptions are consistent with
the standards and criteria contained in this article. (1974 Code § 4-2814)
9-24F-6: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Planned Unit Developments: Planned unit developments shall be subject
to the requirements set forth in this title and also subject to all provisions
within this chapter.
   B.   Required Acres In Planned Unit Development: A planned unit development
shall not be required to contain a minimum number of acres.
   C.   Owners' Association: The owners' association bylaws and other similar
deed restrictions, which provide for the control and maintenance of all common
areas, recreation facilities or open space, shall meet with the approval of the
council.
   D.   Certification Of Zoning Compliance And Building Permits: Issuance of
certification of zoning and building permits shall be granted only after
development plan and covenants have been approved by the council.
   E.   Conditions Run With Land: Any conditions attached to a final
development plan shall run with the land and shall not lapse or be waived as
the result of any subsequent change in the tenancy or ownership of any or all
of said lands. Such conditions shall be deemed as requirements for the issuance
of the certificate of occupancy for any use or structure.
   F.   Change Of PUD: No change in the approved final development plan shall
be permitted without prior approval of the council except that minor changes in
the location, siting and height of buildings and structures may be authorized
by the building inspector as required by engineering or other circumstances not
foreseen at the time of plan approval. However, no such "minor changes" may
increase the volume of any building or structure by more than ten percent (10%)
or increase the gross density of the PUD.
   G.   Bonus Density: Developer is responsible for documentation of change.
The following bonus densities may be granted within a planned unit development,
but shall not be treated as cumulative:
      1.   Provision for private, common open space in a PUD shall be
considered cause for density increases not to exceed twenty five percent (25%);
      2.   Character, identity, and siting variation incorporated in a PUD
shall be considered cause for density increases not to exceed twenty five
percent (25%). Factors which are deemed to make a substantial contribution to
such character, identity and siting variation include, but are not limited to,
the following:
         a.   Landscaping: Streetscape, open space and plaza use of existing
landscape; pedestrianways and bicycleways and recreational areas;
         b.   Siting: Visual focal points, use of existing physical features
such as topography, creeks, view, sun and wind orientation, circulation
pattern, physical environment, variation in building setbacks, building groups
such as clustering; and
         c.   Design Feature: Street sections, architectural styles, harmonious
use of materials, parking areas broken by landscape features and varied use of
dwelling types and heights;
      3.   Publicly dedicated land in a PUD shall be considered cause for
density increases not to exceed twenty five percent (25%) for facilities such
as school, library, fire station, park, recreational facility; and
      4.   Density increases, not to exceed twenty five percent (25%), shall be
considered when environmentally sensitive areas (creeks, wetlands, wooded
areas) have been preserved in their natural state.
   H.   Financial Guarantees: The developer shall post financial guarantees for
all approved on site improvements, if required pursuant to section
9-24E-3 of this chapter. (1974 Code § 4-2814)
9-24F-7: GENERAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Accessibility Of Site: All proposed streets, alleys, and driveways
shall be adequate to serve the residents, occupants, visitors or other
anticipated traffic of the PUD. Design elements shall be incorporated to
discourage public through traffic. Entrance points of streets, alleys and
driveways on previously existing roadways shall be subject to the approval of
the city. On site vehicular circulation and parking shall be designed for
adequate fire and police protection and shall be adequate to serve the uses
located in the proposed development. If it is determined that additional
traffic control devices or other traffic regulating improvements are required,
the developer shall be responsible for the cost of such improvements.
   B.   Roadways: Design and dimensional standards for roadways shall be
subject to specifications and standards set by the city council.
   C.   Off Street Parking: Off street parking shall be conveniently accessible
to all dwelling units and/or other uses. Where appropriate, common driveways,
parking areas, walks, and steps may be provided, maintained, and lighted for
night use. Design and dimensional standards for off street parking shall be
subject to provisions set forth in chapter 13 of this title.
   D.   Utilities: All PUDs shall provide underground installation of utilities
(including streetlights, water, sanitary sewer, storm sewers, electricity, gas
and telephone) in either the public right of way or utility easements.
Provisions shall also be made for design and construction of adequate storm
sewer facilities pursuant to review by the city engineer and other applicable
agencies.
   E.   Open Space: All open space delineated or approved as common open space
shall meet the following applicable standards:
      1.   The location, size and shape of the common open spaces shall be
suitable for the use proposed and shall enhance the common enjoyment of
recreational pursuits, or provide visual, aesthetic or environmental amenities;
      2.   Common open space shall be suitably improved for its intended use,
except that common space containing natural features worthy of preservation may
be left unimproved. Structures and improvements to be located in or adjacent to
the common open space shall serve to enhance the amenities of the common space
and have regard for the topography and natural features of the common open
space;
      3.   The development schedule shall coordinate the improvements of the
common open space with the construction of the buildings, structures and other
improvements in the PUD. At the discretion of the council, a dedicated fund
shall be established by the developer and contributed to at the time of unit
sales to ensure the future improvement of the open space;
      4.   Land shown on the final development plan as common open space may be
conveyed to a public body (if said public body agrees to accept conveyance) to
maintain the common open space and improvements placed thereon. In lieu of
public dedication, it shall be conveyed to an owners' association or similar
organization for the purpose of owning and maintaining said common area and
improvements thereon;
      5.   The total area of all common open space shall equal or exceed ten
percent (10%) of the gross land area of the PUD; and
      6.   "Common open space" shall mean land area exclusive of street rights
of way, buildings, parking areas, structures and appurtenances except those
improvements which are accessible and available to all occupants of the private
units within the PUD.
   F.   Landscaping:
      1.   Screening of off street parking, loading and waste storage areas
shall be required.
      2.   Screening shall be required as a buffer between residential and
nonresidential uses or structures in a PUD.
      3.   All ground surfaces in a PUD shall be covered with a vegetative
cover growth or other ground treatment capable of preventing soil erosion under
normal surface runoff conditions.
   G.   Irrigation Facilities And Drainage Systems, Natural Streams And
Drainageways: Modification of existing irrigation and drainage systems, as well
as natural streams and drainageways, shall be minimized and shall not
materially alter the natural or existing configuration or impair the normal
operation thereof.
   H.   Design Review: All PUDs shall be subject to design review by the city
staff and council. (1974 Code § 4-2814)
9-24F-8: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   PUD-R Planned Unit Development, Residential:
      1.   Storage Areas: Storage areas shall be provided for the anticipated
needs of boats, campers and trailers. For typical residential development, one
adequate space shall be provided every two (2) living units. This may be
reduced by city action if there is a showing that the needs of a particular
development are less.
      2.   Parking Space: One additional parking space beyond that which is
required by this title may be required for every three (3) dwelling units to
accommodate visitor parking.
      3.   Maintenance Building Or Approved Area: A maintenance building or
approved area shall be provided that is suitable for the services required for
the repair and maintenance of all common areas.
   B.   PUD-C Planned Unit Developments, Commercial:
      1.   Buffering And Screening: When commercial structures or uses in a
PUD-C abut a residential use, sight restricting screening or buffering shall be
provided. In no event shall any structure in a PUD-C be located nearer than
twenty feet (20') to a residential use. Off street loading and waste storage
areas shall be visually screened on all sides.
      2.   Lighting: Outside lighting shall be designed and placed so as to not
direct illumination on any nearby residential areas.
      3.   Design Of Site: A PUD-C shall be designed to harmonize with adjacent
uses as to height, bulk, location and use of exterior materials. Sides and
rears of all buildings shall be given treatment comparable in attractiveness to
their principal frontage. Pedestrian walks, plazas and open spaces shall be
located to provide maximum accessibility among the various buildings of the
PUD-C. Open spaces shall be so located as to provide for maximum visibility by
customers and to create a harmonious relationship between buildings and
exterior spaces throughout the project. (1974 Code § 4-2814)
   C.   PUD-G Planned Unit Developments, General:
      1.   PUD-G shall be subject to all applicable standards as set forth in
this article, with each land use conforming to the PUD criteria for said land
use. (1974 Code § 4-2814; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   All developments within mixed use review areas shall be developed as
a PUD-G. (1974 Code § 4-2814)
   D.   PUD-I Planned Unit Developments, Industrial:
      1.   Standards: PUD-I shall be subject to all applicable standards of
this code including, but not limited to, section
9-12-4 of this title and all general requirements of this article.
      2.   Design Of Site: A PUD-I shall be configured to move heavy
transportation and industrial traffic flow safely and rapidly away from
surrounding vehicular arterials and roadways and concentrate same on site.
      3.   Lighting: Outside lighting shall be designed and located in such a
manner as to not direct illumination on any adjacent property or right of way.
      4.   Buffering And Screening: Buffering and screening shall be required
as indicated at design review and be not less than standards set herein. (2010
Code)
ARTICLE G. SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
9-24G-1: Cemetery Subdivision
9-24G-2: Floodplain Subdivision
9-24G-1: CEMETERY SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Function: The developer shall provide the commission with written
documentation that will sufficiently explain the functions of the proposed
cemetery for either human or animal remains.
   B.   Compliance With Idaho Code: The developer shall submit a written
statement that has been prepared by an attorney that adequately assures the
compliance of the proposed cemetery with the procedural management requirements
that are outlined in Idaho Code title 27. (1974 Code § 4-2815)
9-24G-2: FLOODPLAIN SUBDIVISION 1 :
   A.   Flood Areas: For any proposed subdivision that is located within a
floodplain, the developer shall provide the planning and zoning clerk with a
development plan of adequate scale and supporting documentation that will show
and explain at least the following:
      1.   Location of all planned improvements;
      2.   The location of the floodway and floodway fringe per engineering
practices as specified by the army corps of engineers;
      3.   The location of the present water channel;
      4.   Any planned rerouting of waterways;
      5.   All major drainageways;
      6.   Areas of frequent flooding;
      7.   Means of floodproofing buildings; and
      8.   Means of insuring loans for improvements within the floodplain.
   B.   New Construction And Substantial Improvements:
      1.   Residential: New construction and substantial improvements of
residential structures within the floodplain shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated above the level of the 100-year flood; and
      2.   Nonresidential: For new construction or substantial improvements of
nonresidential structures, the lowest floor (including basement) shall be
elevated one foot (1') or more above the level of the 100-year flood.
      3.   Utility And Sanitary Facilities: Attendant utility and sanitary
facilities shall be floodproofed up to the level of the 100-year flood. (1974
Code § 4-2815)
   C.   Justification For Development: Upon the determination that buildings
are planned within the floodplain or that alternatives of any kind are
anticipated within the floodplain area that will alter the flow of water, the
developer shall demonstrate conclusively to the governing board that such
development: 1) will not present a hazard to life, limb, or property; 2) will
not have adverse effects on the safety, use or stability of a public way or
drainage channel or the natural environment; and 3) has been approved by any
other property owner affected by such alteration.
   D.   Increase Flood Flows, Heights Or Drainages: No subdivision or part
thereof shall be approved if levees, fills, structures or other features within
the proposed subdivision will individually or collectively significantly
increase flood flows, heights or drainages. If only a part of a proposed
subdivision can be safely developed, the governing board shall limit the
development to that part and shall require that development proceed consistent
with that determination. (Ord. 929, 5-14-2007)
   E.   Review: Subdivisions shall be reviewed to ensure that:
      1.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      2.   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems, are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damages; and
      3.   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards. (1974 Code § 4-2815)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-12-5 of this title.
CHAPTER 25
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
9-25-1: Water And Sewer
9-25-1: Water And Sewer:
All buildings intended for human occupancy shall have adequate facilities. Such
facilities shall be connected to an approved domestic water source conforming
to the water regulations of the city, see title 7, chapter 1, and title 7,
chapter 2 of this code.
   A.   Approval And Completion:
      1.   A site plan conforming to the minimum requirements of this section
shall be submitted for approval as part of the application for a building
permit to construct any building.
      2.   All requirements found within the water and sewer section shall be
completed prior to issuance of any certificate of occupancy. (Ord. 2025-5, 3-
24-2025)
