CITY CODE
of
BURLEY, IDAHO
1981
Code current through:
Ord. 1422, passed 1-7-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Burley, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 1422, passed 1-7-2025. Ordinances of the City adopted after
said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that they
are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City office in order to
ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been amended,
superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE NO. 1424
 
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BURLEY, IDAHO, CHANGING THE ZONING CLASSIFICATION
OF AN AREA OF THE CITY OF BURLEY FROM R-1 TO S-1; AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE
DATE.
 
WHEREAS, a public hearing was held pursuant to Idaho law on March 19, 2025
before the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City of Burley to consider the
request for rezoning of real property within the City of Burley described
below, from its current zoning classification of Restricted Single-Family
Residence District (R-1) to a Special District (S-1); and
 
WHEREAS, following said hearing the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City
of Burley issued findings of fact and conclusions of law, and recommended that
the City Council of the City of Burley approve the proposed zoning change; and
 
WHEREAS, the Burley City Council adopts the findings of the Burley Planning and
Zoning Commission regarding the recommended zoning change and finds that the
proposed zoning change would not be in conflict with the policies of the
adopted comprehensive plan, would not result in demonstrable adverse impacts
upon the delivery of public services, and that the proposed zoning change would
be in the public interest;
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BURLEY:
 
Section 1. The following described real property located in Burley, Idaho shall
be and the same is hereby re-zoned to the zoning classification of S-1:
Cassia County tax parcels RP10S23E272700, RP10S23E272575, RP10S23E280000,
RP10S23E210051 as more particularly described in exhibit “A.”
   
 
Section 2. The zoning map of the City of Burley on file in the office of the
City Clerk, referred to in section 5-3-2 of the Burley City Code shall be
changed and is hereby amended to show the zoning classification provided by
this ordinance.
 
This ordinance shall be effective upon its passage, approval, and publication.
 
 
PASSED  04/01/2025
 
APPROVED  04/01/2025
 
CITY OF BURLEY
 
 
/s/ Steve Ormond
Mayor
ATTEST:
 
 
/s/ Elois Joseph-Pieterse
City Clerk
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 1425
 
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BURLEY, IDAHO, CHANGING THE ZONING CLASSIFICATION
OF AN AREA OF THE CITY OF BURLEY FROM S-1 TO R-3; AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE
DATE.
 
WHEREAS, a public hearing was held pursuant to Idaho law on March 19, 2025
before the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City of Burley to consider the
request for rezoning of real property within the City of Burley described
below, from its current zoning classification of Special District (S-1) to a
General Multiple Residence District (R-3); and
 
WHEREAS, following said hearing the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City
of Burley issued findings of fact and conclusions of law, and recommended that
the City Council of the City of Burley approve the proposed zoning change; and
 
WHEREAS, the Burley City Council adopts the findings of the Burley Planning and
Zoning Commission regarding the recommended zoning change and finds that the
proposed zoning change would not be in conflict with the policies of the
adopted comprehensive plan, would not result in demonstrable adverse impacts
upon the delivery of public services, and that the proposed zoning change would
be in the public interest;
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BURLEY:
 
Section 1. The following described real property located in Burley, Idaho shall
be and the same is hereby re-zoned to the zoning classification of R-3:
Cassia County tax parcels RPBB0010930010, RPBB0010930020, RPBB0010930030,
RPBB0010930040, RPBB0010930050, RPBB0010930060, RPBB001093007A as more
particularly described in exhibit “A.”
   
 
Section 2. The zoning map of the City of Burley on file in the office of the
City Clerk, referred to in section 5-3-2 of the Burley City Code shall be
changed and is hereby amended to show the zoning classification provided by
this ordinance.
 
This ordinance shall be effective upon its passage, approval, and publication.
 
 
PASSED  04/01/2025
 
APPROVED  04/01/2025
 
CITY OF BURLEY
 
 
/s/Steve Ormond
Mayor
ATTEST:
 
 
/s/Elois-Joseph-Pieterse
City Clerk
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 1426
 
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BURLEY, IDAHO, CHANGING THE ZONING CLASSIFICATION
OF AN AREA OF THE CITY OF BURLEY FROM S-1 TO C-2; AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE
DATE.
 
WHEREAS, a public hearing was held pursuant to Idaho law on March 19, 2025
before the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City of Burley to consider the
request for rezoning of real property within the City of Burley described
below, from its current zoning classification of Special District (S-1) to a
Commercial Highway District (C-2); and
 
WHEREAS, following said hearing the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City
of Burley issued findings of fact and conclusions of law, and recommended that
the City Council of the City of Burley approve the proposed zoning change; and
 
WHEREAS, the Burley City Council adopts the findings of the Burley Planning and
Zoning Commission regarding the recommended zoning change and finds that the
proposed zoning change would not be in conflict with the policies of the
adopted comprehensive plan, would not result in demonstrable adverse impacts
upon the delivery of public services, and that the proposed zoning change would
be in the public interest;
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BURLEY:
 
Section 1. The following described real property located in Burley, Idaho shall
be and the same is hereby re-zoned to the zoning classification of C-2:
Cassia County tax parcels RP10S23E212700, RP10S23E212750, RP10S23E213825,
RP10S23E213901, RP10S23E214104, RP10S23E213625, RP10S23E213904, RP10S23E213930,
RP10S23E214103, RP10S23E210462, RP10S23E210463, RP10S23E210461, RP10S23E179560,
RP10S23E179460, RP10S23E179400, RP10S23E179202, as more particularly described
in exhibit “A.”
   
 
Section 2. The zoning map of the City of Burley on file in the office of the
City Clerk, referred to in section 5-3-2 of the Burley City Code shall be
changed and is hereby amended to show the zoning classification provided by
this ordinance.
 
This ordinance shall be effective upon its passage, approval, and publication.
 
 
PASSED  04/01/2025
 
APPROVED  04/01/2025
 
CITY OF BURLEY
 
 
/s/Steve Ormond
Mayor
ATTEST:
 
 
/s/Elois Joseph-Pieterse
City Clerk
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 1429
 
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BURLEY, IDAHO, CHANGING THE ZONING CLASSIFICATION
OF AN AREA OF THE CITY OF BURLEY FROM R-2 TO C-2; AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE
DATE.
 
WHEREAS, a public hearing was held pursuant to Idaho law on April 16, 2025
before the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City of Burley to consider the
request for rezoning of real property within the City of Burley described
below, from its current zoning classification of Limited Multiple Residence
District (R-2) to a Commercial Highway District (C-2); and
 
WHEREAS, following said hearing the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City
of Burley issued findings of fact and conclusions of law, and recommended that
the City Council of the City of Burley approve the proposed zoning change; and
 
WHEREAS, the Burley City Council adopts the findings of the Burley Planning and
Zoning Commission regarding the recommended zoning change and finds that the
proposed zoning change would not be in conflict with the policies of the
adopted comprehensive plan, would not result in demonstrable adverse impacts
upon the delivery of public services, and that the proposed zoning change would
be in the public interest;
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BURLEY:
 
Section 1. The following described real property located in Burley, Idaho shall
be and the same is hereby re-zoned to the zoning classification of C-2:
Cassia County tax parcels RP10S23E300050 as more particularly described in
exhibit “A.”
   
Section 2. The zoning map of the City of Burley on file in the office of the
City Clerk, referred to in section 5-3-2 of the Burley City Code shall be
changed and is hereby amended to show the zoning classification provided by
this ordinance.
 
This ordinance shall be effective upon its passage, approval, and publication.
 
 
PASSED  05/06/2025
 
APPROVED  05/06/2025
 
CITY OF BURLEY
 
 
/s/Steve Ormond
Mayor
ATTEST:
 
 
/s/Elois Joseph-Pieterse
City Clerk
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO.1430
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BURLEY, IDAHO: ANNEXING ADJACENT AND CONTIGUOUS
LANDS LOCATED IN MINIDOKA COUNTY: DIRECTING THE CITY ENGINEER TO LODGE AND FILE
A LEGAL DESCRIPTION AND MAP FOR SAID ANNEXED LANDS; PROVIDING THAT COPIES OF
THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BE FILED WITH THE OFFICIALS OF MINIDOKA COUNTY AND THE
IDAHO STATE TAX COMMISSION; PROVIDING THAT A COPY OF SAID MAP AND LEGAL
DESCRIPTION BE RECORDED WITH THE MINIDOKA COUNTY RECORDER AND FILED WITH THE
MINIDOKA COUNTY ASSESSOR AND THE IDAHO STATE TAX COMMISSION, AS REQUIRED BY
LAW; AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
PREAMBLE
   WHEREAS, written consent of STATE OF IDAHO, for annexation of approximately
42 acres of real property located at Exit 208 of Interstate 84 (Minidoka County
tax parcels RP10S23E081511 and RP10S23E081510) (hereinafter the “Land”) was
filed with the Burley Planning and Zoning Commission; and
   WHEREAS, the Land described is more particularly described on Exhibit “A”
attached hereto; and
   WHEREAS, the Land was previously categorized as “Special” for purposes
related to the Land being within the Comprehensive Plan of the City, and the
City staff recommends that the Land be zoned S-1; and
   WHEREAS, a public hearing was held on July 16, 2025, before the City of
Burley Planning an Zoning Commission, following proper notice as required by
law; and
   WHEREAS, the Burley Planning and Zoning Commission has recommended by
resolution that the parcel be annexed into the City of Burley with the initial
zoning of S-1; and
   WHEREAS, the Burley City Council adopts the following findings of fact and
conclusions of law:
a.   The proposed zoning of S-1 would not be in conflict with the policies of
the adopted comprehensive plan. The proposed S-1 zone is special which conforms
to the planned use of the land in the Comprehensive Plan.
b.   The proposed zoning of S-1 would not result in demonstratable adverse
impacts upon the delivery of public services. The land under consideration for
zoning is surrounded by land that is zoned as C-2, and zoning the land of the
applicant as S-1 would not change any delivery of public services. City has
provided for services to extend to the property that is proposed to be annexed.
c.   The proposed zoning would be in the public interest as the City would
respond to emergencies and fires occurring in the area.
d.   The Land is adjacent and contiguous to the City of Burley in Minidoka
County, Idaho.
e.   All landowners of the subject property have requested annexation.
 
NOW, THEREFORE:
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BURLEY:
Section 1:   The following described real estate in Minidoka County, Idaho,
shall be and the same is hereby annexed to the City of Burley:
      See Exhibit “A” Attached hereto and by this reference made a part hereof.
Section 2:   The annexed real property shall be subject to all the statutes
pertaining to the City of Burley and all ordinances, resolutions, police
regulations, taxation, and all other powers of the City of Burley.
Section 3:   The land use classification of the real property shall be S-1
Section 4:   The City Engineer is hereby directed to lodge and file with the
City Clerk within ten (10) days after the passage and approval hereof, a legal
description and map prepared in a draftsmanlike manner which shall plainly and
clearly designate the property annexed.
Section 5:    The City Clerk is hereby directed to file, with ten (10) days
after the passage and approval hereof a certified copy of the this Ordinance
with the Minidoka County Auditor, Treasurer, Assessor, and the Idaho State Tax
Commission, and to file a copy of said legal description and map, as prepared
and lodged with the City Clerk by the City Engineer, with the Minidoka County
Assessor, the Minidoka County Recorder and the Idaho State Tax Commission, all
as provided by Idaho Code Sections 50-223 and 63-215.
Section 6:   This Ordinance shall be effective upon its passage, approval, and
publication. The City shall be responsible for responding to fires and/or
traffic accidents beginning September 1, 2025 or upon the filing of a certified
copy of this ordinance with Minidoka County, West End Fire District, and with
dispatch officials within Minidoka and Cassia Counties, whichever occurs first.
 
   PASSED: August 5,2025_
   APPROVED: August 5, 2025_            CITY OF BURLEY
 
                        /s/Steve Ormond___
                        Steve Ormond – Mayor
   ATTEST:
 
   _/s/Elois Joseph-Pieterse__
   Elois Joseph-Pieterse -City Clerk
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 1432
   AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BURLEY, IDAHO; AMENDING TITLE 5 CHAPTER 14
SECTION 1 OF THE BURLEY CITY CODE; ASSIGNING RESPONSIBILITITES OF ENFORCEMENT
AND ADMINISTRATION OF CHAPTER 14 OF TITLE 5 OF THE BURLEY CITY CODE BETWEEN THE
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR AND THE BUILDING INSPECTOR; PROVIDING FOR THE SEVERENCE OF
THE PROVISION OF THIS ORDINANCE; AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
 
EXPLANATION:
When provisions of this ordinance act to amend existing City Code Provisions
the following apply:
Any additions to existing text in the City Code are identified by underlined
text.
 
Any deletions to existing text in the City Code are identified by text with a
strikethrough.
 
If any City Code provisions have been created, deleted, modified, or otherwise
amended concurrently with or previous to the development and consideration of
this Ordinance such that the language referenced herein is different from the
amendments accomplished by such other ordinances, nothing in this Ordinance is
meant to alter what has been accomplished through the passage of those other
ordinances. The only provisions of the City Code created, deleted, modified, or
otherwise amended by this Ordinance are those identified either by underlined
text or text with a strikethrough herein.
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BURLEY:
 
SECTION 1.    That Title 5 Chapter 14 section 5-14-1 be amended as follows:
    5-14-1: ENFORCING OFFICIALS:
For the purpose of enforcing and administering this Zoning Title the following
provisions of this Chapter shall apply, with the appointment of the
Administrative Official:
  (A) Administrative Official: Except as otherwise provided in this Title, the
Zoning Administrator or his designee Building Inspector shall administer and
enforce this Title, including the receiving of applications, the determination
of zoning, and recommendations to the Planning and Zoning Commission and/or
City Council. the inspection of premises and the issuing of building permits.
No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued by him except
when the provisions of this Title and the various building codes of the City
have been complied with. 
   (B)   Building Inspector Appointed: The Building Inspector is that person so
appointed by the City Council under the applicable Uniform Building Code
International Residential Code (IRC). International Building Code (IBC),
International Energy Conservation Code (IECC), and/or the International
Existing Building Code (IEBC). The Building Inspector shall administer and
enforce the receiving of building permit applications, the inspections of
premises, and the issuing of building permits.
SECTION 2.     This ordinance shall be effective upon passage by the Burley
City Council, approval by the Mayor and publication of the ordinance or a
summary thereof.
SECTION 3.     Should any section or provision of this ordinance be declared by
a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, that decision shall not affect
the validity of the ordinance as a whole or any part thereof, other than the
part so declared to be invalid.
 
PASSED 09/02/2025
 
APPROVED 09/02/2025 
CITY OF BURLEY
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                     _/
s/ Steve Ormond__
ATTEST:                         Steve Ormond-Mayor
 
 
/s/Elois Joseph-Pieterse_
Elois Joseph-Pieterse-City Clerk
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 963
AN ORDINANCE FOR REVISING CODIFYING AND COMPILING THE GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE
CITY OF BURLEY, IDAHO, AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BURLEY, IDAHO.
   Section 1. All ordinances of a general and permanent nature of the City of
Burley are hereby revised, codified, and complied pursuant to law under the
name of the BURLEY CODE.
   Section 2. An emergency existing, this Ordinance shall be in full force and
effect from and after its passage approval by the Mayor and publication.
   PASSED by the Council June 15, 1981.
   PASSED by the Mayor June 15, 1981.
Published in the South Idaho Press in the issues of June 23, 1981.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
BURLEY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alteration
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the City Council, this Code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official Code of the City of Burley. This Code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the BURLEY CODE, and it is hereby
published by authority of the City Council and shall be kept up to date as
provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause,
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Code by title in any legal documents. (1981 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1981 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the Code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Code. (1981 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATION:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk. (1981
Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this Code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement district ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the City; and all special ordinances. (1981 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this Code or by virtue of Section
1-2-1 of this Chapter, excepting as this Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case this Code shall be considered as amending such ordinance
or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1981 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable, if
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the City herein repealed
and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code shall be
deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
City under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this Code. (1981 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this Code, or any part thereof. The City Council hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1981 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this Code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used.
When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this Code by words
importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several matters,
parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be
deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be
applied to any section of this Code which contains any express provision
excluding such construction or where the subject matter or context may be
repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been changed
in the content of this Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1981 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
CITY: The City of Burley, Counties of Cassia and Minidoka, State of Idaho.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Burley".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: When a crime punishable by imprisonment in the State prison is
also punishable by fine or imprisonment in a county jail, in the discretion of
the court, it shall be deemed a misdemeanor for all purposes after a judgment
imposing a punishment other than imprisonment in the State prison.
Wherever the words "misdemeanor", "petty misdemeanor" or "violation" are used
in this Code, these terms or any of them shall be construed to mean misdemeanor
and shall be punished, unless otherwise provided for in a specific act, as
provided under Section
1-4-1 of this Title.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the City; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
OCCUPANT: The word "occupant" applied to a building or land shall include any
person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether
alone or with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Burley".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: The word "owner" applied to a building or land shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or lessee of the whole or
of a part of such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: The word "tenant" applied to a building or land shall include any
person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether
alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The word "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this Code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who
purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in
the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark. (1981 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted. (1981 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this Code,
where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
three hundred dollars ($300.00) for any one offense, or by imprisonment in jail
for a period of not more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment 1 . (1981 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. § 50-302.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this Chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this Code, the same as though it were a part of each and every separate
section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this Code where
a duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a
continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless
otherwise specifically provided in this Code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this Code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this Code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this Chapter
shall apply. (1981 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intent of
the Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1981
Code)
CHAPTER 5
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Membership Of Council
1-5-2: Meetings
1-5-3: Salary
1-5-4: Publication Of Reports And Statements
1-5-5: Ordinance Passage Procedure
1-5-6: Council Committees
1-5-1: MEMBERSHIP OF COUNCIL:
The council of the city shall consist of six (6) members who shall be qualified
electors of the city under the constitution and laws of the state of Idaho 1 .
(Ord. 453, 9-4-1951)
 
Notes
1 1. See article 18, section 6 of the Idaho constitution.
1-5-2: MEETINGS:
   (A)   Regular Meetings: The council shall meet regularly at seven o'clock
(7:00) P.M. on the first and third Tuesdays, of each and every month, at the
city hall, Burley, Idaho; provided, if the Tuesday is a holiday, the meeting
shall be held on the Wednesday following.
   (B)   Special Meetings: The mayor or any four (4) council persons shall have
power to call special meetings of the city council, the object of which shall
be submitted to the council in writing, and the call, and object, as well as
the disposition thereof shall be entered upon the minute record of the council
by the city clerk 1 . (Ord. 1141, 6-5-2000, eff. 1-2-2001)
 
Notes
1 2. See also subsection
  1-6-7(G) of this title.
1-5-3: SALARY:
Commencing on and after January 1, 1992, the monthly salary to be paid by the
city to each member of the city council is the sum of four hundred dollars
($400.00). (Ord. 1038, 8-19-1991)
1-5-4: PUBLICATION OF REPORTS AND STATEMENTS:
For the purpose of causing the reports and statements of officers of the city,
as required by law and ordinance of the city to be published, the city council
shall make such provision as may be necessary to carry into effect the
requirements of the laws of the state and the ordinances of the city as to
publication of reports and statements. (Ord. 481, 9-17-1951)
1-5-5: ORDINANCE PASSAGE PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Presentment Of Ordinances: All ordinances shall be written or printed
and presented to the council by a member at a regular or special meeting.
   (B)   Manner Of Passing: Every such ordinance shall be read at length in
meetings of the council on three (3) different days. At each reading of an
ordinance it shall be open to discussion and amendment and may be referred to a
committee, and shall be passed to the next reading, unless some other
disposition is made of it by a vote of the council. On final passage the "yeas"
and the "nays" shall be called and recorded and a concurrence of a majority of
all the members elected to the council shall be required for its passage.
Provided, that one-half (1/2) plus one of the members of the full council may
dispense with the three (3) readings and pass the ordinance at any meeting.
   (C)   Endorsement After Passage: When such ordinance is passed it shall be
signed by the clerk, and the date of its passage by the council shall be added
thereto, and within three (3) days thereafter it shall be presented to the
mayor, or in case of his absence from the city, to the president of the council
for his consideration. If he approves the same, he shall attach his signature
thereto, together with the date of such approval.
   (D)   Veto By Mayor; Passage Over Mayor's Veto; Certificate: Should the
mayor not approve the ordinance, he shall return the same to the council with
his objections to the same in writing on or before the date of the next regular
meeting after the same was presented to him. When an ordinance is so returned
by the mayor, the council shall proceed to reconsider the same. Any ordinance
vetoed by the mayor may be passed over his veto by a vote of one-half (1/2)
plus one of the members of the full council 1 .
When any ordinance has been passed over the mayor's veto, as provided in this
subsection, the city clerk shall annex a certificate to the ordinance stating
that the same was vetoed by the mayor, giving the date of such veto, and that
on its reconsideration by the council it received the required vote of the
members of the full council, together with the date of such action.
   (E)   Ordinance Becoming Law Without Mayor's Signature; Certificate: Should
the mayor refuse or neglect to sign any such ordinance and return the same with
his objections in writing on or before the date of the next regular meeting
after the same was submitted to him, it shall become a law without his
signature.
When any ordinance has become a law without the signature of the mayor, as
provided in this subsection, the city clerk shall annex a certificate to such
ordinance to the effect that the mayor has failed to sign or veto the same, and
it has therefore become a law without his signature.
   (F)   When Ordinance Passed: An ordinance shall be considered passed on the
date of its approval by the mayor, and in case of his vetoing an ordinance, on
the date of the passage of such ordinance over his veto, and in the case of the
failure of the mayor to sign or veto an ordinance, on the date of the next
regular meeting after such ordinance was presented to him.
   (G)   Effective Date: All ordinances, unless otherwise provided in such
ordinance, shall take effect and be in force from and after their passage,
approval and publication. Publication shall be made by being inserted in one
issue of some newspaper published in the city. If no paper is published within
the city, then in some paper having general circulation in the city.
   (H)   Preserving And Recording Of Ordinances: It shall be the duty of the
city clerk to safely preserve the original ordinances and when passed and
approved to record the same in a book provided for that purpose, said book to
be designated as, "Ordinance Book, City Of Burley". The city clerk shall attach
a certificate to each ordinance, so recorded, to the effect that the same is a
true and correct copy of the original ordinance as passed. (Ord. 466, 9-4-1951;
amd. 1981 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  1-6-7(E) of this title.
1-5-6: COUNCIL COMMITTEES:
   (A)   Committee Membership: There shall be five (5) permanent standing city
council committees: 1) the administrative committee; 2) the law enforcement
committee; 3) the fire committee; 4) the electric committee; and 5) the
recreation committee. Each committee shall be comprised of three (3) council
members. No council member may serve on more than three (3) of the said
standing committees other than the administrative committee. The committees
shall be advisory unless specific powers are delegated by ordinance, with the
right of appeal of decisions made by such delegated powers to the full council.
The membership of each committee shall be at the discretion of the mayor with
appointments being made by the mayor at the January meeting of each calendar
year. The chair of each committee shall be by election of the committee
members. Such election of the chair shall occur in February of each calendar
year. The committee may also elect a chair pro tem at any time. Reconfiguration
of the makeup of the committees may take place at any time upon a vote of the
council; said reconfigurations or any filling of vacancies shall be filled by
appointment by the mayor and approval of the council.
   (B)   Responsibility: The council committees shall be subject to compliance
with Idaho open meeting law requirements set forth in Idaho Code and the scope
of each committee's responsibility shall consist of the following:
      1.   Administrative Committee: The administrative committee shall
generally consider matters relating to administrative matters of the city and
may advise the mayor in providing personnel evaluations that are required to be
completed of the city administrator.
      2.   Law Enforcement Committee: The law enforcement committee shall
generally consider matters relating to law enforcement services provided to the
city including said service's cost, efficiency, and effectiveness. The law
enforcement committee shall also advise the mayor on matters of public safety
connected to the city's law enforcement activities and the mayor's exercise of
police powers.
      3.   Fire Committee: The fire committee shall generally consider matters
relating to the city's fire department and related fire safety issues. The fire
committee may advise on matters relating to negotiations with unions
established among fire department personnel.
      4.   Electric Committee: The electric committee shall generally consider
matters relating to the purchase and transmission of electrical power for
customers of the city's electric department and may advise the mayor and
council on matters connected to the construction and maintenance of the city's
electrical power infrastructure.
      5.   Recreation Committee: The recreation committee shall generally
consider matters related to city recreation facilities and activities and may
advise the mayor and council regarding the same.
   (C)   Committee Meetings: The council committees shall meet as deemed
necessary by the committee at a day, time and place convenient to the members
of the committee and to the general public. Agendas shall be posted pursuant to
Idaho Code, no less than forty eight (48) hours prior to the commencement of
the meeting. Special meetings may be called by the chair or by a written
request of a quorum of the committee. Minutes shall be kept in accordance with
Idaho law by members of the committee or their designee.
   (D)   Setting Of Committee Agendas: The mayor, a council member, or any
department head may have an item placed on the agenda automatically. The chair
may add items to the agenda up to twenty four (24) hours before the meeting,
provided proper public notice of the amended agenda is provided. The chair
shall determine the order in which agenda items are addressed. (Ord. 1274, 10-
19-2010)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election Of Mayor
1-6-2: Salary
1-6-3: Vacancy
1-6-4: Conflicting Interests
1-6-5: Mayor Pro Tem
1-6-6: Work Hours; Office
1-6-7: Powers And Duties
1-6-1: ELECTION OF MAYOR:
The Mayor of the City shall be elected for a four (4) year term at the regular
election heretofore provided by law and shall serve commencing January 1, 1966,
and extending through December 31, 1969. Thereafter the term of Mayor shall
commence on January 1 following the regular election and such Mayor shall serve
four (4) years and until his successor is elected and qualified as provided by
statute 1 . (Ord. 738, 8-16-1965)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. § 50-601.
1-6-2: SALARY:
The salary of the Mayor shall be the sum of fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00) annually, commencing January 1, 1998, payable every two (2) weeks.
(Ord. 1094, 7-7-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
1-6-3: VACANCY:
In the event of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, the President of the Council
shall serve until the next election as provided by law. (Ord. 711, 8-19-1963;
amd. 1981 Code)
1-6-4: CONFLICTING INTERESTS:
The Mayor shall devote such time and attention to the affairs of the City as is
necessary to perform the duties of the Mayor and shall not, during his term of
office, operate, keep, maintain or be employed at or in any business,
establishment, concern or enterprise that shall in any way conflict with his
duties as Mayor of the City as hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 1094, 7-7-1997,
eff. 1-1-1998)
1-6-5: MAYOR PRO TEM:
During a temporary absence or disability of the Mayor, the President of the
Council, who shall have been elected by the members of the Council, shall act
and serve as Mayor Pro Tem, and during such absence or disability of the Mayor,
the Mayor Pro Tem shall possess all of the powers and perform all of the duties
of the Mayor. (Ord. 711, 8-19-1963)
1-6-6: WORK HOURS; OFFICE:
The Mayor shall keep and maintain regular hours of work of not less than one-
half (1/2) of the hours per week or per day as established for the general
offices of the City, and the Mayor and Council shall provide offices in the
City Hall for the Mayor. (Ord. 1094, 7-7-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
1-6-7: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   (A)   Generally: The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the City,
shall preside over the meetings of the Council and shall perform such duties as
may be required of him by law. He shall have supervision over all of the
executive officers and employees of the City, and shall have the power and
authority to inspect all books and records pertaining to City affairs and kept
by any officer or employee of the City.
   (B)   Appointments: The Mayor shall appoint, by and with the consent and
advice of the Council, a City Clerk, a City Treasurer, a City Attorney and such
other officers as may be deemed necessary. Any vacancies occurring in an
appointive office shall be filled in the same manner.
   (C)   Designation Of Duties: Whenever there is a question or dispute as to
the respective duties or powers of any appointed officer of the City, the
question or dispute shall be settled by the Mayor; and the Mayor shall have the
power to delegate to any appointed officer any duty which is to be performed
when no specific officer has been directed to perform that duty.
   (D)   Vote: The Mayor shall have a vote on any decision to be made by the
Council only when the Council is equally divided.
   (E)   Veto: The Mayor shall have power to veto or sign any law passed by the
Council 1 .
   (F)   Messages To Council: The Mayor shall deliver to the Council such
information and such recommendations as, in his opinion, will be of benefit to
the City.
   (G)   Special Meetings: The Mayor, or any four (4) members of the Council,
shall have the power to call special meetings of the Council, the object of
which shall be submitted in writing and the object as well as the disposition
thereof shall be entered upon the journal by the Clerk 2 .
   (H)   Police Powers: The Mayor shall have jurisdiction over all places
within five (5) miles of the corporate limits of the City for the enforcement
of any health or quarantine ordinance and regulation and shall have
jurisdiction in all matters, excepting taxation, within one mile of the
corporate limits of the City and over such properties as may be owned by the
City without the corporate limits.
   (I)   Pardons: The Mayor shall have power to remit fines and to grant
pardons and reprieves for all offenses arising under the laws of the City.
   (J)   Reward: The Mayor, whenever he deems it expedient, is hereby empowered
to offer a reward not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the arrest
and conviction of any person charged with violating any of the provisions of
this Code.
   (K)   Contracts: The Mayor is authorized and empowered to sign his name
officially for and in behalf of the City on all contracts, documents and papers
to which the City is a party, and to require that the conditions of any
instrument are faithfully performed. He may borrow money on the credit of the
City when so authorized by the Council. (Ord. 711, 8-19-1963; amd. 1981 Code)
   (L)   Call For Accounts And Reports Of Officers: The Mayor shall have the
power when he deems it necessary to require any officer of the City to exhibit
his accounts or other papers and make reports to the City Council in writing
touching any subject or matter he may require pertaining to his office. (Ord.
481, 9-17-1951)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  1-5-5(D) of this Title.
2 1. See also subsection
  1-5-2(B) of this Title.
CHAPTER 7
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Bonds Of City Officers, Employees
1-7-2: Salaries
1-7-3: Vacations, Sick Leave, Military Leave And Other Employee Benefits
1-7-4: City Clerk
1-7-5: City Treasurer
1-7-6: City Attorney
1-7-7: Other Officers
1-7-8: City Administrator
1-7-1: BONDS OF CITY OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES:
   (A)   Bond Amounts, Certain Officers: The following City officers, before
entering upon the duties of their respective offices, shall file good and
sufficient surety bonds, to be approved by the Mayor and City Council for the
faithful performance of their respective offices in the following amounts:
 
City Clerk               $25,000.00
City Treasurer           25,000.00
Deputy City Clerks, each 1,000.00
 
   (B)   Filing: The bonds of the City Treasurer and of the Deputy City Clerks
shall be filed with the City Clerk. The bond of the City Clerk shall be filed
with the Mayor. The premiums on said bonds shall be paid by the City.
   (C)   Other Officers Or Employees: The Mayor and Council of the City may,
whenever they deem it advisable, require any other officer or employee of the
City to furnish bonds in such amounts as may be set by the Mayor and Council.
(Ord. 480, 9-17-1951; amd. 1981 Code)
1-7-2: SALARIES:
The Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, set the salaries and
compensation for all appointive officers and employees of the City. (1960 Code,
sec. 1-417)
1-7-3: VACATIONS, SICK LEAVE, MILITARY LEAVE AND OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFITS:
Any permanent full-time employee will be allowed vacation time, sick leave,
military leave and other benefits as provided by the "Personnel Manual of the
City of Burley" as adopted by the Mayor and City Council. (Ord. 1063, 8-15-
1994)
1-7-4: CITY CLERK:
   (A)   Duties Of Clerk; Journal; Record Of Outstanding Bonds: The City Clerk
shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances and shall keep a correct
journal of the proceedings of the City Council. He shall also keep a record of
all outstanding bonds against the City, showing the number and amount of each,
for and to whom the said bonds were issued; and when any bonds are purchased or
paid or cancelled, said record shall show such fact. In his annual report, he
shall describe particularly the bonds issued and sold during the year and the
terms of sale, with each and every item of expense thereof. He shall also
perform such other duties as may be required by the ordinances of the City and
the statutes of the State, or as prescribed by the Mayor and Council.
   (B)   Seal And Records: In addition to the powers and duties provided by the
statutes of the State, the City Clerk shall have the power and it shall be his
duty to keep the Seal of the City 1 , and affix it to all instruments and
papers which by law or by ordinance are required to be attested by the City
Clerk. He shall have the custody of and safely keep all public papers, records,
documents, ordinances and orders of the City Council and such other papers and
documents in which the City is interested as may be delivered into his custody
for safekeeping.
   (C)   Attend Council Meetings: It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to
attend all meetings of the City Council, keep the minutes of all their
proceedings and record the same in a book to be provided by the Council and
keep the same in his office. He shall also at the close of each fiscal year,
and as often as required by the Council, make out and submit to said Council a
complete statement of receipts and expenditures and all the financial affairs
of the City during such year.
   (D)   Certifying Monies To Treasurer: It shall be the duty of the City Clerk
when any monies are to be paid to the City, to certify the same to the City
Treasurer, and the City Treasurer shall receive no monies except on certificate
of the City Clerk. The certificate shall state the source from which said
monies are received and shall apportion the said monies so received to the
proper funds.
   (E)   Furnish Copies Of Records: Upon demand and payment of such fees
therefor as the county recorder of any county of the State might receive for
similar services, the City Clerk shall furnish to any person applying therefor,
a copy of any record, paper or document of any kind in his possession, which
copies shall be certified under his hand and seal of office. And all fees for
such certified copies shall be accounted for and paid to the Treasurer in the
same manner as other receipts of the Clerk are paid in and accounted for.
   (F)   Bookkeeping System: The City Clerk shall keep, according to some
established system of bookkeeping, all accounts between the City and its
officers and other persons, and shall keep an official record of all demands on
the Treasury. (Ord. 476, 9-17-1951; amd. 1981 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 10 of this Title.
1-7-5: CITY TREASURER:
   (A)   Duties: The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all monies
belonging to the City; he shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation, and the debits and credits belonging thereto; he shall give to
every person paying money into the Treasury a receipt therefor specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid; he shall also file copies of such
receipts with his monthly reports; he shall at the end of each and every month,
and as often as may be required, render an account to the City Council, under
oath, showing the state of the Treasury at the date of such account, and the
balance of money in the Treasury; he shall also accompany such accounts with a
statement of all receipts and disbursements, together with all checks redeemed
and paid by him; which said checks, with any and all vouchers held by him,
shall be filed with his said account in the Clerk's office, and if said
Treasurer neglects or fails, for the space of ten (10) days from the end of
each and every month, to render his said account, his office shall be declared
vacant by appointment until the next election for City officers. (Ord. 477, 9-
17-1951; amd. 1981 Code)
   (B)   Report To Council: The City Treasurer shall be constantly acquainted
with the financial operations of the City Treasury and each demand thereon, and
shall furnish to the City Council any desired information as to the condition
of such Treasury, or any fund thereof, whenever required so to do by such
Council.
   (C)   Deposit And Investment Of Municipal Funds: The City Treasurer may be
required to keep all money in his hands belonging to the City in such place or
places of deposit as may be provided by ordinance but no such ordinance shall
be passed by which the custody of such money shall be taken from the City
Treasurer and deposited elsewhere than in some regularly organized bank, nor
without a bond being taken from such bank in such penal sum and with such
security as the City Council shall direct and approve, sufficient to save the
City from any loss, but such penal sum shall not be less than the estimated
maximum amount on deposit at any one time from taxes and special assessments
levied and to be levied by the City; provided, however, that the City Treasurer
may be directed and empowered, by ordinance, to invest any money in his hands
in securities of the United States Government or of the State, county bonds,
highway bonds or in local improvement district bonds or in the general security
of the City. (Ord. 477, 9-17-1951; amd. Ord. 605, 1-21-1957; 1981 Code)
1-7-6: CITY ATTORNEY:
The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the Council. He shall commence,
prosecute and defend all suits and actions necessary to be commenced,
prosecuted or defended on behalf of the City, or that may be ordered by the
Council. (Ord. 474, 9-17-1951; amd. 1981 Code)
1-7-7: OTHER OFFICERS:
All other officers appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council shall
have such duties as may be prescribed by said Mayor and Council. (1981 Code)
1-7-8: CITY ADMINISTRATOR:
There is created the position of City Administrator for the City. The rights,
duties and obligations, including the manner of appointment and removal, of the
City Administrator shall be fixed by resolution of the City Council, a copy of
which shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk. The City Clerk and the
City Administrator may be one and the same person or may be two (2) separate
persons as appointed by the Mayor and Council. (Ord. 1100, 11-17-1997)
CHAPTER 8
CODE OF ETHICS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Declaration Of Policy
1-8-2: Definitions
1-8-3: Fair And Equal Treatment
1-8-4: Conflict Of Interest
1-8-5: Enforcement
1-8-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
The public judges its government by the way public officials and employees
conduct themselves in the posts to which they are elected or appointed.
The people have a right to expect that every public official and employee will
conduct himself in a manner that will tend to preserve public confidence in and
respect for the government he represents.
Such confidence and respect can best be promoted if every public official and
employee, whether paid or unpaid, and whether elected or appointed, will
uniformly: a) treat all citizens with courtesy, impartiality, fairness and
equality under the law; and b) avoid both actual and potential conflicts
between their private self-interest and the public interest.
To help public officials and employees achieve these goals is one of the
objectives of the Code.
The other objective is based on the proposition that no man can serve two (2)
masters, nor should he attempt so to do. Therefore, this Code of Ethics
proposes to relieve him of the impossible task of judging himself, instead, the
said Code places judgment in the hands of an impartial Board of Ethics 1  which
will review the facts and measure them by the yardstick of public morality
established by this Code. (Ord. 822, 3-15-1971)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 2, Chapter 3 of this Code.
1-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
The terms used in this Code are hereby defined as follows:
FINANCIAL INTEREST: Any interest which shall yield, directly or indirectly, a
monetary or other material benefit (other than the duly authorized salary or
compensation for his services to the City) to the official or employee or to
any person employing or retaining the services of the official or employee.
OFFICIAL OR EMPLOYEE: Any person elected or appointed to, or employed or
retained by, any public office or public body of the City whether paid or
unpaid and whether part-time or full-time.
PERSONAL INTEREST: Any interest arising from blood or marriage relationships or
from close business or political association whether or not any financial
interest is involved.
PUBLIC BODY: Any agency, board, body, commission, committee, department or
office of the City. (Ord. 822, 3-15-1971)
1-8-3: FAIR AND EQUAL TREATMENT:
   (A)   Impartiality: No official or employee shall grant or make available to
any person any consideration, treatment, advantage or favor beyond that which
it is the general practice to grant or make available to the public at large.
   (B)   Use Of Public Property: No official or employee shall request, use or
permit the use of any publicly-owned or publicly-supported property, vehicle,
equipment, labor or service for the personal convenience or the private
advantage of himself or another person. This rule shall not be deemed to
prohibit an official or employee from requesting, using or permitting the use
of such publicly-owned or publicly-supplied property, vehicle, equipment,
material, labor or service which it is the general practice to make available
to the public at large or which are provided as a matter of stated public
policy for the use of officials and employees in the conduct of official
business. (Ord. 822, 3-15-1971)
1-8-4: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
   (A)   Financial Or Personal Interest: No official or employee, either on his
own behalf or any other person, shall have any financial or personal interest
in any business or transaction with any public body unless he shall first make
full public disclosures of the nature and extent of such interest.
   (B)   Disclosure And Disqualification: Whenever the performance of his
official duties shall require any official or employee to deliberate and vote
on any matter involving his financial or personal interest, he shall publicly
disclose the nature and extent of such interest and disqualify himself from
participating in the deliberation as well as in the voting.
   (C)   Incompatible Employment: No official or employee shall engage in
private employment with, or render services for, any private person who has
business transactions with any public body unless he shall first make full
public disclosure of the nature and extent of such employment or services.
   (D)   Representation Of Private Persons: No official or employee shall
appear on behalf of any private person, other than himself, before any public
body in the City.
   (E)   Gifts And Favors: No official or employee shall accept any gift,
whether in the form of money, thing, favor, loan or promise, that would not be
offered or given to him if he were not an official or employee.
   (F)   Confidential Information: No official or employee shall, without prior
formal authorization of the public body having jurisdiction, disclose any
confidential information concerning any other official or employee, or any
other person, or any property or governmental affairs of the City.
Whether or not it shall involve disclosure, no official or employee shall use
or permit the use of any such confidential information to advance the financial
or personal interest of himself or any other person.
   (G)   Nepotism: No elected official shall appoint or vote for appointment of
any person related to him by blood or marriage to any clerkship, office,
position, employment or duty, when the salary, wages, pay or compensation is to
be paid out of public funds. (Ord. 822, 3-15-1971)
1-8-5: ENFORCEMENT:
In the event that the Board of Ethics, under the provisions of Title 2, Chapter
4 of this Code, make a determination that the conduct of any official or
employee was improper, the governing body, based upon the written findings,
conclusions and determination of the Board of Ethics, may institute appropriate
action for censure, suspension or removal from office of said official or
employee. (Ord. 822, 3-15-1971)
CHAPTER 9
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Regulations
1-9-1: REGULATIONS:
   (A)   The incorporated area of the city of Burley shall constitute a single
election precinct for all general and special city elections and the place of
polling shall be the Burley city hall unless changed by proclamation and notice
in accordance with Idaho law.
   (B)   Polls shall open at eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and shall remain open
until eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. of the same day, at which time they shall
close. (Ord. 1177, 8-19-2003)
CHAPTER 10
CORPORATE SEAL
SECTION:
1-10-1: Corporate Seal Described
1-10-2: Corporate Seal Adopted
1-10-1: CORPORATE SEAL DESCRIBED:
The Corporate Seal of the City shall be circular in form with inner and outer
circles. The outer circle shall be one and one-half inches (11/2") in diameter
and the inner circle shall be fifteen-sixteenths of an inch (15/16") in
diameter. It shall bear upon the space between the two (2) circles the words
City of Burley, and upon the space within the inner circle the words Corporate
Seal. (Ord. 490, 9-17-1951)
1-10-2: CORPORATE SEAL ADOPTED:
The Seal described in Section
1-10-1 of this Chapter shall be and the same is hereby adopted as the Corporate
Seal of the City 1 . (Ord. 490, 9-17-1951)
 
Notes
  1. See subsection
1 1-7-4(B) of this Title, custody by City Clerk.
   
CHAPTER 11
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
SECTION:
1-11-1: Official Newspaper Designated
1-11-1: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER DESIGNATED:
The official newspaper for the city of Burley, Idaho, in compliance with Idaho
Code sections 50-213 and 60-106 shall be "The Times News", P.O. Box 548, 132
3rd Street West, Twin Falls, ID 83303-0548. (Ord. 1308, 9-16-2014)
CHAPTER 12
CORPORATE LIMITS
SECTION:
1-12-1: Corporate Limits Established
1-12-2: Annexations
1-12-1: CORPORATE LIMITS ESTABLISHED:
The corporate limits of the City shall be and the same are hereby extended and
the boundaries thereof shall be and are hereby fixed as follows:
Beginning at the N.E. corner of Section 20, Township 10 South, Range 23 East,
Boise Meridian, within Cassia County, Idaho, which is the Point of Beginning;
Thence Westerly along the North boundary line of Sec. 20 to the East boundary
line of Hansen Avenue;
Thence North along the East boundary line of Hansen Avenue extended to the
South bank of the Snake River;
Thence Southwesterly along the South bank of the Snake River to the West
extended boundary line of Miller Avenue;
Thence South along the extended West boundary line of Miller Avenue to the
North boundary line of said Sec. 20;
Thence Westerly along said North Boundary line to the N.W. Corner of said
Section 20;
Thence Southerly along the West boundary of said Section 20 for a distance of
2872.4 feet;
Thence Westerly for a distance of 1320.0 feet to the East boundary line of the
Lot 3, Section 19, Township 10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian;
Thence Southerly along the East boundary of said Lot 3 for a distance of 924.5
feet to the N.E. corner of Lot 4 of said Section 19;
Thence Easterly on a bearing of S. 85°30' E. along the North boundary of S.E.1/
4 S.E.1/4, Section 19 for a distance of 353.4 feet;
Thence Southerly to an Iron Pin for a distance of 601.8 feet;
Thence Easterly on a course of an interior angle of 92°12' from the last
previous course for a distance of 231.7 feet;
Thence Southerly at a right angle to the last previous course for a distance of
65.0 feet;
Thence Easterly at a right angle to the last previous course for a distance of
131.9 feet to a point of intersection with the East Right of Way Line of the
Oakley Branch of the Oregon Short Line Railroad;
Thence Southwesterly along the right-of-way line of said Railroad at the North
boundary line of Sec. 30T 10S R23 EBM;
Thence Southwesterly along the said East right of way of the Oakley Branch on a
bearing of S. 21°45' W. for a distance of 1788.9 feet to a point of
intersection with the South boundary line of the N1/2N1/2 of said Section 30;
Thence Easterly along said South boundary line of said N1/2N1/2 of said Section
30 on a bearing of S. 85°30' E. for a distance of 117.23 feet to a point of
intersection with the West boundary line of the E1/2 of the said Section 30;
Thence South along said West boundary line of the said E1/2 of the said Section
30 for a distance of 600.8 feet;
Thence Easterly along a line parallel to the North boundary line of said
Section 30, on a bearing of N. 85°30' W. for a distance of 1274.86 feet to a
point of intersection with the West boundary line of Section 29, Township 10
South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian;
Thence Southerly along said boundary line of said Section 29 on a bearing of S.
0°33' E. to a point of intersection with the S.W. Corner, S.W.1/4 N.W.1/4 of
said Section 29;
Thence Easterly along the South boundary line of the N 1/2 of the said Section
29 to a point on the said South boundary line of the N 1/2 of the said Section
29 which is 40.0 feet Westerly from the N.W. Corner, N.E.1/4 S.W.1/4 of said
Section 29;
Thence Southerly for a distance of 100.0 feet along the West right-of-way line
of Burton Avenue;
Thence Southerly along the said West right-of-way line on a course deflected
Right 5°44' from the last previous course to the South right-of-way line of
West 24th Street as platted and recorded in the office of the County Recorder,
Cassia County, Idaho;
Thence Easterly along the said South right-of-way line of West 24th Street to a
point of intersection with the center line of Miller Avenue;
Thence Southerly along the center line of Miller Avenue to the Southwest corner
of Judd Addition as shown on the official plat now a matter of record in the
office of the County Recorder of Cassia County, Idaho;
Thence East along the South boundary line of Judd Addition to the North
boundary line of Goose Creek;
Thence Northeasterly along the North boundary line of Goose Creek to the West
boundary line of State Highway 27;
Thence North along the West boundary line of State Highway 27, to the South
boundary of 24th Street;
Thence Easterly along the South boundary of 24th Street to a point of
intersection with the East boundary line of the N.E.1/4 S.W.1/4 of said Section
29;
Thence North on 1/4 Section Line a distance of 51 feet, more or less;
Thence Easterly on a line perpendicular to the 1/4 Section Line for a distance
of 165.0 feet;
Thence Northerly at right angles to the last previous course for a distance of
132.0 feet;
Thence Easterly at right angles to the last previous course for a distance of
33.0 feet;
Thence Northerly at right angles to the last previous course for a distance of
132.0 feet;
Thence Westerly at right angles to the last previous course for a distance of
28.0 feet;
Thence Northerly at right angles to the last previous course for a distance of
390.0 feet;
Thence Easterly at right angles to the last previous course for a distance of
10.0 feet;
Thence Northerly at right angles to the last previous course for a distance of
260.0 feet to a point of intersection with the North boundary line with the
N.W.1/4 S.E.1/4 of said Section 29;
Thence Easterly along the said North boundary line of the N.W.1/4 S.E.1/4 of
said Section 29 to a point of intersection with the N.E. corner N.W.1/4 S.E.1/
4 of said Section 29;
Thence Northerly along the East boundary line of the S.W.1/4 N.E.1/4 of said
Section 29 to the N.E. corner of the S.W.1/4 N.E.1/4 of said Section 29;
Thence Easterly along the North boundary of the S.W.1/4 N.E.1/4 of said Section
29 for a distance of 28.8 feet to a brass marker;
Thence Northerly along a line parallel to and 28.8 feet East of the Eastern
boundary line of the N.W.1/4 N.E.1/4 of said Section 29 to a point of
intersection with the North boundary of the N.W.1/4 N.E.1/4 of said Section 29;
Thence Easterly along the boundary line between Sections 20 and 29, Township 10
South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian, to the S.E. corner of said Section 20;
Thence Northerly on the common boundary between Section 20 and Section 21,
Township 10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian, to a point which is 280.0
feet South of a point of intersection of said boundary between said Sections 20
and 21 and the South right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 30;
Thence Easterly for a distance of 1360.0 feet to a point of intersection on the
East boundary line of the N.W.1/4 S.W.1/4 of said Section 21, which point is
135.37 feet South of the South right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 30;
Thence Southerly along the East boundary of the N.W.1/4 S.W.1/4 of said Section
21 to a point 72 feet North of the South boundary of the N.E.1/4 S.W.1/4 of
said Section 21; (Ord. 654, 10-5-1959)
Thence Easterly along a line 72 feet North and parallel to the South boundary
of the N.E.1/4 S.W.1/4 of said Section 21 to the East boundary line of the
N.E.1/4 S.W.1/4 of said Section 21;
Thence Northerly along the said East boundary of the N.E.1/4 S.W.1/4 of said
Section 21 to a point of intersection with the North right-of-way Line of U.S.
Highway 30;
Thence Easterly along said North right-of-away Line of U.S. Highway 30 to a
point of intersection with the Eastern right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 30
South extended;
Thence Southeasterly along said Eastern right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 30,
extended to a point of intersection with the common boundary line between
Section 27 and 28, Township 10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian;
Thence Northerly along said common boundary line between said Sections 27 and
28 to a point of intersection with the N.W. corner of said Section 27;
Thence Easterly along the Northern boundary line of said Section to the South
bank of the Snake River;
Thence Northwesterly within Sections 16, 21 and 22, Township 10 South, Range 23
East, Boise Meridian, along the South bank of the Snake River to a point of
intersection with the West right-of-way line of the Minidoka and Southwestern
Railroad;
Thence Southwesterly along the said West right-of-way Line of the Minidoka and
Southwestern Railroad through said Sections 16 and 21 to a point of
intersection with the common boundary line between Sections 20 and 21, Township
10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian;
Thence Northerly along said common boundary line between said Sections 20 and
21 to the N.E. corner of said Section 20, Township 10 South, Range 23 East,
Boise Meridian, which is the True Point of Beginning.
EXCEPTING: A parcel of land in the S.W.1/4 N.W.1/4 and the N.W.1/4 of Section
21, Township 10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian, described as follows:
Beginning at a point on the West boundary line of said Section 21 which is
425.0 feet North of the North right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 30;
Thence Easterly for a distance of 1168 feet;
Thence Northerly at right angles to the last previous course to a point of
intersection with the South right-of-way line of the Raft River Branch of the
Minidoka and Southwestern Railroad;
Thence Northwesterly along said South right-of-way line of the Raft River
Branch of the Minidoka and Southwestern Railroad to a point of intersection
with the West Boundary of Section 21, Township 10 South, Range 23 East, Boise
Meridian;
Thence Southerly along said West boundary line of said Section 21 to a point
425 feet North of the North right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 30, which is the
True Point of Beginning. (Ord. 454, 9-4-1951; amd. Ord. 530, 1-21-1952; Ord.
570, 4-18-1955; Ord. 591, 9-21-1956; Ord. 621, 12-2-1957; Ord. 635, 10-20-1958;
Ord. 637, 1-19-1959; Ord. 638, 2-2-1959; Ord. 971, 9-21-1981)
1-12-2: ANNEXATIONS:
The corporate boundaries as described in Section
1-12-1 hereof are further extended by annexing the following described land:
(1981 Code)
The NE1/4NE1/4 of Section 29, Township 10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian,
excepting that part that is included in Miller's First Addition to Burley.
(Ord. 641, 2-16-1959)
Beginning at the existing SW corner of the corporate limits of the City which
is the NW corner of the NW1/4 of the SW1/4, Section 29, Township 10 South,
Range 23 East, Boise Meridian, in the County of Cassia, State of Idaho, which
is the true point of beginning; thence along the boundary of the corporate
limits of the City which is the 1/4 section line for a distance of 715.0 feet
on a bearing S. 89°50' E.; thence on a bearing S. 0°33' E. for a distance of
960.45 feet to the proposed centerline of 24th Street of the City; thence on a
bearing N. 89 50' W. along said proposed centerline a distance of 715.0 feet to
the west boundary of said section; thence along said section line a distance of
960.45 feet on a bearing N. 0°33' W. to the true point of beginning.
The area is 15.93 acres. (Ord. 644, 4-6-1959)
The land situated in Sections 29 and 32, T-10 S, R-23 E.B.M., described as
follows:
The Overland Subdivision, as the same is platted in the official plat thereof
now of record in the office of the County Recorder, Cassia County, Idaho and
A parcel of land described as follows: Beginning at the northeast corner of the
Overland Subdivision as the same is platted in the official plat thereof now of
record in the office of the County Recorder, Cassia County, Idaho, thence South
0°5'15" East, 240 feet; thence North 89°18'45" West, a distance of 96 feet;
thence South 0°15'15" East, a distance of 71.15 feet; thence East 96 feet;
thence South 0°5'15" East, 35 feet; thence East 25 feet to the east boundary
line of Almo Avenue; thence north along the east boundary line of Almo Avenue a
distance of 346.15 feet; thence west 25 feet to the point of beginning.
Also, beginning at a point 345 feet South of the Northeast corner of the
Northwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter (NW1/4SE1/4) of Section Twenty-Nine
(29), Township Ten (10) South, Range Twenty-Three (23), East of the Boise
Meridian; thence East 25 feet, more or less, to the East boundary line of the
existing County Road, thence South 2,295 feet, more or less, to a point 25 feet
East of the Southeast corner of the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter
(SW1/4SE1/4) of said Section Twenty-Nine (29); thence West 25 feet to the
Southeast corner of the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter (SW1/4SE1/4)
of said Section Twenty-Nine (29); thence South 25, feet, more or less, to the
South boundary line of the County Road that runs East and West between Sections
Twenty-nine (29) and Thirty-Two (32), Township Ten (10) South, Range Twenty-
Three (23), East of the Boise Meridian; thence West along the South boundary
line of the said County Road, 283.3 feet; thence South along the East boundary
line of Mountain View Subdivision 1,300 feet, more or less, to the Southeast
corner of the said Mountain View Subdivision, which point is also on the South
boundary line of the Northwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter (NW1/4NE1/4) of
Section Thirty-Two (32), Township Ten (10) South, Range Twenty-Three (23), East
of the Boise Meridian; thence West 624.4 feet, more or less, to the Southwest
corner of the said Mountain View Subdivision; thence North along the West
boundary line of the said Mountain View Subdivision 1,105.1 feet; thence West
196.8 feet; thence South 30 feet; thence West 186 feet, more or less, to the
East boundary line of State Highway No. 27; thence Northerly along the East
boundary line of State Highway No. 27, 2,095 feet, more or less, to a point
where the East boundary line of State Highway No. 27 intersects the South
boundary line of proposed East 23rd Drive; thence East 120 feet; thence South
66 feet; thence East 485 feet; thence North 90 feet; thence East 158.28 feet;
thence North 50°25'30" East 666.45 feet, more or less, to the place of
beginning. (Ord. 654, 10-5-1959)
The land situated in Section 32, T-10 S., R-23 E.B.M., described as follows:
McBride Addition, as the same is platted in the official plat thereof now of
record in the office of the County Recorder, Cassia County, Idaho.
The Hi-Land Subdivision as the same is platted in the official plat thereof now
of record in the office of the County Recorder, Cassia County, Idaho.
And the following tract:
Beginning at a point on the Section line which is 231 feet East of the
Northwest corner of the Northwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter (NW1/4NE1/4)
of Section 32, Township 10 South, Range 23, E.B.M.; thence South 0°34' West 220
feet to the true point of beginning; thence South 220 feet; thence East 196.8
feet; thence North 220 feet; thence North 89 14' West 196.8 feet to the true
point of beginning. (Ord. 657, 1-18-1960)
The land situated in Section 29, T-10 S., R-23 E.B.M., described as follows:
The Southwest Second Addition to the City, as the same is platted in the
official plat thereof, now of record in the office of the County Recorder,
Cassia County, Idaho.
And also, beginning at the Southeast corner of the Northwest Quarter of the
Southwest Quarter (NW1/4SW1/4) of Section 29, Township 10 South, Range 23
E.B.M.; thence West 295.16 feet; thence South 295.16 feet; thence East 295.16
feet; thence North 295.16 feet to the point of beginning. (Ord. 660, 3-7-1960)
And also the following described tract:
Beginning at the Southwest corner of Lot 9, of Block 9, of the Southwest Second
Addition to the City, as the same is platted in the official plat thereof, now
of record in the office of the County Recorder, Cassia County, Idaho; thence
West parallel to the North boundary line of the said Northwest Quarter of the
Southwest Quarter (NW1/4SW1/4) of Section 29, Township 10 South, Range 23,
E.B.M. a distance of 710 feet, more or less to the West boundary line of the
said Northwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter (NW1/4SW1/4), Section 29,
Township 10 South, Range 23, E.B.M.; thence North 654.55 feet more or less to
the present City limits; thence East along the South boundary line of the City
limits 715 feet more or less to the West boundary line of the Southwest Second
Addition to the City; thence South along the West boundary line of said
Southwest Second Addition to the City to the point of beginning. (Ord. 660, 3-
7-1960; amd. Ord. 971, 9-21-1981)
The land situated in Section 17, T-10 S., R-23 E.B.M., described as follows:
Beginning at the Southwest corner of Lot Ten (10) of Section Seventeen (17),
Township Ten (10) South, Range Twenty-Three (23) E.B.M.; thence South to the
South boundary of Snake River; thence Northeasterly along the South boundary of
Snake River to the East boundary line of Lot Two (2) of said Section Seventeen
(17) in Cassia County, Idaho; Thence North to the Southeast corner of Lot Six
(6) of said Section Seventeen (17); thence Southwest along the North boundary
line of Snake River to point of beginning, and also, Lots Six (6) and Ten (10)
and the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NE1/4NW1/4), sometimes
known as Lot Seven (7), of Section Seventeen (17), Township Ten (10) South,
Range Twenty-Three (23) E.B.M. and the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast
Quarter (SW1/4SE1/4) of Section Eight (8), Township Ten (10) South, Range
Twenty-Three (23) E.B.M. in Minidoka County. (Ord. 667, 7-5-1960)
The land situated in Section 28, T-10 S., R-23 E.B.M., described as follows:
Beginning at the Northwest corner of the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest
Quarter (NW1/4NW1/4) of Section 28, Township 10 South, Range 23 E.B.M.; thence
South 1320 feet, more or less, to the South boundary line of said Northwest
Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NW1/4NW1/4); thence East along said South
boundary line a distance of 843.77 feet, more or less, to a point 475 feet West
of the Southeast corner of said Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter
(NW1/4NW1/4); thence North 458 feet; thence East 219.76 feet; thence North 862
feet to the North boundary line of said Northwest Quarter of the Northwest
Quarter (NW1/4NW1/4); thence West along said North boundary line a distance of
1,064.76 feet, more or less, to point of beginning. (Ord. 668, 7-18-1960)
The land situated in Section 32, T-10 S., R-23 E.B.M., described as follows:
Beginning at a point 25 feet South and 45 feet, more or less, West of the
Northeast corner of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NE1/4NW1/4)
of Section 32, Township 10 South, Range 23 E.B.M. at a point which is on the
corporate limit boundary of the City which is the true point of beginning;
thence Westerly along a line parallel to the North boundary line of said
Section 32 to a point 25 feet West of the West boundary of said Section 32;
thence Northerly parallel to the West boundary of Section 29, Township 10
South, Range 23 E.B.M. to a point of intersection with the extended South
boundary of Southwest Second Addition; thence Easterly along said extended
South boundary along the corporate limits of the City as now of record by
official ordinance; thence North along said existing City corporate limit
boundary to the South right-of-way boundary of West 24th Street; thence
Easterly along said City corporate limit boundary to the Northwest corner of
the Countryside Addition to the City; thence Southerly along the West
boundaries of the Countryside and Judd Additions to the City to a point on the
corporate limit boundary at the Southwest corner of said Judd Addition; thence
Easterly along the South boundary of the said Judd Addition along the said
corporate limit as now of record to the Southeast corner of the Judd Addition;
thence Northeasterly along the said existing corporate limit boundary along the
Judd Addition and the Dayley Villas Addition to the Southeast corner of the
Dayley Villas Addition; thence Southerly along said corporate limit boundary to
the true point of beginning. (Ord. 671, 8-1-1960)
Western Park Subdivision as the same is platted in the official plat thereof,
now of record in the office of the County, Recorder of Cassia County, Idaho,
described as:
Beginning at a point South 89°44' East 231 feet from the Southwest corner of
the Northwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter (NW1/4NE1/4) of Section Thirty-
Two (32), Township Ten (10) South, Range Twenty-Three (23) East Boise Meridian;
thence South 89°44' East 200 feet; thence North 0°34' West 885.15 feet; thence
North 89°44' West 200 feet; thence South 0°34' East 885.15' to the point of
beginning. (Ord. 699, 5-7-1962)
Parcel No. 1: A portion of the South half of the Southwest Quarter (S1/2SW1/4)
of Section Eight (8), Township Ten (10) South, Range Twenty-Three (23) E.B.M.,
lying in Minidoka County, Idaho, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the southeast corner of the South half of the Southwest Quarter
(S1/2SW1/4) of said Section Eight (8); thence West 130.0 feet; thence North
155.0 feet; thence East 130.0 feet to the East boundary line of said South half
of the Southwest Quarter (S1/2SW1/4); thence South 155.0 feet to the point of
beginning. (Ord. 707, 5-20-1963; amd. Ord. 971, 9-2-1981)
Beginning at NE corner SE1/4SE1/2 Section 19, Township 10 South, Range 23
E.B.M, being more particularly described as follows:
Thence N 85°30' W for a distance of 1320.65 feet to a point which point lies
3.25 feet South of center line of Highway 30 West and shall be known as the
true point of beginning; thence S 83°30' E for a distance of 353.4 feet to a
point; thence S 2°39' W for a distance of 563.5 feet to a point on present City
limit line; thence N 85°07' W for a distance of 412.3 feet to a point; thence N
0°21' E for a distance of 264.0 feet to a point; thence N 89°39' W for a
distance of 200.4 feet to a point; thence S 0°21' W for a distance of 250.0
feet to a point; thence N 85°07' W for a distance of ±135.0 feet to a point;
thence N 0°21' E for a distance of ±395.0 feet to a point; on South right-of-
way line of State Highway 30 West; thence N 0°21' E for a distance of 41.7' to
a point on Center line of Highway 30 W; thence down Highway 30 W N 73°56' E to
a point; thence S 0°11' W for a distance of 3.25 feet to the true point of
beginning. (Ord. 754, 8-2-1966)
A portion of Section 21, Township 10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian,
Cassia County, Idaho, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at a point on the 1/16 Section line 72.00 feet N. 0°08' W. of the NW
corner of the SE1/4 of the SW1/4 of Section 21; thence S 89°00' E for 490.00
feet to the SW corner of Idaho Gas Company property as recorded under
Instrument No. 204950, Book 62, Page 300 in the Cassia County Recorder's
office; thence S 0°08' E for 419.80 feet to a point; thence N. 89°06' W for
589.00 feet to a point; thence N 0°08' W for 419.10 feet; thence S 89°54' E for
99.00 feet to the point of beginning. (Ord. 835, 4-3-1972)
Parcel 1: That part of the North one-half of the Northwest Quarter (N1/2NW1/4)
of Section 27, Township 10 South, Range 23, East of the Boise Meridian, County
of Cassia, State of Idaho, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the northwest corner of Section 27, which shall be known as the
true point of beginning; thence on an assumed bearing South for a distance of
374.2 feet to the Northeast right-of-way line of U.S. Highway #30 South; thence
run along said right-of-way line for a distance of 252.4 feet on a bearing of
S. 43°25'30" E to a point of intersection of an existing fence with the said
highway right-of-way line; thence run along said fence and beyond on the same
extended bearing S 83°39' E an approximate distance of 1830 feet, to the high-
water mark on the Southwest bank of the Snake River; thence on a meandering
course in a Northwesterly direction along the high-water mark of said river
bank for an approximate distance of 980 feet to the North boundary line of said
section 27; thence in a westerly direction along said North boundary of Section
27 a distance of approximately 1404 feet, to the true point of beginning. A
tract of land consisting of 20 acres, more or less.
Parcel 2: That part of the North one-half of the Northwest Quarter (N1/2NW1/4)
of Section 27, township 10 South, Range 23 East of the Boise Meridian, County
of Cassia, State of Idaho, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the Northwest corner of Section 27; thence on an assumed bearing
South for a distance of 374.2 feet to the Northeast right-of-way line of U.S.
Highway #30 South; thence run along said right-of-way line for a distance of
252.4 feet on a bearing of S 43°25'30" East to a point of intersection of an
existing fence with the said highway right-of-way line, which point shall be
known as the true point of beginning; thence continue on the bearing of S
43°25'30" E for a distance of 51.4 feet to the 3/4" by 35" galvanized pipe,
which point is at the intersection of the Northeast right-of-way line of U.S.
Highway #30 South and the South right-of-way line of Government Lateral #121/2,
and is also the Northwest corner of the Kirby Wilson property; thence run S
83°11' E along the South right-of-way line of Government Lateral #121/2 for a
distance of 1283.2 feet to a point which is identified by a 1/2" rebar driven
into the ground; thence run N 6°49' E for a distance of 43.1 feet to a point
identified by a 1/2" rebar driven into the ground which is on the East
extension of an East-West fence line, this point being approximately 80 feet
East of the East end of the mentioned fence line; thence run N 83°39' West for
a distance of 1322.9 feet to the true point of beginning. A tract of land
consisting of 1.5 acres more or less. (Ord. 849, 3-19-1973)
Beginning at an iron pin marking the E1/4 corner of said Section 29; thence
North 89°10'30" West 828.73 feet along the Northerly boundary of said NE1/4 of
the SE1/4 of Section 29 to an iron pin marking the real point of beginning;
thence along the following courses and distances to iron pins:
Continuing North 89°10'30" West 338.03 feet along said Northerly boundary of
the NE1/4 of the SE1/4 of Section 29; thence South 0°49'30" West 130.00 feet;
thence South 89°58'00" West 160.00 feet to a point on the Westerly boundary of
the said NE1/4 of the SE1/4 of Section 29; thence south 0°02'00" East 258.69
feet along the said Westerly boundary of NE1/4 of the SE1/4 of Section 29,
which is also the center line of Almo Avenue and the Easterly boundary of
Overland Subdivision, as filed for record in the office of the Cassia County
Recorder; thence North 87°11'19" East 501.78 feet; thence North 72°18'31" East
66.83 feet; thence North 0°49'30" East 208.01 feet; thence North 89°10'30" West
70.00 feet along a line 130.00 feet Southerly of and parallel to said Northerly
boundary of the NE1/4 of the SE1/4 of Section 29; thence North 0°49'30" East
130.00 feet to the point of beginning, comprising 4.15 acres, more or less.
A parcel of land located in the NE1/4 of the SE1/4 of Section 29, T. 10 S., R.
23 E.B.M., Cassia County, Idaho, being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at an iron pin marking the E1/4 corner of said Section 29; thence
North 89°10'30" West 103.33 feet along the Northerly boundary of said NE1/4 of
the SE1/4 of Section 29 to an iron pin marking the real point of beginning;
thence along the following courses and distances to iron pins; continuing North
89°10'30" West 725.40 feet along said Northerly boundary of the NE1/4 of the
SE1/4 of Section 29; thence South 0°49'30" West 130.00 feet; thence South
89°10'30" East 70.00 feet along a line 130.00 feet Southerly of and parallel to
said Northerly boundary of the NE1/4 of the SE1/4 of Section 29; thence South
0°49'30" West 208.01 feet; thence North 72°18'31" East 377.71 feet; thence
North 60°55'14" East 335.82 feet; thence North 7°44'00" East 51.00 feet to the
point of beginning, comprising 3.40 acres, more or less.
Beginning at an iron pin marking the East 1/4 corner of said Section 29; thence
North 89°10'30" West 1,166.76 feet along the Northerly boundary of said NE1/
4 of the SE1/4 of Section 29 to an iron pin marking the real point of
beginning; thence continuing North 89°10'30" West 161.97 feet along said
Northerly boundary of the NE1/4 of the SE1/4 of Section 29 to a railroad spike
marking the Northwest corner of said NE1/4 of the SE1/4 of Section 29; thence
the following courses and distances to iron pins:
South 0°02'00" East 132.41 feet along the Westerly boundary of said NE1/4 of
the SE1/4 of Section 29, which is also the center line of Almo Avenue and the
Easterly boundary of Overland Subdivision, as filed for record in the office of
the Cassia County Recorder; thence North 89°58'00" East 160.00 feet; thence
North 0°49'30" East 130.00 feet to the point of beginning, comprising 0.485
acre, more or less.
The above-described land is hereby zoned the classification of "R-2". (Ord.
854, 8-20-1973)
Parcel 1: Beginning at a point 56 feet North 89°16' West from the Northeast
corner of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NE1/4NW1/4) of
Section Thirty-Two (32), Township Ten (10) South, Range Twenty-Three (23) East,
Boise Meridian; thence North 89°16' West 298.9 feet; thence South 1045.6 feet
to center line of canal; thence North 43°50' East 36.8 feet; thence North
21°32' East 456.1 feet; thence North 7°19' East 283.5 feet; thence North 31°38'
East 133.2 feet; thence North 0°24' West 204.2 feet to the point of beginning.
The above-described real estate in parcel 1 is zoned C-2.
Parcel 2: Beginning at a point 354.9 feet West of the Northeast corner of the
Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NE1/4NW1/4) of Section 32, Township
10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian; thence North 89°16' West 667.9 feet;
thence South to the North boundary line of the G Canal; thence East along the
North boundary line said Canal to a point that is directly South of the point
of beginning; thence North along said line to the point of beginning.
The above-described real estate in parcel 2 is zoned R-2. (Ord. 873, 8-19-1974)
Parcel 1, Cassia County: S.I.R Estates Subdivision as the same is officially
platted in the office of the County Recorder of the County of Cassia, State of
Idaho, to be annexed to the City, except that portion of the plat that includes
the canal adjacent and contiguous to the Subdivision on the South and West.
The above-described real estate in parcel 1 is zoned R-2 (Residential). (Ord.
889, 1-5-1976)
Parcel 2: Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the Boise Meridian, Minidoka
County, Idaho.
Section 8: Beginning at the Southeast corner of the SW1/4 of said Section 8;
thence North 0°03'30" East along the East boundary line of said SW1/4 for
1325.30 feet, more or less, to the Northeast corner of the SE1/4SW1/4 of said
Section 8; thence South 89°48' West along the North boundary line of said SE1/
4SW1/4 for 260.14 feet, more or less, to the East right-of-way line of the B-
4 Canal; thence South 39°27' West along the East right-of-way line of said
Canal for 1724.35 feet, more or less, to a point on the South boundary line of
said SW1/4; thence North 89°48' East for 1323.14 feet, more or less, to the
point of beginning. (Ord. 938, 7-23-1979)
The above-described land in parcel 2 is hereby zoned C-2 (Commercial). (Ord.
889, 1-5-1976)
Hi-Land Subdivision No. 2, as the same is officially platted in the office of
the County Recorder of the County of Cassia, State of Idaho.
Lots 13 through 22 inclusive of Block 6, and all of Blocks 7 and 8 are hereby
zoned R-1 (Residential) and Lots 2 through 4 inclusive of Block 4, Lots 1
through 5 inclusive of Block 12, all of Block 5, Lots 3 through 12 inclusive of
Block 6 are zoned R-2 (Residential). (Ord. 900, 11-4-1976)
Parcel No. 1: A part of the Southeast quarter of the Southeast quarter of
Section 17, and a part of the Northeast quarter of the Northeast quarter of
Section 20, Township 10 South, Range 23 East Boise Meridian, Cassia County,
Idaho.
The true point of beginning is located South 12.20 feet and West 354.45 feet
from the Northeast corner of Section 20; thence West 308.51 feet; thence N
0°59'08" E. 20.23 feet to the North line of Section 20; thence continuing N
0°59'08" E 315.40 feet in Section 17; thence N 86°31'04" E 330.61 feet; thence
South 10.26 feet; thence East 40.05 feet; thence S 11°01'47" W 335.15 feet to
the South line of Section 17; thence continuing S 11°01'47" W 16.76 feet to the
point of beginning.
The above annexed parcel is zoned R-3.
Parcel No. 2: A portion of Sections 16, 17 and 20, Township 10 South, Range 23
East, Boise Meridian, Cassia County, Idaho, more particularly described as
follows:
Beginning at the Southeast corner of said Section 17, which is the true point
of beginning; thence due North along the East section line at said Section 17 a
distance of 858.1 feet; thence South 81°09' East 447.1 feet; thence South
69°39' East 514.4 feet; thence North 23°43'30" East 986.0 feet more or less to
a point on the East lot line of Lot 3, of said Section 16 as platted on the
official government plat; thence due North along the East lot line of said Lot
3 a distance of 369.8 feet more or less to a point on the mean high-water mark
on the South bank of the Snake River; thence meandering Northwesterly along
said high-water mark on said river bank to a point of intersection of the East
1/16 line of said Section 17 and the said high-water mark on said river bank,
said 1/16 line also being the West boundary of Lot 1, said Section 17, as shown
on the official government plat; thence due South along said 1/16 line 1541
feet more or less; thence South 89o06' East 344.48 feet; thence South 46o45'
East 161.93 feet; thence South 81o10' East 200.11 feet; thence due South 565.18
feet more or less to a 5/8" iron bar; thence due East 330 feet to a 5/8" iron
bar; thence due North 14.60 feet to a 5/8" iron bar; thence due East 130 feet
to a point; thence due South 330.76 feet more or less to a point of
intersection on the South Section line of said Section 17; thence due East 200
feet more or less, along the South section line of Section 17 to the Southeast
corner or said Section 17, which is also the true point of beginning.
The above annexed parcel is zoned S-1.
Parcel No. 3: A parcel of land located in the Northeast 1/4 of the Southeast 1/
4 of Section 29, Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the Boise Meridian, in
Cassia County, Idaho, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the East 1/4 corner of said Section 29, which is the true point of
beginning; thence North 89o10'30" West along the latitudinal center line of
said Section 29, a distance of 107.64 feet to a point on the latitudinal center
line; thence South 00o49'27" West a distance of 30.0 feet to a point on the
South right of way at East 22nd Street; thence South 89o10'30" East along the
South right of way of said East 22nd Street for 3.64 feet to a point; thence
South 00o49'27" West a distance of 60 feet to a point; thence South 89o10'30"
East a distance of 104.0 feet to a point on the East Section line of said
Section 29; thence Northerly along the East section line of said section line a
distance of 90 feet, more or less to the true point of beginning.
The above annexed parcel is zoned S-1. (Ord. 933, 5-7-1979)
Parcel No. 4: A parcel of land being in the Northwest Quarter of the Southwest
Quarter, Section 21, Township 10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian, being
more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at a point which is 368.6 feet South and 40 feet East of the West
quarter section corner of aforesaid Section 21; thence East 157 feet; thence
North 209 feet; thence West 157 feet; thence South 209 feet, to the place of
beginning. (Ord. 936, 7-2-1979)
The above annexed parcel is zoned C-3. (Ord. 933, 5-7-1979)
A part of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter (SE1/4SE1/4) of
Section 17, Township 10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian, Cassia County,
Idaho, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the Southeast corner of said Section 17; thence West 200 feet
along the South boundary line of Section 17 to the true point of beginning;
thence North 330.76 feet more or less to a point; thence West 89.95 feet more
or less to a point; thence South 11o01'47" West 335.15 feet to the South
boundary line of Section 17; thence continuing South 11o01'47" West 16.76 feet
to a point; thence East 157.66 feet more or less to a point; thence North 14.64
feet more or less to the true point of beginning.
The above-described real estate is zoned R-3. (Ord. 945, 10-1-1979)
The following described real estate in Cassia County, Idaho, be and the same is
hereby annexed to the City of Burley, Idaho, and the zoning classification is
provided as to each parcel, to-wit:
      1.   A part of Block 5 of Johnson's Subdivision to the City of Burley,
Cassia County, Idaho, as the same is platted in the official plat thereof, now
of record in the office of the Recorder of said County, and a part of Section
17, Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the Boise Meridian, Cassia County,
Idaho, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the Northwest corner of the SW1/4SE1/4 of Section 17 of Township
10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian, said corner marked by a 3" Cassia
County survey cap; thence South 89o18'47" East for 1327.56 feet to a point on
the East line of the SW1/4SE1/4 which shall be the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;
Thence South 0o11'38" West along the East line of the SW1/4SE1/4 for 330.00
feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 89o18'47" West for 421.85 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 0o06'51" East for 1268.45 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 0o06'51" East for 45.00 feet to the high water line of the Snake
River;
Thence North 70o32'33" East for 264.62 feet along said high water line for
264.62 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 52o14'46" East along said high water line for 221.23 feet to a
pipe on the East line of the SW1/4SE1/4;
Thence South 0o11'38" West along the East line of the SW1/4SE1/4 for 1212.11
feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.
The above annexed parcel is zoned C-2.
      2.   A part of Block 5 of Johnson's Subdivision to the City of Burley,
Cassia County, Idaho, as the same is platted in the official plat thereof, now
of record in the office of the Recorder of said County, and a part of Section
17, Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the Boise Meridian, Cassia County,
Idaho, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the Northwest corner of the SW1/4SE1/4 of Section 17 of Township
10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian, said corner marked by a 3" Cassia
County survey cap; thence South 89o18'47" East for 483.07 feet to the POINT OF
BEGINNING;
Thence North 0o02'03" East for 764.62 feet to a 1/2" rebar on the high water
line of the Snake River;
Thence North 72o10'35" East along said high water line for 23.44 feet to a 1/2"
rebar;
Thence North 57o16'05" East along said high water line for 266.11 feet to a
point;
Thence North 70o32'33" East for 188.23 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence South 0o06'51" West for 45.00 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence South 0o06'51" West for 1268.45 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 89o18'47" West for 241.93 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 0o11'38" East for 40.00 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 89o18'47" West for 179.91 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 0o02'03" East for 290.00 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.
The above annexed parcel is zoned C-2.
      3.   Township 10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian, Section 19: Part
of Lot 4, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at a point which is 1394.3 feet East along the South boundary line of
said Section 19, and 719.1 feet North from the Southwest corner of said Section
19, which point shall be the True Point of Beginning, said point being the
Southwest corner of the Ovitt property;
Thence North 0o21' East 264 feet, more or less, to the South line of the Wilson
property;
Thence North 89o39' West 200.4 feet, more or less, to the East line of the
property belonging to Donald A. Howard and William A. Hon;
Thence South 0o21' West 250 feet, more or less, to the Southeast corner of the
property belonging to Donald A. Howard and William A. Hon;
Thence in an Easterly direction to the Southwest corner of the Ovitt property,
which is the True Point of Beginning.
The above annexed parcel is zoned C-3.
      4.   Township 10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian, Section 32: Part
of the E1/2NE1/4, described as follows:
Beginning at a point 40 feet West of a point 1,375 feet South along Section
line from the Northeast corner of said Section 32; Thence West 115 feet; Thence
North 100 feet; Thence East 115 feet; Thence South 100 feet to the Point of
Beginning.
All in Cassia County, Idaho.
The above annexed parcel is zoned R-1.
      5.   Commencing at a point 40 feet West of a point 915 feet South along
the section line from the Northeast corner of the East half of the Northeast
Quarter (E1/2NE1/4) of Section 32, Township 10 South, Range 23, East of the
Boise Meridian; thence South 166 feet; thence West 162 feet; thence North 166
feet; thence East 162 feet to the Point of Beginning.
All in Cassia County, Idaho.
The above annexed parcel is zoned R-1.
      6.   Commencing at a point 1435 feet South of the Northeast corner of
Section 32, Township 10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian; thence South 100
feet; thence West 270 feet; thence North 100 feet; thence East 270 feet to the
Point of Beginning.
All in Cassia County, State of Idaho.
The above annexed parcel is zoned R-1.
      7.   Township 10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian, Cassia County,
Idaho, Section 32: Part of the SE1/4NE1/4, more particularly described as
follows:
Commencing at a point 1,535 feet South of the Northeast corner of said Section
32; Thence West 270 feet; thence South 100 feet; thence East 270 feet; thence
North 100 feet to the Point of Beginning.
The above annexed parcel is zoned R-1.
      8.   Township 10 South, Range 23 East Of The Boise Meridian, Section 29:
Part of the SE1/4SE1/4 of said Section 29 more particularly described as
follows:
Beginning at the Southeast corner of said Section 29;
Thence North along the East section line of said Section 29, 122.0 feet to a
point on center line of the Burley Irrigation District Canal;
Thence North 75o46' West along the center line of said canal 134.1 feet;
Thence South 152.8 feet to a point on the South section line of said Section
29;
Thence South 89o02' East along South section line of said Section 29, 130.0
feet to the Point of Beginning.
EXCEPT the East 30 feet.
The above annexed parcel is zoned R-1.
      9.   Township 10 South, Range 23 East Of The Boise Meridian, Cassia
County, Idaho, Section 29: Part of the SE1/4SE1/4 described as follows:
Beginning at a point on the South section line of said Section 29, which bears
North 89o02' West 130.0 feet from the Southeast corner of said Section 29;
Thence North 152.8 feet to a point on the center line of Burley Irrigation
District Canal;
Thence North 75o46' West along center line of said canal 77.5 feet;
Thence North 83o36' West along center line of said canal 25.0 feet;
Thence South 173.0 feet to a point on South section line of said Section 29;
Thence South 89o02' East along South section line of said Section 29, 100.0
feet to the Point of Beginning.
The above annexed parcel is zoned R-1.
      10.   Township 10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian, Section 29: Part
of the NE1/4SE1/4, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the East 1/4 section corner of said Section 29, said corner marked
by a 3" Cassia County survey cap; Thence South 0o00'00" West along the section
line for 90.00 feet to a point; Thence North 89o09'34" West for 30.00 feet to a
1/2" rebar which shall be the Point of Beginning:
Thence South 0o00'00" West parallel with the East line of the said NE1/4SE1/
4 for 791.00 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 89o09'34" West for 646.48 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 0o00'00" East for 572.02 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 72o19'27" East for 286.19 feet to a 1/2" rebar, said line being
the South boundary line as deed to DBSI/TRI VIII by Warranty Deed recorded
January 7, 1987, as Instrument No. 184656, said DBSI/TRI VIII line being
recorded as North 72o18'31" East;
Thence North 60o56'10" East for 256.87 feet to a 1/2" rebar, said line being
the boundary line as deeded to DBSI/TRI VIII, said boundary line being recorded
as North 60o55'14" East;
Thence South 89o09'34" East for 149.22 feet to the Point of Beginning.
The above annexed parcel is zoned R-2.
      11.   Township 10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian, Cassia County,
Idaho, Section 29: Part of the SE1/4NE1/4, described as follows:
Beginning at the NE corner of the SE1/4NE1/4 of Section 29, Township 10 South,
Range 23 East, Boise Meridian, said corner marked by a 5/8" rebar;
Thence South 0o01'00" West along section for 330.00 feet to a P.K. nail which
shall be the Point of Beginning;
Thence South 0o01'00" West along section line for 330.00 feet to a P.K. Nail;
Thence North 89o10'50" West for 792.00 feet to a 5/8" rebar;
Thence North 0o01'00" East for 330.00 feet to a 5/8" rebar;
Thence South 89o10'50" East for 792.00 feet to the Point of Beginning.
The above annexed parcel is zoned R-2. (Ord. 1052, 12-7-1992)
Additional Parcel:
Township 10 South, Range 33 East, Boise Meridian, Cassia County, Idaho, Section
29: Part of the SE1/4NE1/4, described as follows:
Beginning at the NE corner of the SE1/4NE1/4 of Section 29, Township 10 South,
Range 23 East, Boise Meridian, said corner marked by a 5/8" rebar which shall
be the Point of Beginning;
Thence South 0o01'00" West along section line for 330.00 feet to a P.K. Nail;
Thence North 89o10'50" West for 792.00 feet to a 5/8" rebar;
Thence North 0o01'00" East for 330.00 feet to a point on the North line of the
SE1/4NE1/4;
Thence South 89o10'50" East along the North line of the SE1/4NE1/4 for 792.00
feet to the Point of Beginning.
The above annexed parcel is zoned R-2. (Ord. 1053, 12-21-1992)
      12.   Parcel No. 1: Township 10 South, Range 23 East Of The Boise
Meridian, Cassia County, Idaho, Section 21: Part of the NW1/4SW1/4 and part of
the SW1/4NW1/4, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the West quarter section corner of said Section 21, said corner
marked by a 3" Cassia County survey cap; thence South 0o00'00" West (basis of
bearing) along section line for 159.60 feet to a P.K. nail: thence North
90o00'00" East for 197.00 feet to a 1/2" rebar which shall be the Point of
Beginning;
Thence North 90o00'00" East for 503.00 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 0o00'00" East for 284.56 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 23o20'30" West for 172.10 feet to a 1/2" rebar on the Southerly
right of way of the Union Pacific Railroad;
Thence South 49o53'58" East along said railroad right of way for 733.43 feet to
a 1/2" rebar;
Thence South 34o54'32" West (S 35o14' West, rec.) for 129.31 feet (127.1 feet,
rec.) to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence South 0o01'36" West (South, rec.) parallel with the East line of the
NW1/4SW1/4 for 388.0 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 89o58'24" West (West, rec.) for 95.0 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence South 0o01'36" West (South, rec.) for 137.27 feet (137.35 feet rec.) to
a P.K. Nail on the North right of way of U.S. Highway 30;
Thence North 82o20'31" West along said highway right of way for 20.18 feet to a
point;
Thence North 0o26'38" East (North, rec.) for 231.83 feet (232.08 feet rec.) to
a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 89o57'19" West (West rec.) for 187.01 feet (186.95 feet rec.) to a
1/2" rebar;
Thence South 4o09'06" West (S 3o38' West, rec.) for 205.60 feet (205.80 feet
rec.) to a P.K. Nail on the North right of way of U.S. Highway 30;
Thence North 82o20'31" West along said Highway right of way for 38.58 feet to a
P.K. Nail;
Thence North 0o00'00" East for 247.24 feet (247.1 feet rec.) to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 90o00'00" West for 120.00 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 0o00'00" East for 100.00 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 90o00'00" West for 199.64 feet (200.0 feet rec.) to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 0o02'42" East (North, rec.) for 41.13 feet to a 11/4 inch pipe;
Thence South 87o09'44" West (West, rec.) for 180.42 feet (180.6 feet rec.) to a
1/2" rebar;
Thence North 0o00'00" East for 37.82 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 90o00'00" West for 68.43 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 0o00'00" East for 209.14 feet (209.0 feet, rec.) to the Point of
Beginning.
EXCEPT that part deeded to the United States of America, acting under the
provision of the Act of Congress of June 17, 1902, (32 Stat. 388) known as the
Reclamation Act, by Deed recorded June 14, 1910 in Book 12 of Deeds on page
568, records of Cassia County, Idaho.
Parcel No. 2: Township 10 South, Range 23 East Of The Boise Meridian, Section
21:
Beginning at a point 701.6 feet South and 455 feet East of the West quarter
corner of said Section 21, which point is a Right of Way marker on the North
boundary line of U.S. Highway No. 30 at Station 458+91.6;
Thence North 304.4 feet;
Thence East 200 feet;
Thence South 331.1 feet to the North boundary line of U.S. Highway No. 30;
Thence Northwesterly along said North boundary 201.7 feet to the Point of
Beginning.
The above annexed parcel is zoned C-2.
      13.   Township 10 South, Range 23 East Of The Boise Meridian, Section 21:
Part of the SW1/4NW1/4 and part of the NW1/4SW1/4 of said Section 21, more
particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the Northwest corner of the NW1/4SW1/4 of said Section 21, which
point shall be the Point of Beginning, said point being an iron pipe;
Thence North 0o00'00" East along section line for 682.00 feet to the South
right of way of the Union Pacific Railroad, said point marked by an iron pin;
Thence South 79o13'06" East along said railroad right of way for 208.21 feet to
a point marked by an iron pin;
Thence South 49o52'42" East along said railroad right of way for 558.74 feet to
a point marked by an iron pin;
Thence South 23o20'30" East along said railroad right of way for 172.10 feet to
a point marked by an iron pin;
Thence South 0o00'00" West for 284.56 feet to a point marked by an iron pin;
Thence North 90o00'00" West for 700.00 feet to a point on section line, marked
by a P.K. nail;
Thence North 0o00'00" East along section line for 159.60 feet to the Point of
Beginning.
EXCEPTING THEREFROM that part deeded to the United States of America, acting
under the provision of the Act of Congress of June 17, 1902, (32 Stat. 388)
known as the Reclamation Act, by deed recorded June 14, 1910 in Book 12 of
Deeds, Page 568, records of Cassia County, Idaho, and more particularly
described as the West 40 feet of said property, and a strip of land 36 feet
wide across said property, being a strip 18 feet wide on the North side and 18
feet wide on the South side of the following described line: Beginning at a
point on the South line of said SW1/4SW1/4 of said Section 21, which point is
40 feet East from the Southwest corner of said subdivision of land; thence
South 89o0' East along the South line of said subdivision to a point on the
East boundary line of said property.
The above annexed parcel is zoned S-1.
      14.   Part Of Section 32 Of Township 10 South, Range 23 East Of The Boise
Meridian, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the NW corner of the NE1/4NW1/4 of Section 32 of Township 10
South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian, thence S 89o43' E along section line for
220.71 feet to a point;
Thence S 0o27' E for 61.05 feet to a point on the center line of Goose Creek
which shall be the True Point of Beginning;
Thence S 52o55'30" W along said center line of Goose Creek for 68.55 feet to a
point;
Thence S 66o12' W along said center line for 54.77 feet to a point;
Thence S 89o43' E for 105.31 feet to a point;
Thence N 0o27' W for 63.95 feet to the True Point of Beginning.
The above annexed parcel is zoned R-2.
      15.   All that portion of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter
(NE1/4NW1/4) of Section 32, Township 10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian,
lying North of the canal and East of the old Goose Creek Channel, EXCEPTING the
following parcels:
Beginning at a point 56 feet North 89o16' West from the Northeast corner of the
Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NE1/4NW1/4) of Section 32, Township
10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian; thence North 89o16' West 298.9 feet;
thence South 1045.6 feet to center line of canal; thence North 43o50' East 36.8
feet; thence North 21o32' East 456.1 feet; thence North 7o19' East 283.5 feet;
thence North 31o33' East 133.2 feet; thence North 0o24' West 204.2 feet to the
Point of Beginning.
Beginning at a point 354.9 feet West of the Northeast corner of the Northeast
Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NE1/4NW1/4) of Section 32, Township 10 South,
Range 23 East, Boise Meridian; Thence N 89o16' W 667.9 feet; thence South
1175.5 feet to the center line of canal; thence S 80o12' E 288.5 feet; thence S
88o47' E 119.6 feet; thence N 69o48' E 174.3 feet; thence N 43o50' E 144.6
feet; thence North 1045.6 feet to the Point of Beginning.
LESS the following parcel:
Part Of Section 32 Of Township 10 South, Range 23 East Of The Boise Meridian,
more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the NW corner of the NE1/4NW1/4 of Section 32 of Township 10
South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian, thence S 89o43' E along section line for
220.71 feet to a point; thence S 0o27' E for 61.05 feet to a point on the
center line of Goose Creek which shall be the True Point of Beginning.
Thence S 52o55'30" W along said center line of Goose Creek for 68.55 feet to a
point;
Thence S 66o12' W along said center line for 54.77 feet to a point;
Thence S 89o43' E for 105.31 feet to a point;
Thence N 0o27' W for 63.96 feet to the True Point of Beginning.
All in Cassia County, State of Idaho.
The above annexed parcel is zoned R-2.
      16.   Parcel No. 1: Township 10 South, Range 23 East Of The Boise
Meridian, Cassia County, Idaho, Section 21: Part of the SW1/4SW1/4 of said
Section 21, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the Southeast corner of the SW1/4SW1/4 of said Section 21; thence
North 89o05'18" West (North 89o06' West Rec.) along section line for 299.00
feet to a point; thence North 0o06'36" West for 211.50 feet to a point which
shall be known as the True Point of Beginning;
Thence North 89o05'18" West for 240.00 feet to a point;
Thence North 0o06'36" West for 333.00 feet to a point;
Thence South 89o05'18" East for 240.00 feet to a point;
Thence South 0o06'36" East for 333.00 feet to the True Point of Beginning.
Parcel No. 2: Township 10 South, Range 23 East Of The Boise Meridian, Cassia
County, Idaho, Section 21: Part of the SW1/4SW1/4 of said Section 21, more
particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the Southeast corner of the SW1/4SW1/4 of said Section 21; thence
North 89o05'18" West (North 89o06' West Rec.) along section line for 299.00
feet to a point which shall be known as the True Point of Beginning;
Thence North 89o05'18" West (North 89o06' West Rec.) along said section line
for 240.00 feet to a point;
Thence North 0o06'36" West for 211.50 feet to a point;
Thence South 89o05'18" East for 240.00 feet to a point;
Thence South 0o06'36" East for 211.50 feet to the True Point of Beginning.
The above annexed parcel is zoned R-2.
      17.   Township 10 South, Range 23 East Of The Boise Meridian, Section 21:
A part of said Section 21, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the Southeast corner of the SW1/4SW1/4 of said Section 21; thence
North 89o05'18" West (N89o06'W rec.) along the section line for 99.0 feet to a
point which shall be the Point of Beginning.
thence North 89o05'18" West (N89o06' W rec.) along said section line for 200.0
feet to a point;
Thence North 0°06'36" West for 460.5 feet to a point;
Thence South 89°05'18" East for 200.0 feet to a point that is 99 feet West of
the 1/16 section line;
Thence South 0°06'36" East (S0°08' E rec.) for 460.5 feet to the Point of
Beginning.
The above annexed parcel is zoned R-2.
The following described real estate in Minidoka County, Idaho, be and the same
is hereby annexed to the City of Burley, for a street:
Parcel No. 1: Township 10 South, Range 23 East Of The Boise Meridian, Minidoka
County, Idaho, Section 8: Beginning at the Southwest corner of the SE1/4SE1/
4 of said Section 8;
Thence North 0°08'45" West along said sixteenth line, 1043.70 feet to the
Southeasterly right of way line of Minidoka Avenue;
Thence North 53°45'55" East along said Southeasterly right of way line, 74.25
feet;
Thence South 0°08'45" East, 1087.39 feet to the section line;
Thence South 89°48'45" West along the section line for 60.00 feet to the Point
of Beginning.
Parcel No. 2: Township 10 South, Range 23 East Of The Boise Meridian, Minidoka
County, Idaho, Section 8: Beginning at a point which lies North 0°08'45" West
along the North-South Sixteenth line of the Southeast Quarter of said Section
8, 25.00 feet and North 89°48'15" East, 60.00 feet from the accepted South
Sixteenth corner of said Southeast Quarter of said Section 8;
Thence North 0°08'45" West, 11.72 feet;
Thence South 59°51'30" East, 23.21 feet;
Thence South 89°48'45" West, 20.04 feet to the Point of Beginning.
Parcel No. 3: Township 10 South, Range 23 East Of The Boise Meridian, Minidoka
County, Idaho, Section 8: Beginning at the Southwest corner of the SE1/4SE1/
4 of said Section 8, thence North 89°48'45" East along the section line for
60.00 feet to the True Point of Beginning;
Thence North 0°08'45" West for 25 feet;
Thence North 89°48'45" East for 20.04 feet;
Thence South 0°08'45" East for 25 feet;
Thence South 89°08'45" West for 20.04 feet to the True Point of Beginning.
(Ord. 1052, 12-7-1992)
PARCEL 1: A parcel of ground West of Parke Avenue adjacent to the G Canal and
between 24th Street and 27th Street of Burley, and particularly described as:
Part of the SE1/4SE1/4 of Section 30 of Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the
Boise Meridian, Cassia County, Idaho
Beginning at the NE corner of the SE1/4SE1/4 of Section 30 of T. 10 S., R. 23
E., B.M., said point marked by a 5/8" rebar which shall be the Point of
Beginning.
Thence S 0°32'40" E (Basis of Bearing) along section line for 838.74 feet to
the centerline of "G" Canal, said point marked by a P.K. nail;
Thence N 24°36'02" W along said canal centerline for 346.03 feet to a point;
Thence N 42°27'38" W along said canal centerline for 200.99 feet to a point;
Thence N 51°12'28" W along said canal centerline for 139.10 feet to a point;
Thence N 64°41'17" W along said canal centerline for 824.85 feet to a point on
the 1/16th section line;
Thence S 86°44'47" E along said 1/16th section line for 32.00 feet to a 1/2"
rebar;
Thence S 86°44'47" E along said 1/16th section line for 1095.65 feet to the
Point of Beginning.
ZONING CLASSIFICATION: R-2.
PARCEL 2: A parcel of land South of East 19th Street, East of Hiland Avenue and
particularly described as:
TOWNSHIP 10 SOUTH, RANGE 23 EAST OF THE BOISE MERIDIAN, CASSIA COUNTY, IDAHO
Section 28: A part of the Southwest 1/4 Northwest 1/4, more particularly
described as follows:
Beginning at the Northwest corner of the Southwest 1/4 Northwest 1/4 of said
Section 28;
Thence South 0°01' West along the section line for 35.0 feet to a point; thence
South 89°06' East for 30.0 feet to a point on the East right of way of Hiland
Avenue, which point shall be the True Point of Beginning; thence on a curve to
the right for a distance of 15.86 feet to a point, said curve having a central
angle of 90°53' and a radius of 10.0 feet; thence South 89°06' East for 389.84
feet along the South right of way of East 19th Street to a point; thence south
5°06'37" West for 323.01 feet to a point; thence south 86°26'21" West for 372.0
feet to a point on the East right of way of Hiland Avenue; thence North 0°01'
East for 340.95 feet to the True Point of Beginning.
ZONING CLASSIFICATION: R-3.
PARCEL 3: A parcel of land West of Parke Avenue and South of Parke Place
Subdivision and particularly described as follows:
TOWNSHIP 10 SOUTH, RANGE 23 EAST OF THE BOISE MERIDIAN, CASSIA COUNTY, IDAHO
Section 30: Part of the NE1/4SE1/4 described as follows:
Beginning at the Southeast corner of the NE1/4SE1/4 of Section 30, said corner
marked by a 5/8 inch rebar which shall be the Point of Beginning;
Thence North 86°44'47" West along the 1/16th section line for 438.51 feet to a
1/2 inch rebar;
Thence North 0°32'40" West for 324.55 feet to a 1/2 inch rebar;
Thence South 86°44'47" East for 438.51 feet to a P.K. nail on section line;
Thence South 0°32'40" East (Basis of Bearing) along said section line for
324.55 feet to the Point of Beginning.
TOWNSHIP 10 SOUTH, RANGE 23 EAST OF THE BOISE MERIDIAN, CASSIA COUNTY, IDAHO
   Section 30: Part of the NE1/4SE1/4 of said Section 30, more particularly
described as follows:
Beginning at the Southeast corner of the NE1/4SE1/4 of said Section 30, said
corner marked by 5/8 inch rebar; thence North 86°44'47" West along the South
line of the NE1/4SE1/4 for 438.51 feet to a 1/2 inch rebar, which shall be the
Point of Beginning;
Thence North 86°44'47" West along said South line of the NE1/4SE1/4 for 269.02
feet to a point;
   Thence North 0°32'40" West for 324.55 feet to a point;
Thence South 86°44'47" East for 269.02 feet to a 1/2 inch rebar;
Thence South 0°32'40" East for 324.55 feet to the Point of Beginning.
ZONING CLASSIFICATION: R-2
PARCEL 4: A parcel of land West of Parke Avenue and North of Parke Place
Subdivision and particularly described as follows:
TOWNSHIP 10 SOUTH, RANGE 23 EAST OF THE BOISE MERIDIAN, CASSIA COUNTY, IDAHO
Section 30: Part of the NE1/4SE1/4 and part of the SE1/4NE1/4, more
particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the East quarter section corner of said Section 30, said corner
marked by a 5/8" rebar which shall be the Point of Beginning; Thence South
00°32'40" East along section line for a distance of 257.33 feet to a 1/2"
rebar;
Thence North 86°29'41" West for a distance of 1335.55 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 00°32'47" West for a distance of 257.33 feet to a 5/8" rebar at
the Northwest corner of the NE1/4SE1/4;
Thence North 00°32'47" West along the West line of the SE1/4NE1/4 for a
distance of 729.21 feet to a point;
Thence South 86°01'35" East along the South boundary of the City of Burley
property for a distance of 17.24 feet to a 1" iron pipe;
Thence South 86°01'35" East along said City of Burley property for a distance
of 1272.68 feet to a fence corner at the Southeast corner of Lot 2 in Block 3
of the School Addition;
Thence South 86°01'35" East for a distance of 46.36 feet to a point on section
line;
Thence South 00°33'15" East along section line for a distance of 718.27 feet to
the Point of Beginning.
ZONING CLASSIFICATION: R-2.
PARCEL 5: Parcels of land East of Bedke Boulevard and North of Eastern Idaho
Railroad particularly described as follows:
Part of Lot 3 of Section 19 of Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the Boise
Meridian, Cassia County, State of Idaho.
Beginning at the Southwest corner of Section 19 of T. 10 S., R. 23 E., B.M.,
said corner marked by a 5/8" rebar with a 3" cap on top; Thence North 00
degrees 00 minutes 38 seconds East along the section line for a distance of
1015.01 feet to a 1/2" rebar on the north right of way of the Eastern Idaho
Railroad; thence North 73 degrees 53 minutes 09 seconds East along said right
of way for a distance of 612.15 feet to a 1/2" rebar; thence North 18 degrees
48 minutes 42 seconds West for a distance of 433.94 feet to a 1/2" rebar which
shall be the Point of Beginning;
   THENCE North 29 degrees 23 minutes 41 seconds West for a distance of 163.34
feet;
   THENCE North 18 degrees 48 minutes 42 seconds West for a distance of 521.00
feet;
   THENCE North 39 degrees 48 minutes 58 seconds West for a distance of 122.34
feet to a point on the easterly right of way of Bedke Blvd;
   THENCE North 50 degrees 11 minutes 02 seconds East along said right of way
for a distance of 30.00 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
   THENCE North 50 degrees 11 minutes 02 seconds East along said right of way
for a distance of 30.00 feet;
   THENCE South 39 degrees 48 minutes 58 seconds East for a distance of 133.46
feet;
   THENCE South 18 degrees 48 minutes 42 seconds East for a distance of 526.55
feet;
   THENCE South 37 degrees 35 minutes 56 seconds East for a distance of 71.51
feet;
   THENCE along a non-tangent curve to the right for a distance of 157.08 feet
to a point, said curve having a radius of 50.00 feet and a central angle of
180°00'00" and a long chord bearing of South 17 degrees 03 minutes 42 seconds
East for a distance of 100.00 feet;
   THENCE South 72 degrees 56 minutes 18 seconds West for a distance of 50.00
feet to the Point of Beginning.
   Part of Lot 3 of Section 19 of Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the Boise
Meridian, Cassia County, State of Idaho.
Beginning at the Southwest corner of Section 19 of T. 10 S.; R. 23 E., B.M.,
said corner marked by a 5/8" rebar with a 3" cap on top; Thence North 00
degrees 00 minutes 38 seconds East along the section line for a distance of
1015.01 feet to a 1/2" rebar on the North right of way of the Eastern Idaho
Railroad; thence North 73 degrees 53 minutes 09 seconds East along said right
of way for a distance of 612.15 feet to a 1/2" rebar; Thence North 18 degrees
48 minutes 42 seconds West for a distance of 433.94 feet (433.0' rec.) to a 1/
2" rebar; Thence North 72 degrees 56 minutes 18 seconds East for a distance of
50.00 feet to a point which shall be the Point of Beginning.
   THENCE along a non-tangent curve to the left for a distance of 157.08 feet
to a point, said curve having a radius of 50.00 feet and a central angle of
180°00'00" and a long chord bearing of North 17 degrees 03 minutes 42 seconds
West for a distance of 100.00 feet;
   THENCE North 37 degrees 35 minutes 56 seconds West for a distance of 71.51
feet to a point;
   THENCE North 18 degrees 48 minutes 42 seconds West for a distance of 99.76
feet to a point;
   THENCE North 78 degrees 55 minutes 33 seconds East for a distance of 1047.09
feet to a point;
   THENCE along a non-tangent curve to the left for a distance of 92.73 feet to
a point on the east line of Lot 3, said curve having a radius of 50.00 feet a
central angle of 106°15'37" and a long chord bearing of North 78 degrees 55
minutes 33 seconds East for a distance of 80.00 feet;
   THENCE South 00 degrees 01 minutes 18 second West along the east line of Lot
3 for a distance of 333.99 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
   THENCE South 71 degrees 57 minutes 18 seconds West (S 71°56' W, rec.) for a
distance of 455.60 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
   THENCE North 55 degrees 15 minutes 42 seconds West (N 55°17' W, rec.) for a
distance of 131.00 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
   THENCE North 80 degrees 43 minutes 42 seconds West (N 80°45' W, rec.) for a
distance of 169.10 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
   THENCE South 72 degrees 56 minutes 18 seconds West (S 72°55' W, rec.) for a
distance of 306.60 feet to the Point of Beginning.
Part of Lot 3 of Section 19 of Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the Boise
Meridian, Cassia County, State of Idaho.
Beginning at the Southwest corner of Section 19 of T.10 S., R. 23 E., B.M.,
said corner marked by a 5/8" rebar with a 3" cap on top; Thence North 00
degrees 00 minutes 38 seconds East along the section line for a distance of
1015.01 feet to a 1/2" rebar on the north right of way of the Eastern Idaho
Railroad; Thence north 73 degrees 53 minutes 09 seconds East along said right
of way for a distance of 612.15 feet to a 1/2" rebar; Thence North 18 degrees
48 minutes 42 seconds West for a distance of 734.18 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 78 degrees 55 minutes 33 seconds East for a distance of 30.28 feet
to the Point of Beginning;
   THENCE North 18 degrees 48 minutes 42 seconds West for a distance of 30.28
feet;
   THENCE North 78 degrees 55 minutes 33 seconds East for a distance of 1055.24
feet;
   THENCE along a non-tangent curve to the right for a distance of 92.73 feet,
said curve having a radius of 50.00 feet and a central angle of 106°15'37" and
a long chord bearing of North 78 degrees 55 minutes 33 seconds East for a
distance of 80.00 feet;
   THENCE North 78 degrees 55 minutes 33 seconds East for a distance of 11.77
feet to a point on the East line of Lot 3;
   THENCE South 00 degrees 01 minutes 18 seconds West along said line for a
distance of 30.57 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
   THENCE South 00 degrees 01 minutes 18 seconds West along said line for a
distance of 30.57 feet;
   THENCE along a non-tangent curve to the right for a distance of 92.73 feet,
said curve having a radius of 50.00 feet and a central angle of 106°15'37" and
a long chord bearing of South 78 degrees 55 minutes 33 seconds West for a
distance of 80.00 feet;
   THENCE South 78 degrees 55 minutes 33 seconds West for a distance of 1047.09
feet;
   THENCE North 18 degrees 48 minutes 42 seconds West for a distance of 30.28
feet to the Point of Beginning.
Part of Lot 3 and 4 of Section 19 of Township 10 South, Range 23 East, of the
Boise Meridian, and part of the SE1/4 of Section 24 of Township 10 South, Range
22 East of the Boise Meridian, Cassia County, State of Idaho.
Beginning at the Southwest corner of Section 19 of T. 10 S., R. 23 E., B.M.,
said corner marked by a 5/8" rebar with a 3" cap on top; Thence North 00
degrees 00 minutes 38 seconds East along the section line for a distance of
1015.01 feet to a 1/2" rebar on the North right of way of the Eastern Idaho
Railroad which shall be the Point of Beginning;
   THENCE South 73 degrees 53 minutes 09 seconds West along said right of way
for a distance of 12.36 feet to a highway right of way marker on the East right
of way of Bedke Blvd.;
   THENCE North 16 degrees 08 minutes 16 seconds West along the East right of
way Bedke Blvd. for a distance of 459.61 feet to a highway right of way marker;
   THENCE South 73 degrees 47 minutes 32 seconds West along said right of way
for a distance of 10.00 feet to a right of way marker;
   THENCE North 16 degrees 03 minutes 22 seconds West along said right of way
for a distance of 80.25 feet to a right of way marker;
   THENCE along a tangent curve to the right for a distance of 108.78 feet to a
right of way marker, said curve having a radius of 693.94 feet and a central
angle of 8°58'54" and a long chord bearing of North 11 degrees 37 minutes 46
seconds West for a distance of 108.67 feet;
   THENCE South 82 degrees 47 minutes 37 seconds West along said right of way
for a distance of 10.00 feet to a right of way marker;
   THENCE along a non-tangent curve to the right for a distance of 704.25 feet
to a right of way marker, said curve having a radius of 703.94 feet and a
central angle of 57°19'16" and a long chord bearing of North 21 degrees 31
minutes 15 seconds East for a distance of 675.25 feet;
   THENCE North 50 degrees 11 minutes 02 seconds East along said right of way
for a distance of 100.50 feet to a point;
   THENCE South 39 degrees 48 minutes 58 seconds East for a distance of 122.34
feet to a point;
   THENCE South 18 degrees 48 minutes 42 seconds East for a distance of 521.00
feet to a point;
   THENCE South 29 degrees 23 minutes 41 seconds East for a distance of 163.34
feet to a 1/2" rebar;
   THENCE South 18 degrees 48 minutes 42 seconds East along the West line for a
distance of 433.94 feet to a 1/2" rebar on the North right of way of the
Eastern Idaho Railroad;
   THENCE South 73 degrees 53 minutes 09 seconds West along said right of way
for a distance of 1.09 feet to a point;
   THENCE North 18 degrees 48 minutes 51 seconds West (N 18°50' W, rec.) for a
distance of 410.98 feet (411.5', rec.) to a point;
   THENCE South 67 degrees 43 minutes 52 seconds West (S 67°43' W, rec.) for a
distance of 399.23 feet to a point;
   THENCE South 33 degrees 43 minutes 36 seconds West (S 33°41' W, rec.) for a
distance of 153.10 feet to point on section line;
   THENCE South 00 degrees 00 minutes 38 seconds West along section line for a
distance of 280.00 feet to the Point of Beginning.
   ZONING CLASSIFICATION: C-3.
PARCEL 6: The following property is located East of Hiland and adjacent to
Parcel 2 above.
TOWNSHIP 10 SOUTH, RANGE 23 EAST OF THE BOISE MERIDIAN, CASSIA COUNTY, IDAHO
Section 28: That part of the SW1/4NW1/4 more particularly described as follows
(as surveyed):
Commencing at the West quarter corner of Section 28; thence North 0°01'00" East
for 657.95 feet along the West Section line to a P.K. nail;
Thence south 89°08' East for 30.00 feet to a point on the East line of Highland
Avenue; thence North 0°01'00" East for 170.43 feet along the East boundary of
Highland Avenue to a point which shall be the True Point of Beginning;
Thence North 0°01'00" East for 120.13 feet along the East boundary of Highland
Avenue to a point;
Thence North 86°26'21" East for 120.00 feet to a point;
Thence South 0°00'00" East for 122.46 feet to a point;
Thence South 87°33'02" West for 119.91 feet to the True Point of Beginning.
   ZONING CLASSIFICATION: R-3.
PARCEL 7: A parcel of land located southeast of Suburban Park #4, more
particularly described as follows:
Part of the SW1/4NW1/4 of Section 28 of Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the
Boise Meridian, Cassia County, State of Idaho.
Beginning at the NE corner of the SW1/4NW1/4 of Section 28 of T. 10 S., R. 23
E.B.M., said corner marked by a 5/8" rebar on top of a U.S. GLO iron pipe with
brass cap; Thence North 89 degrees 04 minutes 25 seconds West along the North
line of the SW1/4NW1/4 for a distance of 424.00 feet to a 1/2" rebar which
shall the Point of Beginning;
   Thence South 00 degrees 01 minutes 40 seconds East parallel with the East
line of the SW1/4NW1/4 for a distance of 160.00 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
   Thence North 89 degrees 04 minutes 25 seconds West for a distance of 120.39
feet to a 1/2" rebar;
   Thence North 07 degrees 37 minutes 45 seconds West (N 7°37'01" W) for a
distance of 4.81 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
   Thence North 18 degrees 33 minutes 12 seconds West (N 18°35'18" W, rec.) for
a distance of 138.42 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
   Thence North 25 degrees 33 minutes 27 seconds West (N 25°35'33" W, rec.) for
a distance of 27.62 feet to a 1/2" rebar on the North line of the SW1/4NW1/4;
   Thence South 89 degrees 04 minutes 25 seconds East (S 89°04'55" E, rec.)
along the North line of the SW1/4NW1/4 for a distance of 176.92 feet to the
Point of Beginning.
   ZONING CLASSIFICATION: R-1.
PARCEL 8: A parcel of land for street purposes being part of Hiland Avenue
South of East 19th Street, in Burley, Idaho, particularly described as:
Beginning at the Northwest corner of the Southwest Quarter Northwest Quarter
(SW1/4NW1/4) of Section 28, Township 10 South, Range 23 E.B.M., Cassia County,
Idaho; thence South 0°1' West along said Section line for a distance of 496.24
feet; thence North 86°26'21" East for 30 feet; thence North 0°1' East for
496.24 feet more or less to the North boundary of the Southwest Quarter
Northwest Quarter (SW1/4NW1/4) of said Section 28; thence North 89°6' West for
30 feet, more or less to the Point of Beginning, being the Northwest corner of
the Southwest Quarter Northwest Quarter (SW1/4NW1/4) of said Section 28.
PARCEL 9: A parcel of land West of Parke Avenue and North of Parke Place
Subdivision in Burley, Idaho, particularly described as follows:
TOWNSHIP 10 SOUTH, RANGE 23 EAST OF THE BOISE MERIDIAN, CASSIA COUNTY, IDAHO
Section 30: Part of the Southeast Quarter Northeast Quarter (SE1/4NE1/4) more
particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the East Quarter section corner of said Section 30, thence South
00°32'40" East along the section line a distance of 257.33 feet to a 1/2" inch
rebar being the true point of beginning; thence continuing on the section line
00°32'40" East for 217.33 feet; thence West 45 feet; thence North 00°32'40"
West 217.33 feet; thence South 86°29'41" East 45 feet to the Point of
Beginning.
ZONING CLASSIFICATION: R-2. (Ord. 1090, 3-3-1997)
TOWNSHIP 10 SOUTH, RANGE 23 EAST, BOISE MERIDIAN, CASSIA COUNTY, IDAHO
Section 19: Part of the SW1/4, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the Southwest corner of said Section 19, said corner marked by a
3" Cassia County survey cap; Thence North 0°14'05" East (North rec.) along the
section line for 1015.09 feet (1008.3' rec.) to a 1/2" rebar on the North
right-of-way of the Union Pacific Railroad which shall be the Point of
Beginning;
Thence North 0°14'05" East (North rec.) for 280.00 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 33°55'05" East (North 33°41' East rec.) for 153.10 feet to a 1/2"
rebar;
Thence North 67°57'05" East (North 67°43' East rec.) for 399.23 feet to a 1/2"
rebar;
Thence South 18°35'55" East (South 18°50' East rec.) for 410.98 feet (411.5'
rec.) to a 1/2" rebar on the North Right-of-Way of the Union Pacific Railroad;
Thence South 74°06'05" West (South 73°52' West rec.) along said Railroad Right-
of-Way for 611.06 feet (625.5' rec.) to the Point of Beginning.
LESS part of the W1/2S1/2 of said Section 19, more particularly described as
follows:
Beginning at a point 1,008.3 North and 625.5 feet North 73°52' East of the
Southwest corner of said section, which point is on the North Right-of-Way of
the Twin Falls Branch of the Oregon Short Line Railroad;
Thence South 73°52' West for 8 feet;
Thence North 18°50' West for 90 feet;
Thence North 73°52' East for 8 feet;
Thence South 18°50' East for 90 feet to the Point of Beginning.
ZONING CLASSIFICATION: C-3 (Ord. 1095, 7-7-1997)
PARCEL 1:
A portion of Lot 2 of Section 30, Township 10 South, Range 23 East Boise
Meridian, being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at a point which lies 718.88 feet North and 1320.0 feet North
85°47'30" West of the Southeast corner of Southeast Quarter of the Northeast
Quarter of said Section 30 to a point on the East boundary of said Lot 2 of
Section 30, which point is also the Southwest corner of Block 3 of the School
Addition and shall be known as the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING; thence North
85°47'30" West along the extended South boundary of the School Addition for a
distance of 345.94 feet to a point on the East right of way line of the Union
Pacific Railroad property; thence Northerly along the East right of way line of
the Union Pacific Railroad property for a distance of 631.03 feet to a point on
the North boundary of Lot 2 of said Section 30; thence Easterly along the North
boundary of Lot 2 of said Section 30 for a distance of 117.98 feet to a point
on the East boundary of said Lot 2; thence Southerly along the East boundary of
said Lot 2 which is also the West boundary of the School Addition to the TRUE
POINT OF BEGINNING. COUNTY OF CASSIA, STATE OF IDAHO.
Zoned: C-2.
PARCEL 1-A:
A portion of Lot Two (2) of Section Thirty (30) Township Ten (10) South, Range
Twenty-three (23) East of the Boise Meridian, being more particularly described
as follows:
Beginning at a point which lies 718.88 feet North and 1320.0 feet North
85°47'30" East of the Southeast corner of Southeast Quarter (SE1/4) of the
Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of said Section Thirty (30) to a point on the West
boundary of said Lot Two (2) of Section Thirty (30), which point is also the
Southwest corner of Block Three (3) of the School Addition and shall be known
as the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.
Thence North 85°47'30" West along the extended South boundary of the School
Addition for a distance of 345.94 feet to a point on the East right of way line
of the Union Pacific Railroad property;
Thence Southerly along the East right of way line of the Union Pacific Railroad
property for a distance of 761.0 feet to a point on the South boundary of Lot
Two (2) of said Section Thirty (30);
Thence Easterly along the South boundary of said Lot Two (2) for a distance of
621.28 feet to the Southwest corner of said Lot Two (2);
Thence Northerly along the East boundary line of said Lot Two (2) to the TRUE
POINT OF BEGINNING.
Zoned: C-2.
PARCEL 2:
Part of the NW1/4NW1/4 of Section 28 of Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the
Boise Meridian, Cassia County, State of Idaho.
Beginning at the SE corner of the NW1/4NW1/4 of Section 28, of Township 10
South, Range 23, E., B.M. said corner marked by a 5/8" rebar on top of a U.S.
GLO iron pipe; Thence North 00 degrees 53 minutes 42 seconds West for a
distance of 276.00 feet to a 1/2" rebar which shall be the Point of Beginning;
Thence South 89 degrees 50 minutes 23 seconds West, (West, rec.) for a distance
of 474.36 feet (475.00', rec.) to a 1/2" rebar on the East line of Suburban
Park Addition No. 4;
Thence North 00 degrees 39 minutes 45 seconds West, (North, rec.) along the
East line of Suburban Park Addition No. 4 for a distance of 182.00 feet to a 1/
2" rebar;
Thence North 89 degrees 50 minutes 27 seconds East, (East, rec.) along the
South boundary of Lot 2 in Block 3 of Suburban Park Addition No. 4 and its
extension for a distance of 473.62 feet (475.00', rec.) to a 1/2" rebar on the
East line of the NW1/4NW1/4;
Thence South 00 degrees 53 minutes 42 seconds East (South, rec.), along the
East line of the NW1/4NW1/4 for a distance of 182.00 feet to the Point of
Beginning.
Zoned: R-2.
PARCEL 3:
Part of the NE1/4 of the SE1/4 of Section 30 of Township 10 South, Range 23
East of the Boise Meridian, Cassia County, State of Idaho.
Beginning at the East 1/4 section corner of Section 30 of T. 10 S., R. 23
E.,B.M. said corner marked by a 5/8" rebar; Thence South 00 degrees 32 minutes
40 seconds East along the East line of Section 30 for a distance of 257.31 feet
to a 1/2" rebar. which shall be the Point of Beginning.
Thence South 00 degrees 32 minutes 40 seconds East along the East line of
Section 30 for a distance of 217.35 feet to a 1/2" rebar at the NE corner of
Park Place Subdivision;
Thence North 86 degrees 44 minutes 59 seconds West along the North boundary of
Park Place Subdivision for a distance of 45.10 feet to a 5/8" rebar on the West
right of way of Park Avenue;
Thence North 86 degrees 44 minutes 59 seconds West along the North boundary of
Park Place Subdivision for a distance of 140.37 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 03 degrees 30 minutes 19 seconds East for a distance of 217.63
feet to a 1/2" rebar on the south boundary of the Burley High School Property;
Thence South 86 degrees 29 minutes 44 seconds East along said High School
Property line for a distance of 170.02 feet to the Point of Beginning.
Zoned: R-2
PARCEL 3-A:
Part of the NE1/4 of the SE1/4 of Section 30 of Township 10 South, Range 23
East of the Boise Meridian, Cassia County, State of Idaho.
Beginning at the East 1/4 section corner of Section 30 of T. 10 S., R. 23
E.,B.M. said corner marked by a 5/8" Rebar; Thence south 00 degrees 32 minutes
40 seconds East along the East line of Section 30 for a distance of 257.31 feet
to a 1/2" rebar; Thence North 86 degrees 29 minutes 44 seconds West along the
South boundary of the Burley High School Property for a distance of 170.02 feet
to a 1/2" rebar which shall be the Point of Beginning;
Thence South 03 degrees 30 minutes 19 seconds West for a distance of 217.63
feet to a 1/2" rebar on the North boundary of Park Place subdivision;
Thence North 86 degrees 44 minutes 59 seconds West along the North boundary of
Park Place Subdivision for a distance of 59.64 feet to a 5/8" rebar at the NW
corner of Lot 1 in Block 3 of Park Place Subdivision;
Thence North 86 degrees 44 minutes 59 seconds West along the North boundary of
Park Place subdivision for a distance of 74.36 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 03 degrees 30 minutes 19 seconds East for a distance of 218.22
feet to a 1/2" rebar on the South boundary of the Burley High School Property;
Thence South 86 degrees 29 minutes 44 seconds East along the South boundary of
the Burley High School property for a distance of 134.00 feet to the Point of
Beginning.
Zoned: R-2. (Ord. 1097, 8-4-1997)
The following described real estate in Cassia County, Idaho, be, and the same
is hereby annexed to the City of Burley with the zoning classification of R-3:
Beginning at the center-West 1/16 corner of Section 28, Township 10 South,
Range 23 East of the Boise Meridian, Cassia County, Burley, Idaho, marked by a
3" iron pipe with a brass cap dated 1908;
Thence S 00°32'25" W. along the East line of the NW1/4SW1/4, Section 28 a
distance of 750.08 feet;
Thence N 88°36'52" W, a distance of 1349.03 feet, more or less to the West
right of way line of Hiland Avenue;
Thence North 00°30'59" East along said West right of way line a distance of
750.09 feet, more or less, to a point on the North line of the NE1/4 of the
SE1/4 of Section 29, Township 10 South, Range 23, E.B.M;
Thence South 88°36'52" East, a distance of 1,349.03 feet, more or less, to the
Point of Beginning. (Ord. 1092, 4-21-1997; amd. Ord. 1101, 2-17-1998)
   The following described real estate in Cassia County, Idaho, be and the same
is hereby annexed to the City of Burley:
PARCEL 1
   LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Part of Section 21 of Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the Boise Meridian,
Cassia County, State of Idaho.
Beginning at the south 1/4 section corner of Section 21 of T.10 S. R. 23 E.B.M.
said corner marked by a 5/8" rebar which shall be the Point of Beginning;
   THENCE North 89 degrees 03 minutes 38 seconds West along the south line of
Section 21 for a distance of 1318.24 feet to a 1" iron pipe;
   THENCE North 89 degrees 03 minutes 29 seconds West along the south line of
Section 21 for a distance of 99.00 feet to a p.k. nail;
   THENCE North 00 degrees 05 minutes 07 seconds West along the current City of
Burley city limits for a distance of 1000.44 feet to the SW corner of the Rite
Aid property;
   THENCE South 89 degrees 03 minutes 26 seconds East along the current City of
Burley city limits line along the south line of the Rite Aid property and its
extension for a distance of 588.63 feet to the east right of way of Pomerelle
Avenue;
   THENCE North 00 degrees 06 minutes 34 seconds West along the current City of
Burley city limits line along the east right of way of Pomerelle Avenue for a
distance of 419.61 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
   THENCE South 88 degrees 36 minutes 08 seconds East along the current City of
Burley city limits line for a distance of 833.03 feet to the west line of the
SE1/4;
   THENCE North 00 degrees 04 minutes 51 seconds East along the current City of
Burley city limits line along the west line of the SE1/4 for a distance of
233.04 feet to the north right of way of State Highway 30;
   THENCE South 82 degrees 18 minutes 44 seconds East along the current City of
Burley city limits line along the north right of way of State Highway 30 for a
distance of 559.49 feet;
   THENCE continuing along said right of way along the current City of Burley
city limits line on a curve to the left for a distance of 961.80 feet, said
curve having a radius of 676.30 feet and a central angle of 81°29'00" with a
long chord bearing of North 56 degrees 56 minutes 46 seconds East for a
distance of 882.77 feet;
   THENCE South 73 degrees 47 minutes 44 seconds East along the current City of
Burley city limits line for a distance of 80.00 feet to the east right of way
of State Highway 81 (formerly State Highway 30);
   THENCE South 16 degrees 12 minutes 53 seconds West along the current City of
Burley city limits line along the east right of way of State Highway 81
(formerly State Highway 30) for a distance of 230.83 feet;
   THENCE along a curve to the left along the current City of Burley city
limits line along the east right of way of State Highway 81 (formerly State
Highway 30) for a distance of 655.64 feet, said curve having a radius of 676.30
feet and a central angle of 55°32'43" with a long chord bearing of South 08
degrees 56 minutes 58 seconds East for a distance of 630.26 feet;
   THENCE South 36 degrees 17 minutes 28 seconds East along the current City of
Burley city limits line along the east right of way of State Highway 81
(formerly State Highway 30) for a distance of 1374.36 feet;
   THENCE along a curve to the left along the current City of Burley city
limits line along the east right of way of State Highway 81 (formerly State
Highway 30) for a distance of 146.21 feet to the south line of Section 21, said
curve having a radius of 5690.00 feet and a central angle of 1°28'20" with a
long chord bearing of South 36 degrees 57 minutes 58 seconds East for a
distance of 146.21 feet;
   THENCE North 89 degrees 03 minutes 10 seconds West along the south line of
Section 21 for a distance of 2308.80 feet to the Point of Beginning.
   Said property contains 105.79 acres more or less.
   (Ord. 1105-A, 9-21-1998)
The following described real estate in Cassia County, Idaho be and the same is
hereby annexed to the city of Burley:
Part of the NW1/4NW1/4 of Section 28 of Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the
Boise Meridian, Cassia County, State of Idaho.
Beginning at the SE corner of the NW1/4NW1/4 said corner marked by a 5/8" rebar
on top of a U.S. GLO iron pipe; Thence North 89 degrees 06 minutes 00 seconds
West along the south line of the NW1/4NW1/4 for a distance of 475.00 feet to
the Point of Beginning;
Thence North 89 degrees 06 minutes 00 seconds West along the South line of the
NW1/4NW1/4 for a distance of 193.96 feet to the East right of way of Bennett
Avenue;
Thence North 56 degrees 32 minutes 00 seconds East along the East right of way
of Bennett Avenue for a distance of 44.98 feet;
Thence along the East right of way of Bennett Avenue on a curve to the left for
a distance of 72.91 feet (72.4', rec.), said curve having a radius of 74.42
feet and a central angle of 56°07'32" with a long chord bearing of North 28
degrees 00 minutes 16 seconds East for a distance of 70.02 feet;
Thence North 00 degrees 01 minutes 00 seconds East along the East right of way
of Bennett Avenue for a distance of 94.62 feet to the SW corner of Lot 6 in
Block 18 of Suburban Park Subdivision Number 4;
Thence North 82 degrees 48 minutes 05 seconds East along the South line of Lot
6 in Block 18 of Suburban Park No. 4 for a distance of 124.70 feet to the SE
corner of Lot 6 in Block 18 of Suburban Park Subdivision No. 4;
Thence South 00 degrees 03 minutes 33 seconds West (S 0°06' W, rec.) for a
distance of 199.92 feet the Point of Beginning.
   (Ord. 1108, 10-19-1998)
The following described real estate in Minidoka County, Idaho, be and the same
is hereby annexed to the city of Burley:
   LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Part of Section 7 and Section 8 in Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the
Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, State of Idaho.
Beginning at the SW corner of Section 7 of T.10 S., R.23 E., B.M. said corner
marked by a brass cap which shall be the Point of Beginning;
THENCE North 00 degrees 02 minutes 18 seconds West along the west line of
Section 7 for a distance of 1317.27 feet to a 5/8" rebar at the NW corner of
Lot 7;
THENCE South 89 degrees 52 minutes 11 seconds East along the north line of Lot
7 and the SE1/4SE1/4 for a distance of 2813.77 feet to a 5/8" rebar at the NW
corner of the SW1/4SW1/4 of Section 8;
THENCE North 89 degrees 48 minutes 14 seconds East along the north line of the
S1/2SW1/4 for a distance of 2400.17 feet to the east right of way of the B-
4 Canal;
THENCE South 39 degrees 29 minutes 26 seconds West (S 39°27'W, rec.) along the
east right of way of the B-4 Canal for a distance of 1723.79 feet to the south
line of Section 8;
THENCE South 89 degrees 47 minutes 56 seconds West along the south line of
Section 8 for a distance of 1298.98 feet to a brass cap at the SW corner of
Section 8;
THENCE North 00 degrees 12 minutes 47 seconds West along the west line of
Section 8 for a distance of 230.25 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
THENCE North 89 degrees 38 minutes 31 seconds West for a distance of 212.69
feet to a 1/2" rebar;
THENCE South 00 degrees 10 minutes 58 seconds West for a distance of 230.38
feet to a 1/2" rebar on the south line of Section 7;
THENCE North 89 degrees 40 minutes 46 seconds West along the south line of
Section 7 for a distance of 2603.58 feet to the Point of Beginning.
Said property contains 140.65 acres more or less.
(Ord. 1151, 3-20-2001)
The following described real estate in Cassia County, Idaho, be and the same is
hereby annexed to the city of Burley:
   LEGAL DESCRIPTION
   PARK PLACE SUBDIVISION NO. 2
Part of U.S. Government Lot 3 and part of the NE1/4 SE1/4 of Section 30 of
Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the Boise Meridian, Cassia County, State of
Idaho.
Beginning at the SE corner of the NE1/4 SE1/4 of Section 30 of T.10 S., R.23
E., B.M. said corner marked by a 5/8" rebar; Thence North 86 degrees 44 minutes
59 seconds West along the south line of the NE1/4 SE1/4 for a distance of
1006.85 feet to a 5/8" rebar which shall be the Point of Beginning;
   THENCE North 86 degrees 44 minutes 59 seconds West along the south line of
the NE1/4 SE1/4 for a distance of 88.86 feet to a 5/8" rebar;
   THENCE North 86 degrees 44 minutes 59 seconds West along the south line of
the NE1/4 SE1/4 for a distance of 32.00 feet to the centerline of the "G"
Canal;
   THENCE North 61 degrees 50 minutes 50 seconds West along the centerline of
the "G" Canal for a distance of 125.05 feet;
   THENCE North 52 degrees 29 minutes 46 seconds West along the centerline of
the "G" Canal for a distance of 120.05 feet;
   THENCE North 43 degrees 59 minutes 21 seconds West along the centerline of
the "G" Canal for a distance of 94.61 feet;
   THENCE North 03 degrees 30 minutes 19 seconds East for a distance of 17.63
feet to a 5/8" rebar;
   THENCE North 03 degrees 30 minutes 19 seconds East for a distance of 381.75
feet to a 5/8" rebar;
   THENCE South 86 degrees 44 minutes 59 seconds East for a distance of 408.08
feet to a 5/8" rebar at the NW corner of the Park Place Subdivision;
   THENCE South 03 degrees 15 minutes 01 seconds West along the west line of
the Park Place Subdivision for a distance of 384.79 feet to a 5/8" rebar;
   THENCE South 13 degrees 06 minutes 20 seconds East along the west line of
the Park Place Subdivision for a distance of 62.53 feet to a 5/8" rebar;
   THENCE North 86 degrees 44 minutes 59 seconds West along the west line of
the Park Place Subdivision for a distance of 21.50 feet to a 5/8" rebar;
   THENCE South 04 degrees 29 minutes 06 seconds West (S 03 degrees 47'35" W,
rec.) for a distance of 139.08 feet (139.03', rec.) to the Point of Beginning.
   Said property contains 4.97 acres more or less.
   (Ord. 1156, 12-18-2001)
That the real property described on exhibit A, in Cassia County, Idaho, be and
the same is hereby annexed to the city of Burley:
Part of Lot 4 in Section 27 of Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the Boise
Meridian, Cassia County, State of Idaho.
Beginning at the NE corner of the SW1/4 of Section 27 of T.10 S., R.23 E., B.M.
said corner marked by a 5/8" rebar; Thence North 89 degrees 45 minutes 40
seconds West for a distance of 5.25 feet to the northeasterly right of way of
State Highway 81; Thence North 49 degrees 49 minutes 34 seconds West along the
easterly right of way of State Highway 81 for a distance of 151.03 feet to a 1/
2" rebar; Thence North 00 degrees 04 minutes 47 seconds East for a distance of
0.62 feet to a 1/2" rebar; Thence North 00 degrees 04 minutes 47 seconds East
for a distance of 71.49 feet to a 1/2" rebar; Thence North 00 degrees 02
minutes 56 seconds East for a distance of 745.51 feet; Thence North 28 degrees
19 minutes 39 seconds West for a distance of 50.46 feet; Thence North 48
degrees 33 minutes 12 seconds West along the centerline of a concrete ditch for
a distance of 801.17 feet; Thence North 17 degrees 21 minutes 24 seconds East
for a distance of 3.00 feet to a 1/2" rebar; Thence North 17 degrees 21 minutes
24 seconds East for a distance of 62.65 feet to a 1/2" rebar; Thence North 75
degrees 43 minutes 53 seconds West for a distance of 14.37 feet; Thence North
11 degrees 25 minutes 37 seconds East for a distance of 83.54 feet; Thence
North 78 degrees 34 minutes 23 seconds West for a distance of 14.00 feet;
Thence South 11 degrees 25 minutes 37 seconds West for a distance of 29.48 feet
to a 1/2" rebar; Thence North 77 degrees 59 minutes 45 seconds West for a
distance of 14.32 feet to a 1/2" rebar; Thence South 27 degrees 29 minutes 04
seconds West for a distance of 26.12 feet to a 1/2" rebar; Thence South 75
degrees 04 minutes 15 seconds West for a distance of 33.07 feet to a 1/2"
rebar; Thence North 11 degrees 28 minutes 21 seconds East for a distance of
144.59 feet to a 1/2" rebar which shall be the Point of Beginning;
   THENCE North 64 degrees 15 minutes 17 seconds West for a distance of 43.62
feet to a 1/2" rebar;
   THENCE North 18 degrees 38 minutes 42 seconds East for a distance of 18.64
feet to the southerly boundary to the City of Burley Golf Course;
   THENCE South 63 degrees 02 minutes 47 seconds East along the southerly
boundary of the City of Burley Golf Course for a distance of 41.45 feet;
   THENCE South 11 degrees 28 minutes 21 seconds West for a distance of 18.19
feet to the Point of Beginning.
Part of Lot 4 in Section 27 of Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the Boise
Meridian, Cassia County, State of Idaho.
Beginning at the NE corner of the SW1/4 of Section 27 of T.10 S., R.23 E., B.M.
said corner marked by a 5/8" rebar; Thence North 89 degrees 45 minutes 40
seconds West for a distance of 5.25 feet to the northeasterly right of way of
State Highway 81; Thence North 49 degrees 49 minutes 34 seconds West along the
easterly right of way of State Highway 81 for a distance of 151.03 feet to a 1/
2" rebar; Thence North 00 degrees 04 minutes 47 seconds East for a distance of
0.62 feet to a 1/2" rebar; Thence North 00 degrees 04 minutes 47 seconds East
for a distance of 71.49 feet to a 1/2" rebar; Thence North 00 degrees 02
minutes 56 seconds East for a distance of 745.51 feet; Thence North 28 degrees
19 minutes 39 seconds West for a distance of 50.46 feet; Thence North 48
degrees 33 minutes 12 seconds West along the centerline of a concrete ditch for
a distance of 801.17 feet; Thence North 17 degrees 21 minutes 24 seconds East
for a distance of 3.00 feet to a 1/2" rebar; Thence North 17 degrees 21 minutes
24 seconds East for a distance of 62.65 feet to a 1/2" rebar; Thence North 75
degrees 43 minutes 53 seconds West for a distance of 14.37 feet; Thence North
11 degrees 25 minutes 37 seconds East for a distance of 83.54 feet; Thence
North 78 degrees 34 minutes 23 seconds West for a distance of 14.00 feet;
Thence South 11 degrees 25 minutes 37 seconds West for a distance of 29.48 feet
to a 1/2" rebar; Thence North 77 degrees 59 minutes 45 seconds West for a
distance of 14.32 feet to a 1/2" rebar; Thence South 27 degrees 29 minutes 04
seconds West for a distance of 26.12 feet to a 1/2" rebar; Thence South 75
degrees 04 minutes 15 seconds West for a distance of 33.07 feet to a 1/2" rebar
which shall be the Point of Beginning;
   THENCE North 48 degrees 18 minutes 32 seconds West for a distance of 58.80
feet to a 1/2" rebar;
   THENCE North 11 degrees 33 minutes 21 seconds East for a distance of 90.43
feet;
   THENCE North 48 degrees 51 minutes 12 seconds East for a distance of 7.82
feet to a 1/2" rebar
   THENCE North 18 degrees 38 minutes 42 seconds East for a distance of 29.33
feet to a 1/2" rebar;
   THENCE South 64 degrees 15 minutes 17 seconds East for a distance of 43.62
feet to a 1/2" rebar;
   THENCE South 11 degrees 28 minutes 21 seconds West to the north wall of two
townhouse units and between the 1" dead air space between the two units and to
the south wall and the extended line for a distance of 144.59 feet to a the
Point of Beginning.
(Ord. 1167, 2-4-2003)
The following described real estate in Cassia County, Idaho, be and the same is
hereby annexed to the City of Burley:
   LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Township 10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian, Cassia County, Idaho.
Section 28: A portion of the Southwest quarter of the Northwest quarter, more
particularly described as follows:
Beginning at a 1/2" rebar set on the West line of said Southwest quarter of the
Northwest quarter of Section 28 which bears North 00°07'18" West 657.95 feet
from the 5/8" rebar and cap at the Southwest corner thereof, and running thence
South 89°16'10" East 30.00 feet to a 1/2" rebar at the Northwest corner of that
real property conveyed to Byington by the warranty deed recorded November 29,
1985 as instrument no. 174470, Cassia County records;
Thence along the North line of said lands of Byington South 89°16'10" East
94.97 feet to a 1/2" rebar at the Northeast corner thereof, being also the
Northwest corner of that real property conveyed to Davis as parcel nos. 1, 2
and 3 by the warranty deed recorded March 31, 1995 as instrument no. 235917,
Cassia County records;
Thence along the North line of said lands of Davis North 80°17'10" East 129.90
feet to a 1/2" rebar at an angle point therein;
Thence continuing along last said North line South 89°13'32" East 35.00 feet to
the Northeast corner of said lands of Davis, being also the Northwest corner of
that real property conveyed to Heiner as parcel nos. 1 and 2 by the quitclaim
deed recorded July 19, 1995 as instrument no. 237660, Cassia County records;
Thence along the North line of said lands of Heiner South 89°13'32" East 188.62
feet to the Northeast corner thereof;
Thence along the East line of said lands of Heiner South 0°14'49" East 109.79
feet to a 1/2" rebar marking the Southeast corner thereof, being also the
Northwest corner of that real property conveyed to Banner as parcel no. 5 in
the warranty deed recorded April 9, 1997 as instrument no. 248382, Cassia
County records;
Thence along the West line of said lands of Banner South 0°14'49" East 29.98
feet to the intersection thereof with the North line of that real property
conveyed from Alma C. Clark and Elizabeth H. Clark to Fred T. Larson and
LaVerene Larson by the warranty deed recorded July 8, 1975 as instrument no.
84483, Cassia County records; thence along last said North line South 89°16'43"
East 237.93 feet to a 1/2" rebar at the Northeast corner thereof;
Thence along the East line of said lands of Larson South 0°17'37" East 8.21
feet to a 1/2" rebar at the Northeast corner of that real property conveyed to
Castro by the quitclaim deed recorded August 18, 2000 as instrument no. 270742,
Cassia County records;
Thence along the East line of said lands of Castro South 0°17'37" East 104.15
feet to a 1/2" rebar set thereon;
Thence continuing along last said East line South 0°17'37" East 0.17 feet to
the Southeast corner of said lands of Castro;
Thence along the South line thereof North 89°16'32" West 333.91 feet to a 1/2"
rebar at the Southwest corner thereof, being also the Southeast corner of that
real property conveyed to Rougeot by the warranty deed recorded June 27, 1986
as instrument no. 179745, Cassia County records;
Thence along the South line of said lands of Rougeot North 89°16'32" West 83.30
feet to the Southwest corner thereof, being also the Southeast corner of that
real property conveyed to Hansen as parcel Nos. 1 and 2 by the quitclaim deed
recorded March 3, 1987 as instrument no. 186409, Cassia County records; thence
along the South line of said lands of Hansen North 89°16'32" West 115.05 feet
to the Southwest corner thereof, being also the Southeast corner of that real
property conveyed to Egan as parcel no. 1 by the quitclaim deed recorded
November 27, 1998 as instrument no. 259310, Cassia County records;
Thence along the Southern line of said lands of Egan North 89°16'32" West 40.00
feet to an angle point therein;
Thence continuing along said Southern line South 0°07'18" East 16.50 feet to an
angle point therein;
Thence continuing along said Southern line North 89°16'32" West 30.00 feet to
the Southwest corner of said lands of Egan, being also the Southeast corner of
that real property conveyed to Meade by the warranty deed recorded May 31, 2001
as instrument no. 275302, Cassia County records;
Thence along the South line of said lands of Meade North 89°16'32" West 83.00
feet to the Southwest corner thereof;
Thence leaving last said South line North 89°16'32" West 30.00 feet to a point
on the aforesaid West line of the Southwest quarter of the Northwest quarter of
Section 28 which bears North 0°07'18" West 412.5 feet from the aforesaid 5/8"
rebar and cap at the Southwest corner thereof;
Thence along said West line North 0°07'18" West 245.45 feet to the point of
beginning.
The above described area to be annexed into the city of Burley, Idaho, contains
3.33 acres, more or less.
(Ord. 1171, 4-15-2003)
The following described real estate in Cassia County, Idaho, be and the same is
hereby annexed to the city of Burley:
   LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Township 10 south, range 23 east, Boise Meridian, Cassia County, Idaho.
Section 32:   A part of the southeast quarter of the northeast quarter more
particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the east quarter corner of said section 32, marked by a 5/8" rebar
and brass cap, and running thence along the south line of said southeast
quarter of the northeast quarter north 89°38'09" west 1066.48 feet to a 5/8"
rebar at the southeast corner of that real property conveyed to the city of
Burley by instrument no. 74534, Cassia County records;
Thence along the east line thereof, and along the east line of that real
property conveyed to the city of Burley by instrument no. 74533, Cassia County
records, north 0°15'52" west, 386.39 feet to a 5/8" rebar at the northeast
corner thereof;
Thence along the north line of last said lands of the city of Burley north
89°38'09" west 260.00 feet to a 5/8" rebar on the west line of the aforesaid
southeast quarter of the northeast quarter of section 32;
Thence along said west line as follows:
North 0°15'52" west 274.21 feet to a 5/8" rebar;
North 0°15'52" west 330.28 feet to a 5/8" rebar, and
North 0°15'52" west 162.01 feet to a 5/8" rebar set at the intersection thereof
with the south line of the Hi-Land subdivision no. 2;
Thence along the south lines of said subdivision as follows:
North 89°39'32" east 187.06 feet to a 5/8" rebar;
North 0°13'22" west 33.00 feet to a 5/8" rebar, and
North 89°39'32" east 870.10 feet to a 5/8" rebar set at the intersection
thereof with the west line of that real property conveyed to Redder by
instrument no. 259485, Cassia County records;
Thence along last said west line, and in turn along the west lines of those
real properties conveyed to Davis by instrument no. 215795, C.C.R., to Parish
by instrument no. 256417, C.C.R., and to Williams by instrument no. 250844,
C.C.R., south 0°13'37" east 402.91 feet to a 1-1/2" iron pipe set at the
intersection thereof with the north line of that real property conveyed to
Rosenquist by instrument no. 242322, C.C.R.;
Thence along the north and west lines of said lands of Rosenquist south
89°40'23" west 4.00 feet, and south 0°13'37" east 222.11 feet to a 1/2" rebar
set at the northwest corner of that real property conveyed to Mitchell by
instrument no. 224982, C.C.R.;
Thence along the west line of said lands of Mitchell south 0°13'37" east 130.94
feet to a 1/2" rebar set at the northwest corner of that real property conveyed
to Nannenga by instrument no. 277904, C.C.R.;
Thence along the west and south lines of said lands of Nannenga as follows:
South 0°13'37" east 130.96 feet;
North 89°40'23" east 4.00 feet to a 1-1/2" iron pipe;
Continuing north 89°40'23" east 245.00 feet to a 1-1/2" iron pipe, and
Continuing north 89°40'23" east 25.00 feet to a PK nail set on the east line of
said section 32;
Thence along said east section line south 0°13'37" east 315.23 feet to the
point of beginning.
The above described parcel of land contains 28.38 acres, more or less, and is
subject to a 25 foot wide county road easement along the southern portion of
the east line thereof, and to a 20 foot wide water line easement to the city of
Burley per instrument no. 97504, C.C.R., and to a 20 foot wide access easement
to the city of Burley per instrument no. 97419, C.C.R., and to an irrigation
ditch easement along the southern line thereof, and may be subject to other
easements of record and to other easements legally established.
(Ord. 1175, 8-5-2003)
The following real property in Cassia County, Idaho, be and the same is hereby
annexed to the city of Burley.
Beginning at the Northwest corner of Sec. 27, T 10S R 23 EBM; thence South
374.2 feet to a point; thence South 43°25'30" East for 252.4 feet to a point;
thence South 83°39' East for 1,322.9 feet to a point, which point shall be
known as the True Point of Beginning. Thence South 83°39' East for 488.8 feet,
more or less, to a point on the high water mark of the West Bank of the Snake
River; thence meandering in a Southeasterly direction along the high water mark
of the West Bank of the Snake River for 311 feet, more or less, to a point;
thence North 71°36' West for 315 feet; more or less, to a point; thence South
59.82 feet to a point; thence North 61°49'30" West for 466.4 feet to a point;
thence North 6°49' East for 43.1 feet to the true point of Beginning.
(Ord. 1181, 9-16-2003)
The following described real estate in Cassia County, Idaho, be and the same is
hereby annexed to the city of Burley:
   LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the Boise Meridian, Cassia County, Idaho.
Section 21:   A portion of the NW1/4SW1/4, more particular described as
follows:
Beginning 72 feet North of the Southeast corner of the NW1/4SW1/4 of said
Section 21, said point is 175 feet, more or less, South of the Southeast corner
of Lot 1 of Bennett's Addition to the city of Burley, Idaho as the same is
platted in the official plat thereof, now of record in the office of the
Recorder of said County of the County of Cassia, State of Idaho;
Thence North 165 feet; Thence West 263 feet to a point which is 10 feet South
of the Southwest corner of Lot 5 of said Bennett's Addition; Thence South 165
feet; Thence East 263 feet to the Point of Beginning.
(Ord. 1183, 11-18-2003)
The following described real estate in Cassia County, Idaho, be and the same is
hereby annexed to the city of Burley:
   LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Parcel no. 1:
Township 10 south, range 23 east, Boise meridian, Cassia County, Idaho.
Section 17:   Part of the SE1/4SE1/4, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at a point 20 feet East of the Southwest corner of the SE1/4SE1/4 of
Section 17;
Thence running North 316 feet, more or less, to the South line of the
Government Lateral;
Thence running East 100 feet along the South line of the Government Lateral;
Thence running South 316 feet, more or less, to the South Section line of said
Section 17;
Thence running West 100 feet along the South Section line to the Point of
Beginning.
Parcel no. 2:
Township 10 south, range 23 east, Boise meridian, Cassia County, Idaho.
Section 20:   Part of the NE1/4NE1/4, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at a point 20 feet East of the Southwest corner of the SE1/4SE1/4 of
Section 17, Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the Boise Meridian
Thence East along the Section line for 100 feet; Thence South for 26 feet, more
or less, to the North boundary of 5th Street of the City of Burley;
Thence West along the North boundary of said 5th Street to a point due South of
the Point of Beginning;
Thence North to the Point of Beginning.
(Ord. 1185, 4-6-2004)
The following described real estate in Cassian County, Idaho, be and the same
is hereby annexed to the city of Burley:
   LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Annexation area, being that same real property conveyed from Heber Dudley to
the city of Burley by the warranty deed recorded June 4, 1998, as instrument
no. 255927, Cassia County records.
Township 10 south, range 23 east, Boise meridian, Cassia County, Idaho.
Section 17: A portion of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter.
Section 20: A portion of the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter. The
aforesaid annexation area being more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at the south quarter corner of said section 17, marked by an iron
pipe and brass cap, and running thence along the south line thereof south
89°28'37" east 702.50 feet to the southwest corner of block 4 of Johnson's
subdivision, according to the official plat thereof on file in the Cassia
County recorder's office; thence continuing along said south section line south
89°28'37" east 625.08 feet to the southeast corner of said block 4, being also
the southwest corner of the aforesaid southeast quarter of the southeast
quarter of section 17, and the true point of beginning;
Thence along the east line of said block 4, being also the west line of said
southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of section 17, north 0°00'11" east
990.22 feet to the northeast corner of said block 4;
Thence continuing along said west line of the southeast quarter of the
southeast quarter, north 00°00'11" east 15.00 feet to the intersection thereof
with the south line of that real property conveyed from Ruby Company to the
city of Burley by the warranty deed recorded February 27, 1962 as instrument
no. 5521, Cassia County records;
Thence along said south line of the aforesaid lands conveyed to the city of
Burley as follows:
North 89°28'53" east 344.66 feet,
South 48°10'07" east 161.93 feet,
And south 82°35'07" east 200.11 feet to the intersection thereof with the west
line of that real property conveyed from Simplot Industries, Inc. to the city
of Burley by the warranty deed recorded May 20, 1977 as instrument no. 98784,
Cassia County records;
Thence along the west line of last said lands conveyed to the city of Burley
south 00°00'11" west 565.18 feet to the intersection thereof with the north
line of that real property conveyed from Darrell W. and Marcia H. Ross to
Richard Stradley, as trustee of Silver Thorn, by the quitclaim deed recorded
March 30, 1994 as instrument no. 229945, Cassia County records;
Thence along the west line of said lands conveyed to Silver Thorn South
00°00'11" west 315.40 feet to the line between said sections 17 and 20;
Thence continuing along last said west line south 0°00'11" west 20.52 feet to
the north line of the Fifth Street right of way as shown on the official plat
of the Burley townsite on file in the Cassia County recorder's office;
Thence along said north right of way line south 89°48'17" west 543.75 feet to
the intersection thereof with the east line of that real property conveyed from
William A. Couch and Linda L. Keene to Dennis and Margaret Scott by the
warranty deed recorded March 26, 2003 as instrument no. 287573, Cassia County
records;
Thence along last said east line north 00°00'11" east 27.34 feet to said line
between sections 17 and 20;
Thence continuing along the east line of said lands of Scott North 0°00'11"
east 316.00 feet to the northeast corner thereof;
Thence along the north line of said lands of Scott North 89°28'37" west 100.00
feet to the northwest corner thereof;
Thence along the west line of said lands of Scott South 0°00'11" west 316.00
feet to the intersection thereof with said line between sections 17 and 20;
Thence along said section line north 89°28'37" west 20.00 feet to the true
point of beginning.
The above described annexation area contains 14.27 acres, more or less.
The basis of bearings of this description is grid north on the Idaho state
plane coordinate system of 1983, central zone.
(Ord. 1190, 3-1-2005)
The following described real estate in Cassia County, Idaho, be and the same is
hereby annexed to the city of Burley:
   LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Annexation area, being that same real property conveyed from J.R. Simplot
Company to the city of Burley by the bargain and sale deed recorded August 15,
2003 as instrument no. 290688, Cassia County records, and that real property
conveyed from Cassia County to the city of Burley by the amended quitclaim deed
recorded July 20, 2004 as instrument no. 297023, Cassia County records, and
that real property conveyed from J.R. Simplot Company to the city of Burley by
the donation bargain and sale deed recorded July 30, 2004 as instrument no.
297261, Cassia County records.
Township 10 south, range 23 east, Boise meridian, Cassia County, Idaho.
Section 16:   Lot 2, the southeast quarter of the southwest quarter, a portion
of lot 3, a portion of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter, and a
portion of lot 1
Section 21:   A portion of lot 2, a portion of the northwest quarter of the
northeast quarter, a portion of the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter,
and a portion of the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter.
The aforesaid annexation area being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the southeast corner of said section 16, marked by a Cassia County
survey cap on a 5/8" rebar, and running thence along the west line thereof
north 0°00'11" east 858.10 feet to the intersection thereof with the southern
and eastern lines of that real property conveyed from Ruby Company to the city
of Burley by the warranty deed recorded February 27, 1962 as instrument no.
5521, Cassia County records;
Thence along said southern and eastern lines as follows:
South 81°09'06" east 447.10 feet,
South 69°39'06" east 514.40 feet,
And north 23°43'24" east 986.00 feet to the west line of lot 2 of said section
16;
Thence along last said west line north 0°00'11" east 737.29 feet to the
northern line of the city of Burley sewer treatment ponds;
Thence along said northern line as follows:
South 63°00'00" east 534.70 feet,
South 54°00'00" east 870.00 feet,
South 70°00'00" east 520.00 feet,
And north 33°00'00" east 220.00 feet to the ordinary high water line of the
Snake River;
Thence along said high water line as follows:
South 42°00'00" east 325.00 feet,
South 59°00'00" east 490.00 feet,
South 54°00'00" east 260.00 feet,
South 44°00'00" east 840.00 feet,
And south 1°00'00" east 92.17 feet to the intersection thereof with the
northern line of the 200 foot wide right of way of the Eastern Idaho Railroad;
Thence along said northern right of way line as follows:
South 45°14'55" west 214.08 feet,
Along a tangent curve to the right having a central angle of 4°32'38", a radius
of 3090.00 feet, an arc length of 245.06 feet, a chord length of 245.00 feet,
and a chord bearing of south 47°31'14" west
Along a compound curve to the right having a central angle of 19°23'58", a
radius of 2757.00 feet, an arc length of 933.47 feet, a chord length of 929.02
feet, and a chord bearing of south 59°29'32" west
Along a compound curve to the right having a central angle of 4°32'38", a
radius of 3090.00 feet, an arc length of 245.06 feet, a chord length of 245.00
feet, and a chord bearing of south 71°27'50" west,
And south 73°44'09" west 557.28 feet to the intersection thereof with the east
line of the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of said section 21;
Thence along last said east line, being also a portion of the aforesaid
northern line of the railroad right of way, south 00°05'04" east 52.06 feet to
the intersection thereof with the northern line of the 100 foot wide Eastern
Idaho Railroad right of way;
Thence along last said northern right of way line south 73°44'09" west 1376.96
feet to the intersection thereof with the west line of said northeast quarter
of the northwest quarter of section 21;
Thence along last said west line north 0°01'00" east 1299.72 feet to the
intersection thereof with line common to said sections 21 and 16;
Thence along said common section line south 89°59'45" west 944.53 feet to the
intersection thereof with the east line of that real property conveyed as
parcel 1 from J.R. Simplot Company to the city of Burley by the aforesaid
bargain and sale deed recorded August 15, 2003 as instrument no. 290688, Cassia
County records;
Thence along last said east line south 00°08'20" east 577.50 feet to the
southeast corner thereof;
Thence along the south line of said parcel 1 south 89°59'45" west 376.20 feet
to the intersection thereof with the west line of said section 21;
Thence along last said west line north 00°08'20" west 577.50 feet to the point
of beginning.
The above described annexation area contains 186.36 acres, more or less.
The basis of bearings of this description is grid north on Idaho state plane
coordinate system of 1983, central zone.
(Ord. 1191, 3-1-2005)
The following real property in Cassia County, Idaho, be and the same is hereby
annexed to the city of Burley:
Township 10 south, range 23 east of the Boise meridian, Cassia County, Idaho.
Section 32: All of the land in the W1/2W1/2NW1/4 of said Section 32 lying South
of the centerline of the "G" Canal or First Lift of the South Side Pumping Unit
of the Minidoka Project.
Excepting therefrom the following described tract:
Commencing at the Northwest corner of said Section 32, also said point being
the intersection of 27th Street and Park Avenue; thence South 89°43' East
150.00 feet, more or less, along the Northerly boundary of said Section 32 to a
point on the centerline of the said 27th Street marking the beginning of
Highway Project M-2510(001) at Station 1+50.00; thence South 0°17' West 25.00
feet from said centerline Station 1+50.00 to the Real Point of Beginning;
Thence continuing South 0°17' West 5.00 feet to a point 30.00 feet right of
centerline Station 1+50.00;
Thence South 89°43' East 94.57 feet, more or less, along a line 30.00 feet
Southerly of and parallel with the said Northerly boundary of Section 32 to a
point 30.00 feet right of centerline Station 2+44.57;
Thence North 36°53'56" West 6.28 feet, more or less, to a point 25.00 feet
right of centerline Station 2+40.77;
Thence North 89°43' West 90.77 feet, more or less, along a line 25.00 feet
Southerly of and parallel with the said Northerly boundary of Section 32 to the
Point of Beginning.
(Ord. 1192, 5-3-2005)
The following described real estate in Minidoka County, Idaho be and the same
is hereby annexed to the city of Burley:
Parcel no. 1
Part of the SE1/4 SW1/4 of Section 8 of Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the
Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, State of Idaho
Beginning at the South 1/4 section corner of Section 8 of Township 10 South,
Range 23 East, Boise Meridian said corner marked by a brass cap; Thence North
00 degrees 22 minutes 38 seconds West along the east line of the SE1/4 SW1/
4 for a distance of 553.02 feet to the Point of Beginning;
Thence South 89 degrees 48 minutes 14 seconds West for a distance of 32.28 feet
to a 1/2" rebar; Thence South 89 degrees 48 minutes 14 seconds West for a
distance of 891.45 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence South 89 degrees 48 minutes 14 seconds West for a distance of 25.35 feet
to the centerline of the B-4 Canal; Thence North 39 degrees 29 minutes 26
seconds East along the centerline of the B-4 Canal for a distance of 790.43
feet;
Thence South 00 degrees 22 minutes 38 seconds East (S 0°03'30" E, rec.) for a
distance of 28.86 feet to a 1/2" rebar; Thence South 00 degrees 22 minutes 38
seconds East (S 0°03'30" E, rec.) for a distance of 279.42 feet to a 1/2"
rebar;
Thence North 89 degrees 48 minutes 14 seconds East (N 89°48'E, rec.) for a
distance of 411.99 feet to a 1/2" rebar; Thence North 89 degrees 48 minutes 14
seconds East (N 89°48'E, rec.) for a distance of 30.41 feet to the east line of
the SE1/4 SW1/4;
Thence South 00 degrees 22 minutes 38 seconds East along the east line of the
SE1/4 SW1/4 for a distance of 300.00 feet to the Point of Beginning.
Parcel no. 2
Township 10 south, range 23 east of the Boise meridian Minidoka County, Idaho
Section 8: Part of the SE1/4 SW1/4, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the Northeast corner of the SE1/4 SW1/4 of said section 8, which
point shall be known as the True Point of Beginning;
Thence South 0°03'30" East along the east line of the SW1/4 of said Section 8,
and D-12-A Drain for 473.5 feet to a point (said point being the center of
proposed West 7th Street North);
Thence South 89°48' West for 442.4 feet to a point;
Thence North 0°03'30" West for 316.10 feet to a point of the center line of B-
4 Canal of the Minidoka Irrigation District;
Thence North 39°27' East along said center line for 209.20 feet, more or less,
to a point on the North line of the SE 1/4 SW 1/4 of said Section 8;
Thence North 89°48' East for 311.9 feet to the True Point of Beginning
Parcel no. 3
Township 10 south, range 23 east of the Boise meridian Minidoka County, Idaho
Section 8: A part of the NE 1/4 SW 1/4 of said Section 8, more particularly
described as follows:
Beginning at the southeast corner of the NE 1/4 SW 1/4 of said Section 8;
Thence West along the South boundary of said NE 1/4 SW 1/4 for 311.9 feet, more
or less, to a point on the centerline of the B-4 Irrigation Canal of the
Minidoka Irrigation District;
Thence Northeasterly along the center line of said canal to a point where the
said canal intersects the South Right-of-Way boundary of Interstate Highway 80
North;
Thence Easterly along the South Right-of-Way boundary of said Highway to a
point on the East boundary line of said NE 1/4 SW 1/4;
Thence south along the East boundary of said NE 1/4 SW 1/4 to the Point of
Beginning.
Excepting therefrom the following described tract:
Commencing at the S 1/4 corner of said Section 8; Thence North 0°20'20" West
along the East boundary of said SW 1/4 for 1801.41 feet to the Real Point of
Beginning;
Thence South 89°51'02" West 72.77 feet;
Thence 6.66 feet along a curve to the left having a radius of 818.51 feet, a
central angle of 0°27'59" and a chord which bears North 7°08'45" East for 6.66
feet;
Thence North 6°54'40" East 539.78 feet to the Southerly right-of-way of
Interstate 84;
Thence North 89°57'50" East along said right-of-way 3.79 feet to the East
boundary of said SW 1/4;
Thence South 0°20'20" East along said East boundary 542.29 feet to the Real
Point of Beginning.
Parcel no. 4
Township 10 south, range 23 east of the Boise meridian Minidoka County, Idaho
Section 8: Part of the SW 1/4, more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at the S 1/4 corner of said Section 8; Thence North 0°20'20" West
along the East boundary of said SW 1/4 for 1801.41 feet to the Real Point of
Beginning;
Thence South 89°51'02" West 72.77 feet;
Thence 6.66 feet along a curve to the left having a radius of 818.51 feet, a
central angle of 0°27'59" and a chord which bears North 7°08'45" East for 6.66
feet;
Thence North 6°54'40" East 539.78 feet to the Southerly right-of-way of
Interstate 84;
Thence North 89°57'50" East along said right-of-way 3.79 feet to the East
boundary of said SW 1/4;
Thence South 0°20'20" East along said East boundary 542.29 feet to the Real
Point of Beginning.
(Ord. 1197, 12-20-2005)
The real property described on exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified
herein in Minidoka County, Idaho, be, and the same is hereby, annexed to the
city of Burley.
(Ord. 1198, 2-21-2006)
The following described real estate in Minidoka County, Idaho, be, and the same
is hereby, annexed to the city of Burley:
Part of the SW1/4 of Section 8 of Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the Boise
Meridian, Minidoka County, State of Idaho.
Beginning at the South 1/4 section corner of Section 8 of T.10 S., R.23 E.,
B.M. said corner marked by a brass cap; Thence North 00 degrees 22 minutes 38
seconds West along the east line of the SW1/4 for a distance of 553.02 feet to
the Point of Beginning;
   Thence South 89 degrees 48 minutes 14 seconds West for a distance of 32.28
feet to a 1/2" rebar;
   Thence South 89 degrees 48 minutes 14 seconds West for a distance of 891.45
feet to a 1/2" rebar;
   Thence South 89 degrees 48 minutes 14 seconds West for a distance of 25.35
feet to the centerline of the B-4 Canal;
   Thence North 39 degrees 29 minutes 26 seconds East along the centerline of
the B-4 Canal for a distance of 1079.83 feet;
   Thence along said canal centerline along a tangent curve to the left for a
distance of 467.30 feet, said curve having a radius of 818.51 feet and a
central angle of 32°42'40" with a long chord bearing of North 23 degrees 08
minutes 06 seconds East for a distance of 460.98 feet;
   Thence North 06 degrees 46 minutes 46 seconds East along said canal
centerline for a distance of 539.78 feet to the south right of way of
Interstate 84;
   Thence North 89 degrees 36 minutes 14 seconds East along the south right of
way of Interstate 84 for a distance of 5.74 feet to the east line of the SW1/4;
   Thence South 00 degrees 22 minutes 38 seconds East along the east line of
the SW1/4 for a distance of 1790.08 feet to the Point of Beginning.
Said property contains 13.36 acres more or less.
(Ord. 1199, 3-7-2006)
The following real property in Cassia County, Idaho, be and the same is hereby
annexed to the city of Burley:
Township 10 south, range 22 east, Boise meridian, Cassia County, Idaho.
Section 25:   A portion of the SE1/4SE1/4, a portion of the SW1/4SE1/4, a
portion of the SE1/4SW1/4, a portion of the SW1/4SW1/4, and a portion of the
SE1/4 of the NE1/4.
Township 10 south, range 23 east, Boise meridian, Cassia County, Idaho.
Section 19:   A portion of the SE1/2,
Township 10 south, range 23 east, Boise meridian, Cassia County, Idaho.
Section 30:   A portion of the north half and a portion of government lots 1,
2, 3, and 4,
The whole being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the southwest corner of said section 25, marked by a 5/8" rebar
and aluminum cap, and running thence along west line thereof north 0°09'49"
east 1178.81 feet to the intersection thereof with the centerline of the Burley
irrigation district "G" canal;
Thence along said canal centerline as follows:
North 76°19'25" east 33.30 feet,
North 75°58'52" east 387.52 feet,
Easterly along a curve to the right having a central angle of 21°31'32", a
radius of 1500.00 feet, an arc length of 563.54 feet, a chord bearing of north
86°44'38" east and a chord length of 560.23 feet,
South 82°29'36" east 1589.88 feet,
Easterly along a curve to the left having a central angle of 48°23'14", a
radius of 450.00 feet, an arc length of 380.03 feet, a chord bearing of north
73°18'47" east and a chord length of 368.84 feet,
Easterly along a reverse curve to the right having a central angle of
29°19'26", a radius of 450.00 feet, an arc length of 230.31 feet, a chord
bearing of north 63°46'53" east and a chord length of 227.80 feet;
North 78°26'36" east 242.18 feet to the intersection of said canal centerline
with the north line of the aforesaid SW1/4SE1/4 of section 25;
North 78°26'36" east 646.78 feet to the intersection of the centerline of the
"G" canal and the west line of the west line of the NE1/4SE1/4 of section 25;
North 78°26'36" east 172.39 feet,
Northeasterly along a curve to the left having a central angle of 38°14'35", a
radius of 550.00 feet, an arc length of 367.11 feet, a chord bearing of north
59°19'18" east and a chord length of 360.33 feet,
North 40°12'01" east 188.76 feet,
Northeasterly along a curve to the right having a central angle of 19°01'18", a
radius of 650.00 feet, an arc length of 215.79 feet, a chord bearing of north
49°42'40" east and a chord length of 214.80 feet,
North 59°13'19" east 316.33 feet,
North 61°48'50" east 145.21 feet,
Easterly along a curve to the right having a central angle of 20°16'09", a
radius of 400.00 feet, an arc length of 141.50 feet, a chord bearing of north
71°56'54" east and a chord length of 140.77 feet to the intersection thereof
with the west line of the 100 west county road easement;
Thence along said west line north 00°00'50" west 451.27 feet to the
intersection thereof with the north line of the NE 1/4, SE 1/4 section 25;
Thence continuing along said west line across that real property conveyed to
Magic Valley Sand and Gravel, Inc. by the warranty deed recorded August 25,
1997 as instrument no. 250782, Cassia County records, north 00°08'36" west
974.18 feet;
Thence leaving said west easement line south 89°30'54" east 25.00 feet to the
intersection of the line common to said sections 25 and 30 with the south line
of that real property conveyed to Frank and Jessie Matthews by the warranty
deed recorded March 23, 2004 as instrument no. 294645, Cassia County records;
Thence along the south line thereof south 89°30'54" east 253.48 feet to a 1/2"
rebar;
Thence continuing along the south line of said lands of Matthews south
86°08'41" east 397.41 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence along the east line thereof north 00°08'36" west 338.26 feet to a 1/2"
rebar at the northeast corner of that real property conveyed to W. Brent and
Holly H. Larson by the warranty recorded April 29, 1988 as instrument no.
195067, Cassia County records;
Thence along the north line thereof north 85°49'55" west 122.16 feet to the
intersection thereof with the east line of that real property conveyed to
Johnny and Joann Jackson by the warranty deed recorded October 31, 2003 as
instrument no. 292343, Cassia County records;
Thence along said east line and along the east lines of those real properties
conveyed by instrument nos. 217028, 195664, 173289, and 291730, Cassia County
records north 00°14'12" west 1054.45 feet to the intersection thereof with the
south line of that real property conveyed to Kerbs Oil Company, Inc. by the
warranty recorded September 10, 1999 as instrument no. 264938, Cassia County
records;
Thence along the south line thereof south 85°35'10" east 156.62 feet to the
southeast corner thereof;
Thence along the east line of said lands of Kerbs Oil Company, Inc. north
00°17'48" east 104.02 feet to the intersection thereof with the south line of
that real property conveyed to Jerry D. and Beverly Jo Shaw by the warranty
deed recorded April 1, 1993 as instrument no. 223844, Cassia County records;
Thence along the south line thereof and along the south line of that real
property conveyed to Harry James Jr. and Cindy Lynn Shaw by quitclaim deed
recorded May 06, 2005 as instrument no. 301965, Cassia County records south
85°38'37" east 179.21 feet to the intersection thereof with the west line of
that real property conveyed to Gary Dean and Marsha S. Lucas by the warranty
deed recorded June 14, 1991 as instrument no. 213902, Cassia County records;
Thence along said west line south 04°21'23" west 20.00 feet to the southwest
corner thereof;
Thence along the south line of said lands of Lucas and along the south lines of
those real properties conveyed by instrument nos. 282202, 206505, 222040, and
304629, Cassia County records south 85°38'37" east 700.00 feet to the southeast
corner of that real property conveyed to Cary A. and Amy L. Ferrin by the
warranty deed recorded July 20, 2005 as instrument no. 303160, Cassia County
records;
Thence along the east line thereof north 04°21'23" east 190.00 feet to the
intersection thereof with the line common to said sections 19 and 30;
Thence continuing north 04°21'23" east 25.00 feet to the north line of the 16th
Street county road easement;
Thence along said north line across that real property conveyed to Nathan L.
Shaw by the quitclaim deed recorded September 8, 2004 as instrument no. 297890,
Cassia County records and the warranty deed recorded January 6, 2004 as
instrument no. 293387, Cassia County records south 85°38'37" east 342.48 feet
to the intersection thereof with the southeasterly right of way line of the
Oakley branch of the Eastern Idaho Railroad;
Thence along said southeasterly right of way line south 21°38'12" west 26.18
feet to the intersection thereof with the line common to said sections 19 and
30;
Thence continuing along said southeasterly right of way south 21°38'12" west
1380.57 feet to the southwest corner of that real property conveyed to the city
of Burley by the deed recorded September 12, 1947 as instrument no. 160603,
Cassia County records;
Thence north 90°00'00" west 107.58 feet to the northwest line of the Oakley
branch of the Eastern Idaho Railroad;
Thence along said northwesterly right of way south 21°38'12" west 1383.36 feet
to the intersection thereof with the south line of lot 2;
Thence continuing along said northwesterly right of way south 21°38'12" west
562.03 feet to the intersection thereof with the centerline of the Burley
irrigation district "G" canal;
Thence continuing along the northwesterly right of way of said branch of the
Eastern Idaho Railroad south 21°38'12" west 832.45 feet to the intersection
thereof with the south line of lot 3;
Thence continuing along said right of way south 21°38'12" west 700.63 feet to
the intersection thereof with the line common to said sections 25 and 30;
Thence continuing along said right of way south 21°38'12" west 718.67 feet to a
1/2" rebar at the intersection thereof with the south line of said section 25;
Thence along said south section line south 89°29'41" west 1059.24 feet to the
5/8" rebar marking the southeast corner of the aforesaid SW1/4SE1/4 of section
25;
Thence continuing along said south line south 89°26'22" west 1323.10 feet to
the 5/8" rebar and aluminum cap marking the south quarter corner of said
section 25;
Thence continuing along said south line south 89°27'31" west 1326.49 feet to
the 5/8" rebar marking the southeast corner of the aforesaid SW1/4SW1/4 of
section 25;
Thence continuing along said south line south 89°27'31" west 1326.58 feet to
the point of beginning.
Excepting therefrom:
The south 25 feet of the above described lands of Larson, being the north half
of the 100 south county road easement, and the west 25 feet of the above
described lands of Larson, being the east half of the 200 west county road
easement.
(Ord. 1205, 12-19-2006)
The real property described on exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified
herein in Minidoka County, Idaho, be and the same is hereby annexed to the city
of Burley.
(Ord. 1211, 2-20-2007)
The following described real property in Minidoka County, Idaho, be and the
same is hereby annexed to the city of Burley:
Part of the NE1/4NE1/4 of Section 17 of Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the
Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, State of Idaho.
Beginning at the NE corner of Section 17 of T. 10 S., R. 23 E.B.M. said corner
marked by a 5/8" rebar which shall be the Point of Beginning:
Thence South 00 degrees 01 minutes 20 seconds East along the east line of
Section 17 for a distance of 1108.04 feet to the mean high water line of the
Snake River;
Thence along the mean high water line of the Snake River on the following
courses and distances:
South 68 degrees 11 minutes 36 seconds West. 48.67 feet;
North 66 degrees 21 minutes 41 seconds West. 17.97 feet;
North 46 degrees 15 minutes 19 seconds West. 37.59 feet;
North 77 degrees 45 minutes 00 seconds West. 51.97 feet;
North 70 degrees 54 minutes 57 seconds West. 53.23 feet;
North 76 degrees 15 minutes 28 seconds West. 75.30 feet;
South 80 degrees 23 minutes 08 seconds West. 35.40 feet to the east boundary of
the River Run Estates;
Thence North 00 degrees 01 minutes 18 seconds West along the east boundary of
the River Run Estates for a distance of 23.91 feet to a 1/2" inch rebar as
shown on said River Run Estates subdivision plat;
Thence North 00 degrees 01 minutes 18 seconds West along the east boundary of
the River Run Estates for a distance of 278.49 feet to a 3/4" rebar as shown on
said River Run Estates subdivision plat;
Thence North 00 degrees 14 minutes 50 seconds West along the east boundary of
the River Run Estates for a distance of 714.23 feet to a 1/2" rebar as shown on
said River Run Estates Subdivision plat;
Thence North 00 degrees 14 minutes 50 seconds West along the east boundary of
the River Run Estates for a distance of 35.00 feet to the north line of Section
17;
Thence North 89 degrees 49 minutes 40 seconds East along the north line of
Section 17 for a distance of 300.86 feet to the Point of Beginning.
Said property contains 7.41 acres more or less and is subject to a right of way
for Alfresco Drive along the north side and subject to a right of way for a
power line easement the Bureau of Reclamation as recorded on 8 Mar. 1961 as
instrument no. 149099 and subject to any other easements or rights of ways,
existing or of record.
(Ord. 1214, 5-24-2007)
The following described real property in Cassia County, Idaho, be and the same
is hereby annexed to the city of Burley:
   CITY OF BURLEY ANNEXATION AREA, GLACIER PARK
Township 10 south, range 23 east, Boise Meridian, Cassia County, Idaho.
Section 30:   A portion of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter
(SE4SE4), a portion of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter (NE4SE4),
and a portion of government lots 3 and 4,
Section 31:   A portion of government lot 1, and a portion of the northeast
quarter of the northeast quarter (NE4NE4), the whole more particularly
described as follows:
Beginning at the southeast corner of said section 30, marked by a 5/8" rebar
and aluminum cap, and running thence along the east line thereof north 0°06'17"
west 481.96 feet to the intersection thereof with the centerline of the first
lift canal;
Thence along said centerline north 24°11'26" west 61.26 feet to the
intersection thereof with the east line of that 5 foot strip of real property
conveyed from Shaw to the city of Burley by the warranty deed recorded January
11, 1982 as instrument no. 140557, Cassia County records;
Thence along last said east line south 0°06'17" east 237.88 feet to the
southeast corner of said lands of the city of Burley;
Thence along the south line thereof south 89°53'43" west 5.00 feet to a 5/8"
rebar set at the southwest corner of said lands of Burley;
Thence along the west line thereof north 0°06'17" west 249.07 feet to the
aforesaid canal centerline;
Thence along said canal centerline as follows:
North 24°11'26" west 272.52 feet,
North 41°59'47" west 200.99 feet,
North 50°44'43" west 139.10 feet,
North 64°15'08" west 824.81 feet,
North 61°27'12" west 125.05 feet,
North 51°59'04" west 120.05 feet,
North 43°33'07" west 801.03 feet,
North 56°24'46" west 121.21 feet, and
North 72°16'30" west 192.67 feet to the intersection thereof with the southeast
right of way line of the Oakley branch of the Eastern Idaho Railroad;
Thence continuing along said canal centerline north 74°22'19" west 100.55 feet
to the intersection thereof with the northwest right of way line of said
railroad;
Thence along said northwest right of way line south 21°38'12" west 832.45 feet
to the intersection thereof with the line common to the aforesaid government
lots 3 and 4;
Thence along said common line south 86°18'25" east 105.11 feet to the
intersection thereof with the aforesaid southeast railroad right of way line;
Thence continuing along said common line south 86°18'25" east 264.66 feet to a
1/2" rebar at the intersection thereof with the east line of that real property
conveyed to Boise Packaging And Newsprint, L.L.C. by the special warranty deed
recorded November 5, 2004 as instrument no. 298873, Cassia County records;
Thence along last said east line south 0°04'54" east 1330.58 feet to the
intersection thereof with the south line of said section 30;
Thence continuing south 0°04'54" east 25.05 feet to the south line of the 100
South County Road easement;
Thence along said easement line south 86°35'22" east 869.24 feet;
Thence continuing along said easement line south 86°32'55" east 1336.23 feet to
the east line of said section 31;
Thence along said east line north 0°07'06" west 25.05 feet to the point of
beginning.
The above described real property contains 75.59 acres, more or less.
(Ord. 1216, 8-21-2007)
The real property described on exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified
herein in Cassia County, Idaho, be and the same is hereby annexed to the city
of Burley. (Ord. 1218, 9-4-2007)
The following described real property in Cassia County, Idaho, be and the same
is hereby annexed to the city of Burley:
PARCEL 1:
Part of the NE1/4NE1/4 of Section 36 of Township 10 South, Range 22 East of the
Boise Meridian, Cassia County, State of Idaho.
Beginning at the Southeast corner of the NE1/4NE1/4 of Section 36 of T. 10 S.,
R. 22 E., B.M., said corner marked by a 5/8" rebar which shall be the Point of
Beginning;
Thence South 89 degrees 32 minutes 29 seconds West along the south line of the
NE1/4NE1/4 for a distance of 44.18 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence South 89 degrees 32 minutes 29 seconds West continuing along said line
for a distance of 609.20 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 21 degrees 46 minutes 13 seconds East for a distance of 231.17
feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 89 degrees 32 minutes 29 seconds East for a distance of 524.27
feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 89 degrees 32 minutes 29 seconds East for a distance of 43.64 feet
to the east line of the NE1/4NE1/4;
Thence South 00 degrees 04 minutes 26 seconds West along said line for a
distance of 214.00 feet to the Point of Beginning.
Said property contains 3.00 acres more or less and is subject to a 25 foot
county road right of way along the east side and subject to any other easements
or right of ways of record or use.
(Ord. 1223, 12-18-2007)
The following described property in Cassia County, Idaho, be and the same is
hereby annexed to the city of Burley:
PARCEL NO. 1:
Part of Lot 3 and part of Lot 4 of Section 19 of Township 10 South, Range 23
East of the Boise Meridian Cassia County, State of Idaho.
Beginning at the Southwest corner of Section 19 of T.10 S., R.23 E., B.M., said
corner marked by a 5/8" rebar with a 3" cap on top; Thence North 00 degrees 00
minutes 38 seconds East along the section line for a distance of 1015.01 feet
to a 1/2" rebar on the north right of way of the Eastern Idaho Railroad; Thence
North 73 degrees 53 minutes 09 seconds East along said right of way for a
distance of 612.15 feet to a 1/2" rebar at the SW corner of the former Rick
Larson property which shall be the Point of Beginning;
Thence North 18 degrees 48 minutes 42 seconds West for a distance of 433.94
feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 72 degrees 56 minutes 18 seconds East for a distance of 356.60
feet;
Thence South 80 degrees 43 minutes 42 seconds East for a distance of 169.10
feet;
Thence South 55 degrees 15 minutes 42 seconds East for a distance of 131.00
feet;
Thence North 71 degrees 57 minutes 18 seconds East for a distance of 455.60
feet to the east line of Lot 3;
Thence South 00 degrees 01 minutes 18 seconds West along the east line of Lot 3
for a distance of 344.18 feet to the north right of way of the Eastern Idaho
Railroad;
Thence South 73 degrees 53 minutes 09 seconds West along said right of way for
a distance of 547.23 feet to a 1/2" rebar on the south line of Lot 3;
Thence North 85 degrees 31 minutes 05 seconds West along the south line of Lot
3 and said railroad right of way for a distance of 142.14 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence South 73 degrees 53 minutes 09 seconds West along said railroad right of
way for a distance of 251.01 feet to the Point of Beginning.
Said property contains 8.79 acres more or less.
PARCEL NO. 2:
Township 10 South, range 23 east of the Boise meridian, Cassia County, Idaho.
Section 19:   Part of Lot 3, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the West 1/4 corner of said Section 19, said corner marked by a 5/
8 inch rebar with a 3 inch cap on top; Thence South 85°31'51" East along the 1/
4 section line for a distance of 456.75 feet to a point on the easterly right
of way of Bedke Blvd. which shall be the Point of Beginning.
Thence South 85°31'51" East along the 1/4 section line for a distance of
1044.62 feet to the northeast corner of Lot 3;
Thence South 00°01'18" West along the East line of Lot 3 for a distance of
387.50 feet;
Thence South 78°55'33" West for a distance of 11.77 feet;
Thence along a non-tangent curve to the left for a distance of 92.73 feet, said
curve having a radius of 50.00 feet and a central angle of 106°15'37" and a
long chord bearing of South 78°55'33" West for a distance of 80.00 feet;
Thence South 78°55'33" West for a distance of 1055.24 feet;
Thence North 18°48'42" West for a distance of 366.25 feet;
Thence North 39°48'58" West for a distance of 133.46 feet to a point on the
Easterly right of way of Bedke Blvd.
Thence North 50°11'02" East along said right of way for a distance of 374.83
feet to the Point of Beginning.
(Ord. 1225, 2-5-2008)
The following described real property in Cassia County, Idaho, be and the same
is hereby annexed to the city of Burley:
Land Description
A tract of land in the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of section
25, township 10 south, range 22 east of the Boise Meridian in Cassia County,
Idaho and more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at the northeast corner of the southeast corner of section 25,
marked by a 5/8 inch rebar with a 3" aluminum cap and being also the point of
beginning;
Thence south 00 degrees 00 minutes 50 second east, a distance of 448.53 feet
more or less along the east line of the southeast quarter section 25 to the
intersection with the centerline of the "G" canal;
Thence along the centerline of the "G" canal the following bearings and
distances:
South 83 degrees 12 minutes 23 seconds west, a distance of 17.34 feet to the
beginning of a curve tangent to said line;
Thence westerly and southwesterly a distance of 149.35 feet along the curve
concave to the south, having a radius of 400.00 feet and a central angle of 21
degrees 23 minutes 33 seconds;
Thence south 61 degrees 48 minutes 50 seconds west tangent to said curve, a
distance of 102.54 feet to the intersection with the easterly line of a tract
of land conveyed to Magic Valley Sand And Gravel, Inc. by warranty deed
recorded as instrument number 223123 in the Cassia County records, and from
which a 1/2 inch rebar having a cap stamped PLS 9858 bears north 04 degrees 05
minutes 17 seconds west at a distance of 14.84 feet;
Thence along the easterly line of said Magic Valley Sand And Gravel land the
following bearings and distances:
North 04 degrees 05 minutes 17 seconds west, a distance of 384.32 feet to a 1/
2 inch rebar having a cap stamped PLS 3623;
Thence north 28 degrees 09 minutes 32 seconds west, a distance of 175.86 feet
to the intersection with the north line of the northeast quarter of the
southeast quarter of section 25, from which a 1/2 inch rebar bears south 28
degrees 09 minutes 32 seconds east at a distance of 0.37 feet;
Thence along the north line of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter
north 89 degrees 09 minutes 51 seconds east, a distance of 359.54 feet to the
point of beginning.
Containing 3.134 acres, more or less.
(Ord. 1226, 2-5-2008)
The following described real property in Cassia County, Idaho, be and the same
is hereby annexed to the city of Burley:
Part of Lot 2 in Section 19 of Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the Boise
Meridian, Cassia County, State of Idaho.
Beginning at the west 1/4 section corner of Section 19 of T.10 S., R. 23 E.,
B.M. said corner marked by a 5/8" rebar with a 3" cap on top which shall be the
Point of Beginning;
Thence North 00 degrees 00 minutes 15 seconds East along the west line of
Section 19 for a distance of 518.31 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 00 degrees 00 minutes 15 seconds East along the west line of
Section 19 for a distance of 10.00 feet to the mean high water line of the
Snake River;
Thence South 88 degrees 40 minutes 41 seconds East along the mean high water
line of the Snake River for a distance of 16.90 feet;
Thence North 70 degrees 23 minutes 59 seconds East along the mean high water
line of the Snake River for a distance of 36.20 feet;
Thence North 74 degrees 36 minutes 38 seconds East along the mean high water
line of the Snake River for a distance of 91.47 feet;
Thence North 75 degrees 13 minutes 22 seconds East along the mean high water
line of the Snake River for a distance of 111.91 feet;
Thence North 76 degrees 17 minutes 32 seconds East along the mean high water
line of the Snake River for a distance of 220.02 feet;
Thence North 80 degrees 43 minutes 37 seconds East along the mean high water
line of the Snake River for a distance of 57.42 feet;
Thence North 47 degrees 28 minutes 33 seconds East along the mean high water
line of the Snake River for a distance of 101.99 feet;
Thence South 00 degrees 45 minutes 11 seconds West (S 0°27' W, rec.) for a
distance of 10.00 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence South 00 degrees 45 minutes 11 seconds West (S 0°27' W, rec.) for a
distance of 758.67 feet to a 1/2" rebar on the south line of the Lot 2;
Thence North 85 degrees 32 minutes 49 seconds West along the south line of Lot
2 for a distance of 584.69 feet to the Point of Beginning.
Said property contains 8.47 acres more or less and is subject to any easements
or right of ways, existing or of record.
(Ord. 1227, 2-19-2008)
The following described real property in Cassia County, Idaho, be and the same
is hereby annexed to the city of Burley:
   HYLINE ANNEXATION PROPERTY DESCRIPTION
Township 10 south, range 22 east of the Boise principal Meridian, Cassia
County, Idaho
Part of the E1/2NE1/4 of Section 36, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the Northeast corner of Section 36, said corner marked by a 5/
8 inch rebar with a 3 inch cap on top; Thence South 89°37'11" West along the
North line of Section 36 for a distance of 265.95 feet to the west right of way
of the Eastern Idaho Railroad, which shall be the Point of Beginning;
Thence South 21°45'55" West along the West right of way of the Eastern Idaho
Railroad for a distance of 26.99 feet to a 1/2 inch rebar;
Thence South 21°45'55" West along said railroad right of way for a distance of
1861.30 feet to a 1/2 inch rebar;
Thence South 21°45'55" West along said railroad right of way for a distance of
14.50 feet to the centerline of the "H" Canal;
Thence North 63°54'48" West along the centerline of the "H" Canal for a
distance of 396.98 feet to the West line of the E1/2NE1/4;
Thence North 00°06'00" East along the West line of the E1/2NE1/4 for a distance
of 13.50 feet to a 1/2 inch rebar;
Thence North 00°06'00" East along the West line of the E1/2NE1/4 for a distance
of 1547.06 feet to a 1/2 inch rebar;
Thence North 00°06'00" East along the West line of the E1/2NE1/4 for a distance
of 25.00 feet to a 5/8 inch rebar on top of a USRS iron pipe at the Northwest
corner of the NE1/4NE1/4;
Thence North 00°06'00" East for a distance of 25.00 feet to a point on the
north side of the road right of way;
Thence North 89°37'11" East along the North side of the road right of way for a
distance of 1069.33 feet to the West right of way of the Eastern Idaho
Railroad;
Thence South 21°45'55" West along said railroad right of way for a distance of
27.00 feet to the Point of Beginning.
Said property contains 28.54 acres more or less.
(Ord. 1229, 3-18-2008)
The real property described on exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified
herein in Cassia County, Idaho, be and the same is hereby annexed to the city
of Burley. (Ord. 1238, 6-17-2008)
The real property described on exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified
herein in Cassia County, Idaho, be and the same is hereby annexed to the city
of Burley. (Ord. 1241, 8-5-2008)
The described real estate on exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified
herein in Cassia County, Idaho, be and the same is hereby annexed to the city
of Burley. (Ord. 1242, 8-19-2008)
The following described real property in Cassia County, Idaho, be and the same
is hereby annexed to the city of Burley:
Description:
Township 10 south, range 23 east, Boise Meridian, Cassia County, Idaho.
Section 30:    A portion of government lot 1.
Township 10 south, range 22 east, Boise Meridian, Cassia County, Idaho.
Section 25:   A portion of the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter
(NE4NE4), the whole more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at the northwest corner of said section 30, marked by a 5/8" rebar
and aluminum cap, and running thence along the line common to said sections 25
and 30 south 0°08'31" east 495.16 feet to a 5/8" rebar set at the intersection
thereof with the north line of that real property conveyed from Richard Kay
Hill and Shellie Hill to PR 93, LLC by the warranty deed recorded September 17,
2008 as instrument no. 2008-005257, Cassia County records, and the true point
of beginning;
Thence at right angles to said section line south 89°51'29" west 25.00 feet to
the west line of the public road right of way;
Thence along said west road right of way line south 0°08'31" east 329.94 feet;
Thence north 89°51'29" east 25.00 feet to a 5/8" rebar marking the northwest
corner of that real property conveyed from Doherty to Shaw by the warranty deed
recorded June 19, 1984 as instrument no. 161425, Cassia County records;
Thence along the north line thereof south 86°58'54" east 258.24 feet to a 1/2"
rebar at the northeast corner of said lands conveyed to Shaw;
Thence along the north line of that real property conveyed from Doherty to
Jones by the warranty deed recorded January 17, 1983 as instrument no. 148763,
Cassia County records, south 86°58'54" east 269.61 feet to the 1/2" rebar
marking the northeast corner thereof;
Thence north 0°16'49" west 317.69 feet to a 1/2" rebar at the northeast corner
of the aforesaid lands of PR 93, LLC;
Thence along the north line thereof north 85°38'57" west 527.91 feet to the
true point of beginning.
The above described annexation area contains 4.10 acres, more or less.
(Ord. 1252, 12-29-2008)
The following described lands are hereby annexed to and declared to be a part
of the city of Burley, Idaho:
Description:
Township 10 south, range 23 east, Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, Idaho.
Section 17:   A portion of the northwest quarter (NW 1/4).
Section 8:   A portion of the southwest quarter (SW 1/4).
Section 7:   A portion of the southeast quarter (SE 1/4).
Section 18:   A portion of the northeast quarter (NE 1/4).
Beginning at the 1/2" rebar marking the northeast corner of the northwest
quarter of the northwest quarter of said section 17 and running thence north
0°03'43" west 25.00 feet to the northern right of way line of the county road
commonly known as 400 South;
Thence along said northern line south 89°39'44" west 1328.49 feet to the
intersection thereof with the line common to said sections 8 and 7;
Thence continuing along said northern line north 89°50'48" west 25.00 feet to
the intersection thereof with the western right of way line of the county road
commonly known as 700 West;
Thence along said western line south 0°20'33" east 25.00 feet to the line
common to said sections 7 and 18;
Thence continuing along said western line south 0°18'09" east 911.50 feet to
the intersection thereof with the southwesterly extension of the northern line
of that real property conveyed to Klett by the quitclaim deed recorded November
29, 2002 as instrument no. 462424, Minidoka County records;
Thence along said extension north 80°36'18" east 25.32 feet to the 1/2" rebar
marking the northwest corner of said lands of Klett;
Thence along the boundary lines of said lands of Klett as follows:
North 80°36'18" east 387.87 feet to a 1/2" rebar,
South 0°18'09" east 289.00 feet to a 1/2" rebar, and
South 89°41'51" west 383.00 feet to a 1/2" rebar at the southwest corner
thereof;
Thence continuing south 89°41'51" west 25.00 feet to the aforesaid western line
of the 700 West county road right of way;
Thence along said western line south 0°18'09" east 60.00 feet to the
intersection thereof with the westerly extension of the northern line of that
real property conveyed to Wageman by the warranty deed recorded June 24, 2002
as instrument no. 459801, Minidoka County records;
Thence along said western extension north 89°41'51" east 25.00 feet to the PK
nail marking the northwest corner of said lands of Wageman;
Thence along said northern line of Wageman north 89°41'51" east 383.00 feet to
a 1/2" rebar at the northeastern corner thereof;
Thence along the east line of said lands of Wageman south 0°18'09" east 353.00
feet to the intersection thereof with a fence running to the east, last said
intersection being north 0°18'09" west 37.00 feet from the 1/2" rebar marking
the southeast corner of said lands of Wageman;
Thence along said fence north 89°04'12" east 940.04 feet to the intersection
thereof with the west end of West Second Street North, said street being
depicted on the record of survey map recorded May 8, 2008 as instrument no.
496652;
Thence along said west end of W. Second Street N. north 1°11'01" west 55.00
feet to a 1/2" rebar at the southwest corner of the Green Acres Subdivision;
Thence along the west line thereof north 0°03'43" west 1208.54 feet to the
intersection thereof with a portion of the southern line of that real property
conveyed to Haag by the warranty deed recorded June 28, 1984 as instrument no.
345301, Minidoka County records, last said intersection being south 0°03'43"
east 275.00 feet from the aforesaid northeast corner of the NW1/4 NW1/4 of
section 17;
Thence along the boundary lines of said lands of Haag as follows:
South 89°39'44" west 60.00 feet,
South 0°03'43" east 197.35 feet,
South 89°39'44" west 367.31 feet, and
North 39°12'57" east 580.19 feet to the intersection thereof with the southern
line of the 400 south county road right of way;
Thence along last said southern line north 89°39'44" east 60.00 feet to the
aforesaid west line of the Green Acres Subdivision;
Thence along said west line north 0°03'43" west 25.00 feet to the point of
beginning.
The above described annexation area contains 40.72 acres, more or less.
(Ord. 1267, 3-16-2010)
The following described lands are hereby annexed to and declared to be a part
of the city of Burley, Idaho:
Legal Description:
Part of the NE1/4SE1/4 of Section 29 of Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the
Boise Meridian, Cassia County, State of Idaho.
Beginning at the East 1/4 section corner of Section 29 of T.10 S., R. 23 E.,
B.M. said corner marked by a 5/8" rebar with a 3" cap on top; Thence South 00
degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds East along the east line of Section 29 for a
distance of 880.94 feet (881.00', rec.) to a P.K. Nail; Thence North 89 degrees
09 minutes 39 seconds West (N 89°09'34" W, rec.) for a distance of 30.00 feet
to a 1/2" rebar on the west right of way of Hiland Avenue which shall be the
Point of Beginning;
Thence South 00 degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds East along said right of way for
a distance of 260.00 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 89 degrees 09 minutes 39 seconds West for a distance of 395.00
feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence North 00 degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds East for a distance of 260.00
feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence South 89 degrees 09 minutes 39 seconds East (S 89°09'34" E, rec.) for a
distance of 395.00 feet to the Point of Beginning.
Said property contains 2.36 acres more or less and is subject to any easements
or right of ways, existing or of record.
(Ord. 1277, 3-15-2011)
The following described lands are hereby annexed to and declared to be a part
of the city of Burley, Idaho:
Description:
An annexation by the city of Burley of that real property conveyed from Sliger
to Padron by the quitclaim deed recorded July 12, 2005 as instrument no.
303024, Cassia County records, and that real property conveyed from T-W, Inc.
to Meyer by the warranty deed recorded April 5, 2010 as instrument no. 2010-
001166, Cassia County records, and a portion of that real property conveyed
from Clark et al. to the Burley highway district by the right of way deed
recorded May 4, 1967 as instrument no. 34821, Cassia County records, and a
portion of that real property conveyed from Clark and Yeaman to the Burley
highway district by the quitclaim deed recorded May 26, 1970 as instrument no.
51303, Cassia County records, the entire annexation more particularly described
as follows:
Township 10 south, range 23 east, Boise Meridian, Cassia County, Idaho.
Section 28:   A portion of the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter (SW1/
4NW1/4)
Commencing at the west quarter corner of said section 28, marked by a 5/8 rebar
and aluminum cap, and running thence along the west line thereof north 0°18'08"
west 200.00 feet to the true point of beginning;
Thence leaving said west line south 89°26'56" east 30.00 feet to the southwest
corner of said lands of Meyer;
Thence along the south line thereof south 89°26'56" east 123.65 feet to the
southeast corner thereof;
Thence along the east line of said lands of Meyer north 0°18'08" west 83.50
feet to the northeast corner thereof;
Thence north 18°06'20" west 34.83 feet to the southeast corner of said real
property conveyed to Padron;
Thence along the east line thereof north 0°18'08" west 96.00 feet to the
northeast corner thereof;
Thence along the north line of said lands of Padron north 89°26'56" west 113.00
feet to the northwest corner thereof;
Thence continuing north 89°26'56" west 30.00 feet to the west line of said
section 28;
Thence along said west section line south 0°18'08" east 212.50 feet to the true
point of beginning.
The above described annexation area contains 0.72 acres, more or less.
(Ord. 1280, 9-6-2011)
The following described lands are hereby annexed to and declared to be a part
of the city of Burley, Idaho:
Description:
Township 10 south, range 23 east, Boise Meridian, Cassia County, Idaho.
Section 17:    A portion of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter.
Section 20:    A portion of the northeast quarter.
The aforesaid annexation area being more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at the south quarter corner of said section 17, marked by an iron
pipe and brass cap, and running thence along the south line thereof south
89°28'37" east 702.50 feet to the southwest corner of block 4 of Johnson's
Subdivision, according to the official plat thereof on file in the Cassia
County recorder's office, said southwest corner being the true point of
beginning;
Thence along the west line of said block 4, being also the east line of Hansen
Avenue, north 0°00'04" west 990.05 feet to the northwest corner of said block
4;
Thence along the north line thereof south 89°29'34" east 625.15 feet to the
northeast corner of said block 4;
Thence along the east line thereof south 0°00'11" west 990.22 feet to the
southeast corner of said block 4, last said corner being also the southeast
corner of the aforesaid southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of section
17;
Thence along the south line of said section 17 south 89°28'37" east 20.00 feet
to the west line of that real property conveyed from William A. Couch and Linda
L. Keene to Dennis and Margaret Scott by the warranty deed recorded March 26,
2003 as instrument no. 287573, Cassia County records;
Thence along last said west line south 0°00'11" west 28.60 feet to the north
line of the Fifth Street right of way as shown on the official plat of the
Burley townsite on file in the Cassia County recorder's office;
Thence along said north right of way line south 89°48'17" west 645.05 feet;
Thence leaving said right of way line north 0°00'04" west 36.69 feet to the
true point of beginning.
Parcel B:
Township 10 south range 22 east, Boise Meridian, Cassia County Idaho.
Section 25:    A portion of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter
(SE4SE4).
Section 36:    A portion of the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter
(NE4NE4).
Township 10 south, range 23 east, Boise Meridian, Cassia County, Idaho.
Section 30:    A portion of government lot 4.
Beginning at the southwest corner of said section 30, marked by an aluminum
cap, and running thence along the south line thereof south 86°35'16" east
629.37 feet to the intersection thereof with the east line of that real
property conveyed to Boise Packaging And Newsprint, L.L.C. by the special
warranty deed recorded November 5, 2004 as instrument no. 298873, Cassia County
records;
Thence along said east line north 0°02'53" west 1330.58 feet to the
intersection thereof with the north line of said government lot 4;
Thence along said north line north 86°18'19" west 369.77 feet to the
intersection thereof with the northwestern line of Oakley branch of the Eastern
Idaho Railroad right of way;
Thence along said northwestern line south 21°39'58" west 1419.58 feet to the
intersection thereof with the line common to said sections 25 and 36;
Thence continuing along said northwestern right of way line south 21°39'58"
west 1209.07 feet to the northwest corner of annexation ordinance 1238 recorded
as instrument no. 2008-003683, Cassia County records;
Thence along the north line thereof and continuing along the north line of
annexation ordinance 1220 recorded as instrument no. 2007-319333, Cassia County
records north 89°27'30" east 713.30 feet to the east line of section 36;
Thence along said east line north 0°02'49" west 1119.25 feet to the point of
beginning.
Excepting therefrom those portions of the north half of the 100 South County
Road right of way, and those portions of the west half of the 100 West County
Road right of way previously annexed into the city of Burley.
Parcel C:
Township 10 south, range 23 east, Boise Meridian, Cassia County, Idaho.
Section 17:    A portion of the southwest quarter.
Section 18:    A portion of the southeast quarter.
Section 19:    A portion of the north half, and a portion of the south half.
Section 20:    A portion of the northwest quarter.
Beginning at the quarter corner common to said sections 19 and 20, marked by an
aluminum cap, and running thence along the line common thereto, south 0°05'52"
east 290.95 feet to a 1/2" rebar at the southeast corner of that real property
conveyed to the Amalgamated Sugar Company, LLC, by the special warranty deed
recorded January 7, 1997 as instrument no. 246871, Cassia County records;
Thence along the south line thereof south 89°28'12" west 7.95 feet to a 1/2"
rebar at the southeast corner of that real property conveyed to Freebird II,
LLC, by the quitclaim deed recorded June 27, 2008 as instrument no. 2008-
003803, Cassia County records;
Thence along the southern and western lines thereof as follows:
South 89°28'12" west 1324.37 feet to a 1/2" rebar,
North 0°06'40" west 404.12 feet to a 5/8" rebar at the southeast corner of
government lot 2 of said section 19,
North 85°40'20" west 916.71 feet to a 1/2" rebar, and
North 0°37'41" east 117.89 feet to a 1/2" rebar set on the southeastern line of
the Bedke Blvd. right of way;
Thence continuing north 0°37'41" east 158.00 feet to a 1/2" rebar set on the
northwestern line of the Bedke Blvd. right of way, and being at the
southwestern corner of that real property conveyed as parcel no. 1 to Nampil
Investment Company, LLC, by the special warranty deed recorded February 5, 2001
as instrument no. 273152, Cassia County records;
Thence along the west line thereof north 0°37'41" east 500.38 feet to a 1/2"
rebar;
Thence continuing along said west line north 0°37'41" east 17.88 feet to the
ordinary high water line of the south bank of the Snake River;
Thence along said high water line as follows:
North 52°50'27" east 388.37 feet,
North 71°12'28" east 108.22 feet,
North 31°57'38" east 243.74 feet,
North 64°43'22" east 165.54 feet,
North 38°54'37" east 450.65 feet,
North 27°55'56" east 190.41 feet,
North 45°29'14" east 397.82 feet,
North 48°39'03" east 389.31 feet,
North 60°01'31" east 157.71 feet to the intersection thereof with the line
common to said sections 18 and 19,
North 60°01'08" east 204.76 feet,
North 34°48'39" east 147.15 feet,
North 64°41'22" east 215.09 feet to the intersection thereof with the line
common to said sections 17 and 18,
North 51°22'15" east 138.93 feet,
North 59°50'07" east 288.25 feet,
North 60°36'48" east 227.87 feet,
North 60°39'54" east 368.76 feet,
North 50°46'26" east 191.14 feet,
North 68°12'44" east 95.45 feet,
North 83°47'33" east 154.19 feet,
North 48°47'18" east 80.14 feet to the intersection thereof with the west line
of Johnson's Subdivision,
North 22°29'14" east 68.41 feet,
North 78°12'07" east 83.56 feet,
North 48°57'53" east 84.02 feet,
North 54°43'09" east 114.36 feet,
North 81°49'23" east 105.33 feet, and
North 54°13'47" east 32.92 feet to the intersection of said high water line
with the north line of said Johnson's Subdivision;
Thence along last said north line south 89°29'46" east 200.61 feet to the
intersection thereof with the northerly prolongation of the west line of Miller
Avenue as said avenue is shown on the official plat of said Johnson's
Subdivision;
Thence along said northerly prolongation, being also the west line of a
permanent 30 foot wide utility easement as shown on the record of survey map
recorded as instrument no. 153511, Cassia County records, south 0°07'16" east
331.07 feet to a 2" iron pipe at the intersection of the north line of West 3rd
Street with the aforesaid west line of Miller Avenue;
Thence along said west line of Miller Avenue south 0°07'16" east 988.77 feet to
the intersection thereof with the line common to said sections 17 and 20, said
intersection being the southeast corner of lot 6 of block 1 of said Johnson's
Subdivision, and a point on the east line of that real property conveyed from
Muniz to Geosue Properties, LLC, by the warranty deed recorded September 17,
2008 as instrument no. 2008-005273, Cassia County records;
Thence along last said east line south 0°07'16" east 53.76 feet to the northern
right of way line of Bedke Blvd. as shown on the state of Idaho highway right
of way plans federal aid project no. M-RRP-7632(003);
Thence along said northern right of way line as follows:
South 89°51'12" west 398.77 feet,
North 0°38'10" west 15.00 feet,
South 89°52'01" west 453.26 feet,
North 0°08'12" west 10.00 feet,
South 89°51'48" west 657.76 feet,
Southwesterly along a curve to the left having a central angle of 5°41'17", a
radius of 1492.39 feet, an arc length of 148.16 feet, a chord bearing of south
87°01'10" west, and a chord length of 148.10 feet,
North 5°49'29" west 10.00 feet, and
Southwesterly along a curve to the left having a central angle of 10°24'11", a
radius of 1502.39 feet, an arc length of 272.78 feet, a chord bearing of south
78°58'25" west, and a chord length of 272.41 feet to the intersection thereof
with the aforesaid line common to sections 19 and 20;
Thence along said common line south 0°07'44" east 2541.63 feet to the point of
beginning.
(Ord. 1284, 3-20-2012)
The lands described in exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein are
hereby annexed to and declared to be a part of the City of Burley, Idaho. (Ord.
1287, 6-19-2012)
The lands described in exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein are
hereby annexed to and declared to be a part of the City of Burley, Idaho. (Ord.
1288, 6-19-2012)
The lands described in exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein are
hereby annexed to and declared to be a part of the City of Burley, Idaho. (Ord.
1289, 6-19-2012)
The lands described in exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein are
hereby annexed to and declared to be a part of the City of Burley, Idaho. (Ord.
1310, 1-20-2015)
The lands described in exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein are
hereby annexed to and declared to be a part of the City of Burley, Idaho. (Ord.
1361, 7-2-2019)
CHAPTER 13
INITIATIVES AND REFERENDUMS
SECTION:
1-13-1: Direct Legislation; Form Of Petition
1-13-2: Steps Prior To Circulating Petition
1-13-3: Circulation; Number Of Signatures Required
1-13-4: Approval By The People; Effective Date
1-13-5: Verification Affidavit
1-13-6: Clerk's Refusal To Accept, File
1-13-7: Attorney's Recommendation, Review
1-13-8: Voting Requirements
1-13-9: Qualified Signatures
1-13-10: Ballots
1-13-11: Prohibited Acts
1-13-12: Time Limit For Filing Petitions
1-13-13: Voter's Pamphlet
1-13-14: Arguments For And Against
1-13-1: DIRECT LEGISLATION; FORM OF PETITION:
Direct legislation by the people of the City through initiative and referendum
elections is provided for pursuant to this Chapter. The following shall be
substantially the form of petition of any ordinance proposed by the initiative:
   WARNING.
   It is a misdemeanor for anyone to sign any initiative referendum petition
with any name other than his or her own, or to knowingly sign his or her name
more than once for the measure, or to sign such petition when he or she is not
a legal voter.
   INITIATIVE PETITION
To the City Clerk of the City of Burley, Idaho:
   We, the undersigned citizens and legal voters of the City of Burley, Idaho,
respectfully demand that the following proposed law, to-wit: (Setting out the
full text of the measure proposed) shall be submitted to the legal voters of
the City of Burley for their approval or rejection at a general or special
election to be held pursuant to the ordinances of the City of Burley, Idaho,
and each for herself or himself says: "I have personally signed this petition;
I am a legal voter of the City of Burley, Idaho; my residence and post office
are correctly written after my name:"
NAME RESIDENCE   POST OFFICE
   (Here follow 20 numbered lines for signatures)
The petition for referendum of any ordinance passed by the City Council shall
be in substantially the same form with appropriate title and changes, setting
out in full the text of the ordinance of the Council to be referred to the
people for their approval or rejection. (Ord. 981, 11-21-1983)
1-13-2: STEPS PRIOR TO CIRCULATING PETITION:
Before or at the time of beginning to circulate any petition for the referendum
to the people or any ordinance passed by the City Council, or for any ordinance
proposed by initiative, the person or persons or organization or organizations
under whose authority the measure is to be referred or initiated shall send or
deliver to the City Clerk a copy of such petition duly signed by at least
twenty (20) electors of the City which shall be filed by the City Clerk in the
Clerk's office and who shall immediately examine and specify the form and kind
and size of paper on which such petition shall be printed for circulation for
signature. All petitions for the initiative and for the referendum and sheets
for signature shall be printed on a good quality or bond or ledger paper on
pages 81/2 (numbered) inches in width by 13 inches in length, with a margin of
13/4 (numbered) inches at the top for binding. To every sheet of petitioners'
signatures shall be attached a full and correct copy of the measures so
proposed by initiative petition; but such petition may be filed by the City
Clerk in numbered sections for convenience in handling. Every sheet of
petitioners' signatures referendum petitions shall be attached to a full and
correct copy of the measure to which the referendum is demanded, and which may
be filed in numbered sections in like manner as initiative petitions. Not more
than twenty (20) signatures on any one sheet shall be counted. (Ord. 981, 11-
21-1983)
1-13-3: CIRCULATION; NUMBER OF SIGNATURES REQUIRED:
After the form of the initiative or referendum petition has been approved by
the City Clerk and provided the same shall be printed by the person or persons
or organization or organizations under whose authority the measure is to be
referred or initiated and circulated in the City for signatures of legal voters
of the City.
Before such petition shall be entitled to final filing and consideration by the
City Clerk there shall be affixed thereto the signatures of legal voters equal
in number to not less than twenty percent (20%) of the total number of voters
registered to vote at the last general election in the City next preceding the
filing of such initiative or referendum petition. (Ord. 981, 11-21-1983)
1-13-4: APPROVAL BY THE PEOPLE; EFFECTIVE DATE:
The City Clerk shall cause every initiative approved by the people to be
printed with the ordinances of the City with the date of the Mayor's
proclamation declaring the same to have been approved by the people. Any
ordinance subject to referendum that is approved by a majority of the votes
cast shall be effective upon the Mayor's proclamation that it is effective.
(Ord. 981, 11-21-1983)
1-13-5: VERIFICATION AFFIDAVIT:
Each and every sheet of every petition containing signatures shall be verified
on the face thereof, in substantially the following form, by the person who
circulated such sheet of said petition, by his or her affidavit thereon, and as
a part thereof.
STATE OF IDAHO       )
            ) ss
County of                     )
I,                              , being first duly sworn say, that every person
who signed this sheet of the foregoing petition signed his or her name thereto
in my presence; I believe that each has stated his or her name, post office
address, and residence correctly, that each signer is a legal voter of the City
of Burley and County of  _______________.
      Signed
                                                     
      Post Office Address
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN to before me, this         day of             , 19       .
                                                     
      Notary Public for Idaho
      Residing at                                
(Ord. 981, 11-21-1983)
1-13-6: CLERK'S REFUSAL TO ACCEPT, FILE:
If the City Clerk shall refuse to accept and file any petition for the
initiative or for the referendum with the requisite number of signatures of
bona fide electors thereto attached, any citizen may apply, within ten (10)
days after such refusal to the District Court for a Writ of Mandamus to compel
the Clerk to do so. If it shall be decided by the Court that such petition is
legally sufficient, the City Clerk shall then file it, with a certified copy of
the judgment attached thereto, as of the date on which it was originally
offered for filing in the office of the Clerk. On a showing that any petition
is not legally sufficient, the court may enjoin the City Clerk and all other
officers from certifying or printing on the official ballot for the ensuing
election the ballot title and the number of such measure. (Ord. 981, 11-21-
1983)
1-13-7: ATTORNEY'S RECOMMENDATION, REVIEW:
   (A)   On a copy of the petition for any measure to be referred to the
citizens of Burley, either by the initiative or the referendum, shall be
received by the City Clerk, and the City Clerk shall forthwith transmit a copy
thereof to the City Attorney and give notice to the petitioner of such
transmittal.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the measure, the City Attorney may confer with the
petitioner and shall within ten (10) working days from the receipt thereof,
review the proposal for the matters of substantive import and shall recommend
to the petitioner such revision or alteration of the measure as may be deemed
necessary and appropriate. The recommendations of the City Attorney shall be
advisory only and the petitioner may accept or reject them in whole or in part.
The City Attorney shall issue a certificate of review to the City Clerk
certifying that the measure has been reviewed for form and style and the
recommendations thereon, if any, have been communicated to the petitioner, and
such certificate shall be issued whether or not the petitioner accepts such
recommendation.
   (C)   The certificate of review shall be available for public inspection in
the office of the City Clerk.
   (D)   If, within fifteen (15) working days after notification of submittal
of the petition to the City Attorney, the petitioner, if so desired, shall
proceed with the sponsorship and shall file the measure as herein provided,
together with the certificate of review with the City Clerk for assignment of a
ballot title and the City Clerk shall thereupon submit to the City Attorney two
(2) copies of the measure filed.
   (E)   Within ten (10) days after receiving said copies the City Attorney
shall provide a ballot title therefor and return one of such copies to the City
Clerk together with the ballot title so prepared. A copy of the ballot title as
prepared by the City Attorney shall be furnished to the City Clerk with his
approval form of any initiative or referendum petition, as provided herein, to
the person or persons, organization or organizations under whose authority the
measure is initiated or referred. Said ballot title shall be used and printed
on the covers of the petition when in circulation; the short title shall be
printed in type not less than twenty (20) points on the covers of all petitions
circulated for signatures. The ballot title shall contain:
      1.   Distinctive short title and not exceeding ten (10) words by which
the measure is commonly referred to or spoken of and which shall be printed in
the margin of each signature sheet of the petition.
      2.   The general title which may not be distinct from the legislative
title of the measure expressing, and not more than one hundred (100) words the
purpose of the measure. The ballot title shall be printed with the numbers on
the measure of the official ballot. In making such ballot title, the City
Attorney shall, to the best of his ability, give a true and impartial statement
of the purpose of the measure and in such language that the ballot title shall
not be intentionally an argument or likely to create prejudice either for or
against the measure. Any person who is dissatisfied with the ballot title or
short title provided by the City Attorney for any measure may appeal his
decision to the District Court by petition, praying for a different title and
setting forth reason why title presented by the City Attorney is insufficient
or unfair. (Ord. 981, 11-21-1983)
1-13-8: VOTING REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   The manner of voting upon measures submitted to the people shall be
the same as is now or may be required and provided by law and no measure shall
be adopted unless it receives an affirmative majority of the aggregate number
of votes cast on such measure.
   (B)   The votes on measures and questions shall be counted, canvassed and
returned in the same manner as votes are counted, canvassed and returned in
general City elections. (Ord. 981, 11-21-1983)
1-13-9: QUALIFIED SIGNATURES:
Every person who is a qualified elector of the City may sign a petition for the
referendum or for the initiative to vote on. Any person signing any name other
than his or her own to any petition, or knowingly signing his or her name more
than once for the same measure at any one election, or who is not at the time
of signing the same as a legal voter of the City, or any officer or person
wilfully violating any provisions of this Chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished for a misdemeanor. (Ord. 981, 11-21-1983)
1-13-10: BALLOTS:
The City Clerk shall provide a ballot clearly identifying the matter to be
voted upon and which ballot shall be consecutively numbered and shall be
insofar as possible in conformity to the ballot printed by the City Clerk for
election of candidates to an office in the City. (Ord. 981, 11-21-1983)
1-13-11: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully or knowingly
circulate, publish, or exhibit any false statement or representation concerning
the content, purpose, or effect of any petition mentioned herein in this
Chapter for the purpose of obtaining any signature to any such petition, or for
the purpose of persuading any person to sign any such petition.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to file in the office of the City
Clerk or to receive such filing any petition mentioned in this Chapter, to
which is attached, appended or subscribed any signature which the person so
filing said petition knows to be false or fraudulent or not the genuine
signature of the person purporting to sign such petition, or whose name is
attached, appended or subscribed thereto.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to circulate or cause to be
circulated any petition mentioned herein, knowing the same to contain false,
forged or fictitious names.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any false affidavit
concerning any petition mentioned in this Chapter or the signatures appended
thereto.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sign his or her name more than
once to any petition mentioned in this Chapter or to sign his or her name to
any petition knowing himself or herself at the time of such signing not to be
qualified to sign the same. (Ord. 981, 11-21-1983)
1-13-12: TIME LIMIT FOR FILING PETITIONS:
Referendum petitions with the requisite numbers of signatures attached shall be
filed with the City Clerk not more than sixty (60) days after the adoption of
the ordinance on which the referendum is demanded. All elections on measures
referred to the people of the City shall be held at a regular general election
or at a special election to be held not more than ninety (90) days following
the certification of the petition; provided, that if a general election will
occur within the ninety (90) days, the measure shall be at the time of the
general City election. (Ord. 981, 11-21-1983)
1-13-13: VOTER'S PAMPHLET:
   (A)   Not later than thirty (30) days before the election on the initiative
or referendum, the City Clerk shall cause to be printed a voter's pamphlet
which shall contain the following:
      1.   A complete copy of the title and text of each measure with the
number and form in which the ballot will be printed.
      2.   A copy of the arguments and rebuttals for and against each measure.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall mail a copy of the voter's pamphlet to each
household in the City as each household is reflected on the utility mailing
list in the City. Other copies shall be available at the City Clerk's office.
In the event that the election to be held is a day which does not enable the
proponents or the opponents of the measure and the City Clerk to comply with
the time requirements of this Section and Section
1-13-14 of this Chapter, then in such event the times shall be reduced
proportionately commensurate with the time remaining to the date of election.
(Ord. 981, 11-21-1983)
1-13-14: ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST:
Arguments for and against the matter to be submitted to the people shall be
filed as follows subject to the provisions of subsection
1-13-13(B) on reduced time schedules:
   (A)   Arguments for the measure shall be submitted not less than fifty (50)
days before the election and shall not exceed five hundred (500) words.
   (B)   Rebuttal arguments shall be submitted not less than forty (40) days
before the election and shall contain not more than two hundred fifty (250)
words. (Ord. 981, 11-21-1983)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Definitions
2-1-2: Creation; Membership; Terms
2-1-3: Powers Of Commission
2-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter:
APPOINTIVE MEMBERS: All members of the Commission.
COMMISSION: The Planning and Zoning Commission created by this Chapter.
GOVERNING BOARD: The City Council of Burley, Idaho. (Ord. 869, 7-7-1976)
2-1-2: CREATION; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS:
A joint Planning and Zoning Commission is hereby created for the City. The
Commission shall consist of seven (7) members, each member to be appointed by
the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council. The term of office of each
appointive member shall be for six (6) years; provided, however, that the
unexpired terms of the members serving on the existing Planning Commission may
be for less than six (6) years as appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the
Council and thereafter any appointment shall be for a term of six (6) years. No
more than one-third (1/3) of the appointive members of the Commission may
reside outside the corporate limits of the City. Each appointive member must
have resided within the County of Cassia or the County of Minidoka for five (5)
years prior to his or her appointment. All vacancies shall be filled in the
same manner as original appointments. Appointive members may be removed for
cause by a majority vote of the City Council. (Ord. 987, 8-6-1984)
2-1-3: POWERS OF COMMISSION:
The Planning and Zoning Commission is hereby empowered with all of the powers,
responsibilities and duties under the "Local Planning Act of 1975", being
chapter 65, title 67 of the Idaho Code, except authority to adopt ordinances.
(Ord. 896, 7-7-1976)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC SAFETY COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Creation; Membership; Terms
2-2-2: Vacancies
2-2-3: Organization
2-2-4: Meetings
2-2-5: Recommendations To Council
2-2-1: CREATION; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS:
There is hereby created and established in the City a commission to be known
and designated as the "Burley Traffic Safety Commission", which Commission
shall consist of eight (8) members to be appointed by the Mayor, with the
consent and approval of the City Council. Appointed members of the said
Commission shall hold office for a period of six (6) years each and said terms
of office shall be staggered in such a manner so that the terms of not more
than three (3) members shall expire in any one year. Initially, two (2) of such
members shall hold office for a term of two (2) years, three (3) for four (4)
years, and three (3) for six (6) years, the respective terms of office to be
determined by lot at the first meeting of the Commission. Thereafter, the term
of office for each appointive member shall be six (6) years. (Ord. 780, 6-16-
1969)
2-2-2: VACANCIES:
Vacancies on the Traffic Safety Commission shall be filled by appointment by
the Mayor with the consent of the City Council. (Ord. 780, 6-16-1969)
2-2-3: ORGANIZATION:
The Traffic Safety Commission shall elect its own Chairman and Secretary, and
shall create and fill such other offices as it may deem necessary, and shall
adopt such rules as it shall deem necessary to carry out its purposes. (Ord.
780, 6-16-1969)
2-2-4: MEETINGS:
The Traffic Safety Commission shall hold one regular meeting each month for not
less than nine (9) months in any one year. A majority of the appointive members
of the Commission shall be necessary to constitute a quorum at any meeting. All
meetings shall be open to the public. A written record of the Commission's
meetings, resolutions, findings and determinations shall be kept and lodged in
the office of the City Clerk, and shall be classed as a public record and open
to public inspection.
The Commission may require the attendance at any of its meetings of such
officials of the City as it may deem necessary. (Ord. 780, 6-16-1969)
2-2-5: RECOMMENDATIONS TO COUNCIL:
It shall be the duty of the Traffic Safety Commission to recommend and make
suggestions to the City Council for the adoption of plans for traffic safety
and to generally recommend to the Council plans to improve traffic safety in
the entire City. (Ord. 780, 6-16-1969; amd. 1981 Code)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF ETHICS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Organization; Membership; Terms
2-3-2: Advisory Opinions
2-3-3: Hearings And Determinations
2-3-1: ORGANIZATION; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS:
There is hereby created and established a Board of Ethics consisting of five
(5) persons who shall hold no other office or employment under the City. At
least one of said members shall be an attorney at law of the State of Idaho,
and said member may, but shall not be required to be, a resident of the City.
All other members shall be residents of the City.
The members shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to confirmation by a
majority of the whole number of the Council. They shall serve for a term of
five (5) years; provided, however, that those first appointed hereunder shall
have terms expiring one, two (2), three (3), four (4), and five (5) years,
respectively, from the date of commencement of their terms. Vacancies shall be
filled for unexpired terms.
The members shall elect a Chairman annually from within its membership. The
Board shall adopt rules for the conduct of its business. (Ord. 822, 3-15-1971)
2-3-2: ADVISORY OPINIONS:
Upon the written request of the officer or employee concerned, the Board of
Ethics shall render written advisory opinions based upon the provisions of the
Code of Ethics as set forth in Title 1, Chapter 8 of this Code. The Board shall
file its advisory opinions with the City Clerk but may delete the name of the
officer or employee involved. (Ord. 822, 3-15-1971)
2-3-3: HEARINGS AND DETERMINATIONS:
Upon the sworn complaint of any person alleging facts which, if true, would
constitute improper conduct under the provisions of this Code, the Board of
Ethics shall conduct a public hearing in accordance with all of the
requirements of due process of law, and, in written findings of fact and
conclusions based thereon, make a determination concerning the propriety of the
conduct of the subject official or employee. (Ord. 822, 3-15-1971)
CHAPTER 4
BOARD OF LIBRARY TRUSTEES
SECTION:
2-4-1: Establishment Of Public Library
2-4-2: Organization Of Board
2-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF PUBLIC LIBRARY 1 :
The establishment of a public library in the City by a prior Mayor and Council
is ratified and approved and shall hereafter be known as the Burley Library.
(Ord. 1011, 5-18-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 8, Chapter 2 of this Code.
2-4-2: ORGANIZATION OF BOARD:
The current Board of Trustees shall at their first meeting after the effective
date of this Chapter organize the Board pursuant to Idaho Code 33-2603. (Ord.
1011, 5-18-1987)
CHAPTER 5
TREE BOARD
SECTION:
2-5-1: Purpose
2-5-2: Board Created; Compensation
2-5-3: Term Of Office
2-5-4: Duties
2-5-5: Tree Administrator
2-5-6: Permits Required
2-5-7: Penalty
2-5-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this Chapter to promote and protect the public health,
safety and general welfare by providing for the regulation of planting,
maintenance and removal of trees, shrubs and other plants within the City.
(Ord. 1117, 2-16-1999)
2-5-2: BOARD CREATED; COMPENSATION:
There is hereby created and established the Burley Tree Board, which shall
consist of five (5) members, who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the City Council. Members of the Board shall serve without
compensation. (Ord. 1117, 2-16-1999)
2-5-3: TERM OF OFFICE:
Each member of the Burley Tree Board shall serve a term of three (3) years
except that the term of two (2) of the members appointed to the first Board
shall be for only one year and the term of the two (2) members of the first
Board shall be for two (2) years. In the event of a vacancy, any person
appointed to fill the vacancy shall complete the unexpired portion of that
term. (Ord. 1117, 2-16-1999)
2-5-4: DUTIES:
The Burley Tree Board shall:
   (A)   Develop a Comprehensive City Forest Plan.
   (B)   Work with the City departments in complying with and enforcing the
Plan.
   (C)   Establish programs promoting the development of trees and shrubbery
within the City.
   (D)   Identify and implement landscaping projects which improve the City.
   (E)   Plan and review a City forest program budget and make a recommendation
to the City Council.
   (F)   Consider and act on all requests for permits to plant, remove or alter
trees or shrubberies growing on public property or in public rights of way not
approved by the Burley Tree Administrator.
   (G)   Set forth the terms and conditions upon which permits may be granted
for planting, removing, or altering any tree or shrub within a public right of
way of the City. (Ord. 1117, 2-16-1999)
2-5-5: TREE ADMINISTRATOR:
The office of the Burley Tree Administrator is hereby created and established
who shall be the department head of the Burley Park and Recreation Department.
The Administrator shall carry out the Comprehensive City Forest Plan and shall
consider all requests for permits to plant, remove or alter any tree or shrub
within the public rights of way, granting or denying them in compliance with
the standards set by the Burley Tree Board. (Ord. 1117, 2-16-1999)
2-5-6: PERMITS REQUIRED:
No person shall plant, remove or alter any tree or shrub within a public right
of way of the City or upon public property in the City without first obtaining
a permit from the Burley Tree Administrator or the Burley Tree Board.
The permit requirement shall not apply to any action by an employee of the City
in furtherance of public safety or acting during the course and scope of that
persons duty. (Ord. 1117, 2-16-1999)
2-5-7: PENALTY:
It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to abuse, damage or mutilate any tree
or shrubbery located on public property or upon a public right of way in the
City. (Ord. 1117, 2-16-1999)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSES
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Required
3-1-2: Form Of License
3-1-3: License Fees Payable In Advance
3-1-4: Application For License
3-1-5: Approval Of License
3-1-6: Review Of Application
3-1-7: Additional Application
3-1-8: License Nontransferable, Nonportable
3-1-9: Revocation Of Licenses
3-1-10: Duration Of License
3-1-11: Failure To Procure License
3-1-12: Appeal From Denial Of License
3-1-13: License Appeal Procedure
3-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate, conduct or engage in any business within the corporate
limits of the city of Burley without first having obtained a license therefor
from the city administrator or city clerk. Such license shall be issued upon
payment of the fees hereinafter specified and upon the applicant's compliance
with the applicable provisions of this chapter. All licenses shall be a
personal privilege of the holder thereof and except as expressly provided
herein shall become void if the holder shall cease to personally supervise,
conduct and operate the trade or business for which such license has been
issued. No license fee or any part thereof shall be refunded even though the
licensee may fail to operate for the period named therein or any portion of
such period. As used in this chapter, the term "business" shall mean any
activity conducted for income or profit whether involving the sale of goods or
of services. It shall not include employees earning wages or salaries, but
shall include independent contractors. It shall not include a "home occupation"
as that term is defined in this code, nor shall it include incidental
activities by persons under the age of eighteen (18) years. This section shall
not require a license for any business that has been established and conducted
within the city limits prior to the effective date hereof, so long as said
business does not change in its character, scope or location. A license shall
be required for any existing business which undertakes a business of a
different character, scope, or at a new location. (Ord. 1316, 8-18-2015)
3-1-2: FORM OF LICENSE:
The city administrator or city clerk shall prepare a form of business license
to be used for the purposes described herein. Each license shall specify the
name, the type of business licensed and the principal place of business of the
licensee. (Ord. 1316, 8-18-2015)
3-1-3: LICENSE FEES PAYABLE IN ADVANCE:
License fees are nonrefundable and shall be paid in advance to the city clerk.
The uniform charge for each license shall be an amount established by a
resolution adopted by the Burley city council. (Ord. 1316, 8-18-2015)
3-1-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring to obtain a license provided for in this chapter shall
first make written application under oath to the city clerk on a form provided
by the city clerk. (Ord. 1316, 8-18-2015)
3-1-5: APPROVAL OF LICENSE:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, all license applications shall be
presented to the city clerk for approval. The city clerk, after the review of
application and after due consideration of the application shall either grant
or deny the same. The city clerk may deny the application upon finding that the
applicant does not meet one or more of the qualifications of this chapter, or
that applicant's proposed business will violate any applicable city, county,
state or federal ordinance, statute, provision, code, regulation, or law. (Ord.
1316, 8-18-2015)
3-1-6: REVIEW OF APPLICATION:
Upon receiving a business license application and the appropriate fee, the city
clerk shall thereafter forward a copy of the application to the city
administrator, the city building official and the city fire chief. The building
official may thereafter forward copies of the application to any other city
official for review and comment. The fire chief and the building official shall
submit a report to the city administrator within ten (10) days from when the
application was submitted, concerning the proposed business. The building
inspector and fire chief may also submit additional inquiry to the applicant
during the review process. The building official, fire chief and other
applicable city officials may also examine the location or facility where the
proposed business will be conducted. Following review of the application and
applicable reports, the city clerk shall provide notice of the approval or
denial of the requested license. (Ord. 1316, 8-18-2015)
3-1-7: ADDITIONAL APPLICATION:
Any applicant whose application has been denied may submit an additional
application specifying corrective action that has been taken with respect to
any stated violations of applicable codes, statutes, regulations or laws. The
application will then be reviewed again considering the additional information
provided. The applicant will not be required to pay an additional application
fee if the additional application is submitted within six (6) months of the
original application. (Ord. 1316, 8-18-2015)
3-1-8: LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE, NONPORTABLE:
Except as specifically provided by this code or by state law, no license
granted or issued by the city shall in any manner be assigned or transferred to
any person other than the holder thereof, nor shall it authorize any person
other than is mentioned or named therein to conduct such business, nor shall it
authorize any other business than is therein mentioned or named to be done or
transacted. Additionally, a city license is only valid for the location
requested. (Ord. 1316, 8-18-2015)
3-1-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
A license granted under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked at any
time by the city administrator for failure to comply with any applicable city,
county, state or federal ordinance, statute, provision, code, regulation, or
law. (Ord. 1316, 8-18-2015)
3-1-10: DURATION OF LICENSE:
Except as provided herein and providing that licensee remains in full
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, all licenses shall continue in
full force and effect until the business ceases operation for a period of one
year, until the nature, scope or location of the business has changed, or until
revoked, whichever is earlier. (Ord. 1316, 8-18-2015)
3-1-11: FAILURE TO PROCURE LICENSE:
Any person that operates, conducts or engages in any business for which a
license is required without first procuring such a license from the city clerk
shall be deemed in violation hereof. The first violation shall be punishable as
a general infraction and all subsequent violations shall be punishable as
general misdemeanors. Each day that such violation occurs shall be deemed a
separate offense. (Ord. 1316, 8-18-2015)
3-1-12: APPEAL FROM DENIAL OF LICENSE:
Any person aggrieved by any action of the city clerk pertaining to this chapter
shall have the right to appeal the action or decision to the city council
pursuant to the procedures set forth hereafter. (Ord. 1316, 8-18-2015)
3-1-13: LICENSE APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Any person making application for any required license by the city of
Burley where the license has been denied upon administrative review by the city
clerk shall be entitled to an appeal hearing according to the procedures, as
provided for in this chapter.
   (B)   All appeals must be filed in writing with the city clerk within ten
(10) days from the date of denial.
   (C)   The city council shall hear all appeals.
   (D)   The following persons shall be entitled to notice by the clerk under
the provisions of this section:
      1.   The applicant for a license or permit or renewal of a license or
permit;
      2.   The person or entity named on an issued license or permit if the
matter concerns the revocation, denial, or suspension of a license or permit;
      3.   Any other persons or entities entitled to notice, pursuant to
ordinance or statute, and the Burley city attorney.
   (E)   Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the city clerk shall fix a date,
time and place certain for the beginning and closing of the hearing. Said
hearing shall be scheduled on the next regularly scheduled city council meeting
unless additional time is needed by the applicant or the city attorney and in
no event shall the hearing be scheduled beyond two (2) regularly scheduled city
council meetings.
   (F)   The city clerk shall issue written notice to the aforementioned that
are entitled to such notice. The notice shall include the following features:
      1.   A statement of the date, time and place certain for conducting the
hearing and nature of the hearing;
      2.   A statement of the legal authority that serves as the basis for the
hearing;
      3.   A reference to the particular sections of the ordinance involved;
      4.   A statement of the matters to be resolved.
   (G)   The city council shall afford all persons entitled to notice
opportunity to present evidence and argument on the matters to be resolved. The
council shall advise these persons of the amount of time they will be allotted
for providing evidence and arguments.
   (H)   Informal disposition may be made of any matter by stipulation, agreed
settlement, consent order or default, unless that action is precluded by law.
   (I)   The city council shall make a record of the proceeding, which shall
include:
      1.   The application, staff report and decision that is being appealed;
      2.   All papers filed with the city clerk;
      3.   The evidence received or considered;
      4.   A statement of matters officially noticed;
      5.   A verbatim record of all proceedings before the city council;
      6.   Proposed facts of findings and conclusions of law;
      7.   Any decision, opinion or report created by the city clerk and relied
upon in the council proceedings.
   (J)   Any person entitled to notice may request in writing five (5) days
prior to the city council hearing that the oral proceedings be transcribed, at
the requestor's expense.
   (K)   Findings of fact and conclusions of law shall be based exclusively on
the evidence admitted and on matters officially noticed.
   (L)   The city council may exclude evidence determined to be immaterial or
unduly repetitious. In addition, all evidence shall be considered according to
the Idaho rules of evidence. If the applicant intends to submit evidence in
written form, the applicant should be prepared to have the author of the
written submission available to comment on the same before city council.
   (M)   The city council shall make findings of fact and conclusions of law as
appropriate and provide them in a written report. The city council shall file
the report with the city clerk's office, along with the recording of the
proceedings, transcripts, if any, minutes, evidence and original exhibits
offered or received at the hearing. The city clerk shall transmit a copy of the
report to all persons entitled to the notice. The city clerk shall be
responsible for the custody of these materials for a period of six (6) months.
   (N)   Within fifteen (15) working days of the filing of the report with the
city clerk, any person entitled to notice may file with the city clerk, written
objections to the findings and transmit copies of their objection to all
persons entitled to notice.
   (O)   In the event no objections are timely filed, the city council shall
adopt the report of the city clerk at the next regularly scheduled meeting of
the city council. In the event an objection is filed, the city council shall,
at a specified time and place, hear oral argument of all persons entitled to
notice in support of or in opposition to the objections; but, unless
specifically ordered by the city council, no new evidence shall be presented at
such hearing. The city council shall decide the matter on the record. The city
council shall adopt the findings, conclusions and recommendations of the city
clerk unless those findings are based on unsubstantiated evidence, the
conclusions are erroneous as a matter of law, and/or the recommendations are
not supported by the findings and conclusions.
   (P)   The decision of the council shall be final and conclusive, unless
timely appealed by a person with standing to the district court. An appeal of a
city council's decision shall be made within ten (10) working days of the
decision to the district court for Cassia or Minidoka County. Decisions before
the court shall be on the record. (Ord. 1316, 8-18-2015)
CHAPTER 2
CARD TABLES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Police Power Exercised
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: License Required; Fee; Term
3-2-4: Application For License
3-2-5: License Issued For Certain Premises Only
3-2-6: No Vested Rights
3-2-7: License Prohibited To Certain Persons
3-2-8: Regulations And Restrictions
3-2-9: Assignment Or Transfer Of License
3-2-10: Right Of Inspection
3-2-11: Revocation Of License
3-2-1: POLICE POWER EXERCISED:
This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police powers of the city for
the protection of the public health, peace and morals of the inhabitants of the
city, and all of its provisions shall be liberally construed for the attainment
of that purpose. (Ord. 380, 12-21-1942)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings:
CARD ROOM: Any place of business, place of amusement or room or place in the
city, open to the public, in which is played or conducted or permitted to be
played or conducted, any game of cards or any game in which playing cards are
used.
INTOXICATING LIQUOR: All spirituous, vinous, malt and fermented liquors and all
mixtures and preparations thereof, including bitters and other drinks that may
be used as a beverage and produce intoxication. (Ord. 380, 12-21-1942)
3-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE; TERM:
It shall be unlawful for any person to play or conduct or permit the playing or
conducting of any game of cards or any game in which playing cards are used, in
the city, in any place of business, place of amusement or in any room or place
open to the public, in such person's possession or control in whole or in part,
or within or upon any premises in connection therewith, without having a valid,
unrevoked license therefor from the city council as hereinafter provided.
The licensee shall pay a fee to be established by a resolution adopted by the
Burley city council for each table, bench or counter or other device upon which
the licensee plays, conducts or operates a game of cards. Licenses hereunder
shall expire on December 31 of each and every year and the license fee on any
license issued between January 1 and December 31 of any one year shall be
prorated to include all of the month in which issued. (Ord. 1160, 5-7-2002)
3-2-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Before any person shall obtain the license herein provided, he shall first make
application therefor in writing to the council on a form prepared and furnished
by the clerk, and pay the license fee herein prescribed, which application
shall contain four (4) references as to the good moral character of the
applicant, together with the following information:
   (A)   Name, residence and occupation of the applicant for three (3) years
previous to date of application;
   (B)   Description of the card room;
   (C)   Description by lot and block, or street number, of the building in
which such card room is located;
   (D)   The record owner of such premises;
   (E)   The interest of the applicant in the aforementioned card room and
aforementioned building;
   (F)   Who, if any other person than the applicant, is interested in the card
room;
   (G)   That the applicant and his associates in business, if any, is a
citizen of the United States, and has been a bona fide resident of the State of
Idaho for a period of at least one year prior to the date of making
application;
   (H)   Is over the age of twenty one (21) years;
   (I)   Is of good moral character and has never been convicted of the
violation of any law regulating, governing or prohibiting the sale of
intoxicating liquors;
   (J)   Whether applicant, and any person interested in the card room for
which the license is sought, has ever been convicted of a felony or any crime
involving moral turpitude, and if so, give details of such conviction. (Ord.
380, 12-21-1942)
3-2-5: LICENSE ISSUED FOR CERTAIN PREMISES ONLY:
The license shall be granted only for a certain card room within a particular
building, which card room and building shall be designated in the license and
which card room shall be well lighted. The license herein provided for shall be
signed and delivered by the Clerk. (Ord. 380, 12-21-1942)
3-2-6: NO VESTED RIGHTS:
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to create a vested right in any
person to the issuance of a license or the assignment, renewal or reissuance or
continuance of any license, or the right to issue a power of attorney over a
license. Any license issued pursuant to this Chapter, or any amendment hereof,
shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions of this Chapter. (Ord. 380,
12-21-1942)
3-2-7: LICENSE PROHIBITED TO CERTAIN PERSONS:
No license provided for herein shall be granted to any of the following persons
for a card room at any of the following places:
   (A)   Any person whose license herein provided for is at any time revoked or
cancelled by the Council for any violation of this Chapter.
   (B)   Any person who, as licensee, violates or permits the violation of any
of the terms or conditions of this Chapter to be by such person kept and
performed.
   (C)   Any person who fails, neglects or refuses to conduct a quiet and
orderly card room or to any person where the view into the card room from the
street is obstructed by such card room being above or below the ground floor of
the building in which such card room is located or obstructed by any curtain,
blind, sign, advertisement, partition or locked door.
   (D)   Any licensee who causes access to such card room to be through a
locked door or doors.
   (E)   Any person who, in the opinion of the Council, is not a fit or proper
person to whom a license should be issued.
   (F)   When, in the opinion of the Council, the premises for which the
applicant makes application for a license are not fit or proper premises for a
card room or where such premises, in the opinion of the Council, may be or
become a public nuisance or menace to the health, peace or general welfare of
the City or its inhabitants. (Ord. 380, 12-21-1942)
3-2-8: REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   Every person to whom a license is granted hereunder shall at all times
conduct a quiet and orderly card room.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful and a violation of this Chapter for any
person to whom a license is issued under this Chapter to:
      1.   Violate any of the laws of the State relative to or governing the
selling, serving or giving away or in any other way handling, in any manner, or
disposing of or having possession of, whether as owner, bailee or otherwise,
intoxicating liquor.
      2.   Operate, conduct or permit to be operated or conducted, any card
room where the view from the street into such card room is obstructed by such
card room being above or below the ground floor of the building in which such
card room is located, or obstructed by any curtain, blind, sign, advertisement,
partition or locked door.
      3.   Play or conduct or permit to be played or conducted, any game of
cards or any game in which playing cards are used, in any card room the access
to which room is through a locked door or doors.
      4.   Fail, neglect or refuse to keep the card room, during the time such
card room is open to the public, open to the inspection of the Mayor and the
police officers of the City, and the police officers of Cassia County and the
State of Idaho.
      5.   Deal, play or carry on, open or cause to be opened or conducted,
either as an employee, owner or lessee, whether for hire or not, any game of
faro, monte, roulette, poker, black jack or twenty one, or any game played with
cards, dice or any slot machine or any other device for money, checks, credits
or any other representatives of value in any card room or within or upon any
premises connected therewith.
      6.   Permit any of the games or devices prohibited by subsection
3-2-8(B)5 to be played, conducted or dealt in the City in any card room or
within or upon any premises connected therewith.
      7.   Keep, maintain or be interested in a disorderly card room in the
City, or permit or suffer any drunkenness, fighting, quarreling or unlawful
game or device or riotous or disorderly conduct or breach of the peace in any
card room or within or upon any premises used or connected therewith.
      8.   Violate or permit a violation of any of the terms or provisions of
this Chapter to be kept, observed or performed by such licensee.
      9.   Play or conduct or permit to be played or conducted any game of
cards or any game in which playing cards are used between the hours of twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. nor on Sunday. (Ord. 380,
12-21-1942)
3-2-9: ASSIGNMENT OR TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
No license issued hereunder shall be sold, transferred or assigned. (Ord. 380,
12-21-1942)
3-2-10: RIGHT OF INSPECTION:
Any person conducting or who shall permit the conducting of any game under a
license issued aforesaid shall permit the Mayor and any police officer or
officers of the City, Cassia County and the State of Idaho, or any or either
thereof, to freely visit and view such game or games and to remain and view the
same at will, and the licensee or any person acting as an officer or agent
thereof, or any person having immediate control or conduct of such business,
place of amusement, room or place where said game is being carried on, under
such license, shall answer any questions which may be propounded to him by any
of the officers aforesaid, in regard to such game or games, and shall make a
statement in writing under oath when required by any such officer, setting
forth such information as shall be required by said officer, in regard to such
game or games, and the conduct thereof, and shall exhibit when, and as often as
required, any matter or thing in the possession or under the control of such
person conducting or permitting the conduct of such game or games, which is in
any way connected with said game or games, or which, in the opinion of such
officer, would be evidence of the conducting of a gambling game, or any
improper conduct of said game, and if such person shall refuse or fail, either
individually or by or through such person, employee or agent, to answer the
inquiries or make the statements or exhibit matters and things aforesaid, in
the manner and to the extent aforesaid, then such conduct on the part of any of
the persons aforementioned shall constitute a violation of this Chapter. (Ord.
380, 12-21-1942)
3-2-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The right shall be and remain at all times in the Council and said Council may
revoke and cancel any license for fraud or misrepresentation in its procurement
or for a violation by the licensee or his employee or agent of any of the
provisions of this Chapter to be kept or performed by the licensee, or for any
conduct or act of the licensee or his employee or agent committed or permitted
by him in the card room, or any premises connected therewith or adjacent
thereto, tending to render any of said premises a public nuisance or menace to
the health, peace, safety or general welfare of the City and its inhabitants.
(Ord. 380, 12-21-1942)
CHAPTER 3
BEER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: License Required; Fees
3-3-3: Application For License
3-3-4: Form Of License; License Nontransferable
3-3-5: License Prohibited To Certain Persons
3-3-6: Issuance Of License
3-3-7: Regulations And Restrictions
3-3-8: Transfer Of License; Posting Required; Change Of Location
3-3-9: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-3-10: Procedure For Processing Applications For Licenses, Transfers, Or
Renewals
3-3-11: License, Investigation Of Applicant
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words shall have the following specified meanings when used
herein:
BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt or other ingredients in water.
BOTTLED BEER OR CANNED BEER: Beer sold or dispensed in sealed containers of
glass or metal, having a capacity not greater than two (2) gallons.
RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of beer to the
consumer within the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 414, 7-7-1947)
3-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES:
No person shall sell, trade, barter or dispose of beer within the city without
having a valid substituting license therefor, issued by the city as hereinafter
provided. License fees shall be established by a resolution adopted by the
Burley city council. (Ord. 1160, 5-7-2002)
   (A)   When a license is issued hereunder July 1, the fee therefor shall be
one-half (1/2) the amount specified above.
   (B)   In the event that a license is revoked for any cause, no part of the
license fee shall be refunded. (Ord. 969, 9-21-1981, eff. 1-1-1982; amd. Ord.
1160, 5-7-2002)
3-3-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Each applicant for a license hereunder shall execute and file with the clerk an
application in writing verified by the oath of the applicant, or one of his
officers, upon a form to be provided by the city and shall pay to the clerk the
amount of the fee for the license applied for, as specified in section
3-3-2 of this chapter. The application shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name, address and occupation of the applicant for the three (3)
years preceding the date of the application.
   (B)   A description of the room or rooms in which the licensed business is
to be conducted.
   (C)   A description of the lot or block, or street number of the building in
which such room or rooms are located.
   (D)   The name of the owner or owners of such premises.
   (E)   The interest of the applicant in the premises where the business is to
be conducted.
   (F)   The name of any other person other than the applicant who is
interested financially or otherwise in the business. (Ord. 414, 7-7-1947)
   (G)   A statement of the following facts concerning the applicant or his
associates, if any:
      1.   That he or they are citizens of the United States and have been bona
fide residents of the state of Idaho for a period of not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the date of the application.
      2.   That he or they are over the age of nineteen (19) years. (Ord. 856,
10-1-1973)
      3.   That he or they are of good moral character, and have never been
convicted of any violation of law regulating, governing or prohibiting the sale
of beer or intoxicating liquors.
      4.   Whether the applicant, and any person interested in the applicant's
business as a retailer, has ever been convicted of a felony or any crime
involving moral turpitude, and if so, give details of such conviction. (Ord.
414, 7-7-1947; amd. Ord. 452, 9-4-1951)
3-3-4: FORM OF LICENSE; LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
The license shall be upon a form to be provided by the City and shall be for a
particular room or place. It shall not be transferable except by operation of
the law, and shall expire on July 31 next succeeding the date of its issue.
(Ord. 1164, 12-3-2002)
3-3-5: LICENSE PROHIBITED TO CERTAIN PERSONS:
No license shall be granted to, nor the licensee's business carried on under
such license by any of the following persons:
   (A)   Any person whose license herein provided for is at any time revoked or
canceled for any violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who is not qualified to obtain a retailer's license from
the State of Idaho.
   (C)   Any person who makes any false statement or representation in any
application for a license hereunder.
   (D)   Any person who is the business associate, employee, partner or agent
of any disqualified person hereunder, or under the laws of the State of Idaho,
when such disqualified person is interested in the ownership, management or
control of the business of retailer for which application is being made.
   (E)   Any person who, at any time prior to making application, has failed,
neglected or refused to conduct a quiet, orderly place of business as retailer
within the City. (Ord. 414, 7-7-1947)
3-3-6: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
The authority for final approval of the application is delegated to the City
Clerk, subject to appeal of the Clerk's decision to the City Council. The
application shall be presented to the City Clerk and after consideration by the
City Clerk shall be granted or refused. In the event that the license is
granted, the Clerk shall issue to the applicant the license applied for. In the
event that the application is denied, the money deposited by the applicant with
the City Clerk shall be returned to the applicant. An applicant wishing to
appeal the City Clerk's decision to deny a license, transfer, or renewal of a
license to the City Council must submit the appeal in writing to the City Clerk
within ten (10) business days of the denial. The appeal must set forth the
factual basis on which the applicant asserts that the denial was in error. The
appeal will be scheduled for the City Council within thirty (30) days of the
receipt of the written appeal. (Ord. 1360, 5-22-2019)
3-3-7: REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   Every person to whom a license is granted hereunder shall, at all
times while doing business thereunder, conduct a quiet and orderly place of
business.
   (B)   No licensee shall:
      1.   Sell or dispense any beer outside the licensed premises.
      2.   Sell, dispense or serve any beer to a person under twenty one (21)
years of age, except as allowed by 23-613 Idaho Code.
      3.   Violate any law of the State of Idaho relating to the selling,
serving or distribution of beer or alcoholic liquor.
      4.   Fail to keep the license posted in a conspicuous place within the
licensed premises.
      5.   Fail to keep the licensed premises open to inspection by the police
officers of the City and the Sheriff of Cassia and/or Minidoka County.
      6.   Sell, serve, give away or dispense any beer on any day during the
hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. (Ord. 414, 7-7-
1947; amd. Ord. 417; Ord. 452, 9-4-1951; Ord. 584, 2-6-1956; Ord. 989, 12-17-
1984; Ord. 1012, 7-6-1987)
3-3-8: TRANSFER OF LICENSE; POSTING REQUIRED; CHANGE OF LOCATION:
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to create any vested right
in any person to assignment, renewal or reissuance or continuance of any
license or the right to assign any license, or the right to issue a power of
attorney over a license.
   (B)   No license shall be assigned or transferred nor power of attorney
issued over a license without the written consent and approval of the City
Clerk. The Chief of Police or any police officer or any officer of the United
States Treasury Department or officer of the State of Idaho charged with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of the regulations for the retail sale of
beer or intoxicating liquor, or the Mayor, shall have the right at any time to
make an examination of any licensed premises to ascertain if the licensee of
such premises is conforming to the provisions of this chapter or the laws of
the United States applicable thereto.
   (C)   All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises
and kept posted during the full period of time for which the license is issued.
   (D)   In case of death, receivership, assignment, bankruptcy or incompetency
of the licensee, the licensee's business may be carried on under the license by
the duly appointed, qualified and acting receiver, assignee, trustee in
bankruptcy, guardian, executor or administrator of the licensee; provided, that
such receiver, assignee, trustee, guardian, executor or administrator shall
file with the City Clerk a certified copy of his/her appointment and secure the
written consent of the City Clerk.
   (E)   Any licensed person desiring to change her/his place of business from
one location to another shall file with the City Clerk an application therefor.
The City Clerk shall make investigation of the new proposed place of business
and shall thereafter grant or deny the requested change, subject to the appeal
procedure set forth in section
3-3-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 1360, 5-22-2019)
3-3-9: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued hereunder may be revoked by the City Council or suspended
for a period not to exceed six (6) months or the Council may refuse to grant a
renewal of said license after the date of expiration thereof, for any fraud or
misrepresentation on the part of the licensee or his employee or agent for any
violation of any ordinance of the City or of any law of the State relating to
the manufacture, sale or possession of intoxicating liquor or beer.
Whenever information shall be received by the City Council that any licensee
has rendered his license subject to revocation or suspension as herein
provided, or any complaint in writing is filed with the Council stating facts
establishing that such licensee has rendered his license subject to revocation
or suspension, a copy of such report or complaint shall be mailed to the
licensee together with a notice directing him to appear before the Council at
its next succeeding regular meeting and answer said charge. At such meeting the
Council shall hear the licensee and any evidence that may be offered by him or
the complainant, and thereupon, if it shall find that cause exists for the
revocation or suspension of such license, the City Council may revoke such
license or suspend the same for a period not to exceed six (6) months and may
direct that the license theretofore issued shall be taken by the Chief of
Police and forthwith cancelled or revoked or suspended as the case may be.
(Ord. 414, 7-7-1947; amd. Ord. 584, 2-6-1956)
3-3-10: PROCEDURE FOR PROCESSING APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES, TRANSFERS, OR
RENEWALS:
The City Clerk shall grant or deny any application within thirty (30) days of
the time it is filed with the City Clerk. Prior to any revocation or suspension
of the license, the licensee shall be afforded a hearing according to section
23-1016, Idaho Code. Whenever the City Council denies an application on appeal,
or revokes or suspends a license, it shall specify in writing:
   (A)   Statutes, ordinances, standards used in evaluating the application;
   (B)   The reason for the denial; and
   (C)   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer, or renewal thereof.
In all cases where the City Council is considering revocations, suspensions, or
applications for licenses, transfers, or renewals thereof, a transcribable
verbatim record of the proceedings shall be made. If the applicant for a
license, transfer, or renewal is denied, a transcribable verbatim record of the
proceedings shall be kept for a period of not less than six (6) months after
the final decision on the matter. Upon written request and within the time
period provided for retention of the record, any person may have the record
transcribed at the expense of the applicant. The City Council shall also
provide for the keeping of the minutes of the proceedings. Minutes shall be
retained indefinitely as otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 1360, 5-22-2019)
3-3-11: LICENSE, INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
No license shall be granted hereunder until there has been an investigation by
the Police Department of all applicants applying for a license to sell beer as
in this chapter provided. After investigation, the application will be
forwarded to the City Council with the recommendation from the Chief of Police.
If the Chief of Police recommended that the application be denied it shall be
stated in writing:
   (A)   The statute or ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
   (B)   The reason for the recommended denial; and
   (C)   The action, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer, or renewal thereof. (Ord. 986, 12-19-1983)
CHAPTER 4
LIQUOR BY THE DRINK REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: License Required; Fee
3-4-3: Application For License
3-4-4: Issuance Of License
3-4-5: Form Of License; Posting Required
3-4-6: Forfeiture Of License
3-4-7: Regulation Of Operation
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms are hereby defined as follows, when used in this chapter:
LICENSE: A license issued by the city for the retail sale of liquor by the
drink.
LICENSEE: A person to whom a license has been issued by the city.
LIQUOR: Every kind of beverage sold by and in a state liquor store operated in
the state of Idaho. (Ord. 411, 6-16-1947)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
No person licensed by the state of Idaho to sell liquor by the drink at retail
shall do so within the corporate limits of the city unless he is the holder of
a valid, substituting license to carry on or conduct such business, issued to
him by the city.
The license fee provided and required by this chapter shall be established by a
resolution adopted by the Burley city council.
Any licensee of the state of Idaho that has a license but is not actually
selling liquor by the drink but is nevertheless maintaining the license
pursuant to the rules and regulations of the state of Idaho shall pay to the
city a fee established by resolution adopted by the Burley city council. (Ord.
1160, 5-7-2002)
3-4-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Each applicant for a license to sell liquor by the drink at retail within the
city or a prior licensee that desires to maintain the license but not actually
sell liquor by the drink shall file in the office of the city clerk, in
duplicate, an application for license on a form to be furnished by the city.
The application shall be executed by the applicant or an officer thereof, and
shall be verified by the oath of the person executing the same. The application
shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant: if the applicant is a
corporation, the name and address of each officer and director thereof; if the
applicant is a partnership or other organization, the name and address of each
member thereof.
   (B)   The address of, and a description of the premises within the city
wherein or whereon the applicant intends to conduct his business, or maintain
the license.
   (C)   The number of the license to sell retail liquor by the drink issued to
the applicant by the state of Idaho, and the date of issuance thereof, or such
other certificate as may be issued by the state of Idaho for any inactive
status.
   (D)   In case of a licensee not actually selling liquor by the drink but
maintaining the license, the address where the license will be displayed.
At the time of filing the application, the applicant shall deliver to the city
clerk the license issued by the state of Idaho, authorizing the sale of liquor
by the drink at retail, and shall pay to the city clerk the amount of the
license hereinabove specified, or in the case of a license being maintained
without actually selling liquor by the drink the evidence that the license is
inactive. (Ord. 991, 4-1-1985)
3-4-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon the receipt by the city clerk of the duly executed and verified
application for a license, the license fee and the license issued to the
applicant by the state of Idaho, the city clerk shall issue and deliver to the
applicant the license applied for by him, and shall return to him the license
issued by the state of Idaho. (Ord. 411, 6-16-1947)
3-4-5: FORM OF LICENSE; POSTING REQUIRED:
The license shall consist of a partly printed and partly written form, and
shall contain the name of the city, the year for which it is issued, the name
of the licensee, the location of the premises where the licensee is licensed to
conduct his business, the date of issuance of the license and the amount of the
fee paid therefor. The license shall be signed by the city clerk and sealed
with the seal of the city. It shall not be transferable, and shall expire on
July 31 next succeeding the date of issue. It shall at all times after issuance
be kept posted by the licensee in a conspicuous place in that portion of the
premises occupied by him where the licensed business is conducted. (Ord. 1164,
12-3-2002)
3-4-6: FORFEITURE OF LICENSE:
Upon the forfeiture or revocation by the state of Idaho of the license issued
by said state to any licensee hereunder, the license herein provided for shall
be forfeited and shall thereupon be taken and canceled by the city. No part of
the fee paid by a licensee for a license that is thereafter forfeited shall be
returned to the licensee. (Ord. 411, 6-16-1947)
3-4-7: REGULATION OF OPERATION:
   (A)   Every licensee hereunder shall carry on and conduct the licensed
business in all respects according to the provisions of the laws of the state
of Idaho, and any regulations thereunder promulgated from time to time by the
director of law enforcement of the state of Idaho. (Ord. 991, 4-1-1985, eff. 7-
1-1985)
   (B)   Pursuant to Idaho Code section 23-927, the city of Burley hereby
authorizes the sale of liquor by the drink on Sundays where Sunday falls on
December 31. The lawful hours of sale are not altered. (Ord. 1208, 12-26-2006)
CHAPTER 5
WINE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: License Required; Fee; Term
3-5-3: Application For License
3-5-4: Qualifications Of Applicant
3-5-5: Issuance Of License
3-5-6: License Restrictions
3-5-7: Consumption On Premises
3-5-8: Possession, Open Container
3-5-9: Misrepresentation Of Age
3-5-10: Revocation Of License
3-5-11: Violation, Misdemeanor
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms as used in this chapter are hereby defined as follows:
COMMISSIONER: The Commissioner of Law Enforcement of the State of Idaho.
RETAIL WINE LICENSE: A license by the Commissioner, authorizing a person to
sell wine at retail.
RETAILER: A person to whom a retail wine license has been issued.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage containing not more than fourteen percent (14%)
alcohol by volume obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar content of
fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar. (Ord. 846, 2-5-1973)
3-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE; TERM:
It shall be lawful for any person to sell wine at retail within the corporate
limits of the City in Minidoka County after having first procured a license
therefor.
The license fee to sell "wine" as herein defined shall be established by a
resolution adopted by the Burley City Council. No license shall be issued for
any shorter period than the balance of the calendar year and all licenses shall
expire on July 31 following issuance. No license shall be issued until the fee
therefor shall have been paid. Where application for license is made during the
first quarter of the year the full annual license shall be paid; when made
during the second quarter, three-fourths (3/4) thereof shall be paid; when made
during the third quarter, one-half (1/2) thereof shall be paid; and when made
during the fourth quarter, one-fourth (1/4) thereof shall be paid. All licenses
issued under authority of this chapter shall name the person to whom issued and
the premises where sale shall be made. (Ord. 1164, 12-3-2002)
3-5-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for license shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by the
applicant upon application forms furnished by the Clerk. Such application shall
be filed with the City Clerk and after consideration by the City Clerk will be
approved or denied. (Ord. 1360, 5-22-2019)
3-5-4: QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT:
The applicant for a license shall possess all of the qualifications necessary
to obtain a license from the Commissioner of Law Enforcement of the State, as
prescribed by the laws of the State, and maintain such qualifications
throughout the period for which such license is issued. The possession of
licenses regularly issued by the Department of Law Enforcement and the County
in addition to a City beer license shall be prima facie evidence of the
applicant's qualifications to receive a license hereunder. (Ord. 846, 2-5-1973)
3-5-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
The authority for final approval of the application is delegated to the City
Clerk, subject to appeal of the Clerk's decision to the City Council. Upon
filing the application for a license and production of evidence as required by
section
3-5-4 of this chapter as to the qualifications of the applicant and by the
payment of the required license fee, the Clerk shall, upon approval of the City
Clerk, issue to the applicant a license to sell wine at retail within the City
located in Minidoka County, Idaho, for such calendar year or the remainder
thereof. An applicant wishing to appeal the City Clerk's decision to deny a
license, transfer, or renewal of a license to the City Council must submit the
appeal in writing to the City Clerk within ten (10) business days of the
denial. The appeal must set forth the factual basis on which the applicant
asserts that the denial was in error. The appeal will be scheduled for hearing
before the City Council within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the written
appeal. (Ord. 1360, 5-22-2019)
3-5-6: LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:
The assignment or transfer of a wine license shall be the same as provided by
section
3-3-8 of this title for the assignment or transfer of a beer license. (Ord.
846, 2-5-1973)
3-5-7: CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES:
Retailers who do not possess a valid license for the retail sale of liquor by
the drink may sell wine by the drink for consumption on the premises if the
retailer possesses a wine license issued pursuant to this Code. Wine sold for
consumption on the retailer's premises may be sold only during hours that
liquor by the drink may be sold pursuant to the laws of the State. Wine sold by
the retailer for consumption off the premises of the retailer may be sold only
during the hours that beer may be sold pursuant to subsection
3-3-7(B)6 of this title. (Ord. 1012, 7-6-1987)
3-5-8: POSSESSION, OPEN CONTAINER:
No person may, while operating or riding in or upon a motor vehicle upon a
public highway of this State within the corporate limits of the City, have in
his possession any wine in an open or unsealed container of any kind. (Ord.
846, 2-5-1973)
3-5-9: MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE:
   (A)   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years may purchase, consume
or possess wine.
   (B)   No person shall give, sell or deliver wine to any person under the age
of twenty one (21) years.
   (C)   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall by any means
represent to any retailer or distributor or to any agent or employee of such
retailer or distributor that he is twenty one (21) years or more of age for the
purpose of inducing such retailer or distributor, or his agent or employee, to
sell, serve or dispense wine to such person.
   (D)   No person shall, by any means, represent to any retailer or
distributor or the agent or employee of such retailer or distributor that any
other person is twenty one (21) years or more of age, when in fact such other
person is under the age of twenty one (21) years, for the purpose of inducing
such retailer or distributor, or the agent or employee of such retailer or
distributor, to sell, serve or dispense wine to such other person.
   (E)   Subsections (A) through (D) of this section are subject to the
provisions of Idaho Code 23-613. (Ord. 1012, 7-6-1987)
3-5-10: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The right shall be and remain at all times vested in the Mayor and Council, and
the Mayor and Council may, as hereinafter provided, revoke or cancel any
license for fraud or misrepresentation in its procurement, or for a violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter, or for any conduct or act of the
licensee or his employees or any conduct or act permitted by him on the
premises where such business is conducted, or in connection therewith or
adjacent thereto, tending to render such business or such premises where the
same is conducted as a public nuisance or a menace to the health, peace, safety
or general welfare of the City; provided, that revocation or suspension of the
State license by the Commissioner of the Law Enforcement shall be deemed prima
facie evidence for revocation or suspension of the license issued herein. (Ord.
846, 2-5-1973)
3-5-11: VIOLATION, MISDEMEANOR:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions hereof shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 846, 2-5-1973)
CHAPTER 6
AUCTIONS AND AUCTIONEERS
SECTION:
3-6-1: License Required; Fees
3-6-2: Issuance And Revocation Of License
3-6-3: Permit Required, Location
3-6-4: Bond Required
3-6-5: Restrictions
3-6-6: Exceptions
3-6-7: Penalty
3-6-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES:
No personal property (goods, wares or merchandise) shall be sold at auction in
the city except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. It shall be
unlawful to sell or cause or permit to be sold at auction any personal property
(goods, wares or merchandise) in the city unless such sale is conducted by an
individual who has applied for and obtained an auctioneer's license from the
city council and the owner of such personal property (goods, wares or
merchandise) has secured a permit for such auction sale, excepting those
persons who are regularly employed to sell livestock in an established
livestock commission yard which is under the supervision and regulation of the
state of Idaho and the federal government.
The fees for an auctioneer's license shall be established by a resolution
adopted by the Burley city council. (Ord. 1160, 5-7-2002)
3-6-2: ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   (A)   The city council is hereby authorized to grant or renew an
auctioneer's license for any period of time not exceeding one year to any
individual applying therefor on a form to be provided by the city clerk upon
payment by the applicant of the fees provided for in section
3-6-1 of this chapter.
   (B)   The form on which application shall be made for an auctioneer's
license shall require the following information:
      1.   Name of the applicant.
      2.   Residence and business address of the applicant.
      3.   The length of time for which an auctioneer's license is desired.
      4.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant holds an auctioneer's
license from the state of Idaho, and if auctioneer's license has ever been
revoked by any governmental body, and states fully the reasons and
circumstances surrounding such revocation.
      5.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has ever been
convicted of any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any city ordinance and, if
so, the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
   (C)   Before issuing an auctioneer's license to any individual applying
therefor, the city council shall refer the application to the chief of police
who shall cause to be made such investigation of the applicant's moral
character and business responsibility as he deems necessary for the protection
of the public good, and such applicant must have a state auctioneer's license.
   (D)   An auctioneer's license may be revoked by the city council or an
application for issuance or renewal of such license may be refused by the city
council, if they determine, after notice and hearing:
      1.   The applicant or license holder is not an individual of good moral
character and business responsibility; or
      2.   The application of the applicant or license holder contains any
false, fraudulent or misleading material statement; or
      3.   The applicant or license holder has made any false, fraudulent or
misleading material statement in the course of conducting an auction sale of,
or in offering for sale at auction, any real or personal property (goods, wares
or merchandise) in the city; or
      4.   The applicant or license holder has perpetrated a fraud upon any
person whether or not such fraud was perpetrated in the conduct of an auction
in the city; or
      5.   The applicant or license holder has violated any of the statutes of
the state of Idaho relating to auction; or
      6.   The applicant has been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude; or
      7.   The applicant or license holder has conducted an auction sale of, or
offered for sale at auction, any real or personal property (goods, wares or
merchandise) in the city in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to
constitute a breach of the peace or a menace to the health, safety or general
welfare of the public.
   (E)   Notice of the hearing provided for in subsection (D) of this section
shall be given in writing to the applicant or license holder, as the case may
be. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the applicant, or license
holder, at his last known address at least five (5) days prior to the date set
for hearing. The applicant, or license holder, shall have the right to be
represented at such hearing by counsel. (Ord. 344, 2-7-1938; amd. Ord. 602, 10-
17-1956)
3-6-3: PERMIT REQUIRED, LOCATION:
   (A)   No auction sale of personal property (goods, wares or merchandise)
shall be conducted within the limits of the city except upon the issuance of a
permit therefor by the city council and in accordance with the express terms of
such permit. (Ord. 344, 2-7-1938; amd. Ord. 602, 10-17-1956)
   (B)   Application for a permit to conduct an auction sale of personal
property (goods, wares or merchandise) within the limits of the city shall be
made to the city council on a form to be provided by them upon which shall be
stated the name of the auctioneer to conduct the sale, the nature and quantity
of the goods to be sold and the number of days during which it is desired to
conduct such auction sale and such application must be accompanied with a tax
receipt from the assessor's office of Cassia County or Minidoka County showing
that the personal property tax on the property to be sold has been paid. The
city council will issue such permit upon the payment of a fee to be established
by a resolution adopted by the Burley city council, which fee shall be in
addition to and not in lieu of the fees and bond provided for in sections
3-6-1 and
3-6-7 of this chapter. Such permit shall specify the place and the number of
days for which such permit is valid. (Ord. 1160, 5-7-2002)
   (C)   The city council may refuse to issue or renew such permit or may
revoke any permit already issued, if they determine that there is good and
sufficient reason for such refusal or revocation after holding a hearing as
provided in subsection
3-6-2(E) of this chapter.
   (D)   A permit shall only be issued to any individual or owner of personal
property (goods, wares or merchandise) who shall employ licensed auctioneers at
such sale. (Ord. 344, 2-7-1938; amd. Ord. 602, 10-17-1956)
3-6-4: BOND REQUIRED:
Prior to the issuance of a permit to hold an auction sale, the person securing
a permit shall file with the city clerk a surety bond running to the city in
the amount equal to the assessed valuation as contained on the assessor's tax
receipt with surety acceptable to and approved by the city council, conditioned
that the permittee, if issued a permit for an auction sale, will fully comply
with all the provisions of the ordinances of the city and the statutes of the
state of Idaho regulating and concerning auctions and auctioneers and will not
practice or permit or allow any auctioneer to practice any fraud or deceit upon
bidders or purchasers of property at any auction sale, and will pay all damages
which will be sustained by any person by reason of any fraud, deceit or
negligence or any other wrongful act on the part of any permittee, his agent or
employee, in the conduct of any auction or in the exercise of the calling of
any auctioneer. A liability insurance policy issued by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state which conforms to the above requirements
may be permitted by the council in lieu of a bond. (Ord. 344, 2-7-1938; amd.
Ord. 602, 10-17-1956)
3-6-5: RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   Location: It shall be unlawful to conduct an auction sale of personal
property (goods, wares or merchandise) on any of the streets, sidewalks or
public property of the city. (Ord. 344, 2-7-1938; amd. Ord. 602, 10-17-1956)
   (B)   Night Auctions: It shall be unlawful to offer for sale at auction or
sell at auction any goods, wares or merchandise between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on Fridays and Saturdays;
between nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. Monday through
Thursday; and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. to eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on Sundays
and holidays as defined by the Idaho Code 1 . (Ord. 1140, 2-22-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 73-108.
3-6-6: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not be applicable to auction sales
conducted by trustees or referees in bankruptcy, executors, administrators,
receivers or other public officers acting under judicial process, nor to the
sale of real property at auction, nor sales by licensed pawnbrokers of
unredeemed pledges, nor sales for charitable purposes by churches, lodges,
fraternities, benevolent societies or nonprofit corporations, nor shall this
chapter apply to auction sales regularly conducted as an adjunct to, and as an
integral part of, any retail business establishment located in the city and
maintaining regular and reasonable business hours, open to the public,
comparable to other retail businesses handling similar merchandise in the city
and employing an auctioneer duly licensed by the state and city who must
conduct all said auction sales. All auction sales by retail establishments
referred to herein must be conducted on the same premises utilized daily for
the conduct of the firm's business, and must not be conducted at times
prohibited by subsection
3-6-5(B) of this chapter. (Ord. 1140, 2-22-2000)
3-6-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each such violation shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such hereunder, and each such individual sale of an
article of merchandise shall constitute a separate offense and violation of
this chapter and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 344, 2-7-1938;
amd. Ord. 602, 10-17-1956)
CHAPTER 7
ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND GREEN RIVER ORDINANCE
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definition
3-7-2: License Required; Fees; Term
3-7-3: Application For License
3-7-4: Investigation And Issuance
3-7-5: Bond Required
3-7-6: Service Of Process
3-7-7: Exhibition Of License
3-7-8: Transfer Of License
3-7-9: Duty Of Police To Enforce
3-7-10: Records
3-7-11: Green River Ordinance
3-7-12: Revocation Of License
3-7-13: Appeal
3-7-14: Exemption From Provisions
3-7-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this chapter a "transient merchant", "itinerant merchant" or
"itinerant vendor" is defined as any firm or corporation, whether as owner,
agent, consignee or employee, whether a resident of the city or not, who
engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares and
merchandise within the city, and who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires,
leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad
boxcar, boat, public room in a hotel, lodging houses, motels, apartments, shops
or any street, alley or other place within the city, for the exhibition and
sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or at public
auction; provided, that this definition shall not be construed to include any
person who, while occupying such temporary location, does not sell from stock,
but exhibits samples only for the purpose of securing orders for future
delivery only and such definition shall further not include or be construed as
to prohibit a public auction for the disposal by an established business of its
assets or an individual for items of personal and household use. The person so
engaged shall not be relieved from complying with the provisions of this
chapter merely by reason of associating temporarily with any local dealer,
trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by conducting such transit business in
connection with, as part of or in the name of any local dealer, trader,
merchant or auctioneer. (Ord. 810, 9-8-1970)
3-7-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES; TERM:
It shall be unlawful for a "transient merchant", "itinerant merchant" or
"itinerant vendor" as defined in section
3-7-1 of this chapter to engage in such business within the city without first
obtaining a license therefor in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
Any person desiring such a license shall pay the city clerk a license fee
established by a resolution adopted by the Burley city council. The fee shall
be paid upon application based upon the number of days requested in the
application with a minimum of ten (10) days. If the application should be
denied, the city clerk shall refund to the applicant all sums so paid except as
provided by the resolution which shall be retained by the city clerk as and for
an application fee. If the license shall issue, there shall be no application
fee and all sums so paid shall be toward the daily license fee. (Ord. 1160, 5-
7-2002)
3-7-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applicants for license under this chapter, whether a person, firm or
corporation, shall file a written, sworn application not less than sixty (60)
days prior to the intended date of commencement of activity, signed by the
applicant if an individual, by all partners if a partnership, and the president
if a corporation with the city clerk, showing:
   (A)   The name of the person having the management or supervision of the
applicant's business during the time that it is proposed that it will be
carried on in the city; the local address of such person while engaged in such
business; the permanent address of such person; the capacity in which such
person will act (that is, whether as proprietor, agent or otherwise); the name
and address of the person for whose account the business will be carried on, if
any; and if a corporation, under the laws of what state the same is
incorporated.
   (B)   The fingerprints of the person having the management or supervision of
the applicant's business or in lieu thereof at least three (3) letters of
recommendation from property owners in the city certifying as to the
applicant's character and business responsibility or such other evidence which
establishes to the satisfaction of the mayor the character and business
responsibility of such person.
   (C)   The place in the City where it is proposed to carry on the applicant's
business, and the length of time during which it is proposed that said business
shall be conducted.
   (D)   The place other than the permanent place of business of the applicant
where such applicant conducted the transient business within six (6) months
next preceding the date of the application, stating the nature thereof and
giving the post office and street address of any building or office in which
such business was conducted.
   (E)   A statement of the nature, character and quality of the goods, wares
or merchandise to be sold or offered for sale by the applicant in the City.
   (F)   A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising done
or proposed to be done in order to attract customers.
   (G)   Whether or not the person having the management or supervision of the
applicant's business has been convicted of any crime, except traffic
violations, and the place where the conviction occurred.
   (H)   Such other reasonable information as the City Clerk may deem proper to
fulfill the purpose of this Chapter in the protection of the public good.
   (I)   The City Clerk shall prepare a suitable application in compliance with
this Chapter. (Ord. 939, 8-6-1979)
3-7-4: INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE:
Upon receipt of the application, the City Clerk shall cause such investigation
of the applicant's business responsibility or moral character to be made as he
deems necessary in the protection of the public good. The City Clerk may use
such departments of the City as the Clerk deems appropriate in the aid of the
investigation. As a result of the investigation, if the applicant's character
and business responsibility are found to be unsatisfactory, the application
shall be denied. If, as a result of the investigation, the character and
business reputation appear to be satisfactory, the City Clerk shall so certify
in writing and the license shall be issued if all of the requirements of this
Chapter have been met. The City Clerk shall keep a full record in his office of
all licenses issued. Such license shall contain the number of the license, the
date the same was issued, the nature of the business authorized to be carried
on, the amount of the license fee paid, the expiration date of the license and
the place where such business may be carried on under said license, and the
name of the person authorized to carry on the same. (Ord. 810, 9-8-1970)
3-7-5: BOND REQUIRED:
Before any license, as provided by this Chapter, shall be issued for engaging
in a transient or itinerant business as defined in Section
3-7-1 of this Chapter, such applicant shall file with the City Clerk a bond
running to the City in the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) executed by
the applicant, as principal, and two (2) sureties upon which service of process
may be made in the State of Idaho; said bond to be approved by the City
Attorney, conditioned that the said applicant shall comply fully with all of
the provisions of the ordinances of the City and the statutes of the State of
Idaho, regulating and concerning the sale of goods, wares and merchandise, and
will pay all judgments rendered against said applicant for any violation of
said ordinances or statutes, or any of them, together with all judgments and
costs that may be recovered against him by any person for damage growing out of
any misrepresentation or deception practiced on any person transacting such
business with such applicant, whether said misrepresentations or deceptions
were made or practiced by the owners or by their servants, agents or employees,
either at the time of making the sale or through any advertisement of any
character whatsoever, printed or circulated with reference to the goods, wares
and merchandise sold or any part thereof. Action on the bond may be brought in
the name of the City to the use of the aggrieved person. Such bond must be
approved by the City Attorney, both as to form and as to the responsibility of
the sureties thereon. (Ord. 939, 8-6-1979)
3-7-6: SERVICE OF PROCESS:
Before any license as herein provided shall be issued for engaging in business
as an itinerant merchant, as herein defined, in the City, such applicant shall
file with the City Clerk an instrument nominating and appointing the City Clerk
his true and lawful agent with full power and authority to acknowledge service
of notice of process for and on behalf of said applicant in respect to any
matters connected with or arising out of the business transacted under said
license and the bond given as required by Section
3-7-5 of this Chapter, or for the performance of the conditions of said bond or
for any breach thereof, which said instrument shall also contain recitals to
the effect that said applicant for said license consents and agrees that
service of any notice or process may be made upon said agent, and when so made
shall be taken and held to be as valid as if personally served upon the person
applying for the said license under this Chapter, according to the law of this
or any other state, and waiving all claim or right of error by reason of such
acknowledgment of service or manner of service. Immediately upon service of
process upon the City Clerk, as herein provided, the City Clerk shall send to
the licensee at the last known address, by registered mail, a copy of said
process. (Ord. 810, 9-8-1970)
3-7-7: EXHIBITION OF LICENSE:
The license issued under this Chapter shall be posted conspicuously in the
place of business named therein. In the event that such person applying for
said license shall desire to do business in more than one place within the
City, separate licenses may be issued for each place of business, and shall be
posted conspicuously in each place of business. (Ord. 810, 9-8-1970)
3-7-8: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
No license shall be transferred without written consent from the Mayor as
evidenced by an endorsement on the face of the license by the City Clerk
showing to whom the license is transferred and the date of the transfer. (Ord.
810, 9-8-1970)
3-7-9: DUTY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE:
It shall be the duty of the police officers of the City to examine all places
of business and persons in their respective territories subject to the
provisions of this Chapter, to determine if this Chapter has been complied with
and to enforce the provisions of this Chapter against any person found to be
violating the same. (Ord. 810, 9-8-1970)
3-7-10: RECORDS:
The City Clerk shall deposit the record of fingerprints of licensee, together
with a license number, with the Chief of Police; the Chief of Police shall
report to the City Clerk any complaints against any person licensed under the
provisions of this Chapter and any conviction for violation of this Chapter;
the City Clerk shall keep a record of all such licenses and such complaints and
violations. (Ord. 810, 9-8-1970)
3-7-11: GREEN RIVER ORDINANCE:
   (A)   Nuisance Declared: The practice of going in and upon private
residences in the City by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants
and transient vendors of merchandise, not having been requested or invited so
to do by the owner or occupant of said private residences, for the purpose of
soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise, and for the
purpose of disposing of and/or peddling or hawking the same, is hereby declared
to be a nuisance and punishable as such nuisance as a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Enforcement: The Chief of Police and police force of the City are
hereby required and directed to suppress the same and to abate any such
nuisance as is described in subsection (A) of this Section. (Ord. 350, 7-19-
1938)
3-7-12: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   (A)   The permits and licenses issued pursuant to this Chapter may be
revoked by the Mayor after notice and hearing, for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      2.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the selling of goods, wares or merchandise;
      3.   Any violation of this Chapter;
      4.   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude; or
      5.   Conducting the business licensed under this Chapter in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of hearing for revocation of the license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the
licensee at his last known address, at least five (5) days prior to the date
set for the hearing. (Ord. 810, 9-8-1970)
3-7-13: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the City Clerk in regard to the denial
of application for a license as provided for in Section
3-7-4 of this Chapter or in connection with the revocation of a license as
provided for in Section
3-7-12 of this Chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Council. Such
appeal shall be taken by filing with the Council, within fourteen (14) days
after notice of the decision by the City Clerk has been mailed to such person's
last known address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for the
appeal. The Council shall set the time and place for a hearing on such appeal
and notice of such hearing shall be given to such person in the same manner as
provided in Section
3-7-12 of this Chapter for notice of hearing on revocation. The order of the
Council on such appeal shall be final. (Ord. 810, 9-8-1970)
3-7-14: EXEMPTION FROM PROVISIONS:
There is hereby exempted from the application of this Chapter any of the
following that are located in the City or the County of Cassia, State of Idaho:
civic clubs; schools; churches; governmental licensees; or charitable
organizations qualifying as a charity under the Internal Revenue Code 1 . Each
such exempt organization intending to conduct an activity as defined in this
Chapter shall advise the City Clerk in writing of the intended activity and the
time or times that the activity will be conducted. (Ord. 939, 8-6-1979)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. § 63-3004.
TITLE 4
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
4-1-1: Adoption Of Uniform Building Code
4-1-2: Adoption Of Northwest Energy Code
4-1-1: ADOPTION OF UNIFORM BUILDING CODE:
   (A)   Adoption: Certain documents, three (3) copies of which are on file and
are open for inspection of the public in the office of the City Clerk, being
marked and designated as:
Uniform Building Code, 1997 Edition, published by the International Conference
of Building Officials, including the generic fire-resistive assemblies listed
in the Fire Resistance Design Manual, Fourteenth Edition, dated April 1994,
published by the Gypsum Association as referenced in tables 7-A, 7-B and 7-C
(also reference appendix chapter 12, division II, if adopted) of the specified
Uniform Building Code, including appendix chapters 21 and 23;
Structural Welding Code - Reinforcing Steel, AWS D1.4-92 (UBC Standard 19-1);
American National Standard for Accessible and Useable Buildings and Facilities,
A117.1-1992 (see Uniform Building Code section 1101.2), published by the
Council of American Building Officials; Load and Resistance Factor Design
Specifications for Structural Steel Buildings, December 1, 1993 (chapter 22,
division II); Specification for Structural Steel Buildings Allowable Stress
Design and Plastic Design, June 1, 1989 (chapter, division III); Load and
Resistance Factor Design Specification for Cold Formed Steel Structural
Members, 1986 (with December 1989 addendum) (chapter 22, division VI);
Specification for Design of Cold Formed Steel Structural Members, 1986 (chapter
22, division VII); Standard Specification for Steel Joists, K-Series, LH-
Series, DLH-Series and Joist Girders, 1994 (chapter 22, division IX);
Structural Applications of Steel Cables for Buildings, ASCE 17-95 (chapter 22,
division XI); and National Design Specification for Wood Construction, Revised
1991 Edition (chapter 22, division III, part I), as modified or amended in the
Uniform Building Code referenced herein
be and the same are hereby adopted as the code of the City for regulating the
erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal
demolition, conversion, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area and maintenance
of all buildings or structures in the City providing for issuance of permits
and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, conditions and terms of such Uniform Building Code, 1997 Edition,
volumes 1 2, and 3, published by the International Conference of Building
Officials, and the secondary publications referenced above, all of which are on
file in the office of the City Clerk are hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof as if fully set out in this Section.
   (B)   Penalty: A violation of this Section shall result in a fine of not
more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) and/or imprisonment for not less than
one day nor more than one hundred twenty (120) days. (Ord. 1106, 8-3-1998)
4-1-2: ADOPTION OF NORTHWEST ENERGY CODE:
There is hereby adopted the Northwest Energy Code, 1987 Edition, of the Model
Conservation Standards Equivalent Code to chapter 53 of the Uniform Building
Code, and the Conservation Standard Appendix L Equivalent Code (chapter 53 of
the Uniform Building Code format) as such Model Conservation Standards are
created by the Northwest Power Planning Council and published by the United
States Department of Energy, Bonneville Power Administration.
Three (3) copies of the Northwest Energy Code, 1987 Edition, as adopted herein
are on file and for inspection in the office of the City Clerk. (Ord. 1017, 1-
18-1988)
CHAPTER 2
HOUSING CODE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Adoption Of Code
4-2-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
That certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of
the City Clerk, being marked and designated as "Volume III - Housing of the
Uniform Building Code, 1979 Edition", published by the International Conference
of Building Officials, is hereby referred to and by this reference adopted and
made a part hereof as though fully and separately set out herein at length.
(Ord. 778, 4-21-1969; amd. 1981 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SIGN CODE
SECTION:
4-3-1: Adoption Of Code
4-3-2: Amendments To Code (Rep. by Ord. 1107, 8-3-1998)
4-3-3: Sign Permit Fees
4-3-4: Owner's Permission Required Before Posting Signs
4-3-5: Signs In Residential Area
4-3-6: Prohibited Conditions
4-3-7: Signs Prohibited In Certain Places
4-3-8: Billboards Kept In Repair
4-3-9: Legal Notices, Temporary Banners Excepted
4-3-10: Traveling Shows And Circuses
4-3-11: City Nonliability
4-3-12: Definitions
4-3-13: Signs; General
4-3-14: Specific Signs Requirements
4-3-15: Nonconforming Signs
4-3-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
The 1997 uniform sign code is hereby adopted and incorporated as an ordinance
of the city.
Three (3) copies of the 1997 uniform sign code shall be kept on file in the
office of the city clerk for the use and examination by the public. (Ord. 1107,
8-3-1998)
4-3-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
(Rep. by Ord. 1107, 8-3-1998)
4-3-3: SIGN PERMIT FEES:
The sign permit fees shall be established by a resolution adopted by the Burley
city council. (Ord. 1160, 5-7-2002)
4-3-4: OWNER'S PERMISSION REQUIRED BEFORE POSTING SIGNS:
No person shall, within the city limits, post, stick, stamp, paint or otherwise
affix or cause the same to be done by another, any notice, placard, bill,
poster, card or advertisement upon any building, wall or part thereof, without
first obtaining permission from the owner, agent or occupant of such premises.
(Ord. 485, 9-17-1951)
4-3-5: SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL AREA:
No signs or billboards for the purpose of advertising shall hereafter be
constructed or erected in any portion of the city that has heretofore been duly
zoned and classified as residential, unless and until such person desiring to
erect any sign, signpost or billboard within the area classified and zoned as
residential first obtains, in writing, the consent of the owners or duly
authorized agent of such owners owning a majority of the frontage of the
property on both sides of the street which is adjacent to the block in which
such billboard or signboard is to be erected, constructed or located; and such
written consent, if obtained, must be filed with the city clerk before any
permit shall be issued as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 485, 9-17-1951; amd. Ord.
572, 5-2-1955)
4-3-6: PROHIBITED CONDITIONS:
   (A)   Radio Interference Prohibited: No sign, transformer or other
mechanical or electrical device used in connection with sign or outline wiring
shall be permitted to operate if such device interferes with radio reception;
if such device cannot be silenced with condensers or otherwise, they shall be
disconnected.
   (B)   Loose Paper On Billboards Prohibited: Any person owning, controlling
or maintaining any billboard, bulletin board or wall sign, or engaged in
billposting, sign tacking or sign painting of such billboard, bulletin board or
wall sign shall keep the same free and cleaned from all loose paper at all
times, and shall not allow any paste, glue, paint, wastepaper or other rubbish
to be deposited behind or about the same.
   (C)   Obscene Signs Prohibited: No person shall, within the limits of the
city, post, paint or cause to be posted or painted so that the same may be seen
from the streets, alleys or other public places of the city any advertisement
containing pictures or illustrations of an obscene or immoral character, or
pictures of murders, fights or pictures or signs of such suggestive character
as will tend to corrupt the morals of the youth of the city.
   (D)   Throwing Handbills Prohibited: The throwing of any form of advertising
matter such as dodgers, handbills, circulars, samples or like matter on any
lawn, sidewalk, parking, street or alley in the city is strictly prohibited.
All such advertisement matter must be placed inside the screen or immediately
under the door or in the jamb of the door or any receptacle for the receiving
of such advertising. (Ord. 485, 9-17-1951)
4-3-7: SIGNS PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES:
No person shall, within the city limits, paint, post, stick, stamp or otherwise
affix or cause same to be done by any other person, any notice, placard, bill,
card, poster or advertisement or other device calculated to attract attention
of the public, to or upon any sidewalk, curb, curbstone, lamppost, hydrant,
shade tree, telegraph or telephone pole, or upon any pole, post or fixture of
the fire alarm system or telegraph system, electric light or electric power
poles, awnings, barrels or boxes on the public street. (Ord. 485, 9-17-1951)
4-3-8: BILLBOARDS KEPT IN REPAIR:
If the building inspector shall find upon investigation that any billboard,
sign or bulletin board or contrivance for advertising purposes, now, or
hereafter erected, is not erected or maintained in a safe, secure and
satisfactory manner, he may order the same repaired, and if not so repaired
within ten (10) days, he may proceed to remove same at the expense of the owner
thereof. All such contrivances for outdoor advertising purposes must have
placed and maintained on the top of each the name of the person owning same or
who is in the possession and control thereof. (Ord. 485, 9-17-1951)
4-3-9: LEGAL NOTICES, TEMPORARY BANNERS EXCEPTED:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to apply to the posting of legal
notices by public officers, nor to the distribution of any newspaper of regular
issue, nor to advertising by distribution of circulars or samples by any
merchant of his own business by himself or by any employee not hired for the
exclusive purpose of distributing, nor to the signs of real estate firms
advertising for sale or for rent the property on which the signs are located,
nor to announcement of meetings to be held upon premises whereon billboards,
signs or bulletin boards are displayed, nor to the placing of temporary banners
or signs across the streets, highways, sidewalks or alleys for the purpose of
advertising public events such as fairs, sports events and holiday
celebrations, provided such banners or signs shall be placed at least twenty
feet (20') above the ground and provided further, that such banners and signs
shall be suspended from buildings without the use of posts. (Ord. 485, 9-17-
1951)
4-3-10: TRAVELING SHOWS AND CIRCUSES:
All traveling shows and circuses, requiring licenses from the city shall use
cloth banners for outside advertising purposes except where such advertising is
placed on billboards. All such shows and circuses shall remove and clean up all
such advertising matter under the supervision of, and to the entire
satisfaction of, the chief of police of the city. To ensure such removal and
cleanup, the applicant for a license will be required to make a deposit in an
amount established by a resolution adopted by the Burley city council with the
city clerk in addition to the cost of said license. If the applicant completes
the work of removal and cleaning up, the deposit will be returned to him within
a period of ten (10) days from the date of making the deposit, otherwise the
amount of the deposit will be used by the city to defray the cost of removal
and cleanup. (Ord. 1160, 5-7-2002)
4-3-11: CITY NONLIABILITY:
All persons erecting, using and maintaining signs or billboards shall save the
city harmless from all damage arising from the erection, use and maintenance of
the same. (Ord. 485, 9-17-1951)
4-3-12: DEFINITIONS:
ADMINISTRATOR: The Burley building inspector.
CITY: The city of Burley.
COMMISSION: The Burley planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 1150, 12-18-2000)
4-3-13: SIGNS; GENERAL:
   (A)   No sign shall be allowed unless it conforms to the structural
requirements of the building code, and is specifically allowed herein.
   (B)   Traffic-control signs conforming to the manual of uniform traffic-
control devices which are installed or approved by the city shall not be
required to conform to these regulations. No traffic-control sign or imitation
thereof shall be erected except those approved by the city.
   (C)   Each building shall display an address number which is not less than
three inches (3") in height and plainly visible from the street and such number
shall be allowed in addition to the signs permitted herein. The address number
displayed shall correspond to the number issued by the city engineer.
   (D)   Signs on a nonconforming use may be permitted providing they meet the
signing requirements of the most restrictive zoning district in which the use
would be permitted and providing they do not, in the opinion of the commission,
have an adverse effect on adjacent property.
   (E)   All signs, except permitted off-premises signs, shall pertain only to
the use or products located on the same property as the sign.
   (F)   The light from an allowed illuminated sign shall be arranged, directed
and of such intensity that it does not create a hazard, nuisance or other
adverse effect on adjacent property, motor vehicles or approved traffic-control
devices.
   (G)   All lighting elements of exterior signs shall be a minimum of nine
feet (9') above the ground unless adequately protected to prevent injury if
broken.
   (H)   No sign shall be flashing. Message centers and signs depicting time
and/or temperature shall not be considered as flashing or animated.
   (I)   No sign shall project beyond the property line except those allowed
herein to project over a public right of way. No sign shall project closer than
two feet (2') to a vertical line projected from the face of a curb, or if no
curb exists, the face of the future curb except on a state highway where
permitted.
In the event of a change in curb location the owner of a sign allowed to
project over a public right of way shall relocate the portion of the sign no
longer in compliance upon notification from the city. Signs inside buildings
which are not visible from outside the building shall not be limited by this
code.
   (J)   No sign shall be higher than the standard height allowed by this
chapter, no higher than thirty five feet (35'), nor shall any sign located
within eight feet (8') of the curb or future curb line have a sign face located
between a point three and one- half feet (31/2') and a point eight feet (8')
above the top of an existing or future curb as determined by the city engineer.
A freeway zone of up to one mile in each direction may have an eighty foot
(80') tall high rise.
   (K)   No sign foundations shall encroach into a public right of way.
   (L)   Temporary special events signs and decorations per premises, with the
exception of section
4-3-10 of this chapter, may be allowed for special events, grand openings, or
holidays, limited to a maximum of once every three (3) months. Such signs and
decorations may be erected seven (7) days prior to a special event or holiday
and shall be removed seven (7) days following the event or holiday. For grand
openings, such signs may be used for no more than thirty (30) days. Temporary
promotional banners may be displayed for a period not to exceed thirty (30)
days. No banner shall be comprised of or incorporated into a rigid structure.
No permit or fee is required. (Ord. 1150, 12-18-2000)
4-3-14: SPECIFIC SIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Professional Office Signs:
      1.   Definition: A sign which may be flush wall mounted or freestanding
and which advertises an authorized professional use.
      2.   Flush Wall Mounted: A flush wall mounted professional sign shall
comply with the following standards:
         a. Maximum Number: Each special use or business within a special use
building may have one sign per street frontage.
         b. Maximum Projection: Eighteen inches (18") from a building.
         c. Height: Not higher than the top of the wall.
         d. Illumination: May be illuminated.
         e. Location: Allowed in all zoning districts authorizing use.
      3.   Freestanding: A freestanding professional sign may be allowed only
as follows:
         a. A freestanding sign shall meet the following monument configuration
standards:
            (1) Maximum Number: One sign per street frontage but not more than
two (2) signs per premises.
            (2) Maximum Size: Five-tenths (0.5) square foot of signing is
allowed for every one foot (1') of street frontage on which the sign is
proposed to be placed up to a maximum of one hundred (100) square feet.
            (3) Maximum Projection: Not beyond the property line nor closer
than eight feet (8') to the curb line or future curb line.
            (4) Illumination: May be illuminated.
            (5) Location: Allowed in all zoning districts allowing professional
offices.
            (6) Required Materials: Only the following structure trim and sign
face materials are allowed:
   Concrete
   Glass
   Masonry
   Noncorrosive metals
   Steel
   Stone
   Ultraviolet-resistant plastics
   Wood
   (B)   Flush Wall Mounted Sign:
      1.   Definition: A sign which may be illuminated, mounted on a building
with the sign face parallel to the building wall or which may be painted on a
building wall.
      2.   Maximum Number: Each commercial use may have one sign for the first
fifty feet (50') of lineal wall that faces or is visible from a public way or
parking area and one sign for each additional fifty feet (50') of lineal wall
that faces or is visible from a public way or parking area.
      3.   Maximum Size: Three (3) square feet of area per lineal foot of wall
but not to exceed one hundred fifty (150) square feet per sign.
      4.   Maximum Projection: Not more than one and one-half feet (1.5') from
a wall. The projection may be over a public way where permitted.
      5.   Height: Not higher than the top of the wall.
      6.   Location: Allowed in all commercial zoning districts.
   (C)   Projecting Wall Mounted Sign:
      1.   Definition: A sign which may be illuminated, mounted on a building
with the sign face perpendicular to the building wall.
      2.   Maximum Number: Each commercial use may have one sign on each wall
that faces a public way or parking area.
      3.   Maximum Size: No maximum.
      4.   Maximum Projection: Not over five feet (5') over a public right of
way.
      5.   Height: Not higher than the top of the wall nor lower than a point
eight feet (8') above the ground.
      6.   Location: Allowed in all commercial zoning districts.
   (D)   Roof Mounted Signs:
      1.   Definition: A sign which may be illuminated, mounted on the roof of
a building. Roof mounted signs may be allowed only when sign supports appear to
be an architectural and integral part of the building, free of any exposed
bracing.
      2.   Maximum Number: Each building may have one sign.
      3.   Maximum Size: Two (2) square feet of area per lineal foot of
building wall that faces a public way but not to exceed two hundred (200)
square feet.
      4.   Maximum Projection: Not beyond a vertical line projected from the
building walls.
      5.   Height: Not higher than ten feet (10') above the attachment point on
the roof.
      6.   Location: Allowed in all commercial zoning districts.
   (E)   Canopy Sign Or Marquee Signs:
      1.   Definition: A sign which may be illuminated, mounted on a vertical
surface of a canopy or marquee.
      2.   Maximum Number: No special limit.
      3.   Maximum Size: One square foot of area per three (3) square feet of
vertical canopy or marquee surface area. One-third (1/3) can be lettering.
      4.   Maximum Projection: Not beyond the projection allowed by the
building code for a canopy or marquee.
      5.   Height: Not higher nor lower than the canopy or marquee.
      6.   Location: Allowed in all commercial zoning districts.
   (F)   Freestanding Signs:
      1.   Definition: A sign which may be illuminated and which is supported
on the ground rather than a building.
      2.   Maximum Number: Each business may have a maximum of three hundred
(300) square feet of signage, an additional one square foot per street front
foot of premises in excess of fifty feet (50') and if the property has an
excess depth over one hundred twenty five feet (125') an additional one square
foot of freestanding signage will be allowed per foot over one hundred twenty
five feet (125'). The sum of square footage shall not exceed six hundred (600)
square feet unless the property has a minimum of five hundred (500) lineal feet
of frontage and a total of five (5) acres, in which case a total of eight
hundred (800) square feet of signage may be permitted.
      3.   Maximum Size:
         a. No single sign shall exceed three hundred (300) square feet, except
signs permitted to be higher than fifty feet (50') shall not exceed six hundred
(600) square feet.
         b. Three hundred (300) square feet in area in any projection for signs
for multiple occupancy premises in lieu of any other freestanding signs except
as provided below.
      4.   Projection: Not beyond the property line.
      5.   Height: Refer to subsection
4-3-13(J) of this chapter.
      6.   Location: Allowed in all commercial zoning districts.
   (G)   Off-Premises Signs/Outdoor Billboards:
      1.   Definition: A flush wall mounted, roof mounted or freestanding sign
which may be illuminated and advertises a product, service, person or other use
which is not located on the same property as the sign. Off-premises signs may
be allowed only by special permit.
      2.   Projection Or Height: The same for flush wall mounted, roof mounted
or freestanding signs.
      3.   Maximum Size: Shall not exceed four hundred (400) square feet in any
projection.
      4.   Distance And Spacing Requirements:
         a. No off-premises sign may be erected or moved to within one thousand
feet (1,000') in any direction of another such sign.
         b. At any street intersection, there may be no more than four hundred
(400) square feet of advertising sign area in any projection within two hundred
fifty feet (250') as measured from the street corner curbs, provided that all
other distance and spacing requirements are complied with.
         c. In addition to finding that a proposed off-premises sign complies
with all general requirements and spacing regulations as described in
subsections (G)4a and (G)4b of this section, the commission must make all of
the following findings in permitting such a sign:
            (1) That the location and placement of the sign will not endanger
motorists or pedestrians and does not cause undue distraction to traffic on the
adjacent street or impede views at street or railroad intersections.
            (2) That the sign will not cover or blanket any prominent view of a
structure or facade of historical or architectural significance.
            (3) That the sign will not obstruct views of users of adjacent
buildings to side yards, front yards or to open space.
            (4) That the sign will not distract, intrude upon or negatively
impact the visual quality of a public open space as a public recreation
facility, square, plaza, courtyard and the like.
            (5) That the sign is compatible with building heights of the
existing neighborhood and does not impose a foreign or incongruous element of
an existing skyline.
            (6) That the sign's lighting will not cause hazardous or unsafe
driving conditions for motorists and will not glare, reflect or spill onto
adjacent business or residential areas.
      5.   Location: Allowed in all commercial zoning districts.
   (H)   Special Sign:
      1.   Definition: A sign which may be illuminated, which may be allowed by
special approval of the commission and which designates emergency facilities or
which designates separate buildings and building offices in multiple building
complexes, or provides historical or other special information of public
interest.
      2.   Maximum Number, Size, Projection And Height: Determined by the
commission to be the minimum required to adequately serve the basic purpose.
      3.   Location: Allowed in all zoning districts.
   (I)   Service Directional Signs:
      1.   Definition: A sign which may be illuminated and used to identify
service bays, warehouse, etc.
      2.   Maximum Number: Each bay or warehouse may have one sign flush
mounted above the door.
      3.   Maximum Size: Two foot (2') measured vertically and not to exceed
the width of the door horizontally.
      4.   Maximum Projection: Not more than one and one-half feet (1.5') from
a wall.
      5.   Height: Not higher than the top of the wall.
      6.   Location: Allowed in all commercial zoning districts.
   (J)   Message Centers:
      1.   Definition: An electrically activated sign which provides general
public service information such as time, date, temperature, weather,
directional information, messages of interest to the traveling public and
commercial messages and which are commonly used to augment business
identification signs.
      2.   Maximum Number, Projection Or Height: Message centers may be
included as part of other allowed flush wall mounted, roof mounted or
freestanding signs.
      3.   Maximum Size: Shall not exceed one hundred (100) square feet of the
total square footage of the sign in which it is located unless within a freeway
zone and higher than fifty feet (50').
      4.   Findings: The commission must make all of the following findings in
permitting such a sign:
         a. That the location and placement of the sign will not endanger
motorists or pedestrians and does not cause undue distraction to traffic on the
adjacent street or impede views at street or railroad intersections.
         b. That the sign will not cover or blanket any prominent view of a
structure or facade of historical or architectural significance.
         c. That the sign will not obstruct views of users of adjacent
buildings to side yards, front yards or to open space.
         d. That the sign will not distract, intrude upon or negatively impact
the visual quality of a public open space as a public recreation facility,
square, plaza, courtyard and the like.
         e. That the sign is compatible with building heights of the existing
neighborhood and does not impose a foreign or inharmonious element of an
existing skyline.
         f. That the sign's lighting will not cause hazardous or unsafe driving
conditions for motorists and will not glare, reflect or spill onto adjacent
business or residential areas.
      5.   Projection: Shall not project into the right of way.
   (K)   Religious And Educational Institutional Signs:
      1.   Limitation: Any sign, reader board or message center permitted under
this subsection (K) may be illuminated and flush wall mounted or freestanding
which advertises a religious institution or public school in residential zoning
districts shall be allowed only with special approval of the commission after
it has determined that in its opinion the sign will not adversely affect and is
compatible with the surrounding property, following notice to property owners
within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed sign.
      2.   Maximum Number: Each religious or educational institution may have
one flush wall mounted sign and one freestanding sign.
      3.   Maximum Size: One hundred (100) square feet. Fifty (50) square feet
for residential areas.
      4.   Reader Boards: A reader board, as part of the freestanding sign, may
be allowed at schools and religious institutions.
a. Hours Of Operation: Reader boards may be operated between the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M., unless otherwise provided
by the permit.
b. Indications Of Sponsorship: A portion of a message center located at an
educational institution may include, as part of the allowed size, a portion not
exceeding a total of ten (10) square feet acknowledging or identifying any
businesses or individuals who provided financial support for construction or
acquisition of the sign.
      5.   Projection: A flush wall mounted sign shall not project more than
eighteen inches (18") from a wall. A freestanding sign shall not project into
the right of way.
      6.   Height: Not higher than the eave of the building.
      7.   Location: Allowed in all zoning districts.
   (L)   Political Signs: Must meet standards of the uniform sign code on file
in the office of the city clerk.
   (M)   Bench Signs:
      1.   Definition: A sign incorporated on a bench designed and intended to
be used for seating.
      2.   Maximum Size: The face of the sign incorporated on the bench
seatback shall not exceed six feet (6') in length and two feet (2') in height.
      3.   Spacing: Shall not exceed four (4) per block.
      4.   Location: All commercial zones. (Ord. 1150, 12-18-2000)
   (N)   A-Frame Signs:
      1.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, there shall be
allowed in the city of Burley in areas zoned C-1 or C-2, sandwich or A-frame
signs upon the conditions set forth in this subsection (N).
      2.   Any such sign must be placed in front of the business which is being
advertised. Only one sign shall be allowed for the business being advertised
for each one hundred feet (100') of the business's frontage upon a public right
of way.
      3.   The signs shall not exceed three feet (3') in width, nor six feet
(6') in height, provided that businesses with more than one hundred feet (100')
of frontage upon a public roadway and sidewalks of twelve feet (12') or greater
in width may have signs which shall not exceed four feet (4') in width and six
feet (6') in height.
      4.   Signs may be placed upon public sidewalks in front of the building
housing the business provided they shall be adjacent to the building and must
be at least five feet (5') from the curb.
      5.   No sign shall be closer than twenty feet (20') to an intersection.
(Ord. 1170, 3-4-2003)
4-3-15: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   (A)   A sign which does not conform to the provisions of this chapter shall
be termed a nonconforming sign. A nonconforming sign which was lawfully
existing or under construction at the effective date thereof may continue to be
used subject to the provisions of this section providing the following
conditions are met:
      1.   All signs declared to be dangerous by proper authority shall be
strengthened or otherwise altered to make them safe.
      2.   No alterations or changes shall be made to a nonconforming sign
except to bring it into compliance with any section of this chapter nor shall
any nonconforming sign be replaced with another nonconforming sign except as
provided by subsection (A)3 of this section.
      3.   A nonconforming sign may be altered or replaced by another
nonconforming sign only upon prior approval of the administrator. Application
for such approval shall be on forms provided by the administrator. The
administrator shall make the following findings of fact as a prerequisite to
approval:
         a. The proposed alteration or replacement is for a freestanding sign
which is nonconforming due to there being more than one freestanding sign per
building or premises or to zoning district prohibition.
         b. The proposed alteration or replacement conforms to all other
existing requirements of law.
         c. The proposed alteration or replacement is not inimical to the best
interest of the surrounding neighborhood.
         d. The proposed alteration or replacement is for the purpose of
removing ornamental projections and consolidating sign faces. (Ord. 1150, 12-
18-2000)
      4.   A nonconforming off premises sign/outdoor billboard may be moved to
another location upon prior approval by the administrator provided the
administrator finds:
         a. The new location will not result in a new violation of this
chapter, but will be limited to the original violation which resulted in the
nonconformity allowed above.
         b. The new location has the same ownership and is part of the same
parcel as, or across the street from, the sign's current location.
         c. Except as to the original nonconformity, the proposed new location
complies with all other legal requirements.
         d. The new location is consistent with zoning requirements.
         e. The new location will not result in a public danger or
inconvenience.
         f. Placing the sign on a new location will not result in degradation
of the surrounding neighborhood. (Ord. 1262, 7-7-2009)
   (B)   The administrator must review and make a determination of approval or
denial within fifteen (15) days of receipt of application and will submit his/
her findings in writing to the applicant. In the event the administrator
determines to approve said application, a radius notice must be sent to all
property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the property which is the
subject of the application. Such notice must provide that any interested person
may appeal the decision of the administrator to the city council within fifteen
(15) days of the date of the radius notice. The decision of the administrator
will not take effect until said appellate time has expired. In the event the
administrator denies such application, the applicant may appeal such decision
to the city council within fifteen (15) days of the administrator's decision.
   (C)   Nonconforming signs shall be discontinued and further use of the sign
shall conform to the provisions of this chapter for any of the following
reasons:
      1.   If use of the sign or property on which the sign is located is
discontinued for a period of six (6) months.
      2.   If use of the sign or property on which the sign is located is
changed.
      3.   If a nonconforming sign has a value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00). (Ord. 1150, 12-18-2000)
CHAPTER 4
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS CODE
SECTION:
4-4-1: Adoption Of Code
4-4-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
The 1997 Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings is hereby
adopted and incorporated as an ordinance of the City as fully as though set
forth herein.
Three (3) copies of the 1997 Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous
Buildings shall be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk for the use and
examination by the public. (Ord. 1105, 8-3-1998)
CHAPTER 5
ELECTRICAL CODE; ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: National Electrical Code Adopted
4-5-3: State And City Licenses, Bond Required
4-5-4: Exemption From License Provisions
4-5-5: Permit Required; Application, Issuance
4-5-6: Inspection Requirements
4-5-7: Electrical Inspection Fees
4-5-8: Certain Specifications And Regulations Enumerated
4-5-9: Extend Electrical Distribution Lines
4-5-10: Tampering With Meter
4-5-11: City Not Liable
4-5-12: Electric Rates
4-5-13: New Large Load Rate
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
AREA LIGHTING SERVICE: A light installed by the city for security purposes,
parking lot illumination or other isolated area illuminated for which a flat
monthly charge is rendered.
BILLING CYCLE: That schedule for billing consumers of electricity as
established from time to time by the city clerk.
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL: A use of electric energy for the purpose of
conducting a commercial operation for profit, including manufacturing, sales at
retail or wholesale, services rendered for compensation, governmental agencies,
hospitals, apartment buildings, with only one meter.
RESIDENTIAL: Individual family dwellings, individual family apartments, with
separate meters, churches, fraternal organizations, charitable institutions,
condominiums, trailer houses or mobile homes, duplexes and other similar types
of uses; provided, that the same is not for commercial and industrial uses.
TEMPORARY AND SIGN LIGHTING SERVICE: Any service for signs that are on a
separate meter and that are not otherwise charged under the commercial and
industrial schedules and that service of a nonpermanent character issued upon
permit by the superintendent of light and power of the city. (Ord. 878, 6-2-
1975)
4-5-2: NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
The 2014 edition of the national electrical code published by the National Fire
Protection Association, as now or hereinafter amended, is adopted as the
official electrical code of the city, together with all subsequent editions of
said code. The most current edition, along with amendments, exceptions or
revisions thereto, as adopted by the Idaho electrical board, shall prevail. One
copy of said current edition of the national electrical code shall be kept at
the office of the building official. All electric wiring, installation of
electrical fixtures, apparatus or electrical appliances for furnishing light,
heat or power, or other electrical work introduced into or placed in or upon,
or in any way connected on any building or structure within the limits of the
city shall be, except as expressly modified by ordinance, in conformity with
the provisions set forth in the 2014 national electrical code, provided that
the exemptions set forth in Idaho Code section 54-1016 shall apply. (Ord. 1321,
10-6-2015)
4-5-3: STATE AND CITY LICENSES, BOND REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to carry on the business of electrical
wiring without having secured a state license and a city license and executing
a good and sufficient bond, signed by some surety company authorized to
transact business in the state of Idaho in the penal sum of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00), running to the city, and said bond to be approved by the
mayor and the city council and conditioned to save the city harmless and free
from all damages or costs by reason of his operation or his failure or neglect
to properly perform any duties incumbent upon him, and for the faithful
performance of the laws of the state and the ordinances of the city.
All persons having a state license are qualified to have a city license upon
the payment of the fee therefor in an amount established by a resolution
adopted by the Burley city council to the city clerk.
Such city license may be revoked or suspended by the mayor and city council for
the failure to perform any of the rules and regulations of this chapter and
violation of any ordinances of the city relative to electrical installations.
At least twenty (20) days' notice of a hearing for such purpose and particular
details sufficient to apprise the licensee of such violations shall be given.
(Ord. 1160, 5-7-2002)
4-5-4: EXEMPTION FROM LICENSE PROVISIONS:
If an owner wishes to do wiring in his own building, he may do so without a
state license, but he must first obtain a permit as required by this chapter.
The superintendent of light and power may refuse to issue a permit to such
person if, in his estimation, such person is not competent to install the
electrical work to be done under said permit applied for in accordance with the
regulations of this chapter. (Ord. 311, 7-17-1933; amd. Ord. 489, 9-17-1951)
4-5-5: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION, ISSUANCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or install in any building any
wiring, apparatus or fixture for the use of electric current for light, heat or
power, or to make any alterations or changes in, or additions to any wiring,
apparatus or fixtures for such use, without first obtaining from the
superintendent of light and power a written permit for such work. Such permit
shall state the kind of work to be done and the amount, and shall cover only
work so specified. The contractor or person shall submit a plan of the wiring
system to be followed, if deemed necessary by the superintendent of light and
power. Said permit shall also state the location by street and number of the
building where such work is to be done, and shall be valid only for the
location stated. Provided, however, that this section shall not be construed as
requiring a permit for ordinary repairs to old installations where the cost
value of such repairs, including material and labor, does not exceed eight
dollars ($8.00), but in all cases the superintendent of light and power must be
notified immediately upon the completion of such work for his inspection and
approval. There shall be no charge by the superintendent of light and power or
by any person delegated by him for permits issued or inspections made as in
this chapter required. (Ord. 311, 7-17-1933)
4-5-6: INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Inspection: It shall be the duty of the superintendent of light and
power to inspect or cause to be inspected any and all work for which permits
have been issued within forty eight (48) hours, exclusive of Sundays and
holidays, after time of notice, in writing by the person doing said work, that
same is ready for inspection. The work shall not be considered ready for
inspection and covering until all enclosed plumbing, steam heating, furnace
work and gas fittings are in place. Inspection shall, when necessary, be made
two (2) or three (3) times during the progress of installation; first, when
work is roughed in, and last, when work is completed; and it shall be the duty
of the superintendent of light and power, or person qualified and delegated by
him and his qualified representative, to indicate inspection of any work by a
tag or label, which shall show the date and whether first or final inspection
has been made. It shall be unlawful for any workman or other person to lath or
otherwise conceal any electrical wiring until such first inspection tag has
been placed.
   (B)   Examination Results: Upon application for inspection of any wiring
apparatus, or appliances as herein provided, the superintendent of light and
power shall, after such inspection and examination, issue a certificate showing
the results of such examinations and require the necessary corrections.
   (C)   Disconnections: If the said superintendent shall find any part of any
electric light or power wiring apparatus or fixtures in or on any building in
the city to have been installed without a permit or not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, or to be dangerous to life or property, he shall
have the right and power and it is hereby made his duty to disconnect such
defective wiring and place the proper seal upon same. He shall at the same time
give written notice of such disconnection to the owner or occupant of the
building. After such disconnected wiring, apparatus or fixtures have been put
in the condition required by this chapter, the seal or seals so placed thereon
shall be removed by said superintendent. It shall be unlawful for any person to
use any current in, through or by means of such disconnected wiring, apparatus
or fixtures or to attach other wires for the supply of current to such
disconnected wiring, apparatus or fixtures or to remove, break or deface any
seal so placed.
   (D)   Certificate Of Inspection: Upon the completion of the wiring in or on
any building, it shall be the duty of the individual doing the same to notify
the superintendent of power and light, who shall at once inspect the same and
if approved by him, shall issue a certificate of proper inspection which shall
contain the date of such inspection and an outline of the result; and it shall
be unlawful for any person to turn on or connect the current with such
installation until such certificate shall be issued; and it shall be unlawful
to make any change, alteration or extension in or to wiring of any building
after inspection without first notifying said superintendent and procuring a
permit therefor.
   (E)   Right To Enter Premises: The superintendent of power and light shall
have the right to enter any premises at all reasonable hours for the purpose of
inspecting the same. (Ord. 311, 7-17-1933)
4-5-7: ELECTRICAL INSPECTION FEES:
Electrical inspection fees shall be established by a resolution adopted by the
Burley city council. (Ord. 1160, 5-7-2002)
4-5-8: CERTAIN SPECIFICATIONS AND REGULATIONS ENUMERATED:
   (A)   Specification Of Service Wires: All service wiring entering buildings
shall be enclosed in conduit, which must be continuous from the service head to
the meter socket or base. The current carrying neutral wire shall be continuous
from the service head to the service disconnect. When aluminum wires are used
all connections and terminations shall be treated with an approved type
deoxidizer. All switches must be of the approved type. Panels must have branch
fuses accessible to the consumer. Departure from this rule may be made by
special permission only from the superintendent of power and light or the city
electrical inspector. (Ord. 806, 6-1-1970)
   (B)   Aluminum Wire Conductors Prohibited: The use of aluminum wiring and
conductors in any residential home, trailer house, commercial building or
industrial complex for electrical circuits served from distribution panels is
hereby prohibited in the city. (Ord. 826, 8-16-1971)
4-5-9: EXTEND ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION LINES:
   (A)   Permit Required: Any electrical public utility or electric cooperative
serving customers or consumers within the city limits before extending or
building any electrical distribution lines must first secure a permit from the
city council to use the streets, alleys and utility easements of the city after
making application to do so.
   (B)   Safety Requirements: All construction of electrical distribution lines
within the city limits shall meet or exceed the following safety requirements:
      1.   All primary voltage of six hundred (600) volts or more must be
installed on forty foot (40') poles to give adequate clearance for secondary
voltage, telephone cables and television cable.
      2.   Proper clearance between ground and lowest attachment shall be not
less than eighteen feet (18').
      3.   Transformers pole mounted as to attain not less than forty inches
(40") from primary voltage.
      4.   No transformers in a 3-phase bank will be mounted on a single pole
over fifty (50) kVA each.
      5.   Any transformer bank of over fifty (50) kVA will be on two (2) poles
and constructed with good grade of timber for maximum safety.
      6.   All poles within the city limits shall be placed within an easement
or right of way designated by the city; only one set of utility poles will be
allowed in any alley or utility easement. (Ord. 745, 12-20-1965)
   (C)   Franchise Fee:
      1.   A "franchise fee" of one percent (1%) is hereby assessed upon the
"gross revenues" of any "public service provider" received from selling or
providing electrical power and related services in the city of Burley, or other
public service providers not party to a preexisting franchise agreement with
the city of Burley, as those terms are defined by Idaho Code section 50-329A.
      2.   The mayor and city administrator shall present to the voters of the
city of Burley the question as to whether a franchise fee in the amount of
three percent (3%) should be assessed on public service providers receiving
gross revenues within the city of Burley for selling or providing electrical
power and related services, or other public service providers which are not
party to a preexisting franchise agreement with the city of Burley. The
election shall be conducted in accordance with chapter 4, title 50, Idaho Code.
In the event a majority of voters of the city voting on the question approve
the franchise fee of three percent (3%), thereafter the franchise fee and use
fee imposed by this subsection shall be three percent (3%) of gross revenues.
      3.   In the event a consumer located within the city of Burley purchases
electricity, natural gas or water commodities and services from a party other
than a public service provider, the city shall collect a user fee in an amount
equal to applicable franchise fees then in effect.
      4.   Franchise agreements which were executed and agreed to by the city
of Burley and a public service provider prior to the effective date hereof are
hereby ratified as agreed, and shall not otherwise be affected hereby.
      5.   The definitions and mandatory provisions of Idaho Code section 50-
329A are hereby incorporated by reference as though fully set forth herein and
shall be enforced as though part of this subsection. (Ord. 1182, 10-21-2003)
   (D)   Penalty: A violation of any provision of this section shall be a
misdemeanor and any person convicted of violating the provisions hereof shall
be fined in a sum not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) for any one
offense. (Ord. 745, 12-20-1965)
4-5-10: TAMPERING WITH METER:
When a consumer or customer is found to be using electricity ahead of the meter
or tampering with the meter, or is using electricity from one meter for a
purpose not authorized or applied for, or is tampering with the service wires
ahead of the meter, except by authority of the city council, the service shall
be disconnected and not reconnected until the service wire or wires from the
point of intake to the meter shall be placed in rigid metal conduit and latest
acceptable enclosed safety switch, with meter trim. (Ord. 311, 7-17-1933)
4-5-11: CITY NOT LIABLE:
This chapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility of any person owning, operating or installing any electrical
wires, appliances, apparatus, construction or equipment for damages to anyone
injured or damaged either in person or property by any defect therein; nor
shall the city or any agent thereof be held as assuming such liability by
reason of inspection authorized herein or certificate of inspection issued by
the superintendent of light and power. (Ord. 311, 7-17-1933)
4-5-12: ELECTRIC RATES:
Electric rates of the city of Burley, the services, limitations, and conditions
thereof, shall be established by a resolution adopted by the Burley city
council. (Ord. 1160, 5-7-2002)
4-5-13: NEW LARGE LOAD RATE:
In addition to any electric rate categories set forth by resolution of the
Burley City Council, there shall be a separate electric rate established for
new large loads (NLL). This rate shall be applicable to all single load
customers whose aggregate demands at one or more points of delivery on the same
premises exceed one thousand kilowatts (1,000 kW). This rate shall be a unique
rate designed to return to the utility all costs of service that may be fairly
and equitably apportioned to the customer using generally accepted rate-making
principles, based upon the customer's unique circumstances, service needs, the
impact to existing customers' rates, the price of Tier 2 (or other acquired)
power from BPA, additional transmission cost and the financial impact of the
NLL on the city electric utility. The rate and class for any NLL shall be
determined by resolution of the city council. In no event shall such rate cause
subsidization of such customer by other classes of customers nor cause
subsidization of such other classes by the large single load customer. This
rate shall be negotiated within thirty (30) days after the date the customer is
given written notice that the customer's demands have exceeded or will exceed
such amount, provided that, in the event the customer and the utility are
unable to agree upon a fair and equitable rate, the utility may unilaterally
implement such rate, using the principles stated above or restrict service
below the one thousand kilowatts (1,000 kW). This rate shall apply to any new
customer following the adoption of this section and to any existing customer
whose aggregate demands at delivery points to the same premises increase to
exceed one thousand (1,000) kilowatts after the date of adoption of this
section. (Ord. 1396, - -2022)
CHAPTER 6
MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Mobile Home Park Permits
4-6-3: Permit Application Fees, Conditions
4-6-4: Inspection Of Mobile Home Parks
4-6-5: Notices, Hearings And Orders
4-6-6: Exemptions
4-6-7: Mobile Home Park Standards And Requirements
4-6-7-1: Environmental Open Space And Access Requirements
4-6-7-2: Water Supply
4-6-7-3: Sewage Disposal
4-6-7-4: Electrical Distribution System
4-6-7-5: Service Building And Other Community Service Facilities
4-6-7-6: Refuse Handling
4-6-7-7: Insect And Rodent Control
4-6-7-8: Fuel Supply And Storage
4-6-7-9: Fire Protection
4-6-7-10: Miscellaneous Requirements
4-6-8: Applicability, Conflicts
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section:
BUILDING INSPECTOR, HEALTH AUTHORITY: Building Inspector shall mean the
Building Inspector designated by the City Council, and the Health Authority
shall mean the legally designated Health Authority of the City, or their
respective authorized representatives, and including the appropriate State
agency having jurisdiction of such matters.
DEPENDENT TRAILER COACH OR MOBILE HOME: A trailer coach or mobile home which
does not have a toilet and a bathtub or shower.
DRIVEWAY: A minor private way used by vehicles and pedestrians on a mobile home
lot or use for common access to a small group of lots or facilities.
MOBILE HOME: A manufactured transportable, single-family dwelling unit suitable
for year-round occupancy and containing water supply, waste disposal and
electrical conveniences and so designed that it is or may be mounted on wheels
and used as a conveyance on highways or City streets, propelled or drawn by its
own or other motive power.
MOBILE HOME LOT OR TRAILER COACH SPACE: A plot of ground within a trailer court
or mobile home park designated for the accommodation of one single trailer
coach or mobile home and for the exclusive use of its occupants.
MOBILE HOME PARK OR TRAILER COURT: Any plot of ground upon which sixteen (16)
or more trailer coaches, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes are located
and is owned by an individual, a firm, trust, partnership, public or private
association or corporation, and those parks exempt or to which a variance is
granted under other provisions of this Chapter.
MOBILE HOME STAND PAD: That part of an individual lot which has been reserved
for the placement of one mobile home unit.
PARK MANAGEMENT: The person who owns or has charge, care or control of the
mobile home park or trailer court.
PARK STREET: A private or public way which affords principal means of access to
individual mobile home lots or auxiliary buildings.
PERMIT OR LICENSE: A written permit issued by the Building Inspector permitting
the trailer court to operate under this Chapter, and shall include extensions,
alterations and construction within the mobile home park.
SERVICE BUILDING: A building housing toilet facilities for men and women, with
slop-water closet and laundry facilities and with separate bath or shower
accommodations and such other facilities as may be required under this Chapter.
SEWER CONNECTION: The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and
appurtenances from the drain outlet of the mobile home to the inlet of the
corresponding sewer riser pipe of the sewage system serving the mobile home
park.
SEWER RISER PIPE: That portion of the sewer lateral which extends vertically to
the ground elevation and terminates at each mobile home lot.
TRAILER: See definition of Mobile Home.
TRAILER PARK: See definition of Mobile Home Park Or Trailer Court.
WATER CONNECTION: The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and
appurtenances from the water riser pipe to the water inlet pipe of the
distribution system within the mobile home.
WATER RISER PIPE: That portion of the water supply system serving the mobile
home park which extends vertically to the ground elevation and terminates at a
designated point at each mobile home lot. (Ord. 857, 12-3-1973)
4-6-2: MOBILE HOME PARK PERMITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter, maintain, extend or
operate any mobile home park within the limits of the City unless he holds a
valid permit issued annually by the City Clerk, in the name of such person for
the specific trailer court construction, alteration, extension or operation
proposed. (Ord. 857, 12-3-1973)
   (A)   Trailer courts shall only be allowed in Residential Zone R-3 and
Commercial Zones C-1 and C-3, unless designated in the City by special permit
of the Planning and Zoning Commission and the City Council after public hearing
and a showing to the satisfaction of the Planning Commission that such action
will be compatible to the overall development of the area where the trailer
court is proposed to be constructed and will be in accordance with the general
purposes of the zoning ordinances 1 , and providing that before a permit is
issued by the Commission, there shall be on file with the office of the Clerk
the written consent of the owners of seventy five percent (75%) of the area of
all the property within the boundary line of an area determined by the
intersection of lines drawn three hundred feet (300') at right angles out from
and parallel to all sides of the tract whereupon such trailer court is to be
erected or occupied or property zoned for this specific purpose after a public
hearing.
Where dedicated street rights of way are encountered, they shall be included in
establishing the three hundred foot (300') boundary line around the tract but
further they shall not be included in any area calculation.
For a property that is partially within the boundary and partially outside the
boundary, only that area within the prescribed three hundred foot (300')
boundary is to be included in the percentage of area analysis.
The method as outlined herein, for establishing the three hundred foot (300')
boundary line applies for all the tracts of land whether they be rectangular,
curvilinear or irregular, and furthermore, the exterior boundary line may be
rectangular, curvilinear or irregular and will not necessarily be in conformity
with any surrounding lot, block and/or property lines. (Ord. 1086, 7-1-1996)
   (B)   In any area of the City regardless of the zoning designation, each
boundary of any trailer court as defined in this Chapter must be at least two
hundred feet (200') from the foundation of any permanent residential building
located outside the trailer court unless the trailer court is separate from
such permanent residential building by a natural or artificial barrier that
meets the approval of the City Council or unless seventy five percent (75%) or
more of the property owners of the residential buildings in the area within the
said two hundred feet (200') from such trailer court gave consent thereto by a
formal petition filed with the Planning Commission and City Council. (Ord. 857,
12-3-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 5 of this Code.
4-6-3: PERMIT APPLICATION, FEES, CONDITIONS:
   (A)   Contents Of Application: All applications for permits shall contain
the following:
      1.   Name and address of applicant.
      2.   Location and legal description of the mobile home park.
      3.   Complete engineering plans and specifications of the proposed park
showing, but not limited to, the following:
         a. The area and dimensions of the tract of land, and name
identification.
         b. The number, location and size of all mobile home lots.
         c. The location and width of roadways, walkways and easements.
         d. The location of water and sewer lines and riser pipes.
         e. Plans and specifications of the water supply, refuse and sewer
disposal facilities.
         f. Plans and specific   ations of all buildings constructed or to be
constructed within the mobile home park.
         g. The location and details of lighting, electrical systems, gas
lines, telephone lines, and all other similar utilities of intended services to
the park.
         h. All plans and specifications to indicate distances, depths,
setbacks and separations.
         i. Double frontage lots backing on streets shall be prohibited from
using exterior roadways for entrance or exit purposes.
         j. All lot dimensions are to be shown on all lot lines.
         k. Radii at curbs at street intersections at lot corners shall be
rounded.
         l. Exterior boundaries of plat drawings must be tied to at least two
(2) county or city monuments.
         m. All lots are to be numbered by progressive numbers in each block
separately.
         n. Hazards of facilities that may impair the safety of people and the
precaution taken to protect their safety.
         o. All plats shall be drawn to a scale of one inch to one hundred feet
(1" = 100') or larger.
         p. No unlawful activity will be permitted in the park. (Ord. 857, 12-
3-1973)
   (B)   Permit Fee: All applications for a permit shall be accompanied by a
fee established by a resolution adopted by the Burley city council. (Ord. 1160,
5-7-2002)
   (C)   Renewal Permits: (Rep. by Ord. 1074, 1-2-1996, eff. retroactive to 1-
1-1996)
   (D)   Change Of Ownership: Every person holding a permit shall give notice
in writing to the city council within twenty four (24) hours after having sold,
transferred, given away, leased or otherwise disposed of the interest in or
control of any mobile home park. Such notice shall include the name and address
of the person succeeding to the ownership for control of the mobile home park.
Upon application in writing for transfer of the permit, the permit shall be
transferred if the mobile home park is in compliance with all the applicable
provisions of this chapter and the transfer fee paid.
   (E)   Issue Permit:
      1.   When, upon review of the application, the city council is satisfied
that the proposed plan meets the requirements of this chapter, a permit shall
be issued. The same procedure shall apply in the case of a transfer.
      2.   No permit shall issue for a mobile home park unless the park
complies with all of the provisions of this chapter or unless a variance is
granted under the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Denial Of Permit: Any person whose application for a permit under this
chapter has been denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on the
matter before the zoning appeals board of the city under the procedure provided
by section
4-6-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 857, 12-3-1973)
   (G)   Term Of Permit: All mobile home permits shall expire on December 31,
each year. For those permits expiring December 31, 1974, the fee shall be one-
half (1/2) of the regular fee prescribed by this chapter. (Ord. 870, 5-6-1974)
4-6-4: INSPECTION OF MOBILE HOME PARKS:
The building inspector is hereby authorized and directed to make such
inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with this
chapter.
   (A)   Right Of Entry: He shall have the power to enter at reasonable times
upon any private or public property for the purpose of inspecting and
investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this chapter, and it
shall be the duty of the park management to give the building inspector free
access to all lots at reasonable times for the purpose of inspection.
   (B)   Inspect Registers: He shall have the power to inspect the register
containing a record of all residents of the mobile home park. The management
shall maintain an up to date register of all occupants.
   (C)   Conditions Found In Violation: Whenever, upon inspection of any mobile
home park, the building inspector finds that conditions or practices exist
which are in violation of any provisions of this chapter, the building
inspector shall give notice in writing in accordance with section
4-6-5 of this chapter to the person to whom the permit was issued that unless
such conditions or practices are corrected within a reasonable period of time
specified in the notice by the building inspector, the permit shall be
suspended. At the end of such period, the building inspector shall reinspect
each mobile home park and, if such conditions or practices have not been
corrected, he shall suspend the permit and give notice in writing of such
suspension to the person to whom the permit is issued. Upon receipt of notice
of such suspension, such person shall cease operation of such mobile home park
except as provided in section
4-6-5 of this chapter.
   (D)   Occupants To Aid Inspections: It shall be the duty of every occupant
of a mobile home park to give the owner thereof or his agent or employee access
to any part of such mobile home park at reasonable times for the purpose of
making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with
this chapter. (Ord. 857, 12-3-1973)
4-6-5: NOTICES, HEARINGS AND ORDERS:
   (A)   Whenever the city council determines that there are reasonable grounds
to believe that there has been a violation of any provision of this chapter,
they shall give notice of such alleged violation to the person to whom the
permit was issued, as hereinafter provided. Such notice shall:
      1.   Be put in writing.
      2.   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance.
      3.   Allow no less than five (5) days for the performance of any act it
requires.
      4.   Be served upon the owner or his agent as the case may require;
provided, that such notice or order shall be deemed to have been properly
served upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been sent by registered
mail to his last known address, or when a copy thereof has been posted in a
conspicuous place in or about the lot, mobile home or building affected by the
notice, or when he has been served with such notice by any method authorized or
required by the laws of this state.
      5.   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and with regulations adopted
pursuant thereto.
   (B)   Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection
with the enforcement of any provisions of this chapter may request and shall be
granted a hearing on the matter before the city council; provided, that such
persons shall file in the office of the city clerk a written petition
requesting such hearing and setting forth a brief statement of the grounds
therefor within ten (10) days after the day the notice was served. The filing
of the request for a hearing shall operate as a stay of the notice and the
suspension except in the case of an order issued under subsection (E) of this
section. Upon receipt of such petition, the city council shall set a time and
place for such hearing and shall give the petitioner written notice thereof. At
such hearing the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be heard and to
show why such notice should be modified or withdrawn. The hearing shall be
commenced not later than ten (10) days after the day on which the petition was
filed; provided, that upon application of the petitioner, the city council may
postpone the date of the hearing for a reasonable time beyond such ten (10) day
period when in his judgment the petitioner has submitted good and sufficient
reasons for such postponement.
   (C)   After such hearing, the City Council shall sustain, modify or withdraw
the notice depending upon his findings as to compliance or noncompliance with
the provisions of this Chapter, and of regulations adopted pursuant thereto. If
the City Council should sustain or modify such notice, it shall be deemed to be
an order. Any notice served pursuant to subsection (A)4 of this Section shall
automatically become an order if a written petition for a hearing shall not
have been filed in the office of the City Clerk within ten (10) days after such
notice was served. After a hearing in the case of any notice suspending any
permit required by this Chapter, or by any regulation adopted pursuant thereto,
when such notice shall have been sustained by the City Council, the permit
shall be deemed to have been revoked. Any such permit which shall have been
suspended by a notice shall be deemed to be automatically revoked if a petition
for hearing shall not have been filed in the office of the City Clerk within
ten (10) days after such notice was served.
   (D)   The proceedings at such a hearing, including the findings and decision
of the City Council, and together with a copy of every notice and order related
thereto shall be entered as a matter of public record in the office of the City
Clerk but the transcript of the proceedings need not be transcribed unless
judicial review of the decision is sought as provided by this Section. Any
person aggrieved by the decision of the City Council may seek relief therefrom
in any court of competent jurisdiction as provided by the laws of this State.
   (E)   Whenever the Building Inspector finds that an emergency exists which
requires immediate action to protect the public health, he may without notice
or hearing issue an order reciting the existence of such an emergency and
requiring that such action be taken as he may deem necessary to meet the
emergency including the suspension of the permit or license. Notwithstanding
any other provisions of this Chapter, such order shall be effective
immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed shall comply
therewith immediately but upon petition to the City Council shall be afforded a
hearing as soon as possible. The provisions of subsections (C) and (D) of this
Section shall be applicable to such hearing and the order issued thereafter.
(Ord. 857, 12-3-1973)
4-6-6: EXEMPTIONS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any house trailer on any
street, alley or highway or other public place or any tract of land owned by
any person, occupied or unoccupied, except as provided in this Chapter, except:
      1.   Where the City Council finds that compliance with provisions of this
Chapter would result in undue hardship, an exemption may be granted by the City
Council without impairing the intent and purpose of this Chapter. Deviations
from design, construction and installation provisions shall be brought into
compliance with this Chapter within a reasonable period of time based on
economic feasibility of improvement, nature, significance and extent of
deviation, depreciation of material, improvement and layout in use and other
similar factors, within a minimum period not exceeding six (6) months and a
maximum period not exceeding one year.
      2.   Any changes of ownership or discontinuance of residential use of any
lot now used for residential purposes by a mobile home for a period of thirty
(30) days, shall result in voidance of any permitted use of trailer houses
outside of a trailer park according to Section
4-6-2 of this Chapter.
      3.   Emergency or temporary stopping or parking for not more than five
(5) days, and subject to any other limitations imposed by any other ordinance
of the City.
      4.   Unoccupied mobile homes for demonstration and sales purposes and
temporary construction field offices in specified areas, and unoccupied
campers.
      5.   The storage of any unoccupied and uninhabited mobile home shall be
permitted to the rear yard of any premises; provided, that it does not extend
into any setback area, nor shall it be connected to a sewer, water, electricity
or gas, and that such storage is not in conflict with any other provision of
this Chapter or any other regulation of Cassia or Minidoka County or the City.
   (B)   Such period shall begin after the Building Inspector has given notice
of a certain and specific deviation from this Chapter to the person to whom the
permit or certification was issued.
   (C)   Gradual improvements to a higher degree of conformity shall be
permissive, provided that there shall be a complete conformity at the end of a
period prescribed by the City Council. (Ord. 857, 12-3-1973)
4-6-7: MOBILE HOME PARK STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
4-6-7-1: ENVIRONMENTAL OPEN SPACE AND ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
General requirements relating to the condition of soil, ground water level,
drainage and topography shall not create hazards to the property or the health
or safety of the occupants. The site shall not be exposed to objectionable
smoke, noise, odors or other adverse influences, and no portion subject to
unpredictable and/or sudden flooding, subsidence or erosion shall be used for
any purpose which would expose persons or property to hazards.
   (A)   Soil And Ground Cover Requirements: Exposed ground surfaces in all
parts of every mobile home park shall be paved or covered with stone screenings
or other solid materials, or protected with a vegetative growth that is capable
of preventing soil erosion and of eliminating objectionable dust.
   (B)   Site Drainage Requirements: The ground surface in all parts of every
mobile home park shall be graded and equipped to drain all surface water in a
safe, efficient manner, together with controlling grades and dimensions of all
tile lines, culverts, catch basins, drain inlets, turf and other masonry
gutters and curbs, final drainage disposal including any existing facilities to
be used.
   (C)   Park Areas For Nonresident Uses:
      1.   No part of any park shall be used for nonresidential purposes,
except such uses that are required for the direct servicing and well-being of
park residents and for the management and maintenance of the park.
      2.   Nothing contained in this Section shall be deemed as prohibiting the
same of a mobile home located on a mobile home stand and connected to the
pertinent utilities.
   (D)   Required Separation Between Mobile Homes:
      1.   Mobile homes shall be separated from each other and from other
buildings and structures by at least fifteen feet (15'); provided, that mobile
homes placed end to end may have a clearance of twelve feet (12') where
opposing rear walls are staggered.
      2.   An accessory structure such as an awning, cabana, storage cabinet,
carport, windbreak and porch which has a floor area exceeding twenty five (25)
square feet, and has an opaque top or roof, shall for purposes of all
separation requirements be considered to be part of the mobile home.
   (E)   Recreation:
      1.   In all mobile home parks there shall be one or more recreation areas
which shall be easily accessible to all park residents and containing space of
not less than five percent (5%) of the gross park area.
      2.   The area shall be designed appropriately for its intended use and
location.
   (F)   Storage Facilities: Adequate storage facilities in each mobile home
park shall be provided and such space shall not be less than five percent (5%)
of the gross park area. Storage facilities should be designed in a manner that
will enhance the appearance of the development and should be constructed of
suitable materials appropriate under the use and maintenance contemplated.
   (G)   Required Setbacks, Buffer Strips And Screening:
      1.   All mobile homes shall be located at least twenty five feet (25')
from any park property boundary line abutting upon a public street or highway
and at least twenty five feet (25') from other park property boundary lines.
      2.   There shall be a minimum distance of fifteen feet (15') between the
mobile home stand pad and abutting park street.
      3.   All mobile home parks shall be provided with screening such as
fences or sheltered plantings along the property boundary line separating the
park and adjacent uses.
   (H)   Park Street System And Car Parking:
      1.   General Requirements: All mobile home parks shall be provided with
safe and convenient vehicular access from abutting public streets or roads to
each mobile home lot. Such access shall be provided by streets, driveways or
other means.
      2.   Park Entrance: Entrances to mobile home parks shall be designed to
minimize congestion and hazards and allow free movement of traffic on adjacent
streets. No parking shall be permitted on the park entrance street for a
distance of one hundred feet (100') from its point of beginning, unless
approved by the City Council.
      3.   Internal Street: Surfaced roadways shall be of adequate width to
accommodate anticipated traffic, and in any case shall meet the following
requirements:
         a. All entrance streets and other collector streets with parking on
both sides, forty feet (40') (curb face to curb face) with a public right of
way of fifty feet (50').
         b. Minor streets with parking on one side, thirty two feet (32') (curb
face to curb face).
         c. Dead-end streets shall be limited in length to four hundred feet
(400') and shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround having an
outside roadway diameter of at least eighty feet (80') curb face to curb face
and a street property line diameter of at least ninety feet (90').
         d. Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles and no street shall intersect any other street at less than
eighty degrees (80°).
         e. Closed ends of dead-end streets and cul-de-sacs shall be provided
either with an adequate paved vehicular turning circle or at least eighty feet
(80') in diameter or with another adequate turning facility.
      4.   Trailer Parking:
         a. It shall be illegal to park a trailer coach less than fifteen feet
(15') from any street or highway right of way, or so that any part of such
trailer will obstruct any roadway or walkway.
         b. It shall be illegal to allow any trailer coach to remain in a
trailer court unless a trailer coach space is available.
         c. Each trailer coach space shall contain a minimum of:
            (1) Single unit, two thousand four hundred (2,400) square feet.
            (2) Double unit, three thousand six hundred (3,600) square feet.
            (3) Shall be at least thirty feet (30') in width and eighty feet
(80') in length, or large enough to accommodate the size trailer coach so
placed so that no part of the trailer coach will extend to within the limits
set forth in this Chapter.
            (4) Each trailer coach shall be placed as to provide the necessary
clearance as provided in this Chapter.
         d. Each trailer coach space in any trailer court shall be provided
with an asphalt or concrete paved area of at least one hundred eighty (180)
square feet at the entranceway into the trailer coach itself.
         e. No trailer is to be placed on too small a lot.
         f. No trailer shall be placed on any lot in such a manner as to
encroach beyond the setback provisions of this Chapter.
      5.   Car Parking: Off-street parking areas or on-street parking lanes
shall be provided for the use of park occupants and guests. Such areas shall:
         a. Be provided at the rate of two (2) car spaces for each mobile home
lot.
         b. Be located within a distance of two hundred feet (200') from the
mobile home to be served, unless other vehicular access is provided.
      6.   Required Illumination Of Park Street Systems: All parks shall be
furnished with lighting units so spaced and equipped with luminaries placed at
such mounting heights as will provide adequate levels of illumination for the
safe movement of pedestrians and vehicles at night to:
         a. All parts of the park street systems.
         b. Potentially hazardous locations, such as major street intersections
and steps or stepped ramps.
      7.   Street Construction And Design Standards:
         a. Shall conform to the minimum standards of the City, then in use and
as approved by the City Engineer.
         b. Intersections: Within one hundred feet (100') of an intersection,
streets shall be at approximately right angles, a distance of at least one
hundred fifty feet (150') shall be maintained between center lines of offset
intersecting streets, intersections of more than two (2) streets at one point
shall be avoided.
      8.   Fences; Location, Height And Density: In any yard adjacent to a
street and within ten feet (10') from the curb line to such street, fences,
walls and hedges may be up to forty two inches (42") in height. Fences located
in a yard area other than above described may be up to six feet (6') in height.
      9.   Measurements Of Height Of Fences: All fences along a public right of
way will be measured from and along the curb. All other fences will be measured
from and along the finished grade of the property along the fence.
      10.   Fences, Use Of Hazardous Materials: Fences shall not be constructed
of or contain any material which will do bodily harm, such as barbed wire,
electric wires, broken glass, spikes and any other hazardous or dangerous
material.
   (I)   Walks:
      1.   General Requirements: All parks shall be provided with safe,
convenient, all-season pedestrian access of adequate width for intended use,
durable and convenient to maintain, between individual mobile homes, the park
streets and all community facilities provided for park residents. Sudden
changes in alignment and gradients shall be avoided.
      2.   Common Walk System: A common walk system shall be provided and
maintained between locations where pedestrian traffic is concentrated. Such
common walks shall have a minimum width of five feet (5'), and shall be
constructed of concrete or asphalt, and be adequately striped to denote a
walkway.
      3.   Individual Walks: All mobile home stands shall be connected to
common walks, to paved streets or to paved driveways or parking spaces
connecting to a paved street. Such individual walks shall have a minimum width
of three feet (3').
   (J)   Mobile Home Stands: The area of the mobile home stand shall be
improved to provide adequate support for the placement and tie-down of the
mobile home, thereby securing the superstructure against uplift, sliding,
rotation and overturning.
      1.   The mobile home stand shall not heave, shift or settle unevenly
under the weight of the mobile home due to frost action, inadequate drainage,
vibration or other forces acting on the structure.
      2.   The mobile home stand shall be provided with anchors and tie-downs
such as cast-in-place concrete "dead men", eyelets imbedded and recessed, in
concrete foundations or runways, screw augers, arrowhead anchors or other
devices securing the stability of the mobile home.
      3.   Anchors and tie-downs shall be placed at least at each corner of the
mobile home stand and each shall be able to sustain a minimum tensile strength
of two thousand eight hundred (2,800) pounds. (Ord. 857, 12-3-1973)
4-6-7-2: WATER SUPPLY:
   (A)   General Requirements: An accessibly, adequate, safe and potable supply
of water shall be provided in each mobile home park. Where a public supply of
water of satisfactory quantity, quality and pressure is available at the site
or at the boundary of the site, connection shall be made thereto and its supply
used exclusively.
   (B)   Source Of Supply:
      1.   The water supply shall be capable of supplying a minimum of one
hundred fifty (150) gallons per day per mobile home.
      2.   Every well or suction line of the water supply system shall be
located and constructed in such a manner that neither underground nor surface
contamination will reach the water supply from any source.
      3.   No well casings, pumping machinery or suction pipes shall be placed
in any pit, room or space extending below ground level nor in any room or space
above ground, which is walled in or otherwise enclosed unless such rooms,
whether above or below ground, have free drainage by gravity to the surface of
the ground.
      4.   The treatment of a private water supply shall be in accordance with
applicable laws and regulations.
   (C)   Water Distribution System:
      1.   The water supply system of the mobile home park shall be connected
by pipes to all mobile homes, buildings and other facilities requiring water.
      2.   All water piping, fixtures and other equipment shall be constructed
and maintained in accordance with State and local regulations, approved by the
City Council and shall be of a type and in locations approved by the Building
Inspector of the City 1 .
      3.   The water piping system shall not be connected with nonpotable or
questionable water supplies and shall be protected against the hazards of
backflow or back siphonage.
      4.   The system shall be so designed and maintained as to provide a
pressure of not less than twenty (20) pounds per square inch, under normal
operating conditions requiring potable water supply and of the size required by
the City.
      5.   Fire hydrants shall be required to maintain safe standards of fire
protection, i.e., not more than five hundred feet (500') from any trailer
stand.
   (D)   Individual Water Riser Pipes And Connections:
      1.   Individual water riser pipes shall be located within the confined
area of the mobile home stand at a point where the water connection will
approximate a vertical position.
      2.   Water riser pipes shall extend at least four inches (4") above
ground elevation. The pipe shall be at least three-quarter inch (3/4"). The
water outlet shall be capped when a mobile home does not occupy the lot.
      3.   Adequate provisions shall be made to prevent freezing of service
lines, valves and riser pipes and to protect risers from heaving and thawing
actions of ground during freezing weather. Surface drainage shall be diverted
from the location of the riser pipe.
      4.   A shutoff valve below the frost line shall be provided near the
water riser pipe on each mobile home lot.
      5.   Underground stop and waste valves shall not be installed on any
water service. (Ord. 857, 12-3-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 8, Chapter 8 of this Code.
4-6-7-3: SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   (A)   General Requirements: All plumbing in the trailer court shall comply
with State and local plumbing laws and regulations and must connect to the
public sewer of the City, and shall conform to all rules and regulations of the
City 1 .
   (B)   All sewer lines shall be located in trenches of sufficient depth to be
free of breakage from traffic or other movements and shall be separated from
the park water supply system at a safe distance. Sewers shall be at a grade
which will insure a velocity of two feet (2') per second when flowing full. All
sewer lines shall be constructed of materials approved by the City, shall be
adequately vented and shall have watertight joints.
   (C)   Individual Sewer Connections:
      1.   Each mobile home stand shall be provided with at least a four inch
(4") diameter sewer riser pipe, the sewer riser pipe shall be so located on
each stand that the sewer connection to the mobile home drain outlet will
approximate a vertical position.
      2.   The sewer connection shall have a slope of at least one-fourth inch
per foot (1/4" per 1'), provided that the total distance shall not exceed
twelve feet (12'). The sewer connection shall consist of one pipe line only
without any branch fittings. All sewer connections shall have watertight
joints.
      3.   All materials used for sewer connections shall be semi-rigid,
corrosive resistant, absorbent and durable. The inner surface shall be smooth.
      4.   The riser shall be protected within a concrete curb or by a concrete
collar at least three inches (3") thick and extending twelve inches (12") from
the riser in all directions. The finished grade shall be sloped to divert
surface drainage away from the connection. The riser shall be protected from
heaving and thawing by backfilling the trench with sand from the trench bottom
to an elevation suitable to support the protective collar. The sewer connection
shall be equipped with couplings that will assure tight joints at the mobile
home and at the drain. The risers shall be plugged when the mobile home does
not occupy the space.
   (D)   Sewage Treatment And/Or Discharge: Effluents from sewage or sewage
treatment shall not be discharged into any waters of the State.
   (E)   Plumbing General Requirements: All plumbing within each trailer or
mobile home and all plumbing within the trailer court shall comply with the
standards of the State, and the City. (Ord. 857, 12-3-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 8, Chapter 7 of this Code.
4-6-7-4: ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM:
   (A)   General Requirements: Every park shall contain an electric wiring
system consisting of wiring, fixtures, equipment and appurtenances which shall
be installed and maintained in accordance with the Electric Code of the City
and such other regulations governing electrical distribution systems 1 .
   (B)   Individual Electrical Connections: Individual electrical connections
shall conform to the requirements of the Electric Code of the City. Each
trailer shall have its own electric service and no park permittee shall
distribute electricity.
   (C)   Electrical Charges: A deposit, in such sums as from time to time shall
be fixed by the City, shall be required of each individual trailer.
   (D)   Written Guaranty: In the event that the park owner shall file with the
City Clerk a written guaranty of all power bills within the trailer court, then
in such event no deposit shall be required. The City Council shall have the
right to accept or reject, based upon their investigation, any guaranties that
may be filed herein. (Ord. 857, 12-3-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 5 of this Title.
4-6-7-5: SERVICE BUILDING AND OTHER COMMUNITY SERVICE
FACILITIES:
   (A)   General: The requirements of this Section shall apply to service
buildings, recreation buildings and other community service facilities such as:
      1.   Management offices, repair shops and storage areas;
      2.   Sanitary facilities;
      3.   Laundry facilities;
      4.   Indoor recreation areas;
      5.   Commercial uses supplying essential goods or services for the
exclusive use of park occupants.
   (B)   Service Buildings: Every trailer court that accepts or accommodates
dependent trailer coaches shall provide adequate flush-type toilet fixtures and
laundry facilities. In no instance shall there be less than one laundry unit;
two (2) water closets; one lavatory and one shower or bathtub for women and one
shower or bathtub for men. The foregoing listed facilities shall be the minimum
required facilities to accommodate up to twenty (20) dependent trailer coaches.
One additional water closet for each sex shall be provided for every ten (10)
additional dependent trailer coaches. (Urinals may be substituted for 1/3 of
the additional water closets.) One additional lavatory for each sex shall be
provided for every ten (10) additional dependent coaches; and one additional
shower or bathtub for each sex, for every twenty (20) additional dependent
coaches. Dependent trailer coaches shall be parked not more than two hundred
feet (200') from the service buildings. There shall be one laundry tray for
every twenty (20) dependent trailer coach spaces. One shall be located at least
fifteen feet (15') or more from any trailer coach space.
   (C)   Structural Requirements For Buildings:
      1.   Buildings shall conform to all rules and regulations of the State
Building Codes and Building Codes of the City 1 . All portions of the structure
shall be properly protected from destructive elements. Exterior portions shall
be of such materials and be so constructed and protected as to prevent entrance
or penetration of moisture and weather.
      2.   All rooms containing sanitary or laundry facilities shall:
         a. Have sound resistant walls extending to the ceiling between male
and female sanitary facilities. Walls and partitions around showers, bathtubs,
lavatories and other plumbing fixtures shall be constructed of dense
nonabsorbent, waterproof material or covered with moisture-resistant material.
         b. Have at least one window or skylight facing directly to the
outdoors. The minimum aggregate gross area of windows for each required room
shall be not less than ten percent (10%) of floor space served by them. Such
openings shall be adequately screened.
         c. Have at least one window which can be easily opened or a mechanical
device which will adequately ventilate the room, such opening or openings shall
be adequately screened to prevent access of insects.
      3.   Toilets shall be located in separate compartments equipped with
self-closing doors. Shower stalls shall be of the individual type. The rooms
shall be screened to prevent direct view of the interior when the exterior
doors are open.
      4.   Illumination levels shall be maintained as follows:
         a. General seeing tasks, five (5) foot-candles.
         b. Laundry room work area, forty (40) foot-candles.
         c. Toilet room, in front of mirrors, forty (40) foot-candles.
      5.   Hot and cold water shall be furnished to every lavatory, sink,
bathtub, shower and laundry fixture, and cold water shall be furnished to every
water closet and urinal.
      6.   Adequate heating facilities are required to maintain a temperature
of seventy degrees Fahrenheit (70°F) during cold weather, and to supply a
minimum of three (3) gallons of hot water per hour per coach space during time
of peak demand.
   (D)   Fire Hazards And Smoke Nuisance: Barbecue pits, fireplaces, stoves,
incinerators and cooking shelters shall be so located, constructed, maintained
and used as to minimize fire hazards and smoke nuisance both on the property on
which used and on neighboring property. No open fire shall be left unattended.
No fuel shall be used and no materials burned which emits dense smoke or
objectionable odors. (Ord. 857, 12-3-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 1 of this Title.
4-6-7-6: REFUSE HANDLING:
   (A)   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the mobile home park
shall be so conducted as to create no health hazards, rodent harborages, insect
breeding areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
   (B)   All refuse shall be stored in fly-tight, watertight, rodent-proof
containers, which shall be located not more than one hundred fifty feet (150')
from any mobile home lot. Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and
capacity to properly store all refuse and shall conform to the State and local
minimum standards as prescribed by the City Council.
   (C)   Refuse collection stands shall be provided for all refuse containers.
Such container stands shall be so designed as to prevent containers from being
tipped, to minimize spillage and container deterioration and to facilitate
cleaning around them or as set forth by State and local trash collection
regulations.
   (D)   All refuse containing garbage shall be collected in accordance with
provisions of this Code 1 .
   (E)   When incinerators are used, such incinerators shall be constructed
only with approval of the Building Inspector, and must conform to the minimum
specifications of State and local regulations. Such approval shall be based on
a review of the plans and specifications for such incinerators and approval of
the site where they will be located. Such approval shall specify the type of
material which may be placed in the incinerators.
   (F)   Incinerators shall be fired only when attended by some person
specifically authorized by the owner or operator of the trailer court, and then
only during the daytime hours. Fire is to be extinguished at dusk.
   (G)   Trash incinerators shall not be used for the disposal of garbage.
(Ord. 857, 12-3-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9, Chapter 1 of this Code for garbage and rubbish regulations.
4-6-7-7: INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL:
   (A)   Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained free of insect
and rodent harborage and infestation. Extermination methods and other measures
to control insects and rodents shall conform with the requirements of the
health authority or other representative delegated by the City Council.
   (B)   Parks shall be maintained free of accumulation of debris which may
provide rodent harborage or breeding places for flies, mosquitoes and other
pests.
   (C)   Storage areas shall be so maintained as to prevent rodent harborage.
Lumber, pipe and other building materials shall be stored at least one foot
(1') above the ground.
   (D)   Where the potential for insect and rodent infestation exists, all
exterior openings in or beneath any structure shall be appropriately screened
with wire mesh or other suitable material.
   (E)   The growth of brush, weeds and grass shall be controlled to prevent
harborage of noxious insects. Parks shall be so maintained as to prevent the
growth of noxious and unsightly weeds, or those which could be injurious to
health. Open areas as well as areas about and under the trailer home shall be
maintained free of heavy undergrowth of any description. (Ord. 857, 12-3-1973)
4-6-7-8: FUEL SUPPLY AND STORAGE:
   (A)   Natural Gas System:
      1.   Natural gas piping systems shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing such systems.
      2.   Each mobile home lot provided with piped gas shall have an approved
manual shutoff valve installed upstream of the gas outlet. The outlet shall be
equipped with an approved cap to prevent accidental discharge of gas when the
outlet is not in use.
   (B)   Liquefied Petroleum Gas Systems: Liquefied petroleum gas systems shall
be installed and maintained in accordance with applicable codes and regulations
governing such systems; provided, if the City has not enacted a specific code
governing liquefied petroleum gas, the installation shall be designed and
installed in accordance with the appropriate provisions of the Installation of
Gas Appliances and Gas Piping (NFPA No. 54-1969; ANSIZ 21.30-1964), Storage and
Handling of Liquefied Petroleum Gases (NFPA No. 58-1969, ANSIZ 106.1-1970).
Three (3) copies of the foregoing nationally recognized Codes shall be on file
in the office of the City Clerk.
   (C)   Fuel Oil Supply Systems:
      1.   All fuel oil supply systems shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing such systems.
      2.   All piping from outside fuel storage tanks of cylinders to mobile
homes shall be permanently installed and securely fastened in place.
      3.   All fuel oil storage tanks or cylinders shall be securely fastened
in place and shall not be located inside or beneath any mobile home or less
than five feet (5') from any mobile home exit.
      4.   Storage tanks located in areas subject to traffic shall be protected
against physical damage. (Ord. 857, 12-3-1973)
4-6-7-9: FIRE PROTECTION:
   (A)   Mobile home parks shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and other
flammable material.
   (B)   Portable fire extinguisher rated for Classes B and C fires shall be
kept in service buildings and at other locations conveniently and readily
accessible for use by all occupants and shall be maintained in good operating
condition. Their capacity shall not be less than two and one-half (21/2)
pounds.
   (C)   Fires shall be made only in stoves, incinerators and other equipment
intended for such purposes.
   (D)   Fire hydrants shall be located within five hundred feet (500') of any
mobile home, service building or other structure in the park, measured within
the curb line. The trailer court shall be subject to the City Fire Prevention
Codes and authority 1 . (Ord. 857, 12-3-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 7, Chapter 3 of this Code.
4-6-7-10: MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Responsibilities Of The Park Management:
      1.   The person to whom a permit for a mobile home park is issued shall
operate the park in compliance with this Chapter and shall provide adequate
supervision to maintain the park, its facilities and equipment in good repair
and in a clean and sanitary condition.
      2.   The park management shall notify park occupants of all applicable
provisions of this Chapter and inform them of their duties and responsibilities
under this Chapter.
      3.   The park management shall supervise the placement of each mobile
home on its mobile home stand which includes securing its stability and
installing all utility connections.
      4.   The park management shall maintain a register containing the names
of all park occupants identified by lot number or street address, such register
shall be available to any authorized person inspecting the park.
      5.   The park management shall notify the City Clerk immediately of any
suspected communicable or contagious disease within the park.
      6.   The owner or operator of a trailer court may construct an individual
auxiliary storage building on each trailer coach space in the trailer court;
provided, the building has a maximum floor space of fifty (50) square feet, has
a maximum height of seven feet (7'), above the ground; has a minimum setback of
five feet (5') from adjacent trailer coach spaces; and has a minimum setback of
fifteen feet (15') from any public street or highway right of way.
   (B)   Responsibilities Of Park Occupants:
      1.   The park occupant shall comply with all applicable requirements of
this Chapter and shall maintain his mobile home lot, its facilities and
equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
      2.   The park occupant shall be responsible for proper placement of his
mobile home on its mobile home stand and proper installation of all utility
connections in accordance with the instructions of the park management, and
ordinances and regulations of the City.
      3.   Pets, if permitted in the park, shall be subject to the rules and
regulations prescribed by ordinance of the City 1 .
      4.   Skirting, porches, awnings and other additions shall be installed
only if permitted and approved by the park management. When installed, they
shall be maintained in good repair. The space immediately underneath a mobile
home shall be used for storage only if permitted by the park management. If
permitted, the following conditions shall be satisfied:
         a. The storage area shall be provided with a base of impervious
material.
         b. Stored items shall be located so as not to interfere with the
underneath inspection of the mobile home.
         c. The storage area shall be enclosed by skirting.
      5.   The park occupant shall store and dispose of all his rubbish and
garbage in a clean, sanitary and safe manner. The garbage container shall be
rodent-proof, insect-proof and watertight in conformance with existing
ordinances of the City.
      6.   Mobile homes or trailers from which the running gear has been
removed (wheels may be removed without violation of this provision) shall be
subject to all the building codes, electrical codes, plumbing codes and sewer
codes of the City. Any deficiencies shall prohibit the placement on any lot,
parcel or mobile home court within the limits of the City. (Ord. 857, 12-3-
1973)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 10, Chapter 3 of this Code.
4-6-8: APPLICABILITY, CONFLICTS:
In any case where a provision of this Chapter is found to be in conflict with a
provision of any other ordinance or code of the City, existing on the effective
date hereof, the provision which, in the judgment of the City Council,
establishes the higher standard for the promotion and protection of the health
and safety of the people shall prevail. In any case where a provision of this
Chapter is found to be in conflict with a provision of any other ordinance or
code of the City existing on the effective date hereof, which establishes a
lower standard for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
people, the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed to prevail and such
other ordinances or codes are hereby declared to be repealed to the extent that
they may be found in conflict with this Chapter. (Ord. 857, 12-3-1973)
CHAPTER 7
AIR CONDITIONERS
SECTION:
4-7-1: Drainage Requirements
4-7-1: DRAINAGE REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Drain Into Sewers: Every owner or occupant of any building within the
City who maintains an air conditioner or any other device which is operated by
water, or permits an accumulation of water, must provide a direct connection
from such air conditioner or such device to the sanitary sewer in the building
or to the storm sewer for the disposal of the excess water.
   (B)   Drain Upon Alleys: It shall be unlawful for anyone to discharge or
permit water to be discharged in and upon the alleys of the City, other than
that which is incident to the natural precipitation drainage from roofs. (Ord.
628, 3-3-1958)
CHAPTER 8
TOWERS, TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES, AND SMALL CELL TELECOMMUNICATIONS
FACILITIES
SECTION:
4-8-1: Purpose
4-8-2: Definitions
4-8-3: Development Of Towers
4-8-3-1: Development Of Small Cell Telecommunication Facilities
4-8-4: Setbacks
4-8-5: Structural Requirements
4-8-6: Separation Or Buffer Requirements
4-8-7: Method Of Determining Tower Height
4-8-8: Illumination
4-8-9: Exterior Finish
4-8-10: Landscaping
4-8-11: Telecommunications Facilities On Antenna Support Structures
4-8-12: Certification And Inspections
4-8-13: Maintenance
4-8-14: Criteria For Site Plan Development Modifications
4-8-15: Abandonment
4-8-1: PURPOSE:
The general purpose of this chapter is to regulate the placement, construction,
and modification of towers, telecommunications facilities, and small cell
telecommunications facilities in order to protect the health, safety, and
welfare of the public, while at the same time not unreasonably interfering with
the development of the competitive wireless telecommunications marketplace in
the City.
Specifically, the purposes of this chapter are:
   (A)   To regulate the location of towers, telecommunications facilities, and
small cell telecommunications facilities in the City;
   (B)   To protect residential areas and land uses from potential adverse
impact of towers, telecommunications facilities, and small cell
telecommunications facilities;
   (C)   To minimize adverse visual impact of towers, telecommunications
facilities, and small cell telecommunications facilities through careful
design, siting, landscaping, and innovative camouflaging techniques;
   (D)   To promote and encourage shared use/colocation of towers, antenna
support structures, and small cell support structures as a primary option
rather than construction of additional single use towers or support structures;
   (E)   To promote and encourage utilization of technological designs that
will either eliminate or reduce the need for erection of new tower or other
structures to support antennas, telecommunications facilities, and small cell
telecommunications facilities;
   (F)   To avoid potential damage to property caused by towers,
telecommunications facilities, and small cell telecommunications facilities by
ensuring such structures are soundly and carefully designed, constructed,
modified, maintained, and removed when no longer used or when such structures
and facilities are determined to be structurally unsound; and
   (G)   To ensure that towers, telecommunications facilities, and small cell
telecommunications facilities are compatible with surrounding land uses. (Ord.
1348, 11-21-2017)
4-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
 
                           Any building or structure other than a tower or
ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE: small cell support structure which can be used for
                           location of telecommunications facilities.
APPLICANT:                 Any person that applies for a tower or small cell
                           telecommunications facility development permit.
                           The process by which the owner of a parcel of land
                           within the City submits a request to develop,
                           construct, build, modify, or erect a tower or small
APPLICATION:               cell telecommunications facility upon such parcel of
                           land. Application includes all written
                           documentation, verbal statements, and
                           representations, in whatever form or forum, made by
                           an applicant to the City concerning such a request.
 
 
ENGINEER:          Any engineer licensed by the State of Idaho.
                   Any person with fee title or a long term (exceeding ten (10) years) leasehold to
OWNER:             any parcel of land within the City who desires to develop, or construct, build,
                   modify, or erect a tower or small cell telecommunications facility upon such parcel
                   of land.
PERSON:            Any natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or other
                   legal entity, private or public, whether for profit or not for profit.
SETBACK:           The shortest distance from the furthest protruding point of a building or
                   structure. including eves and footings. to a lot line referenced herein.
                   A monopole, utility pole, or light pole that may, in certain circumstances, be used
SMALL CELL SUPPORT to support the installation of a small cell telecommunications facility. Small cell
STRUCTURE:         support structures, including the height of any attached antenna, are limited to no
                   more than forty feet (40') in height.
                   Any facility established for the purpose of providing wireless voice, data, and/or
                   image transmissions within a designated service area with a smaller service
                   footprint than would be covered through the installation of a tower or macro cell
                   service. Typically, such facilities are intended to fill gaps in service areas
                   provided by larger telecommunication facilities. Small cell telecommunication
                   facilities:
                      (A)   Shall not be staffed.
                      (B)   May consist of up to an antenna, a support structure in certain
SMALL CELL         circumstances, and related equipment. An included antenna may not be larger than a
TELECOMMUNICATIONS maximum height of three feet (3') and a maximum width of two feet (2').
FACILITY:             (C)   Shall not have a backup generator, other power supply, or other equipment
                   that produces noise discernible above the ambient noise level as detected from any
                   adjacent property.
                      (D)   Shall comply with all Federal Communication Commission ("FCC") standards
                   and requirements, including compliance with the FCC's regulations regarding human
                   exposure to radio frequency emissions and transmit levels, site access, and
                   appropriate warning and/or other signage.
                      (E)   Shall be constructed and operated in a manner so as to not interfere with
                   public safety communications or with the reception of radio, television, or other
                   communication services.
 
 
                   Any tower, telecommunications facility, or small cell telecommunications facility
                   which is designed to enhance compatibility with adjacent land uses, including, but
                   not limited to, architecturally screened roof mounted antennas, antennas
                   integrated into architectural elements, and towers or small cell support
STEALTH:           structures designed to look other than like telecommunications towers and
                   facilities or small cell support structures. A tower or small cell support
                   structure such as light poles, power poles, and trees. The term stealth does not
                   necessarily exclude the use of uncamouflaged lattice, guyed, or monopole tower
                   designs.
                   Any cables, wires, lines, waveguides, antennas, and any other equipment or
                   facilities associated with the transmission or reception of communications which a
                   person seeks to locate or has installed upon or near a tower or antenna support
TELECOMMUNICATIONS structure. However, telecommunications facilities shall not include:
FACILITIES:           (A)   Any satellite earth station antenna two meters (2 m) in diameter or less
                   which is located in an area zoned industrial or commercial; or
                      (B)   Any satellite earth station antenna one meter (1 m) or less in diameter,
                   regardless of zoning category.
 
 
       A self-supporting lattice, guyed, or monopole structure constructed from
TOWER: grade which supports telecommunications facilities. The term tower shall
       not include amateur radio operators' equipment, as licensed by the FCC.
       (Ord. 1348, 11-21-2017; amd. Ord. 1414, 8-6-2024)
 
4-8-3: DEVELOPMENT OF TOWERS:
   (A)   A tower shall be a permitted use of land in Zoning Districts C-3 only.
   (B)   Towers are exempt from the maximum height restrictions of the
districts where located. Towers shall be permitted to a height of one hundred
fifty feet (150'). Towers may be permitted in excess of one hundred fifty feet
(150') in accordance with section
4-8-14, "Criteria For Site Plan Development Modifications", of this chapter.
   (C)   No new tower shall be built, constructed, or erected in the City
unless the tower is capable of supporting another person's operating
telecommunications facilities comparable in weight, size, and surface area to
the telecommunications facilities installed by the applicant on the tower
within six (6) months of the completion of the tower construction.
   (D)   An application to develop a tower shall include:
      1.   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner and lessee of
the parcel of land upon which the tower is situated. If the applicant is not
the owner of the parcel of land upon which the tower is situated, the written
consent of the owner shall be evidenced in the application.
      2.   The legal description, folio number, and address of the parcel of
land upon which the tower is situated.
      3.   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of all owners of other
towers or usable antenna support structures within a one- half (1/2) mile
radius of the proposed new tower site, including City owned property.
      4.   A description of the design plan proposed by the applicant in the
City. The applicant must identify its utilization of the most recent
technological design, including microcell design, as part of the design plan.
The applicant must demonstrate the need for towers and why design alternatives,
such as the use of microcell, cannot be utilized to accomplish the provision of
the applicant's telecommunications services.
      5.   An affidavit attesting to the fact that the applicant made diligent,
but unsuccessful, efforts to obtain permission to install or collocate the
applicant's telecommunications facilities on City owned towers or usable
antenna support structures located within a one-half (1/2) mile radius of the
proposed tower site.
      6.   An affidavit attesting to the fact that the applicant made diligent,
but unsuccessful, efforts to install or collocate the applicant's
telecommunications facilities on towers or usable antenna support structures
owned by other persons located within a one-half (1/2) mile radius of the
proposed tower site.
      7.   Written technical evidence from an engineer(s) that the proposed
tower or telecommunications facilities cannot be installed or collocated on
another person's tower or usable antenna support structures owned by other
persons located within one-half (1/2) mile radius of the proposed tower site.
      8.   A written statement from an engineer(s) that the construction and
placement of the tower will not interfere with public safety communications and
the usual and customary transmission or reception of radio, television, or
other communications services enjoyed by adjacent residential and
nonresidential properties.
      9.   Written, technical evidence from an engineer(s) that the proposed
structure meets the standards set forth in section
4-8-5, "Structural Requirements", of this chapter.
      10.   Written, technical evidence from a qualified engineer(s) acceptable
to the Fire Marshal and the building official that the proposed site of the
tower or telecommunications facilities does not pose a risk of explosion, fire,
or other danger to life or property due to its proximity to volatile,
flammable, explosive or hazardous materials.
      11.   In order to assist City staff and the Planning and Zoning Board in
evaluating visual impact, the applicant shall submit color photo simulations
showing the proposed site of the tower with a photorealistic representation of
the proposed tower as it would appear viewed from the closest residential
property and from adjacent roadways.
      12.   The Telecommunications Act gives the FCC sole jurisdiction of the
field of regulation of RF emissions and does not allow the City to condition or
deny on the basis of RF impacts the approval of any telecommunications
facilities (whether mounted on towers or antenna support structures) which meet
FCC standards. In order to provide information to its citizens, the City shall
make available upon request copies of ongoing FCC information and RF emission
standards for telecommunications facilities transmitting from towers or antenna
support structures. Applicants shall be required to submit information on the
proposed power density of their proposed telecommunications facilities and
demonstrate how this meets FCC standards.
   (E)   The Development Review Committee may require an applicant to
supplement any information that the committee considers inadequate or that the
applicant has failed to supply. The committee may deny an application on the
basis that the applicant has not satisfactorily supplied the information
required in this subsection. Applications shall be reviewed by the City in a
prompt manner and all decisions shall be supported in writing setting forth the
reasons for approval or denial. (Ord. 1348, 11-21-2017)
4-8-3-1: DEVELOPMENT OF SMALL CELL TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES:
   (A)   Land Use: The determination of whether a small cell telecommunications
facility is a permissible land use is to be made with reference to title 5 of
this Code.
   (B)   Preferred Order: Small cell telecommunications facilities are
preferred in the following priority order:
      1.   Roof mounted facilities.
      2.   Facade mounted facilities.
      3.   Facilities collocated on existing small cell support structures.
      4.   Facilities located on new small cell support structures.
   (C)   Burden Of Proof: The burden of demonstrating a proposed small cell
telecommunications facility is not possible as a roof mounted facility, facade
mounted facility, or collocated facility on an existing small cell support
structure is on the applicant. One or more of the following documentation shall
be provided as proof that development of a new small cell support structure is
necessary:
      1.   Letters from surrounding property owners that placement of the
facility on a building, either as a roof mounted or facade mounted facility,
will not be allowed due to the property/building owners' unwillingness to allow
a small cell telecommunication facility on their building(s).
      2.   Letters from the owners of existing small cell support structures
indicating an unwillingness to allow collocation.
      3.   Documentation that the proposed collocation on an existing small
cell support structure would be in violation of any State or Federal law.
      4.   Documentation from a qualified and licensed structural engineer
indicating the planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of
surrounding buildings and/or existing small cell support structures.
      5.   Documentation that the planned equipment would cause interference,
materially impacting the usability of other existing or planned equipment on
surrounding buildings and/or existing small cell support structures as
documented by a qualified and licensed engineer.
   (D)   Special Use Permit: No new small cell support structure or any small
cell telecommunication facility shall be developed within the right-of-way or
within five hundred feet (500') of an existing small cell support structure
without approval of a special use permit. If a new small cell support structure
is proposed to be developed and installed outside of the right-of- way, at
least five hundred feet (500') from all other existing small cell support
structures, and consistent with the setback and other development conditions of
this Code, or if a small cell telecommunications facility is proposed to be
installed as a building mounted facility, facade mounted facility, or a
collocated facility on an existing small cell support structure, such
development and installation may be approved by the City of Burley building
inspector.
   (E)   Roof Mounted: Roof mounted small cell telecommunications facilities
shall meet the following standards:
      1.   Roof mounted antennas shall only be allowed on structures with
commercial, industrial, or allowed nonresidential uses.
      2.   Roof mounted antennas shall only be located on a flat roof and shall
be screened, constructed, and/or colored to match the structure to which the
antenna is attached.
      3.   All roof mounted antennas shall be screened as viewed from the
farthest edge of the adjoining right-of-way.
      4.   All accessory equipment shall be enclosed in an equipment cabinet
and screened from view in the same manner as any antenna.
   (F)   Facade Mounted: Facade mounted small cell telecommunications
facilities shall meet the following standards:
      1.   Facade mounted antennas shall be allowed only on structures with
commercial, industrial, or allowed nonresidential uses.
      2.   Facade mounted antennas shall not extend above the wall line of the
structure.
      3.   Facade mounted antennas may project up to twenty four inches (24")
from the wall to which the antenna is attached, though may not encroach into
the right-of-way or any setback.
      4.   The antenna must be the same color as the supporting building and
any electrical and mechanical equipment must be included in an equipment
cabinet that is the same color as the supporting building so as to make the
antenna and related equipment as unobtrusive as possible.
   (G)   Support Structures: Small telecommunications facilities on small cell
support structures shall meet the following standards:
      1.   The antenna shall be either fully concealed within the small cell
support structure or face mounted not to exceed twenty four inches (24") from
the face of the small cell support structure.
      2.   No part of any antenna, small cell support structure, or related
equipment shall be permitted in any part of the right-of- way or in any
setback.
      3.   Any related equipment shall have a maximum footprint of ten (10)
square feet and a maximum height of two feet (2'). The maximum related
equipment footprint identified herein shall be the maximum footprint allowed
for all small cell telecommunication facilities on a single small cell support
structure, and any equipment shall be designed and installed to accommodate
collocated facilities' equipment within that footprint. Any variation from this
requirement shall require a special use permit.
      4.   All aboveground related equipment shall be enclosed or otherwise
screened with a sight obscuring fence in a manner to blend in with the
surrounding area.
      5.   The facility shall be painted a neutral, nonreflective color that
will blend in with the surrounding landscape and development. All metal shall
be corrosive resistant or treated to prevent corrosion.
      6.   All new small cell support structures shall be developed with a
stealth design, and shall be architecturally compatible with the surrounding
buildings and land uses in the zoning district, or otherwise integrated to
blend in with existing characteristics of the site.
   (H)   Application: An application to develop a small cell telecommunications
facility shall include:
      1.   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner and lessee of
the parcel of land upon which the small cell telecommunications facility is to
be situated. If the applicant is not the owner of the parcel of land upon which
the facility is to be situated, the written consent of the owner shall be
evidenced in the application.
      2.   The legal description, folio number, and address of the parcel of
land upon which the small cell telecommunications facility is to be situated.
      3.   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of all owners of other
small cell support structures within five hundred feet (500') of any proposed
new small cell support structure, with an indication of the distance between
the existing and the proposed new structures.
      4.   A description of the design plan proposed by the applicant in the
City.
      5.   If a new small cell support structure is proposed, in addition to
the documentation required in subsection (C) of this section, an affidavit
attesting to the fact that the applicant made diligent, but unsuccessful,
efforts to obtain permission to install or collocate the applicant's small cell
telecommunications facility on buildings and existing small cell support
structures.
      6.   A written statement from an engineer(s) that the construction and
placement of the small cell telecommunications facility will not interfere with
public safety communications and the usual and customary transmission or
reception of radio, television, or other communications services enjoyed by
adjacent residential and nonresidential properties.
      7.   In order to assist City staff and/or the Planning and Zoning Board
in evaluating visual impact, the applicant shall submit color photo simulations
showing the proposed site of the small cell telecommunications facility with a
photorealistic representation of the proposed facility as it would appear
viewed from adjacent roadways.
      8.   Applicants shall be required to submit information on the proposed
power density of their proposed small cell telecommunications facilities and
demonstrate how this meets FCC standards. Applicants shall provide a statement
regarding compliance with regulations administered by the FCC.
      9.   If a new small cell support structure is to be installed, the
applicant must submit a letter of intent committing the small cell support
structure owner and his or her successors or assigns to allow the shared use of
the small cell support structure.
      10.   All new small cell support structures shall be designed and
installed with sufficient structural integrity to support the applicant's
facility and at least one additional collocated facility. Such shall be
demonstrated through documentation by a qualified and licensed structural
engineer.
      11.   The City of Burley building inspector may require an applicant to
supplement any information that the building inspector considers inadequate or
that the applicant has failed to supply. The building inspector and/or City
Planning and Zoning Commission may deny an application on the basis that the
applicant has not satisfactorily supplied the information required in this
subsection. Applications shall be reviewed by the City in a prompt manner.
   (I)   Relocation:
      1.   In the event any utilities are required to be relocated in order to
accommodate the construction of a small cell telecommunications facility, the
relocation of those utilities shall be completed by the applicant at the
applicant's expense.
      2.   In the event an applicant applies for and is granted a special use
permit to construct a small cell telecommunications facility within the right-
of-way and, due to future needs of the City or another public agency within the
right-of-way, the small cell telecommunications facility is required to be
relocated, such relocation shall occur at the applicant's or his or her
successor's or assign's expense. Such allocation of relocation expenses shall
occur regardless of whether the same is stated as a condition in the special
use permit. (Ord. 1348, 11-21-2017)
4-8-4: SETBACKS:
   (A)   All towers up to one hundred feet (100') in height shall be set back
on all sides a distance equal to the underlying setback requirement in the
applicable zoning district. Towers in excess of one hundred feet (100') in
height shall be set back one additional foot per each additional foot of tower
height in excess of one hundred feet (100').
   (B)   All small cell support structures shall be set back on all sides a
distance equal to the underlying setback requirements in the applicable zoning
district. In the event a small cell support structure is taller than the
applicable setback requirements, the small cell support structure shall be set
back from any adjacent residential property at a distance at least equal to the
height of the small cell support structure.
   (C)   No roof mounted or facade mounted small cell telecommunication
facility shall encroach into any setback for the underlying applicable zoning
district.
   (D)   Setback requirements for towers and small cell support structures
shall be measured from the base of the tower or support structure to the
property line of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   (E)   Tower setback requirements may be modified, as provided in subsection
4-8-14(B)1 of this chapter, when placement of a tower in a location which will
reduce the visual impact can be accomplished. For example, adjacent to trees
which may visually hide the tower. (Ord. 1348, 11-21-2017)
4-8-5: STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS:
All towers must be designed and certified by an engineer to be structurally
sound and, at minimum, in conformance with the Building Code, and any other
standards outlined in this chapter. All towers in operation shall be fixed to
land.
The structural requirements of any small cell support structures are identified
in section
4-8-3-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 1348, 11-21-2017)
4-8-6: SEPARATION OR BUFFER REQUIREMENTS:
For the purpose of this section, the separation distances between towers shall
be measured by drawing or following a straight line between the base of the
existing or approved structure and the proposed base, pursuant to a site plan
of the proposed tower. Tower separation distances from residentially zoned
lands shall be measured from the base of a tower to the closest point of
residentially zoned property. The minimum tower separation distances from
residentially zoned land and from other towers shall be calculated and applied
irrespective of City jurisdictional boundaries.
   (A)   Towers shall be separated from all residentially zoned lands by a
minimum of two hundred feet (200') or two hundred percent (200%) of the height
of the proposed tower, whichever is greater.
   (B)   Proposed towers must meet the following minimum separation
requirements from existing towers or towers which have a development permit:
      1.   Monopole tower structures shall be separated from all other towers,
whether monopole, self-supporting lattice, or guyed, by a minimum of seven
hundred fifty feet (750').
      2.   Self-supporting lattice or guyed tower structures shall be separated
from all other self-supporting or guyed towers by a minimum of seven hundred
fifty feet (750').
      3.   Self-supporting lattice or guyed tower structures shall be separated
from all monopole towers by a minimum of seven hundred fifty feet (750').
Unless a special use permit is obtained, the minimum separation between small
cell support structures shall be five hundred feet (500'). (Ord. 1348, 11-21-
2017)
4-8-7: METHOD OF DETERMINING TOWER HEIGHT:
Measurement of tower height for the purpose of determining compliance with all
requirements of this chapter shall include the tower structure itself, the base
pad, and any other telecommunications facilities attached thereto which extend
more than twenty feet (20') over the top of the tower structure itself. Tower
height shall be measured from grade. (Ord. 1348, 11-21-2017)
4-8-8: ILLUMINATION:
Towers shall not be artificially lighted except as required by the Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA). Upon commencement of construction of a tower, in
cases where there are residential uses located within a distance which is three
hundred percent (300%) of the height of the tower from the tower and when
required by Federal law, dual mode lighting shall be requested from the FAA.
Strobe lights will not be used unless required by the FAA as the exclusive
requirement. If strobe lights are required, white strobes shall not be allowed
unless specifically required by the FAA. (Ord. 1348, 11-21-2017)
4-8-9: EXTERIOR FINISH:
Towers not requiring FAA painting or marking shall have an exterior finish
which enhances compatibility with adjacent land uses. (Ord. 1348, 11-21-2017)
4-8-10: LANDSCAPING:
All landscaping on a parcel of land containing towers, antenna support
structures, telecommunications facilities, or small cell telecommunications
facilities shall be in accordance with the applicable landscaping requirements
in the zoning district where the tower, antenna support structure,
telecommunications facilities, or small cell telecommunications facilities are
located. The City may require landscaping in excess of the requirements in this
Code in order to enhance compatibility with adjacent land uses. Landscaping
shall be installed on the outside of any fencing. (Ord. 1348, 11-21-2017)
4-8-11: TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES ON ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURES:
Any telecommunications facilities which are not attached to a tower may be
permitted on any antenna support structure at least fifty feet (50') tall,
regardless of the zoning restrictions applicable to the zoning district where
the structure is located. Telecommunications facilities are prohibited on all
other structures. The owner of such structure shall, by written certification
to the Zoning Administrator, establish the following at the time plans are
submitted for a building permit:
   (A)   The height from grade of the telecommunications facilities shall not
exceed the height from grade of the antenna support structure by more than
twenty feet (20');
   (B)   Any telecommunications facilities and their appurtenances, located
above the primary roof of an antenna support structure, are set back one foot
(1') from the edge of the primary roof for each one foot (1') in height above
the primary roof of the telecommunications facilities. This setback requirement
shall not apply to telecommunications facilities and their appurtenances,
located above the primary roof of an antenna support structure, if such
facilities are appropriately screened from view through the use of panels,
walls, fences, or other screening techniques approved by the City. Setback
requirements shall not apply to stealth antennas which are mounted to the
exterior of antenna support structures below the primary roof, but which do not
protrude more than eighteen inches (18") from the side of such an antenna
support structure. (Ord. 1348, 11-21-2017)
4-8-12: CERTIFICATION AND INSPECTIONS:
   (A)   All towers shall be certified by an engineer to be structurally sound
and in conformance with the requirements of the Building Code and all other
construction standards set forth by this Code and Federal and State law. For
new monopole towers, such certification shall be submitted with an application
pursuant to section
4-8-3 of this chapter and every five (5) years thereafter. For existing
monopole towers, certification shall be submitted within sixty (60) days of the
effective date hereof and then every five (5) years thereafter. For new lattice
or guyed towers, such certification shall be submitted with an application
pursuant to section
4-8-3 of this chapter and every two (2) years thereafter. For existing lattice
or guyed towers, certification shall be submitted within sixty (60) days of the
effective date hereof and then every two (2) years thereafter. The tower owner
may be required by the City to submit more frequent certifications should there
be reason to believe that the structural and electrical integrity of the tower
is jeopardized.
   (B)   The City or its agents shall have authority to enter onto the property
upon which a tower is located, between the inspections and certifications
required above, to inspect the tower for the purpose of determining whether it
complies with the Building Code and all other construction standards provided
by this Code and Federal and State law.
   (C)   The City reserves the right to conduct such inspections at any time,
upon reasonable notice to the tower owner. All expenses related to such
inspections by the City shall be borne by the tower owner.
   (D)   No applicant may turn on or begin to utilize a small cell
telecommunications facility until such facility has been inspected by the City
of Burley building inspector and has been determined to have been constructed
in compliance with this chapter and the other provisions of this Code. (Ord.
1348, 11-21-2017)
4-8-13: MAINTENANCE:
   (A)   Tower and small cell telecommunications facility owners shall at all
times employ ordinary and reasonable care and shall install and maintain in use
nothing less than commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing failures
and accidents which are likely to cause damage, injuries, or nuisances to the
public.
   (B)   Tower and small cell telecommunications facility owners shall install
and maintain towers, telecommunications facilities, small cell
telecommunications facilities and support structures, wires, cables, fixtures,
and other equipment in substantial compliance with the requirements of the
National Electrical Safety Code and all FCC, State, and local regulations, and
in such manner that will not interfere with the use of other property.
   (C)   All towers, telecommunications facilities, antenna support structures,
and small cell telecommunications facilities and support structures shall at
all times be kept and maintained in good condition, order, and repair so that
the same shall not menace or endanger the life or property of any person.
   (D)   All maintenance or construction of towers, telecommunications
facilities, antenna support structures, or small cell telecommunications
facilities and support structures shall be performed by licensed maintenance
and construction personnel.
   (E)   All towers and small cell telecommunications facilities shall maintain
compliance with current RF emission standards of the FCC.
   (F)   In the event that the use of a tower or small cell telecommunications
facility is discontinued by the tower or facility owner, the tower or facility
owner shall provide written notice to the City of its intent to discontinue use
and the date when the use shall be discontinued. (Ord. 1348, 11-21-2017)
4-8-14: CRITERIA FOR SITE PLAN DEVELOPMENT MODIFICATIONS:
   (A)   Notwithstanding the tower requirements provided in this chapter, a
modification to the requirements may be approved by the Planning and Zoning
Board as a conditional use in accordance with the following:
      1.   In addition to the requirement for a tower application, the
application for modification shall include the following:
         a. A description of how the plan addresses any adverse impact that
might occur as a result of approving the modification.
         b. A description of off site or on site factors which mitigate any
adverse impacts which might occur as a result of the modification.
         c. A technical study that documents and supports the criteria
submitted by the applicant upon which the request for modification is based.
The technical study shall be certified by an engineer and shall document the
existence of the facts related to the proposed modifications and its
relationship to surrounding rights-of-way and properties.
         d. For a modification of the setback requirement, the application
shall identify all parcels of land where the proposed tower could be located,
attempts by the applicant to contract and negotiate an agreement for
colocation, and the result of such attempts.
         e. The City may require the application to be reviewed by an
independent engineer under contract to the City to determine whether the
antenna study supports the basis for the modification requested. The cost of
review by the City's Engineer shall be reimbursed to the City by the applicant.
      2.   The Planning and Zoning Board shall consider the application for
modification based on the following criteria:
         a. The tower as modified will be compatible with and not adversely
impact the character and integrity of surrounding properties.
         b. Off site or on site conditions exist which mitigate the adverse
impacts, if any, created by the modification.
         c. In addition, the board may include conditions on the site where the
tower is to be located if such conditions are necessary to preserve the
character and integrity of the neighborhoods affected by the proposed tower and
mitigate any adverse impacts which arise in connection with the approval of the
modification.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements of subsection (A) of this section, in
the following cases, the applicant must also demonstrate, with written
evidence, the following:
      1.   In the case of a requested modification to the setback requirement,
section
4-8-4 of this chapter, that the setback requirement cannot be met on the parcel
of land upon which the tower is proposed to be located and the alternative for
the person is to locate the tower at another site which is closer in proximity
to a residentially zoned land.
      2.   In the case of a request for modification to the separation and
buffer requirements from other towers of section
4-8-6, "Separation Or Buffer Requirements", of this chapter, that the proposed
site is zoned "industrial" or "heavy industrial" and the proposed site is at
least double the minimum standard for separation from residentially zoned lands
as provided for in section
4-8-6 of this chapter.
      3.   In the case of a request for modification of the separation and
buffer requirements from residentially zoned land of section
4-8-6 of this chapter, if the wireless telecommunications towers and facilities
person provides written technical evidence from an engineer(s) that the
proposed tower and telecommunications facilities must be located at the
proposed site in order to meet the coverage requirements of the applicant's
wireless communications system and if the person is willing to create approved
landscaping and other buffers to screen the tower from being visible to
residentially zoned property.
      4.   In the case of a request for modification of the height limit for
towers and telecommunications facilities or to the minimum height requirements
for antenna support structures, that the modification is necessary to: a)
facilitate colocation of telecommunications facilities in order to avoid
construction of a new tower; or b) to meet the coverage requirements of the
applicant's wireless communications system, which requirements must be
documented with written, technical evidence from an engineer(s) that
demonstrates that the height of the proposed tower is the minimum height
required to function satisfactorily, and no tower that is taller than such
minimum height shall be approved. (Ord. 1348, 11-21-2017)
4-8-15: ABANDONMENT:
   (A)   If any tower shall cease to be used for a period of three hundred
sixty five (365) consecutive days, the City Council shall notify the owner,
with a copy to the applicant, that the site will be subject to a determination
by the City Council that such site has been abandoned. The owner shall have
thirty (30) days from receipt of said notice to show, by a preponderance of the
evidence, that the tower has been in use or under repair during the period. If
the owner fails to show that the tower has been in use or under repair during
the period, the City Council shall issue a final determination of abandonment
for the site. Upon issuance of the final determination of abandonment, the
owner shall, within seventy five (75) days, dismantle and remove the tower.
   (B)   To secure the obligation set forth in this section, the applicant
(and/or owner) shall post a bond in the amount of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) to secure the cost of removal of the tower. (Ord. 1348, 11-21-
2017)
TITLE 5
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ZONING TITLE, INTERPRETATION AND PURPOSE
SECTION:
5-1-1: Short Title
5-1-2: Interpretation And Purpose
5-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Title shall be known and may be cited as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE CITY
OF BURLEY. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
5-1-2: INTERPRETATION AND PURPOSE:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Zoning Title
shall be held to be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of a
comprehensive plan and designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure
safety from fire, panic and other dangers; to promote the health, safety,
morals and general welfare; to provide adequate air and light; to prevent the
overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; to facilitate
the adequate provisions of transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks and
other requirements. It is not intended by this Zoning Title to repeal,
abrogate, annul or in any way to impair or interfere with any existing
provisions of law or ordinances or any rules, regulations or permits previously
adopted, except that any structure or uses of land or buildings commenced after
the effective date hereof shall be subject to the provisions of this Title, and
where there is a conflict between any previous law or ordinance, rule or
regulation, the provisions of this Zoning Title shall control. (Ord. 853, 7-2-
1973)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms and words are hereby defined as
follows: words used in the present tense include the future; words used in the
singular number include the plural, and words used in the plural include the
singular number; the word "shall" is mandatory and not permissive; the word
"person" includes individuals, partnerships, corporations, clubs or
associations, or other similar entities. The following words and terms, when
applied in this title, shall carry full force and effect when used
interchangeably: lot, plot, parcel or premises; used, arranged, occupied or
maintained; sold or dispensed; construct, reconstruct, erect, alter,
structurally or otherwise, but not the term maintained or any form thereof. The
term "City" shall mean the City of Burley; the term "Council" shall mean the
City Council of the City of Burley, Idaho; the Planning Commission shall mean
the City of Burley Planning Commission. Other definitions are:
               A residential dwelling unit located on the same lot as a single-family dwelling unit,
ACCESSORY      either within the same building as the single-family dwelling unit or in a detached
DWELLING UNIT: building. Accessory dwelling units shall be developed in accordance with the standards
               set forth in this Code.
ACCESSORY USE  An accessory use or building is a subordinate use or building which is clearly incidental
OR BUILDING:   to and located on the same premises with the main use or building.
               As applied to a building or structure, is a change or rearrangement in the structural
ALTERATION:    parts or in the exit facilities, or an enlargement, whether by extending on a side or by
               increasing in height, or the moving from one location or position to another.
APARTMENT:     A suite of rooms, with cooking accommodations and sanitation facilities, used for living
               purposes. Each apartment shall be considered a dwelling unit.
               A single residential building containing more than two (2), but fewer than four (4),
BOARDING       sleeping rooms with shared or no cooking accommodations and shared sanitation facilities
HOUSE:         for the lodging of unrelated persons. Meals may or may not be provided. A boarding house
               is not open to the public or overnight guests.
               The total areas, taken on a horizontal plane at the mean grade level, of the principal
BUILDING AREA: buildings and all accessory buildings, exclusive of uncovered porches, terraces and
               steps.
BUILDING       The vertical distance measured from the natural grade level to the highest level of the
HEIGHT:        roof structure of flat roofs, to the deck line of mansard roofs, or to the mean height
               between eaves and ridge of gable, gambrel or hip roofs.
BUILDING,      A building or buildings, in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which it
MAIN:          is situated. In any residential district, any dwelling shall be deemed to be the main
               building of the lot on which the same is situated.
               A building used solely for the storage of motor vehicles and containing no enclosing
               walls, other than the wall or walls of the building to which it attaches, or other than
               the wall of the storage room as permitted in this title. The roof of the carport shall be
CARPORT:       supported on posts or columns, which posts or columns shall be not larger than one
               hundred forty four (144) square inches in diameter nor closer than four feet (4') on
               centers. A wall or fence not to exceed thirty six inches (36") in height may be erected
               within the carport and not to exceed fifty percent (50%) of the remaining area may be
               louvered, screened or latticed.
COMMERCIAL     A use operated for profit or compensation through buying or sale of commodities.
USE:
COUNTY:        The term County shall mean either Cassia County or Minidoka County, depending in which
               County the particular building or use is located.
               Any space other than a yard on the same lot with a building or group of buildings, and
COURT:         which is unobstructed and open to the sky above the floor level of any room having a
               window or door opening on such court. The width of a court shall be its least horizontal
               dimension.
               Care and supervision provided for compensation during part of a twenty four (24) hour
DAYCARE:       day, for a child or children not related by blood, marriage or legal guardianship to the
               person or persons providing the care, in a place other than the child’s or children’s own
               home or homes.
DAYCARE        A place or facility providing daycare for compensation for thirteen (13) or more
CENTER:        children.
DRIVE-IN       Any establishment where food or beverages are dispensed and where such food or beverages
RESTAURANT:    are consumed on the premises as well as within a building and taken out.
               A building designed as a single structure but containing two (2) separate dwelling units,
DUPLEX:        each of which contains its own separate cooking accommodations and sanitation facilities,
               has a separate direct access to the outside, and is designed to be occupied exclusively
               by one family.
DWELLING,      A building containing three (3) or more individual dwelling units, with separate cooking
MULTI- FAMILY: accommodations and sanitation facilities for each dwelling unit.
               A room or group of rooms within a building containing cooking accommodations and
DWELLING UNIT: sanitation facilities and occupied exclusively by one family. An apartment shall be
               considered a dwelling unit.
GROUP DAYCARE  A home, place, or facility providing daycare for seven (7) to twelve (12) children.
FACILITY:
               A single residential building in which eight (8) or fewer unrelated persons with
               disabilities or elderly persons reside and who are supervised at the group residence in
GROUP          connection with their disability or age related infirmity. Resident staff, if employed,
RESIDENCE:     need not be related to each other or to any of the persons with disabilities or elderly
               persons residing in the group residence. No more than two (2) of such staff shall reside
               in the group residence at any one time.
               A room providing, for a fee, sleeping accommodations and customary lodging services for
GUESTROOM:     transient guests, including maid service, the furnishing and upkeep of furniture and bed
               linens, and telephone service.
               A group residence in which the tenants or residents are persons who are under the
               supervision of the State Board of Corrections pursuant to section 20-219, Idaho Code, or
HALFWAY HOUSE: who are required to register pursuant to chapter 83 or 84, title 18, Idaho Code, or whose
               tenancy would otherwise constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of other
               individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial physical damage to the property
               of others. The residence may be operated by an agency or an individual.
               An occupation or profession which:
                  (A)   Is customarily carried on in a dwelling unit, or in an attached building,
               provided that no commodity is sold upon the premises.
                  (B)    Is carried on by a member of the family residing in the dwelling unit.
                  (C)   Is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling unit for
               residential purposes.
                  (D)   Conforms to the following additional conditions:
                     1.   The occupations or professions shall be carried on wholly within the principal
               building, or within an attached building.
                     2.   No one outside of the family shall be employed in a “home occupation”.
HOME                 3.   There shall be no exterior display, no exterior storage of materials, and no
OCCUPATION:    other exterior indication of the “home occupation” or variation from the residential
               character of the principal building.
                     4.   No offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat or glare shall be
               produced.
                     5.   The activity shall be limited to the hours between seven o’clock (7:00) A.M.
               and ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. A home occupation shall not include among others, the
               following:
                        (A)   Barbershops and beauty parlors.
                        (B)   Commercial stables, veterinary offices, hospitals and kennels.
                        (C)   Real estate offices.
                        (D)   Restaurants.
               A place for the treatment or care of human ailments, and unless otherwise specified, the
HOSPITAL:      term shall include sanatorium, preventorium, clinic, maternity home, rest home, home for
               the aged and convalescent homes.
HOTEL:         A building other than a boarding house as defined herein, which building contains more
               than five (5) guestrooms.
               The use of a lot, or portion thereof, for the storage, keeping or abandonment of junk,
JUNKYARD:      dismantled automobiles or other vehicles, or machinery or parts thereof including scrap
               metals, rags or other scrap materials.
               A parcel of land, or two (2) or more contiguous parcels to be used as a unit under the
LOT:           provisions of this title, as shown in the records of the County Assessor’s Office, and
               having its principal frontage on a street.
   Corner LoA lot abutting on two (2) or more intersecting streets where the interior angle of
               intersection does not exceed one hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
   Interior A lot having but one side abutting on a street.
Lot:
               The length or depth of a lot shall be:
                  (A)   If the front and rear lines are parallel, the shortest distance between such
               lines.
LOT LENGTH:       (B)   If the front and rear lines are not parallel, the shortest distance between the
               midpoint of the front lot line and the midpoint of the rear lot line.
                  (C)   If the lot is triangular, the shortest distance between the front lot line and a
               line parallel to the front lot line, not less than ten feet (10') long lying wholly
               within the lot.
                  (A)   Front: The front property line of a lot shall be determined as follows:
                     1.   Corner Lot: The front property line of a corner lot shall be the shorter of
               the two (2) lines adjacent to the streets as originally platted or laid out. Where the
               lines are equal, the front line shall be that line which is obviously the front by reason
               of the prevailing customs of the other buildings in the block. If such front is not
               evident, then either may be considered the front of the lot, but not both.
                     2.   Interior Lot: The front property line of an interior lot shall be the line
               bounding the street frontage.
                     3.   Through Lot: The front property line of a through lot shall be that line which
               is obviously the front by reason of the prevailing custom of the other buildings in the
               block. Where such front property line is not obviously evident, the Zoning Appeals Board
LOT LINE:      shall determine the front property line. Such a lot over two hundred feet (200') deep may
               be considered, for the purposes of this definition, as two (2) lots each with its own
               frontage.
                  (B)   Rear: The rear property line of a lot is that lot line opposite to the front
               property line. Where the side property lines of a lot meet in a point, the rear property
               line shall be assumed to be a line not less than ten feet (10') long, lying within the
               lot and parallel to the front property line. In the event that the front property line is
               a curved line, then the rear property line shall be assumed to be a line not less than
               ten feet (10') long, lying within the lot and parallel to a line tangent to the front
               property line at its midpoint.
                  (C)   Side: The side property lines of a lot are those lot lines connecting the front
               and rear property lines of a lot.
               The width of a lot shall be assumed to be:
                  (A)   If the side property lines are parallel, the shortest distance between the side
               lines.
LOT WIDTH:        (B)   If the side property lines are not parallel, the width of the lot shall be the
               length of a line at right angles to the axis of the lot at a distance equal to the front
               setback required for the district in which the lot is located. The axis of a lot shall be
               a line joining the midpoints of the front and rear property lines.
               A structure constructed according to HUD/FHA Mobile Home Construction and Safety
               Standards, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight
               (8) body feet or more in width or is forty feet (40') or more in length or erected on the
               site is three hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, which is built on a permanent
MANUFACTURED   chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling on a permanent foundation when connected to
HOME:          the required utilities, including the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
               systems contained therein, except that such term shall include any structure which meets
               all the requirements of this subsection except the size requirements and with respect to
               the manufacture to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by
               the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and complies with the standards
               established under 42 USC section 5401 et seq.
               A building or group of buildings containing guest rooms or apartments, each of which
MOTEL:         maintains a separate outside entrance, used primarily for the accommodation of automobile
               travelers and providing automobile parking space on the premises.
NEIGHBORHOOD   A neighborhood-serving retail store of three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet or
MARKET:        less in gross floor area, which carries a range of merchandise oriented to daily
               convenience shopping needs.
NONCONFORMING  A building, structure or use of land existing at the time of the effective date hereof
USE:           and which does not conform to the regulations of the district in which it is located.
             An institution for the care of children, of preschool age, the activity of which
NURSERY      shall be conducted between the hours of seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o’clock
SCHOOL:      (7:00) P.M. Even though some instruction may be offered in connection with such
             care, the institution shall not be considered a “school” within the meaning of this
             title.
PARKING LOT, A lot upon which cars are parked subject to remuneration.
COMMERCIAL:
PARKING LOT, A lot upon which cars are parked without charge.
PRIVATE:
PERMITTED    A use specifically permitted or analogous to those specifically permitted in all
USE:         established districts.
             A roof partially supported by columns, which columns shall be no larger than one
             hundred forty four (144) square inches in diameter nor closer together than four
PORCH, OPEN: feet (4') on centers, any portion of which extending into a front or side yard shall
             have no enclosure by walls, screens, lattice or other materials, which porch is used
             solely for ingress and egress, and not for occupancy as a sleeping porch or
             washroom.
             One which is restricted to the occupants of a lot or building together with their
PRIVATE USE: guests, where compensation for such use is not received, and where no business or
             commercial activity is associated with such use or building.
PROFESSIONAL The rendering of service of a professional nature by:
USE:
               (A)   Architects, engineers and surveyors.
               (B)   Doctors, dentists and all those persons who are licensed by the State to
             perform services about the human body.
               (C)   Lawyers.
               (D)   Certified public accountants and public accountants.
               (E)   Consultants and practitioners who are recognized by the appropriate
             above-licensed professions.
PROHIBITED   A use which is not specifically permitted or analogous to those specifically
USE:         permitted.
             The land dedicated, accepted or condemned for use as a highway for the benefit of
             the public at large or established as such highway by the right of prescription or
PUBLIC       common user, however, any such right-of-way as may be created after the effective
STREET:      date hereof shall not be considered to be a public street unless it is sixty feet
             (60') or more in width, except where streets are entirely local when the width of
             fifty feet (50') may be declared to be a “public street” if approved by the
             commission.
             A motor vehicle or trailer which is designed to include living or sleeping
RECREATIONAL quarters. Types of RVs include motorhomes, campervans, caravans (also known as
VEHICLE:     travel trailers and camper trailers). fifth-wheel trailers, popup campers and
             truck campers.
RESIDENTIAL  Shall be deemed to include single and multiple dwellings, hotels, motels and
USE:         trailer parks.
RESTAURANT:  An establishment other than a boarding house where meals which are prepared
             therein may be secured by the public.
             A single residential building containing more than two (2), but fewer than four
ROOMING      (4), sleeping rooms with shared or no cooking accommodations and shared sanitation
HOUSE:       facilities for the lodging of unrelated persons. Meals are not provided. A rooming
             house is not open to the public or overnight guests.
 
                   A place of general instruction in the arts and sciences including college, but
                   excluding institutions such as business colleges or vocational schools, or
SCHOOL:            whose primary purpose is the teaching of physical culture, music or dancing,
                   unless a home occupation, trades or industries, or the combination of any two
                   (2) or more of these.
SETBACK:           The shortest distance from the furthest protruding point of a building or
                   structure including eaves and footings to a lot line referenced herein.
                   A display for the purpose of making anything known and visible beyond the
                   boundaries of the property on which said sign is located. This shall not be
SIGN:              deemed to include such reasonable displays at churches, public or quasi-public
                   institutions nor street addresses, nor flags of any nation or political
                   subdivisions thereof.
SLEEPING ROOM:     A room, other than a guestroom, in which no cooking facilities are provided,
                   and which provides sleeping accommodations for no more than two (2) persons.
                   Any facility established for the purpose of providing wireless voice, data,
SMALL CELL         and/or image transmissions within a designated service area with a smaller
TELECOMMUNICATIONS service footprint than would be covered through the installation of a tower or
FACILITY:          macro cell service. Typically, such facilities are intended to fill gaps in
                   service areas provided by larger telecommunication facilities. Small cell
                   telecommunication facilities:
                     (A)   Shall not be staffed.
                      (B)   May consist of up to an antenna, a support structure in certain
                  circumstances, and related equipment. An included antenna may not be larger
                   than a maximum height of three feet (3') and a maximum width of two feet (2').
                      (C)   Shall not have a backup generator, other power supply, or other
                  equipment that produces noise discernible above the ambient noise level as
                   detected from any adjacent property.
 
                (D)   Shall comply with all Federal Communication Commission (“FCC”) standards
            and requirements, including compliance with the FCC’s regulations regarding human
             exposure to radio frequency emissions and transmit levels, site access, and
             appropriate warning and/or other signage.
                (E)   Shall be constructed and operated in a manner so as to not interfere with
            public safety communications or with the reception of radio, television, or other
             communication services.
               (F)   Shall be no greater than forty feet (40') in height, including the height
             of any support structure and any attached antenna.
               (G)   Shall be developed in compliance with title 4, chapter 8 of this Code.
             A use which shall be permitted in a zoning district only after review and approval
SPECIAL USE: by the Planning and Zoning Commission pursuant to section
             5-15-2  of this title.
             That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the
             surface of the next floor above it, or if there is no floor above it, then the
STORY:       space between the floor and the ceiling next above it. A basement, the ceiling of
             which is less than four feet six inches (4'6") above the grade level shall not be
             considered a floor. A mezzanine floor shall be considered a story if it exceeds
             forty percent (40%) of the area of the floor next below it.
             A structure containing three (3) or more dwelling units attached by common walls
TOWNHOUSE    where each dwelling unit (Townhouse Unit) is located on a separate lot. A
DEVELOPMENT: “Townhouse Unit” is defined as a dwelling including a minimum of one bathroom and a
             single kitchen, designed for or occupied as a unit by one family for living and
             cooking purposes and is located in a Townhouse development.
 
TOWNHOUSE    Any subdivision that includes lots for Townhouse Developments or Townhouse Units.
SUBDIVISION:
             Any lot, tract, or parcel of land, licensed by the City, and used or offered for
TRAILER      use in whole or in part with or without charge for the parking of occupied
PARK:        trailer coaches, used solely for living and/or sleeping purposes. The term
             “trailer” means mobile home where the context so requires. “Trailer park” means
             mobile home park where the context so requires.
USE:         The specific purpose for which a building or lot is arranged, intended, designed,
             occupied or maintained.
WHOLESALE:   The business of selling goods or merchandise to retailers or jobbers for resale
             to the ultimate consumer.
             A required space other than a court on any lot, unoccupied by a structure and
             unobstructed above or below ground level except as otherwise provided herein, and
             measured as the minimum horizontal distance from the furthest protruding point of
             a building or structure, including eaves and footings, to the property line
YARD:        opposite such building or structure; provided, however, that where a future
             street or road line is established by the provisions of this title or the Master
             Transportation Plan for any street or road bounding the lot, then such
             measurements shall be taken from the building or structure, including eaves and
             footings to such future street or road line.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the front of a lot.
YARD, REAR:  A yard extending across the rear of a lot.
YARD, SIDE:  Any yard that lies between front and rear yard. (Ord. 1348, 11-21-2017; amd. Ord.
             1371, 3-17-2020; Ord. 1414, 8-6-2024)
 
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS; MAPS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Districts Designated
5-3-2: Maps And Boundaries
5-3-3: Interpretation Of District Boundaries
5-3-1: DISTRICTS DESIGNATED:
For the purpose of this title, the City is hereby divided into use districts as
follows:
R-1 District  Restricted Single-Family Residence
R-2 District  Limited Multiple Residence
R-2A District Limited Multiple Residence and Neighborhood Services
R-3 District  General Multiple Residence
R-4 District  Mixed Multiple Residence and Hobby Livestock
C-1 District  Neighborhood Commercial
C-2 District  Commercial Highway
C-3 District  Light Industrial Commercial
S-1 District  All other categories
 
(Ord. 853, 7-2-1973; amd. Ord. 1194, 11-15-2005; Ord. 1340, 9-19-2017)
5-3-2: MAPS AND BOUNDARIES:
The boundaries of the districts as designated in section
5-3-1 of this chapter are hereby established as shown on the map entitled "the
zoning map of the City of Burley" on file in the Office of the City Clerk,
which map, and all explanatory matters thereon, shall be deemed to accompany,
be and is hereby made a part of this title. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
5-3-3: INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid
districts as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Where Boundaries Approximately Follow Streets, Alleys Or Highways:
Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
centerline or street line of streets, the centerline or alley line of alleys,
or the centerline or right-of-way line of highways, such lines shall be
construed to be such district boundaries.
   (B)   Where Boundaries Parallel Street Lines, Alley Lines Or Highway Right-
Of-Way Lines: Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are
approximately parallel to the centerline or street lines of streets, the
centerline or alley lines of alleys, or the centerlines or right-of-way lines
of highways, such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel
thereto and at such distance therefrom as indicated on the zoning map. If no
distance is given, such dimension shall be determined by the use of the scale
shown on said zoning map.
   (C)   Where Boundaries Approximately Follow Lot Lines: Where district
boundaries are indicated as approximately following lot lines, such lot lines
shall be construed to be said boundaries.
   (D)   Where The Boundary Follows A Railroad Line: Where the boundary of a
district follows a railroad line, such boundary shall be deemed to be located
midway between the main tracks of said railroad line.
   (E)   Where The Boundary Follows A Body Of Water: Where the boundary of a
district follows a stream, lake or other body of water, said boundary line
shall be construed to be at the limit of the jurisdiction of the City, unless
otherwise indicated.
   (F)   Submerged Areas Not Included In District: All areas within the
corporate limits of the City which are under water and are not shown as
included within any district shall be subject to all of the regulations of the
district which immediately adjoins the water area. If the water area adjoins
two (2) or more districts, the boundaries of each district shall be construed
to extend into the water area in a straight line until they meet the other
district.
   (G)   District Regulations Apply To Schools, Parks, Etc.: Any areas shown on
the zoning map as park, playground, school, cemetery, water, street or right-
of-way shall be subject to the zoning regulations of the district in which they
are located. In case of doubt, the zoning regulations of the most restricted
adjoining district shall govern.
   (H)   Where Property Has Not Been Included In District: In every case where
property has not been specifically included within a district, or where
territory has become a part of the City by annexation, the same shall
automatically be classed as lying and being in the R-1 Residential District
until such classifications shall have been changed by an amendment to this
title, as provided by law.
   (I)   Vacation Of Public Ways: Whenever any street, alley or other public
way is vacated in the manner authorized by law, the zoning district adjoining
each side of such street, alley or public way shall be automatically extended
to the center of such vacation and all area included in the vacation shall
thence and henceforth be subject to all regulations of the extended districts.
(Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Effective Establishment Of Districts
5-4-2: Transition Zoning
5-4-3: Supplementary Regulations; Residence Districts
5-4-4: Detached Accessory Buildings
5-4-5: Projections In Yards And Courts
5-4-6: Exception To Height Limits
5-4-7: Courts
5-4-8: Fences
5-4-9: Swimming Pools
5-4-10: Future Width Lines On Arterial Streets
5-4-11: Public Buildings
5-4-12: Annexations
5-4-13: Warehousing
5-4-14: Manufactured Housing
5-4-1: EFFECTIVE ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS:
Except as provided in this Title:
   (A)   Conformity Of Buildings And Land: No building, structure or premises
shall be used or occupied, and no building or part thereof or other structure
shall be erected, raised, moved, placed, reconstructed, extended, enlarged or
altered except in conformity with the regulations herein specified by the
district, as shown on the Official Map, in which it is located.
   (B)   Conformity Of Buildings: No building, structure or premises shall be
erected, altered or used so as to produce greater heights, smaller yards or
less unoccupied areas, and no building shall be occupied by more families than
prescribed for such building, structure or premises for the district in which
it is located.
   (C)   Conformity Of Open Space: No yard, court or open space, or part
thereof, shall be included as part of the yard, court or open space also
required for any other building, structure or dwelling under this Title.
5-4-2: TRANSITION ZONING:
   (A)   Lots In Two Districts: Where a district boundary line as established
in this Title or as shown on the Zoning Map divides a lot which was in single
ownership and of record at the time of the effective date hereof, the use
thereon and the other district requirements applying to the least restricted
portion of such lot under this Title shall be considered as extending to the
entire lot; provided, the more restricted portion of such lot is entirely
within fifty feet (50') of said dividing district boundary line. The use so
extended shall be deemed to be conforming. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
   (B)   Lots In Residence Zone Adjacent To Business Or Industrial Zone: The
first residentially zoned lot having a side yard adjacent to any C or S
District may be utilized in accordance with the use requirements of the next
least restricted residential zone, provided that the area, height and other
restrictions of the zone district in which it is located are met. In addition,
any single adjacent structure located or built upon the first fifty feet (50')
of such a residentially zoned lot with a side yard adjoining a C or S District
may be used for offices for groups of doctors, dentists, architects, engineers
or attorneys; clinics with private dispensaries; and insurance, institutional
and real estate offices. In addition, such other semi-commercial users as
determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission 1  to be of similar character
are permitted. Such structure or use must comply with the area, height and
other restrictions of the zone in which it is located.
   (C)   Lots In Business Or Industrial Districts Adjacent To Residential Zone:
Where a lot in a business or industrial district abuts a lot in a residential
district there shall be provided along such abutting lines a yard equal in
width or depth to that required in the residential district (or specified
dimensions or percentages of lot width or depth). In lieu of a yard, a fence or
other suitable screen, approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission, may be
used. (Ord. 961, 2-17-1981)
   (D)   Front Yard Transition: Where the frontage on one side of a street
between two (2) intersecting streets is zoned partly as residential and partly
as business or industrial, the front yard depth in the business or industrial
district shall be equal to the required front yard depth of the residential
district (or other desired proportion).
   (E)   Corner Lot Transition: On every corner lot in a residential district,
there shall be provided on the side street a side yard equal in depth to the
required front yard depth on said side street. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 15 of this Title.
5-4-3: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS; RESIDENCE DISTRICTS:
Notwithstanding any specific regulations in this title enumerated for each
district, the following general requirements, where applicable, shall apply:
   (A)   No lot shall hereafter be so reduced in area after a building permit
is granted as to cause any open space required by this zoning title to be less
in any dimension than is herein required for the district and lot in question.
   (B)   Every lot shall have frontage on a dedicated public street.
   (C)   Any parcel of land having an area or average width less than that
required by the provisions of this zoning title for a lot in the district in
which such parcel is situated, and which parcel was legally established at the
time it came under the provisions of this zoning title, shall be deemed to be a
lot and may be used as a building site; provided, however, that all other
regulations for the district shall be complied with.
   (D)   No lot shall be divided in such a way that any division of such a lot
shall contain more dwelling units than are permitted by the zoning title of the
district in which said lot is situated.
   (E)   Where two (2) or more lots are used as a building site and where main
buildings cross lot lines, then the entire area shall be considered as one lot,
except that the front of the parcel shall be determined to be the front of the
individual lots as originally platted or laid out.
   (F)   The fact that a lot or lots as originally platted or laid out have
been divided into other lots after coming under the provisions of this zoning
title shall not allow deviation from the provisions of this zoning title with
respect to the lots as originally platted or laid out. This subsection shall
not apply to lots of townhouse developments.
   (G)   If, after dividing the area of a lot by the zoning requirements for
the district in which the lot is situated, there is a remainder which is less
than that required for a unit, but more than eighty percent (80%) of that
amount, then one additional dwelling unit may be built on such lot.
   (H)   In any district, any parcel of land shown as a lot on the plat of a
subdivision duly recorded in the office of the county recorder, and where the
side boundary lines are not parallel, may have a frontage of less than the
sixty feet (60') otherwise required; provided, that the width of such parcel
measured along a line at right angles to the center axis thereof and at a
distance from the front lot line equal to the required front yard measurement,
shall not be less than sixty feet (60').
   (I)   A large lot or parcel of land may be subdivided into smaller lots,
provided such smaller lots conform to the lot size limitations of the district
in which the lots are situated; however, if a parcel is divided into more than
four (4) lots, the building inspector shall not issue permits for same unless a
recorded plat of such subdivision shall be filed.
   (J)   Where future width lines have been established, all required yards
shall be measured from such future width lines. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973; amd. Ord.
1371, 3-17-2020)
5-4-4: DETACHED ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
Detached accessory buildings incidental to residences in all zoning districts
shall be placed in the required yard and shall conform to the following
additional regulations:
   (A)   On a through lot no detached accessory building or swimming pool shall
be erected or altered so as to encroach upon the required front yard adjacent
to the nearest street.
   (B)   On a corner lot contiguous to an interior lot, no detached accessory
building shall be erected or altered so as to come closer to the street side of
the corner lot than the front yard required on the interior lot; provided,
however, such accessory building need not be farther from the street side
property line than one-half (1/2) the corner lot's width.
   (C)   On any other corner lot, no detached accessory building shall be
closer to the side street property line than any future width line, if
established for that street.
   (D)   No detached accessory building shall be nearer to the side line of the
front half of any adjoining lot than a distance equal to the width of the side
yard required on the lot on which such accessory building is located.
   (E)   No detached accessory building designed or used for sleeping or living
purposes shall be closer to any line than is required for a dwelling unit on
the same lot.
   (F)   Any detached accessory building not in the rear one-fourth (1/4) of
the lot shall maintain such yard as are required for a dwelling unit on the
same lot. All detached accessory buildings shall maintain setbacks consistent
with the setback requirements of any building code currently adopted and
enforced by the city of Burley.
   (G)   Notwithstanding any of the requirements of this section, the foregoing
regulations shall not require that any detached accessory building shall be
more than seventy five feet (75') from any street line bounding the lot.
   (H)   No detached accessory building shall be erected more than twenty seven
feet (27') in height.
   (I)   A fallout or blast shelter shall be permitted on any part of a front
or side yard or a lot not less than five feet (5') from any lot line; provided,
that the same does not extend over three feet (3') high above the average
natural grade of the front or side yard, and it may be connected underground to
the principal building. Said shelter shall be permitted in the rear yard
subject to the provisions applying to any other accessory use or building
therein, except that said shelter in the rear yard may be connected to the
principal building either underground or aboveground. (Ord. 1299, 8-20-2013)
5-4-5: PROJECTIONS IN YARDS AND COURTS:
   (A)   In any district, no dwelling unit shall be closer to any other
building on the same lot than that distance allowed under section
5-4-7 of this chapter.
   (B)   In any district except R-1 districts, an attached open porch or open
carport may project into any side yard, other than the side yard on the street
side of a corner lot, if it does not come nearer to the side lot line than
three feet (3'). A three foot (3') side setback is permitted for the erection
of not more than one enclosed storage room contained with an open carport in
each of such yards, other than the side yard on the street side of a corner lot
subject to the following stipulations:
      1.   The side dimension of the storage room parallel to a side lot line
shall be not more than eight feet (8').
      2.   There shall be no entrance between the storage room and the main
building.
   (C)   Cornices and eaves may project not more than three feet (3') over any
required yard providing they come no closer than three feet (3') from a
property line.
   (D)   Awnings, suspended or roof evaporative coolers or window type
refrigeration coolers, open fire balconies and fire balconies and fire escape
stairs may project not more than five feet (5') over any required yard,
provided they come no closer than three feet (3') from a property line.
   (E)   A chimney may project not more than eighteen inches (18") into any
required yard if it is not more than six feet (6') long measured in a direction
parallel to the nearest property line.
   (F)   Refrigeration units, other than window type, may be placed in any
required rear yard, provided that they shall not be placed closer than seven
feet (7') to any lot line. Said units may be installed at the side of a
building, provided that no portion of the installation shall come closer than
seven feet (7') to the side lot line and further provided that said unit shall
exhaust up or to the rear.
   (G)   An attached open porch, open carport or open balcony may project into
the rear yard; provided, it does not come nearer to a common rear lot line than
three feet (3'), except on a through lot as provided for in subsection
5-4-4(A) of this chapter where a rear alley exists, this projection may extend
to the rear lot line or to within eight feet (8') or ten feet (10') of what
would be the centerline of a full sixteen foot (16') or twenty foot (20') wide
alley where only a one-half (1/2) or partial alley exists. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
5-4-6: EXCEPTION TO HEIGHT LIMITS:
The height limits imposed in the different districts of this Zoning Title do
not apply to church spires, signs, belfries, cupolas, domes, monuments, water
towers, chimneys, flues, vents, flagpoles, radio and television towers, fire
lookout towers or airway beacons; nor to any bulkhead, elevator or similar
structure extending above the roof and not occupying an aggregate area greater
than forty percent (40%) of the roof area. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
5-4-7: COURTS:
   (A)   When Required: Whenever any room in which persons congregate, live,
sleep or work, except storage rooms, cannot be reasonably lighted and
ventilated, a court shall be provided to afford natural light and ventilation
in such room, provided however, artificially approved lighting and ventilation
may be substituted for natural light and ventilation.
   (B)   Specifications:
      1.   No court shall have a top opening which is less than its width.
      2.   No court shall extend below the lowest story which it is required to
serve.
   (C)   Required Width: Width of courts shall not be less than as follows:
Number Of Stories Above  Width  Area
The Bottom Of The Court  (Feet) (Sq. Ft.)
Number Of Stories Above  Width  Area
The Bottom Of The Court  (Feet) (Sq. Ft.)
1                        6      100
2                        6      120
3                        8      160
4                        8      160
5                        12     260
6                        16     400
7                        20     625
8                        24     840
 
(Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
5-4-8: FENCES:
   (A)   In all Residence R-1, R-2 and R-3 and Commercial C-1 Districts, no
fence or freestanding wall, not supporting a building or structure, within or
bounding the front yard shall exceed a height of three feet six inches (3'6");
no fence or freestanding wall within or bounding a side yard shall exceed a
height of six feet (6'); provided, however, that open wire fences exceeding the
above heights may be built around schools and other public institutions when
necessary for the safety of the occupants thereof. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
   (B)   On a corner lot in a Residence R-1, R-2 and R-3 or Commercial C-
1 District, no fence, wall, shrubbery, sign, marquee or other obstruction to
vision between a height of three feet (3') and eight feet (8') above the center
line grades of the intersecting streets shall be erected, placed, planted,
allowed to grow, or maintained within the triangular yard space formed by the
intersecting center lines and a line joining points on such center lines ninety
feet (90') from the point of intersection (Ord. 961, 2-17-1981)
5-4-9: SWIMMING POOLS:
   (A)   In any R-1, R-2 or R-3 District, a private swimming pool shall be in
the rear yard and shall not be closer than seven feet (7') to any property
line. Such pools shall be screened by a solid wall or fence not more than six
feet (6') nor less than four feet (4') in height. Gates leading to the outside
of the property shall be of the self-closing and self-latching type.
   (B)   In any district other than R-1, R-2 and R-3, a private swimming pool
located in other than the rear yard is subject to a use permit.
   (C)   No public swimming pool shall be located closer than twenty five feet
(25') to any lot line on which it is situated. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
5-4-10: FUTURE WIDTH LINES ON ARTERIAL STREETS:
All streets hereinafter dedicated to the public shall be not less than sixty
feet (60') in width, being thirty feet (30') on each side of the center line
thereof and providing for vehicular travel of at least forty feet (40') either
one way for two (2) vehicles or one vehicle in each direction at the same time.
(Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
5-4-11: PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
Public buildings and facilities shall comply with the regulations and
restrictions in the districts in which the same are located. (Ord. 853, 7-2-
1973)
5-4-12: ANNEXATIONS:
Areas when annexed to the City shall, until officially zoned by the Council, be
considered zoned as shown on the Official Zoning Map of Cassia or Minidoka
County, or in the event of no such zoning, then the same shall be considered as
zoned R-1. Cassia or Minidoka County building or use permits, legally issued
not more than sixty (60) days prior to the effective date of annexation, shall
be honored by the Building Inspector within sixty (60) days after the effective
date of the annexation, who shall issue a City building permit when
construction details conform to all pertinent City construction codes and
construction ordinances and pertinent county zoning regulations in effect at
the time the county permit was issued. The amount of the fee paid for the
county permit shall apply on the City permit and the balance owing must be paid
before the City permit is issued. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
5-4-13: WAREHOUSING:
   (A)   A warehouse is a structure or part of a structure for storing of
goods, wares, and merchandise whether for the owner or for others and whether
it is a public or private warehouse.
   (B)   Storage is the holding or safekeeping of goods in a warehouse or other
depository to await the happening of some future event or contingency which
will call for the removal of the goods. In any C-1 and C-2 District a warehouse
may be maintained for the commercial establishment for the storage of goods and
wares of that establishment only and not for the public or others except in the
C-2 District "mini-storage" units are allowed. (Ord. 961, 2-17-1981)
5-4-14: MANUFACTURED HOUSING:
   (A)   Manufactured homes shall be considered single-family dwellings and may
be placed on individual lots within R-1, R-2, R-3, and C-1 Zoning Districts of
the City; provided, that such structures meet the definition of a "manufactured
home", as defined in Section
5-2-1 of this Title, and the standards of individual lots as provided in
subsection (B) of this Section.
   (B)   Development standards for manufactured homes on individual lots are as
follows:
      1.   The manufactured homes shall be multi-sectional and enclose a space
of not less than one thousand (1,000) square feet.
      2.   The manufactured homes shall be placed on excavated and backfilled
foundation and enclosed at the perimeter such that the home is located not more
than twelve inches (12") above grade.
      3.   The manufactured home shall have a pitched roof of not less than a
nominal three feet (3') in height for each twelve feet (12') in width.
      4.   The manufactured home shall have exterior siding and roofing which
in color, material and appearance is similar to the exterior siding and roofing
material commonly used on residential dwellings within the community or which
is comparable to the predominant materials used on surrounding buildings as
determined by the Building Inspector of the City.
      5.   The manufactured home may have a garage or carport and when so
constructed shall be of like materials and attached or detached garage in lieu
of a carport may be required by the Building Inspector where such is consistent
with the predominant construction of immediately surrounding dwellings.
      6.   The manufactured home and the lot upon which it is sited shall meet
any architectural requirement and minimum size requirements to which a
conventional single-family residential dwelling on the same lot would be
subjected.
   (C)   Any manufactured homes on individual lots shall be approved by the
Building Inspector as to conformity with the standards of this Section. If the
Building Inspector finds the manufactured homes to be in conformity with this
Section, he shall issue a certificate of compliance. If the Building Inspector
finds that the manufactured home is not in conformity with the requirements of
subsection (B) of this Section he shall disapprove the application. The
affected party may appeal the decision to the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 1085, 6-13-1996)
CHAPTER 5
R-1 RESTRICTED SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
5-5-1: Permitted And Special Uses And Structures
5-5-2: Height Limitation
5-5-3: Area Requirements
5-5-4: Lot Coverage
5-5-5: Yard Requirements
5-5-1: PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES AND STRUCTURES:
   (A)   In R-1 Districts the following buildings and uses are permitted:
Accessory uses and buildings, including an accessory dwelling unit, customarily
incident to any use allowed in this section provided that if any accessory
building contains sleeping quarters, it shall maintain the side yard otherwise
required and shall not be closer than twenty five feet (25') to the rear lot
line.
One single-family dwelling unit on any lot or parcel and a duplex (2).
Public utility buildings and facilities when necessary for serving the
surrounding territory; provided, that no public business offices and no repair
or storage facilities are maintained therein.
Publicly owned and operated parks, playgrounds and community buildings, and
other recreational uses.
Schools, churches or similar places of worship, including parish houses,
parsonages, rectories, convents and dormitories accessory thereto.
   (B)   In R-1 Districts the following buildings and uses may be permitted
upon an applicant's receipt of a special use permit pursuant to the procedures
identified in chapter 15 of this title:
A group daycare facility.
Athletic activities in conjunction with a church or similar place of worship,
on the same lot or contiguous lots.
Other structures proposed in the R-1 District. Upon approval of any special
permit, construction of the structure must conform to the plans,
specifications, and conditions prescribed by the Planning and Zoning
Commission. This paragraph applies to structures only, not uses, and is not
intended to allow for the proposal and/or approval of structures explicitly
permitted in other zone districts, but not the R-1 District. (Ord. 1344, 10-17-
2017)
5-5-2: HEIGHT LIMITATION:
Two (2) stories or thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
5-5-3: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
There shall be a lot area of not less than eight thousand (8,000) square feet
for each single-family dwelling unit. No lot shall hereafter be subdivided to
provide less than eight thousand (8,000) square feet of lot area nor have a
width of less than eighty feet (80') nor a depth of less than one hundred feet
(100'), one-half (1/2) of any utility easement or one-half (1/2) of a twenty
foot (20') alley, provided it does not exceed ten feet (10') may be counted in
determining the area required as herein provided. In the event of a duplex
being constructed in an R-1 District the lot shall be not less than ten
thousand (10,000) square feet nor have a width of less than one hundred feet
(100') nor a depth of less than one hundred feet (100'), one-half (1/2) of any
utility easement or one-half (1/2) of a twenty foot (20') alley, provided it
does not exceed ten feet (10') may be counted in determining the area
requirement for a lot upon which a duplex is located. Any family dwelling unit
or duplex may be constructed on a cul-de-sac or circle so long as one-third (1/
3) of the frontage of the lot is contiguous and adjacent to the street and so
long as the required square footage is contained on the lot for either the
single family dwelling or the duplex. (Ord. 961, 2-17-1981)
5-5-4: LOT COVERAGE:
The main building and all accessory buildings, excluding carports, porches, and
other permitted projections, on the lot shall not occupy more than forty
percent (40%) of the total of the lot. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973; amd. Ord. 1414, 8-
6-2024)
5-5-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard of not less than twenty feet
(20').
   (B)   Side Yards: There shall be a side yard on each side of the dwelling of
not less than seven feet (7'). On a corner lot, R-1 district, a side yard of
not less than ten feet (10') shall be maintained on the street side of such
corner lot and not less than seven feet (7') on the side of the lot opposite
the street side.
   (C)   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty five
feet (25'), which depth may be measured from the centerline of any existing
twenty foot (20') or wider rear alley or from what would be the centerline of a
full twenty foot (20') or wider alley or only one-half (1/2) if partial alley
or easement exists. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
CHAPTER 6
R-2 LIMITED MULTIPLE RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
5-6-1: Permitted And Special Uses
5-6-2: Area Requirements
5-6-3: Lot Coverage
5-6-4: Yard Requirements
5-6-5: Height Limitations
5-6-1: PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES:
   (A)   In the R-2 district the following buildings and uses are permitted:
All uses permitted in the R-1 district.
Multi-family dwellings not to exceed four (4) units.
   (B)   In the R-2 district the following buildings and uses may be permitted
upon an applicant's receipt of a special use permit pursuant to the procedures
identified in chapter 15 of this title:
A five (5) to eight (8) unit multi-family dwelling.
A group daycare facility.
A townhouse development. (Ord. 1327, 11-1-2016; amd. Ord. 1371, 3-17-2020)
5-6-2: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
There shall be a lot area of not less than the following:
   (A)   Single-family unit, six thousand two hundred fifty (6,250) square
feet.
   (B)   Two-family unit, eight thousand (8,000) square feet.
   (C)   Three-family unit, nine thousand (9,000) square feet.
   (D)   Four-family unit, ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
   (E)   For each unit over a four-family unit, add seven hundred fifty (750)
square feet per unit. No lot shall be subdivided to provide less than six
thousand five hundred (6,500) square feet of lot area nor have a width of less
than sixty five feet (65') nor a depth of less than eighty five feet (85')
including a utility easement off of the portion of an alley or one-half (1/2)
of any utility easement or one-half (1/2) of a twenty foot (20') alley;
provided, it does not exceed ten feet (10') may be counted in determining the
area requirement as herein provided.
   (F)   Townhouse lots shall each contain a minimum of two thousand one
hundred (2,100) square feet (excluding any detached garage space) and shall
each have at least twenty five feet (25') of road frontage. (Ord. 961, 2-17-
1981; amd. Ord. 1371, 3-17-2020; Ord. 1395, - -2022)
5-6-3: LOT COVERAGE:
The main building and all accessory buildings, excluding carports, porches, and
other permitted projections, on a lot shall not occupy more than forty percent
(40%) of the total area of the lot. (Ord. 961, 2-17-1981; amd. Ord. 1414, 8-6-
2024)
5-6-4: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard of not less than twenty feet
(20').
   (B)   Side Yard: There shall be a side yard on each side of the dwelling of
not less than seven feet (7'). On a corner lot, R-2 district, a side yard of
not less than ten feet (10') shall be maintained on the street side of such
corner lot and not less than seven feet (7') shall be maintained on the side of
the lot opposite the street side.
   (C)   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty five
feet (25') which depth may be measured from the centerline of any existing
twenty foot (20') or wider rear alley or from what would be the centerline of a
full twenty foot (20') or wider alley or only one-half (1/2) if partial alley
or easement exists. (Ord. 961, 2-17-1981)
5-6-5: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
Two (2) stories or forty feet (40') maximum. (Ord. 961, 2-17-1981)
CHAPTER 6A
R-2A LIMITED MULTIPLE RESIDENCE AND NEIGHBORHOOD SERVICES DISTRICT
SECTION:
5-6A-1: Permitted And Special Uses
5-6A-2: Area Requirements
5-6A-3: Lot Coverage
5-6A-4: Yard Requirements
5-6A-5: Height Limitations
5-6A-1: PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES:
   (A)   In the R-2A District the following buildings and uses are permitted:
All uses permitted in the R-1 District.
Multi-family dwellings not to exceed four (4) units.
   (B)   In the R-2A District the following buildings and uses may be permitted
upon an applicant's receipt of a special use permit pursuant to the procedures
identified in chapter 15 of this title:
A five (5) to eight (8) unit multi-family dwelling.
A group daycare facility.
Associations, i.e., veterans' organizations, retired persons' associations, Red
Cross, Boy Scouts, YMCA, YWCA.
Barbershops and beauty shops.
City and County offices.
Clinics and hospitals.
Homes for handicapped.
Lodges, fraternities and sororities, membership clubs, social, recreational and
community centers which are not conducted primarily for gain.
Medical and dental offices.
Mortuaries.
Museums and cultural centers.
Neighborhood markets.
Nursing homes, group daycare facilities, daycare centers, apartments, trailer
courts, provided the same in all respects comply with the existing ordinances
for the regulation of trailer courts in the City.
Professional offices.
Radio and television studios.
Townhouse developments. (Ord. 1340, 9-19-2017; amd. Ord. 1371, 3-17-2020)
5-6A-2: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
There shall be a lot area of not less than the following:
   (A)   Single-family unit, six thousand two hundred fifty (6,250) square
feet.
   (B)   Two-family unit, eight thousand (8,000) square feet.
   (C)   Three-family unit, nine thousand (9,000) square feet.
   (D)   Four-family unit, ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
   (E)   For each unit over a four-family unit, add seven hundred fifty (750)
square feet per unit. No lot shall be subdivided to provide less than six
thousand five hundred (6,500) square feet of lot area nor have a width of less
than sixty five feet (65') nor a depth of less than eighty five feet (85')
including a utility easement off of the portion of an alley or one-half (1/2)
of any utility easement or one-half (1/2) of a twenty foot (20') alley;
provided, it does not exceed ten feet (10') may be counted in determining the
area requirement as herein provided.
   (F)   Group dwelling, five thousand (5,000) square feet for the first
separate building plus two thousand (2,000) square feet for each additional
separate dwelling structure.
   (G)   Townhouse lots shall each contain a minimum of two thousand one
hundred (2,100) square feet (excluding any detached garage space) and shall
each have at least twenty five (25) feet of road frontage. (Ord. 1340, 9-19-
2017; amd. Ord. 1371, 3-17-2020; Ord. 1395, - -2022)
5-6A-3: LOT COVERAGE:
For uses permitted by right, the main building and all accessory buildings,
excluding carports, porches, and other permitted projections, on a lot shall
not occupy more than forty percent (40%) of the total area of the lot. For any
special uses, the proposed lot coverage of such uses shall be considered in
determining whether the use is appropriate pursuant to the procedures
identified in chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. 1340, 9-19-2017; amd. Ord. 1414,
8-6-2024)
5-6A-4: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard of not less than twenty feet
(20').
   (B)   Side Yard: There shall be a side yard on each side of the dwelling of
not less than seven feet (7'). On a corner lot, R-2 District, a side yard of
not less than ten feet (10') shall be maintained on the street side of such
corner lot and not less than seven feet (7') shall be maintained on the side of
the lot opposite the street side.
   (C)   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty five
feet (25') which depth may be measured from the centerline of any existing
twenty foot (20') or wider rear alley or from what would be the centerline of a
full twenty foot (20') or wider alley or only one-half (1/2) if partial alley
or easement exists. (Ord. 1340, 9-19-2017)
5-6A-5: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
Three (3) stories or forty-five feet (45') maximum, whichever is less, with the
height measured at the front setback prescribed herein or back of curb
whichever is lower. An additional half foot (0.5') of building elevation may be
constructed for each additional foot (1') that all yard minimum requirements
are exceeded, with a maximum building height of seventy feet (70'). (Ord. 1340,
9-19-2017; amd. Ord. 1390, 12-7-2021; Ord. 1414, 8-6-2024)
CHAPTER 7
R-3 GENERAL MULTIPLE RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
5-7-1: Permitted And Special Uses
5-7-2: Height Limitation
5-7-3: Area Requirements
5-7-4: Yard Requirements
5-7-1: PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES:
   (A)   In the R-3 District the following buildings and uses are permitted:
All uses permitted in the R-1 and R-2 Districts.
Associations, i.e., veterans' organizations, retired persons' associations, Red
Cross, Boy Scouts, YMCA, YWCA.
Barbershops and beauty shops.
Boarding houses.
City and County offices.
Clinics and hospitals.
Homes for handicapped.
Lodges, fraternities and sororities, membership clubs, social, recreational and
community centers which are not conducted primarily for gain.
Medical and dental offices.
Mortuaries.
Museums and cultural centers.
Neighborhood markets.
Nursing homes, group daycare facilities, daycare centers, apartments, trailer
courts, provided the same in all respects comply with the existing ordinances
for the regulation of trailer courts 1  in the City.
Professional offices.
Radio and television studios.
Rooming houses.
Townhouse developments.
   (B)   In R-3 Districts the following buildings and uses may be permitted
upon an applicant's receipt of a special use permit pursuant to the procedures
identified in chapter 15 of this title:
Halfway houses. (Ord. 1344, 10-17-2017; amd. Ord. 1371, 3-17-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4, chapter 6 of this Code.
5-7-2: HEIGHT LIMITATION:
None. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
5-7-3: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
There shall be a lot area of not less than:
   (A)   Single-family unit, four thousand five hundred (4,500) square feet.
   (B)   Multi-family unit, four thousand five hundred (4,500) square feet plus
seven hundred fifty (750) square feet for each additional family unit in a
dwelling structure.
   (C)   Group dwelling, five thousand (5,000) square feet for the first
separate building plus two thousand (2,000) square feet for each additional
separate dwelling structure.
   (D)   Townhouse lots shall each contain a minimum of two thousand one
hundred (2,100) square feet (excluding any detached garage space) and shall
each have at least twenty five (25) feet of road frontage. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973;
amd. Ord. 1371, 3-17-2020)
5-7-4: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard of not less than twenty feet
(20').
   (B)   Side Yard: There shall be a side yard on each side of the building of
not less than five feet (5'). On a corner lot in an R-3 District a side yard of
not less than ten feet (10') shall be maintained on the street side of the
corner lot and not less than five feet (5') shall be maintained on the side of
the lot opposite the street side.
   (C)   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty feet
(20') which may be measured from the centerline of an existing twenty foot
(20') or wider rear alley or from what would be the centerline of a full twenty
foot (20') or wider alley or only one-half (1/2) if partial alley or easement
exists. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
CHAPTER 7A
R-4 MIXED MULTIPLE RESIDENCE AND HOBBY LIVESTOCK DISTRICT
SECTION:
5-7A-1: Permitted Uses
5-7A-2: Height Limitation
5-7A-3: Area Requirements
5-7A-4: Lot Coverage
5-7A-5: Yard Requirements
5-7A-6: Subdivision Exceptions
5-7A-1: PERMITTED USES:
In the R-4 District the following buildings and uses are permitted:
All uses permitted in the R-3 District.
Animals:
For each lot of one and one-half (11/2) acres the owner may maintain, in
combination, no more than two (2) head of horses, cattle, or sheep per acre of
improved pasture. For each additional acre of improved pasture the owner may
maintain an additional combined total of two (2) head, provided no owner shall
maintain a total of more than six (6) head irrespective of the total size of
the lot or acres of improved pasture. Offspring may be kept until weaned.
In addition, for each lot of one and one-half (11/2) acres the owner may
maintain, in combination, no more than twelve (12) turkeys, chickens, rabbits,
or pigeons. For each additional acre of lot size, the owner may maintain an
additional combined total of twelve (12) such animals, provided no owner shall
maintain a combined total of more than thirty six (36) irrespective of the
total size of the lot.
The right to maintain animals under this section shall be subject to the
following conditions:
   (A)   The lot must be improved by construction of a dwelling unit occupied
by the owner or tenant.
   (B)   The animals and property must be maintained so there is no resulting
odor, noise, or visual nuisance reasonably deemed offensive by neighbors or the
public.
   (C)   The animals not be maintained for commercial purposes, excluding 4-
H projects.
   (D)   The animals be securely fenced or otherwise restricted to the owner's
property. (Ord. 1347, 11-21-2017)
5-7A-2: HEIGHT LIMITATION:
None. (Ord. 1347, 11-21-2017)
5-7A-3: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Same as in the R-3 District.
   (B)   As provided above for hobby livestock. (Ord. 1347, 11-21-2017)
5-7A-4: LOT COVERAGE:
Same as in the R-3 District. (Ord. 1347, 11-21-2017)
5-7A-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Same as in the R-3 District. (Ord. 1347, 11-21-2017)
5-7A-6: SUBDIVISION EXCEPTIONS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, a subdivision plat in an R-
4 Zone may provide for no curb, gutter or sidewalk on interior roads, provided
the plat clearly identifies the interior roads are to be privately owned and
privately maintained, and provided all lots within the subdivision are a
minimum of one (1.0) acre in size. Even if the exception provided for in the
previous sentence applies, all subdivisions bordering public roads must provide
for curb, gutter, and sidewalk on the subdivision borders fronting public roads
and nothing herein relieves any subdivision from providing curb, gutter, and
sidewalk on any public road. (Ord. 1347, 11-21-2017)
CHAPTER 8
C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
5-8-1: Permitted Uses
5-8-2: Area Requirements
5-8-3: Front, Side And Rear Yard Requirements
5-8-4: Height Limitation
5-8-1: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings and uses are permitted in the C-1 District:
Any use permitted in the R-1 through R-3 Districts.
Retail businesses:
Automotive services for the dispensing of gas, oil, accessories, and minor
repairs, providing that all repairs shall be conducted wholly within a
completely enclosed building and that no storage of automobiles waiting for
repairs shall be stored on the premises except within a wholly enclosed
building.
Business offices: real estate, insurance and other similar offices, and other
offices of the legal, dental, medical or other established and recognized
professions.
Eating places, lunchrooms, restaurants and cafeterias, and places for the sale
and consumption of soft drinks, ice cream and beverages of all kinds;
establishments for the sale of food and beverages of all kinds, including the
sale of beer and alcohol.
Financial institutions, i.e., banks, savings and loan associations.
Public utility offices.
Sale and manufacture of baked goods; the sale of confectionery, dairy products,
delicatessen, fruits, vegetables, groceries and meats.
Service establishments, barber or beauty shops, tailors, laundry agencies,
self-service laundries, commercial laundries, shoe repair, dry-cleaning and
pressing.
The sale of books, magazines, newspapers, cigars, cigarettes, drugs, flowers,
gifts, music, photographic goods, sporting goods and stationery.
The sale of china, floor covering, hardware, household appliances, radios,
paint, wallpaper, material and objects for interior decorating.
The sale of dry goods and variety merchandise.
The sale of furniture and household goods.
The sale of mens' and boys' furnishings, shoes, womens' ready-to-wear, furs,
apparel and accessories.
Small cell telecommunications facilities. (Ord. 1348, 11-21-2017)
5-8-2: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
The requirements for area shall conform to the Building Code 1  of the City,
except that where permitted uses under R-1 through R-3 Districts are located
within C-1 Districts, they shall comply with the area regulations of the
respective zoning district. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4, chapter 1 of this Code.
5-8-3: FRONT, SIDE AND REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Front: All buildings or structures shall be set back a minimum of ten
feet (10') from any public street right-of-way. Permitted uses under R-
1 through R-3 Districts located within the C-1 District shall comply with the
ten foot (10') setback or the setback requirements of their respective zoning
district, whichever is greater.
   (B)   Side: There shall be no minimum side yard requirements for buildings
or structures except where a commercial lot line is common with a residential
lot, then the commercial lot shall require a five foot (5') minimum side yard.
Where permitted uses under R-1 through R-3 Districts are located within the C-
1 Zoning District, they shall comply with the side yard requirements of the
respective zoning districts.
   (C)   Rear: There shall be no minimum rear setback requirements for
buildings or structures which are constructed in accordance with the Building
Code of the City, except permitted uses under R-1 through R-3 Districts located
within the C-1 District shall comply with the rear setback requirements of the
respective zoning districts. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
5-8-4: HEIGHT LIMITATION:
None. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
CHAPTER 9
C-2 COMMERCIAL HIGHWAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
5-9-1: Permitted Uses
5-9-2: Area Requirements
5-9-3: Front, Side And Rear Yard Requirements
5-9-4: Height Limitations
5-9-1: PERMITTED USES:
All uses permitted in R-1 through R-3 and C-1 Districts.
Animal hospitals and kennels.
Automobile service stations, drive-in theaters, automobile or mobile home sales
and trailer sales, provided that all except minor repairs on automobiles and
vehicles, mobile homes and trailers shall be conducted wholly within a
completely enclosed building.
Bowling alleys and skating rinks.
Building materials, supply and lumber yards.
Drive-in eating establishments.
Farm implement and feed and seed stores. Provided that in all feed and seed
storage sales shall be limited to packaged or sacked products and there shall
be no bulk storage.
Freight offices and moving agencies.
Ministorages. For the purposes of this section a ministorage shall be a storage
facility comprised of individual rental units with allowable height and area as
provided by the International Building Code.
Motels, trailer and tourist camps, provided that such trailer parks and camps
meet the trailer and mobile home regulations of the City in effect at the time
of the effective date of such regulations or subsequently enacted and amended
provisions thereof.
Public garages, including automobile repair and incidental body and fender
work, painting and upholstery, radiator repair, parts and rental, wrecker and
towing service, provided that all such operations are conducted within a
completely enclosed building.
Small cell telecommunications facilities.
Wholesale distributors. (Ord. 1348, 11-21-2017)
5-9-2: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
None, except for trailer parks and tourist camps as provided in the trailer and
mobile home regulations of the City. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
5-9-3: FRONT, SIDE AND REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS:
None. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
5-9-4: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
None. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
CHAPTER 9A
C-2A ENCLOSED MANUFACTURING PERMIT
SECTION:
5-9A-1: Established
5-9A-2: Permitted Uses
5-9A-3: Special Conditions
5-9A-4: Annual Inspection
5-9A-5: Revocation
5-9A-6: Appeal
5-9A-1: ESTABLISHED:
   (A)   There is hereby created a special use permit, C-2A.
   (B)   Upon application of any person or entity owning or renting property in
a C-2 zone, the city of Burley planning and zoning commission may grant a C-2A
special use permit for the property upon the following findings:
      1.   Good cause exists for the special use permit.
      2.   The special use permit will not infringe on existing and foreseeable
future uses of other property in the city of Burley.
      3.   The special use permit is in the public interest.
      4.   Granting the application for the special use permit will comply with
Idaho Code section 67-6512.
   (C)   Except as provided in this section, the requirements of the C-
2 district apply to a property receiving a C-2A special use permit. (Ord. 1195,
11-15-2005)
5-9A-2: PERMITTED USES:
   (A)   All uses permitted in the C-2 district.
   (B)   Enclosed manufacturing facilities where component parts are used to
construct a finished product subject to the following conditions:
      1.   All activities must take place in an enclosed building having
appearance and characteristics consistent with C-2 zoning, and be continuously
maintained in that condition.
      2.   No component parts, materials, supplies or other items be placed or
stored outside the building at anytime.
      3.   No trash, waste or excess materials be placed or stored outside the
building at any time.
      4.   No finished product be stored outside the premises.
      5.   There be no offensive noise, odor, or activity negatively affecting
the use and enjoyment of other property or the public.
      6.   No materials or processes be used which create a danger or nuisance
to the general public.
      7.   Deliveries of component parts do not negatively affect the use and
enjoyment of other property or the public. (Ord. 1195, 11-15-2005)
5-9A-3: SPECIAL CONDITIONS:
Upon the granting of a special use permit, conditions may be attached to a
special use permit by the planning and zoning commission including, but not
limited to:
   (A)   Minimizing adverse impact on other development;
   (B)   Controlling the sequence and timing of development;
   (C)   Controlling the duration of development;
   (D)   Assuring that development is maintained properly;
   (E)   Designating the exact location and nature of development;
   (F)   Requiring the provision for on site or off site public facilities or
services;
   (G)   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required in
an ordinance;
   (H)   Requiring mitigation of effects of the proposed use upon service
delivery by any political subdivision, including school districts, providing
services within the planning jurisdiction. (Ord. 1195, 11-15-2005)
5-9A-4: ANNUAL INSPECTION:
The Burley building inspector shall inspect each property granted a C-2A
special use permit annually to assure compliance with the terms of the permit.
(Ord. 1195, 11-15-2005)
5-9A-5: REVOCATION:
   (A)   Any affected person, or the Burley building inspector, may apply to
the planning and zoning commission for revocation of a C-2A special use permit.
   (B)   Upon an application for revocation the planning and zoning commission
shall direct the Burley building inspector to inspect the premises and prepare
a written report identifying violations of the special use permit, if any.
   (C)   The planning and zoning commission shall hold a public evidentiary
hearing, meeting the notice and hearing requirements for granting the permit,
within thirty (30) days from the date the application is filed. The Burley
building inspector shall submit his report at the hearing. Any person may
present evidence at the hearing.
   (D)   In the event the commission finds by a preponderance of the evidence
that any condition of a C-2A special use permit is not being met:
      1.   The planning and zoning commission may immediately revoke the
permit. Upon revocation all activities inconsistent with a C-2 zoning shall
immediately cease.
      2.   In lieu of immediate revocation the commission may issue a
probationary order establishing specific terms and conditions under which C-2A
uses may continue while nonconforming activities are corrected or discontinued.
(Ord. 1195, 11-15-2005)
5-9A-6: APPEAL:
Any decision of the Burley planning and zoning commission granting, denying, or
revoking a C-2A special use permit, or issuing a probationary order, may be
appealed to the Burley city council. Appeal shall be by the following
procedure:
   (A)   The appellant shall give written notice of the action appealed from,
and the relief sought, by filing with the Burley city clerk within five (5)
days from the action.
   (B)   The hearing on the appeal will be scheduled before the Burley city
council not less than ten (10) nor more than thirty (30) days after the date
the notice was filed.
   (C)   C-2A uses may continue until the appeal is resolved.
   (D)   If the Burley city council finds the planning and zoning commission
failed to follow correct procedures, or failed to consider material facts it
may remand the matter with instructions for further consideration by the
commission.
   (E)   If the Burley city council finds the matter should be considered on
the merits by the council it may order a public evidentiary hearing meeting the
notice and hearing requirements for granting the permit. The council shall
consider the matter de novo at the hearing. Any person may present evidence at
the hearing. (Ord. 1195, 11-15-2005)
CHAPTER 10
C-3 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
5-10-1: Permitted Uses
5-10-2: Uses Not Permitted
5-10-3: Uses Permitted By Special Permit (Rep. by Ord. 1149, 11-20-2000)
5-10-4: Height Limitations
5-10-5: Yard Requirements
5-10-6: Area Requirements
5-10-1: PERMITTED USES:
Any general commercial enterprise, provided however, that one dwelling unit
maintained for a watchman or a caretaker and family on the premises may be
allowed.
Any lawful warehousing, manufacturing, fabricating, packaging, bottling, or
processing use provided that such use shall conform to the following
requirements:
   (A)   No offensive odor, dust, noxious gas, noise, vibration, smoke, heat,
or glare shall be emitted beyond the zone lot boundary in which the use is
conducted.
   (B)   All vehicles loading and unloading shall be off the public streets or
public ways.
   (C)   All outside storage of material or equipment shall occupy the rear
one-half (1/2) of the lot.
   (D)   All activities pertaining to the actual manufacture or process of the
product involved shall be conducted entirely within the enclosed building.
Automobile wrecking yards, junkyards, outdoor used tire storage, and similar
open land uses, provided that an eight foot (8') high solid fence or wall be
erected along all property lines, and provided further, that any of the
aforementioned types of business shall, within one year from the effective date
hereof, erect such fence regardless of what district or classification they
might be located in. These provisions shall also apply to lots within newly
annexed areas and whether located in District C-2 or C-3.
Small cell telecommunications facilities.
Towers. (Ord. 1348, 11-21-2017)
5-10-2: USES NOT PERMITTED:
Regardless of the interpretation of the preceding permitted uses, any use which
will create or is likely to create conditions detrimental to the health, safety
or general welfare of the community is specifically prohibited. (Ord. 11-27, 8-
16-1999)
5-10-3: USES PERMITTED BY SPECIAL PERMIT:
(Rep. by Ord. 1149, 11-20-2000)
5-10-4: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
None. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
5-10-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
None. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
5-10-6: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
None. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
CHAPTER 11
S-1 SPECIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
5-11-1: Permitted Uses
5-11-2: Changes
5-11-1: PERMITTED USES:
Certain areas within the City limits do not, because of their special nature,
fall within the definition of other zoning districts, these are:
   (A)   Cemetery.
   (B)   County fairgrounds.
   (C)   Airport.
   (D)   Medical. The term "medical" means such uses as hospitals, doctors'
offices, paramedical services, long-term care units, dentists, X-ray
facilities, ambulance service, pharmacies (provided the same are limited in
dispensing drugs, therapeutic devices, sundries and serving primarily the needs
of the medical and paramedical complex), nursing homes, apartments for medical
personnel. Such uses are permitted on the following described real estate in
the City:
Commencing at the Northwest corner of the Southwest Quarter of Section 29,
Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the Boise Meridian; thence South 960.45
feet; thence East 715 feet; thence North 960.45 feet; thence West 715 feet to
the point of beginning. (Ord. 872, 8-19-1974)
   (E)   Burley Municipal Golf Course. (Ord. 961, 2-17-1981)
5-11-2: CHANGES:
The uses provided in Section
5-11-1 of this Chapter shall not be changed for any other use without a special
permit from the Planning and Zoning Commission. In the event of the abandonment
of the use or other change, then in such event no other use shall be made of
such property until the same shall be rezoned by the City Council of the City,
in accordance with the Statutes of the State then in effect for municipal
zoning. (Ord. 961, 2-17-1981)
CHAPTER 12
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
5-12-1: Off Street Parking
5-12-2: Off Street Loading
5-12-3: Burley Core Area Exempt
5-12-1: OFF STREET PARKING:
No building permit shall be issued until the applicant has presented
satisfactory evidence to the building inspector that he owns or has otherwise
available for his use sufficient property to provide the parking required in
subsection (A) of this section. A "parking space" is an area of not less than
one hundred eighty (180) square feet, net, exclusive of access or maneuvering
area, or ramps or columns, etc., to be used exclusively as a temporary storage
space for one private vehicle.
   (A)   Parking Requirements: Automobile parking space shall be provided
according to the following schedule and subject to the following conditions in
any district in which any of the following uses shall be established. (Ord.
853, 7-2-1973)
1. Each family dwelling unit            Parking spaces for 2 vehicles.
                                        Parking space shall be provided for the
                                       vehicles to be parked side by side and
                                        not in tandem
                                        At least 1 off street parking space for
                                        each 5 seats provided for patron use
                                        and/or at least 1 off street parking
                                        space for each 75 square feet of floor
                                        area used for public assembly, but not
2. Places of public assembly including  containing fixed seats. This space may
lodges and fraternal buildings not      be provided at a point not farther than
providing overnight accommodations,     300 feet distance in a direct line from
assembly halls, auditoriums, skating    the nearest part of the building or
rinks, bowling alleys, theaters,        structure used for public assembly to
fairgrounds, funeral homes, community   the nearest part of the parking area
centers, libraries and similar type     except in the case of parks and
public assembly areas                   fairgrounds such space may be provided
                                        at a point not farther than 300 feet
                                        distance in a direct line from the
                                        nearest part of such land used for
                                        public assembly to the nearest part of
                                        the parking area.
                                        At least 1 off street parking space for
                                        each 5 seats and/or 1 off street
                                        parking space for each 90 linear inches
                                        of pew space in any church, such
                                        parking to be located on the same lot
3. Churches                             or on contiguous lots with the church
                                        unless such church be located in an R-
                                        1 through R-3 district, such parking
                                        space may be located at a point not
                                        farther than 300 feet from the nearest
                                        part of such church building.
4. Restaurants, bars, nightclubs and    Off street parking space for at least 1
other similar dining or refreshment     space for each 50 square feet of floor
establishments                          space exclusive of kitchen, restroom
                                        and storage rooms.
                                        1 off street parking space for each
                                        guestroom or suite of guestrooms shall
                                        be required. 1 off street parking space
                                        for each trailer space in a trailer
                                        court, providing only overnight
5. Motels, tourist courts, tourist      parking, but if the court is for
homes and trailer parks                 permanent parking, then 2 off street
                                        parking spaces shall be provided. Such
                                        space shall be provided on the lot or
                                        lots on which such motel, tourist
                                        court, tourist home or trailer court is
                                        located.
                                        Parking space for 1 vehicle for each 3
                                        beds, such parking may be provided at a
6. Hotels                               point not farther than 300 feet
                                        distance in a direct line from the
                                        nearest part of such hotel building.
                                        Parking space for 1 vehicle for each 3
                                        patient beds, plus at least 1 off
7. Hospitals                            street parking space for each staff
                                        doctor, plus at least 1 additional off
                                        street parking space for each 6
                                        employees.
8. Doctors' offices, dentist offices,   1 off street parking space for each 300
medical clinics, medical centers        square feet of floor area and 1 space
                                        for each employee in the office.
                                        At least 1 off street parking space for
                                        each 3 employees, including
9. Schools, including elementary        administrators, teachers and building
schools, junior high schools, high      maintenance personnel and at least 1
schools and all other similar           off street parking space for each 10
institutions of learning                high school or above students predicted
                                        upon the designated capacity of the
                                        physical plant.
                                        1 off street parking space for each 300
                                        square feet of floor area and an
                                        additional parking space for 1 vehicle
                                        for each 800 square feet of floor area
10. Retail establishments, office       on the upper floor or floors of any
buildings and commercial establishments commercial building not otherwise
not specified in this section           specified herein; such space may be
                                        provided at a point not farther than
                                        300 feet distance in a direct line from
                                        the nearest point of such commercial
                                        building.
11. Wholesale manufacturing and
industrial plant, including warehousing
and storage building and yards, public
utility buildings, contractor equipment At least 1 off street parking space for
and lumberyards, business service       each 3 employees.
establishments and all other structures
devoted to similar mercantile and
industrial pursuits
12. For any and all uses or structures
not specifically provided for in the
foregoing enumerations, such parking
space as the planning and zoning         
commission shall determine to be
necessary, considering all the parking
generating factors involved.
                                        In addition to the requirements of
                                        subsection (A)4 of this section, 3 off
13. Fast food restaurants               street parking spaces for each 3
                                        booths, tables, or other facilities
                                        accommodating on premises customers.
                                        Townhouse developments shall provide a
                                        minimum of two and three tenths (2.3)
                                        parking spaces per townhouse unit.
                                        Garages shall not be included for
                                        meeting the required number of parking
                                        spaces. Recreational vehicles shall be
14. Townhouse developments              prohibited from parking within
                                        townhouse subdivisions except for
                                        spaces specifically designed for
                                        recreational vehicle parking as
                                        indicated on the final plat.
                                        Recreational vehicle parking spaces
                                        shall not be included for meeting the
                                        required number of parking spaces.
 
   (B)   Design Standards:
      1.   All off street automobile parking facilities shall be designated
with appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley as well as
maneuvering areas. No driveway or curb cuts in any district shall exceed twenty
five feet (25') in width except as otherwise regulated by governmental
authority, and detailed plans shall be submitted to the proper official for
approval of all curb cuts or driveway openings before a permit may be obtained
therefor.
      2.   The parking area shall be paved with an asphaltic or concrete
surfacing, afford adequate drainage and shall have bumper guards where needed.
      3.   The parking areas shall be used for automobile parking only, with no
sales, storage, repair work or servicing of any kind conducted thereon, except
where the lot is constructed to accommodate trucks with adequate space.
      4.   If lighting is provided, it shall be arranged to reflect away from
any residential area, also from any public street or highway. (Ord. 853, 7-2-
1973; amd. Ord. 961, 2-17-1981; Ord. 1200, 5-2-2006; Ord. 1371, 3-17-2020)
5-12-2: OFF STREET LOADING:
On the same premises with every building devoted to retail trade, retail and
wholesale food markets, wholesale supply houses, wholesale or manufacturing
trade, hotels, hospitals, laundry, dry cleaning establishments or other
buildings where large amounts of goods are received or shipped, erected in any
district after the effective date hereof there shall be provided loading and
unloading space as follows:
   (A)   Buildings: Buildings of ten thousand (10,000) square feet of floor
area or less, one off street loading space, plus an additional off street
loading and unloading space for each additional twenty thousand (20,000) square
feet of floor area.
   (B)   Loading Spaces: Each loading space shall be not less than twelve feet
(12') in width, sixty feet (60') in length, provided that any building
bordering on any public access, i.e., street or alley, shall be deemed in
compliance with the foregoing requirements of this section so long as the free
passage is permitted on the public way during the unloading process and
provided further that such unloading does not interfere with normal parking
conditions and pedestrian traffic on the public way.
   (C)   Drive-Up Window: Any restaurant, bank or other commercial enterprise
providing a drive-up window shall provide ingress and egress thereto from a
street or alley except that no ingress or egress to a drive-up window shall be
from or to the following streets in the city:
      1.   Overland Avenue;
      2.   Main Street;
      3.   16th Street;
      4.   East 5th Street;
      5.   West 5th Street. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973; amd. Ord 961, 2-17-1981)
5-12-3: BURLEY CORE AREA EXEMPT:
   (A)   The "Burley core area" is hereby defined to be that area bounded by
11th Street on the north, the alley west of Oakley Avenue on the west, the
alley east of Albion Avenue on the east, and 15th Street on the south.
   (B)   The Burley core area shall be exempt from the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 1233, 5-20-2008)
CHAPTER 13
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
5-13-1: Continuation Of Nonconforming Uses
5-13-2: Unlawful Use
5-13-3: District Changes
5-13-1: CONTINUATION OF NONCONFORMING USES:
The lawful use of any building, structure or land existing at the time of the
effective date hereof may be continued although such use does not conform with
the provisions of this Title, and provided the following conditions are met:
   (A)   Unsafe Structures: Nothing in this Title shall prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any portion of a building or
structure declared unsafe by proper authorities. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
   (B)   Alterations: A nonconforming building or structure may be altered,
improved or reconstructed, provided such work is not to an extent to exceed an
aggregate cost of fifty percent (50%) of the value of the building or
structure, unless the building or structure is changed to a conforming use.
Value shall be determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission in case of any
dispute. (Ord. 961, 2-17-1981)
   (C)   Extension: A nonconforming use shall not be extended, but the
extension of a lawful use of any portion of a nonconforming building or
structure which existed prior to the effective date hereof shall not be deemed
the extension of such nonconforming use.
   (D)   Changes: No nonconforming building, structure or use shall be changed
to another nonconforming use.
   (E)   Construction Approved Prior To Effective Date Hereof: Nothing herein
contained shall require any change in plans, construction or designated use of
a building or structure for which a building permit has been issued and the
construction of which shall have been diligently prosecuted within one month of
the date of such permit, and the ground story framework of which, included in
the second tier of beams shall have been completed within sixty (60) days of
the date of the permit and which entire building shall be completed according
to the plans as filed within one hundred twenty (120) days from the date of the
effective date hereof. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
   (F)   Restoration: Nothing in this Title shall prevent the reconstruction,
repairing, rebuilding and continued use of any nonconforming building or
structure damaged by fire, collapse, explosion or acts of God, subsequent to
the date of the effective date hereof wherein the expense of such work does not
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the value of the building or structure at the
time the damage occurred. Value shall be determined in the event of
disagreement by the Planning and Zoning Commission. (Ord. 961, 2-17-1981)
   (G)   Wear And Tear: Nothing in this Title shall prevent the reconstruction,
repair and rebuilding of a nonconforming building, structure or part thereof
existing at the effective date hereof, rendered necessary by wear and tear,
deterioration or depreciation, provided that the cost of such work shall not
exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the value of the building or structure at
the time the work is done, nor prevent compliance with the provisions of the
City Building Code 1  relative to the maintenance of buildings or structures.
   (H)   Abandonment: A nonconforming use of a building or premises which has
been abandoned shall not thereafter be returned to such nonconforming use. A
nonconforming use shall be considered abandoned:
      1.   When the intent of the owner to discontinue the use is apparent, or
(Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
      2.   When the characteristic equipment and the furnishings of the
nonconforming use have been removed from the premises and have not been
replaced by similar equipment within six (6) months unless other facts show
intention to resume the nonconforming use, or unless permission is granted by
Planning and Zoning Commission, or (Ord. 961, 2-17-1981)
      3.   When it has been replaced by a conforming use, or (Ord. 853, 7-2-
1973)
      4.   When it has been changed to another use under permit from the
Planning and Zoning Commission. (Ord. 961, 2-17-1981)
   (I)   Displacement: No nonconforming use shall be extended to displace a
conforming use. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 4, Chapter 1 of this Code.
5-13-2: UNLAWFUL USE:
Nothing in this Title shall be interpreted as authorization for or approval of
the continuance of the use of a structure or premises in violation of zoning
regulations in effect at the time of the effective date hereof. (Ord. 853, 7-2-
1973)
5-13-3: DISTRICT CHANGES:
Whenever the boundaries of the district shall be changed so as to transfer an
area from one district to another of a different classification, the foregoing
provisions shall also apply to any nonconforming uses existing therein. (Ord.
853, 7-2-1973)
CHAPTER 14
ZONING ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
5-14-1: Enforcing Officials
5-14-2: Building Permits Required
5-14-3: Certificate Of Occupancy
5-14-4: Penalties
5-14-1: ENFORCING OFFICIALS:
For the purpose of enforcing and administering this Zoning Title the following
provisions of this Chapter shall apply, with the appointment of the
Administrative Official:
   (A)   Administrative Official: Except as otherwise provided in this Title,
the Building Inspector shall administer and enforce this Title, including the
receiving of applications, the inspection of premises and the issuing of
building permits. No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be
issued by him except when the provisions of this Title and the various building
codes of the City have been complied with. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
   (B)   Building Inspector Appointed: The Building Inspector is that person so
appointed by the City Council under the applicable Uniform Building Code. (Ord.
961, 2-17-1981)
5-14-2: BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED:
No building or structure shall be erected, added to, or structurally altered
until a permit therefor has been issued by the Building Inspector. All
applications for such permits shall be in accordance with the requirements of
this Title and applicable Building Codes. Unless upon written order of the
Planning and Zoning Commission, no such building permit or certificate of
occupancy, shall be issued for any building where said construction, addition,
or alteration or use thereof would be in violation of any of the provisions of
this Title and applicable Building Codes. Building permits shall be upon
application providing the necessary information to determine that there is
compliance with the Zoning Title. The application shall be accompanied by the
payment of a fee as shall be required by the City Council. (Ord. 961, 2-17-
1981)
5-14-3: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   (A)   No land shall be occupied or used and no building hereafter erected,
altered or extended shall be used or changed in use until a certificate of
occupancy shall have been issued by the Building Inspector stating that the
building or proposed use thereof complies with the provisions of this Title.
   (B)   No nonconforming use shall be maintained, renewed, changed or extended
without a certificate of occupancy having been first issued by the Building
Inspector therefor.
   (C)   All certificates of occupancy shall be applied for coincident with the
application for a building permit. Said certificate shall be issued within
seven (7) days after the erection or alteration shall have been approved.
   (D)   The Building Inspector shall maintain a record of all certificates and
copies shall be furnished, upon request, to any person having a proprietary or
tenancy interest in the building affected.
   (E)   No permit for excavation for, or the erection or alteration of or
repairs to any buildings shall be issued until an application has been made for
a certificate of occupancy. (Ord. 853, 7-2-1973)
   (F)   Under such rules and regulations as may be established by the Planning
and Zoning Commission and filed with the Building Inspector, a temporary
certificate of occupancy for not more than thirty (30) days for a part of the
building may be issued by him. (Ord. 961, 2-17-1981)
5-14-4: PENALTIES:
If any person violates any of the provisions of this Title, he shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in the
amount not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00), or by imprisonment in the
City jail for a period not exceeding six (6) months or be both so fined and
imprisoned. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense, and shall be punishable as such hereunder, or
may be remedied as provided by the laws of the State of Idaho. (Ord. 853, 7-2-
1973)
CHAPTER 15
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
5-15-1: Organization
5-15-2: Powers And Duties
5-15-3: Procedure
5-15-4: Notice And Hearing
5-15-5: Appeal Procedure
5-15-1: ORGANIZATION:
The planning and zoning commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   The board shall elect a chairman from its membership, shall appoint a
secretary and shall prescribe the rules for the conduct of its affairs. (Ord.
1328, 10-18-2016)
5-15-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The planning and zoning commission shall have all of the powers and duties
prescribed by law and by this title, which are as follows:
   (A)   Interpretation: Upon appeal from a decision by an administrative
official, to decide any question involving interpretation of any provision of
this title including the determination of the exact location of any district
boundary if there is an uncertainty with respect thereto.
   (B)   Special Permits: To issue special permits for any of the uses for
which this title requires the obtaining of permits from the planning and zoning
commission; or for the extension of a building or use as such existed at the
time of the passage of this title into a contiguous more restricted district
for a distance not to exceed fifty feet (50'); but not for any other use or
purpose. In granting such special permit, the commission shall prescribe any
condition that it deems to be necessary or to be desirable for the public
interest. No such special permit shall be granted by the commission unless it
finds that the use for which such permit is sought will not be injurious to the
neighborhood or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare and will be in
harmony with the general purpose of this title. In determining its findings,
the commission shall take into account the character and use of adjoining
buildings, and those in the vicinity, the number of persons residing or working
in such buildings, and upon such land and traffic conditions in the vicinity.
   (C)   Variances: The planning and zoning commission may grant a variance to
a property from the provisions of this title on a finding that undue hardship
results from the strict compliance with specific provisions or requirements of
this title and the variance is not in conflict with the public interest. No
variance shall be granted unless there is a finding, after a public hearing,
that all of the following exist:
      1.   Strict compliance with the requirements of this title would result
in undue hardship to the applicant because of unusual topography, other
physical conditions or other such conditions which are not self-inflicted. The
applicant shall provide the planning and zoning commission with information
regarding the requirements they believe cannot be complied with, and why strict
compliance will result in undue hardship.
      2.   The granting of the specified variance will not be detrimental to
the public interest or welfare or injurious to other property in the area in
which the property is situated.
      3.   Such variance will not violate the provisions of the Idaho Code.
      4.   Such variance will not have the effect of nullifying the interest
and purpose of this title and the comprehensive development plan.
   (D)   Rules Of Procedure: Adopt rules of procedure not inconsistent with the
provisions of this title or the conduct of its business and procedures.
   (E)   Appeals: Herein decide all appeals that may be taken by any person or
any officer, department, board or bureau of the city where there is alleged
error in any order, requirements or decision made by administrative official(s)
in the enforcement of the provisions of this title.
   (F)   Decision: Reverse or affirm in whole or in part or modify the order or
decision appealed from and to make such order or decision as sought to be made,
and to that end shall have the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is
taken. (Ord. 1328, 10-18-2016)
5-15-3: PROCEDURE:
All applications made to the commission shall be in writing on forms prescribed
by the commission. Every application shall refer to the specific provision of
the title involved, and shall exactly set forth the interpretation that is
claimed, the use for which the special permit is sought, and the details of the
variance that is applied for and the grounds on which it is claimed that the
variance should be granted as the case may be. Every decision of the planning
and zoning commission shall be by resolution, each of which shall contain a
full record of the findings of the commission in the particular case. Each such
resolution shall be filed in the office of the city clerk, by case number under
one or the other of the following headings: interpretation; special permit;
variances; together with all documents pertaining thereto. The planning and
zoning commission shall notify the city council of each special permit and each
variance granted under the provisions of this title. (Ord. 1328, 10-18-2016)
5-15-4: NOTICE AND HEARING:
No action of the planning and zoning commission shall be taken on any case
until after notice has been given and public hearing has been held as required
by the statutes of the state on zoning. (Ord. 1328, 10-18-2016)
5-15-5: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
Appeals to the planning and zoning commission may be taken by any person
aggrieved by or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the city
affected by any decision of the administrative official, within thirty (30)
days after the action has been taken from which the appeal is taken by filing
with the city clerk a notice of appeal specifying the grounds therefor. The
officer from whom the appeal is taken shall, upon request of the planning and
zoning commission, forthwith transmit to the commission all of the papers
constituting the records upon which the action appealed from was taken. The
appeal stays all proceedings in the matter appealed from, unless the officer
from whom the appeal was taken certifies to the commission that, by reason of
the facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceeding shall not be
stayed, except by a restraining order granted by the commission or by a court
of competent jurisdiction on application and notice to the officer from whom
the appeal is taken. The commission shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing
on the appeal not less than ten (10) nor more than thirty (30) days from the
filing of the notice of appeal and give notice thereof to the parties in
interest. Any person aggrieved by any decision of the planning and zoning
commission, or any tax payer, or city officer, may appeal to the district court
of the state of Idaho, in either Cassia or Minidoka County, Idaho. (Ord. 1328,
10-18-2016)
CHAPTER 16
AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
5-16-1: Area Of City Impact/Cassia County
5-16-2: Area Of City Impact/Minidoka County
5-16-1: AREA OF CITY IMPACT/CASSIA COUNTY:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose for establishing an area of City impact is to
identify a logical urban fringe area adjoining the City. The urban fringe area
is realizing, or will realize, growth and development pressures that must be
planned and managed in an orderly fashion. The area of City impact recognizes
trade area, geographic factors and the potential delivery of public services as
being associated with the City and comprised of areas that may reasonably be
annexed to the City in the near and distant future.
   (B)   Geographic Area Of City Impact: The officially adopted and agreed upon
"Area of City Impact for Burley, Idaho" has been established by duly enacted
ordinances in the City, establishing the following described area as the area
of City impact: (Ord. 1112, 11-2-1998)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/16ac5a3625babc024848b7b0c47acda481abda94/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1367.gif]
 
Part of Sections 23, 24, 25, 26, 35, and 36 of Township 10 South, Range 22 East
of the Boise Meridian, and part of Sections 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 27, 28,
29, 30, 31, 32, and 33 of Township 11 South, Range 23 East of the Boise
Meridian as follows:
Beginning at the Southeast section corner of Section 36 of T.10 S., R.22 E.,
B.M., which shall be the Point of Beginning;
Thence west along the south line of Section 36 to the Southeast section corner
of Section 35;
Thence west along the south line of Section 35 for a distance of 25 feet more
or less to the west right of way of 200 West Road;
Thence north along the west right of way of the 200 West Road parallel to and
25 feet distance from the east section line of Section 35 to the north line of
Section 35 (south line of Section 26);
Thence north continuing along the west right of way of the 200 West Road
parallel to and 25 feet distance from the east section line of Section 26 to
the north line of Section 26 (south line of Section 23);
Thence north continuing along the extended west right of way of the 200 West
Road parallel to and 25 feet distance from the east section line of Section 23
to the mean high water line of the Snake River (south bank);
Thence easterly along the mean high water line of the Snake River through
Sections 23 and 24 of T.10 S., R.22 E., B.M. to the east line of Section 24;
Thence easterly continuing along the mean highwater line of the Snake River
through Sections 18, 17, 16, 21, 22, and 27 of T.10 S., R.23 E., B.M. to the
east line of Section 27;
Thence south along the east line of Section 27 to the Southeast section corner
of said Section 27;
Thence west along the south line of Section 27 to the Northeast section corner
of Section 33;
Thence west along the south line of Sections 33, 32, and 31 to the Point of
Beginning.
Save and except that portion of the described area that falls within the
boundaries of the City of Burley.
(Ord. 1350, 2-12-2018)
   (C)   Comprehensive Plan: The Comprehensive Plan and subsequent amendments
thereto as officially adopted by the City shall apply to the area of City
impact within the unincorporated area of Cassia County, Idaho. Both the City
and Cassia County shall amend their Comprehensive Plans to be consistent with
this agreement, if required.
   (D)   Subdivision Ordinance: The subdivision ordinance 1  and subsequent
amendments thereto as officially adopted by the City shall apply to the area of
City impact within the unincorporated area of Cassia County. The subdivision
ordinance of the City shall also prevail over any Cassia County ordinances
pertaining to the division of original parcels of record, plat amendments, lot
line adjustments, minor subdivisions, short plats or administrative lot splits.
   (E)   Zoning Ordinance: The zoning ordinance, Zoning Map and subsequent
amendments thereto as officially adopted by the City shall apply to the area of
City impact within the unincorporated area of Cassia County.
   (F)   Code And Ordinance Administration And Enforcement:
      1.   The City shall be responsible for the administration and enforcement
of the City's ordinances listed in subsections (C), (D) and (E) of this section
and shall receive all permit fees for inspection performed to recapture direct
costs of inspections, administration, legal publications, and other costs
arising from the process. Appeal and hearing procedures shall follow those
adopted by the City presently and in the future.
      2.   Amendments to the City Comprehensive Plan, requests for preliminary
and final plats or the vacation thereof, and request for zone changes involving
property located in the area of City impact within the unincorporated area of
Cassia County being proposed for nonagricultural development of any type shall
be considered by the City Council upon recommendation of the City Planning and
Zoning Commission in accordance with title 67 and title 50 Idaho Code.
      3.   The authority to enter into and execute development agreements with
a subdivider and to accept required bonding or other form of security to
guarantee construction of required street improvements involving plats located
within the area of City impact within the unincorporated area of Cassia County
shall rest jointly with the Burley Highway District, the City, and Cassia
County.
      4.   Maintenance of public streets located in the area of City impact
shall be the exclusive responsibility of the Burley Highway District, unless
otherwise stipulated by written agreement between the Highway District and the
City.
      5.   Law enforcement and fire services in the area of City impact shall
remain the responsibility of the City and the Burley Fire Department unless
otherwise stipulated by written agreement between the County and/or fire
district and the City.
      6.   The City shall appoint a proportionate number of its Planning and
Zoning Commission to represent the area of City impact. Those representatives
shall reside within the area of City impact and shall be reappointed upon any
vacancy by citizens also residing within the area of City impact.
   (G)   Renegotiation: The Area of City Impact Agreement shall be reviewed by
the City and Cassia County at least once every five (5) years and shall be
renegotiated at any time upon the request of either party hereto. Renegotiation
shall begin thirty (30) days after written request by either the City or County
and shall follow procedures for the original negotiation, as set forth in Idaho
Code, section 67-6526. (Ord. 1112, 11-2-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6 of this Code.
5-16-2: AREA OF CITY IMPACT/MINIDOKA COUNTY:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of establishing an area of City impact is to
identify a logical urban fringe area adjoining the City. The urban fringe area
is realizing, or will realize, development pressure that must be planned for in
an orderly manner. Section 67-6526, Idaho Code, requires that cities and
counties negotiate an area of City impact.
   (B)   Consideration: The following factors were considered by the Planning
Commission and the Council in the establishment of an area of City impact:
      1.   Trade area;
      2.   Geographic factors;
      3.   Areas that can reasonably be expected to be annexed to the City in
the future; and
      4.   The Planning and Zoning Commission, after hearing, recommended the
adoption of the proposed area.
   (C)   Geographic Area Of City Impact: The officially adopted geographic area
of City impact is shown on the map entitled "Area of City Impact for Burley,
Idaho", and particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the NE corner of Section 17, Township 10 South, Range 23 East,
Boise Meridian, being the true point of beginning; thence North along the East
section line of Section 8, Township 10 South, Range 23 East Boise Meridian, to
the South right-of-way of Interstate 80 North; thence West along the Southern
right-of-way of Interstate 80 North to 700 West road; thence South to the Snake
River; thence Northeasterly along the Snake River to the 600 West Road; thence
North to the True Point of Beginning. EXCEPTING THEREFROM that portion of the
abovedescribed lands presently within the City limits of the City of Burley,
Idaho.
   (D)   Comprehensive Plan: The Comprehensive Plan and subsequent amendments
thereto, as officially adopted by the City, shall apply to the area of City
impact within the unincorporated area of Minidoka County, Idaho.
   (E)   Zoning And Subdivision Regulations: The zoning and subdivision
regulations 1 , and subsequent amendments thereto, as officially adopted by the
City, shall apply to the area of City impact within the unincorporated area of
Minidoka County, Idaho. (Ord. 919, 1978)
   (F)   Building Permits And Water Systems:
      1.   Where individual water system approval is required or where
individual subsurface sewage disposal systems are needed, the necessary permits
shall be obtained from the Minidoka County Health Authority prior to the
building permit being issued.
      2.   All building permits issued in the unincorporated area of the City
of Burley Impact Area in Minidoka County, shall be issued by the Burley
Building Inspector and all fees paid thereby shall be retained by the City.
(Ord. 926, 12-18-1978)
   MAP OF AREA OF CITY IMPACT/MINIDOKA COUNTY
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/16ac5a3625babc024848b7b0c47acda481abda94/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1369.gif]
 
(Ord. 919, 1978)
 
Notes
1 1. See titles 5 and 6, respectively, of this Code.
CHAPTER 17
FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
SECTION:
5-17-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose And Objectives
5-17-2: Definitions
5-17-3: General Provisions
5-17-4: Administration
5-17-4-1: Establishment Of Development Permit
5-17-4-2: Designation Of The Building Inspector
5-17-4-3: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Building Inspector
5-17-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Protection
5-17-5-1: General Standards
5-17-5-2: Specific Standards
5-17-5-3: Floodways
5-17-5-4: Manufactured Homes
5-17-6: Enforcement
5-17-6-1: Corrective Procedures
5-17-6-2: Variances
5-17-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES:
   (A)   The Legislature of the State has in Idaho Code §§ 46-1020, 46-1023 and
46-1024 authorized local government units to adopt floodplain management
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
of its citizenry. Therefore, the City Council of the City of Burley, Idaho does
ordain as follows:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of Burley, Idaho are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      2.   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities, and when inadequately anchored, damage development in other areas.
Development that is inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected
from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss.
   (B)   Statement Of Purpose: It is the purpose of this Chapter to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare, and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed:
To protect human life and health;
To minimize expenditure of public money and costly flood control projects;
To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding and
generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and gas
mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, street and bridges located in areas
of special flood hazard;
To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an area of
special flood hazard; and
To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions.
   (C)   Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: In order to accomplish its purposes,
this Chapter includes methods and provisions for:
      1.   Restricting or prohibiting development which is dangerous to health,
safety, and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in
damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      2.   Requiring that development vulnerable to floods, including
structures and facilities, be protected against flood damage at the time of
initial construction;
      3.   Controlling the alteration of natural flood plains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
      4.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which
may increase flood damage; and
      5.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which
will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazard in
other areas. (Ord. 964, 7-20-1984; amd. Ord. 1008, 4-20-1987; Ord. 1393, 5-3-
2022)
5-17-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this Chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this Chapter its most reasonable application.
APPEAL:        A request for a review of the Building Inspector’s interpretation of any provisions
               of this Chapter.
AREA OF        The land in the flood plain within a community subject to a one percent (1%) or
SPECIAL FLOOD  greater chance of flooding in any given year. Designation on maps always includes
HAZARD:        the letters A or V.
               The flood having a one percent (1%) change of being equaled or exceeded in any
BASE FLOOD:    given year. Also referred to as the 100-year flood. Designation on maps always
               includes the letters A or V.
               A determination by the Federal Insurance Administrator of the water surface
               elevations of the base flood, that is, the flood level that has a one percent or
BASE FLOOD     greater chance of occurrence in any given year. When the BFE has not been provided
ELEVATION      in a Special Flood Hazard Area, it may be obtained from engineering studies
(BFE):         available from a Federal. State, or other source using FEMA-approved engineering
               methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the Freeboard, establishes the
               Flood Protection Elevation.
BASEMENT:      Any area of the building having its floor sub grade (below ground level) on all
               sides.
               Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not limited
DEVELOPMENT:   to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
               excavation or drilling operations located within the area of special flood hazard.
               1.   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
               normally dry land areas from:
                  (A)   The overflow of inland or tidal water and/or
                  (B)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff surface waters from any
               source.
                  (C)   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as
               defined in paragraph 1(B) of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid and
FLOOD OR       flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by
FLOODING:      a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
               2.   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of
               water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water
               exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high water
               level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an
               unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or
               by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in flooding as
               defined in 1(A) of this definition.
FLOOD          The official map on which the Federal Insurance Administrator has delineated both
INSURANCE RATE the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable in the
MAP (FIRM):    community.
FLOOD          An examination, evaluation, and determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate,
INSURANCE      corresponding water surface elevations; or an examination, evaluation and
STUDY:         determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood- related erosion hazards.
FLOODPLAIN     The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for
MANAGEMENT:    reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
               flood control works, and flood plain management regulations.
               Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
FLOODPLAIN     special purpose ordinances (such as a flood plain ordinance, grading ordinance, and
MANAGEMENT     erosion control ordinance), and other applications of police power. The term
REGULATIONS:   describes such state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which
               provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
               Any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or adjustments
FLOODPROOFING: to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved
               real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.
               The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must
FLOODWAY:      be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing
               the water surface elevation more than a designated height.
               A facility that cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located or
FUNCTIONALLY   carried out in close proximity to water, such as a docking or port facility
DEPENDENT      necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, or
FACILITY:      ship repair facilities. The term does not include long-term storage, manufacture,
               sales, or service facilities.
HIGHEST        The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction, adjacent
ADJACENT GRADE to the proposed walls of a structure. Refer to the FEMA Elevation Certificate for
(HAG):         HAG related to building elevation information.
               A structure that is:
               1.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing
               maintained by the U.S.
               Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
               Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National
               Register;
               2.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
               contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or to
               a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered
HISTORIC       historic district;
STRUCTURE:     3.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and determined as
               eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by
               the Secretary of the Interior; or
               4.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and determined as
               eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that have been
               certified either:
                  (A)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
               Interior, or
                  (B)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
               programs.
               The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished or
               flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, buildings access
LOWEST FLOOR:  or storage, in an area other than a basement area, is not considered a building’s
               lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the
               structure in violation of the applicable nonelevation design requirements of this
               Chapter.
               A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent
               chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when
MANUFACTURED   connected to the required utilities. For flood plain management purposes the term
HOME:          “manufactured home” also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and other similar
               vehicles placed on a site for greater than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
               days. For insurance purposes the term “manufactured home” does not include park
               trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles.
               Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the
               effective date of a flood plain management regulation adopted by a community and
NEW            includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
CONSTRUCTION:  Any construction started after April 20, 1987 and before the effective start date
               of this floodplain management ordinance is subject to the ordinance in effect at
               the time the permit was issued, provided the start of construction was within 180
               days of permit issuance.
               A vehicle that is:
               1.   Built on a single chassis, and
RECREATIONAL   2.   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection,
VEHICLE.       and
               3.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty truck, and
               4.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
               quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
               Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was
               issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
               rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement was within one hundred
               eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
               placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring
               of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any
               work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
START OF       foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
CONSTRUCTION:  clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/
               or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
               foundation or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation
               on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
               dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement,
               the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any wail, ceiling,
               floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration
               affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE:     A walled and roofed building including a gas or liquid storage tank that is
               principally above ground.
               Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the
SUBSTANTIAL    structure to its before-damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent (50%) of
DAMAGE:        its market value before the damage occurred. See definition of “substantial
               improvement”.
               Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement of a structure,
               the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
               structure before the “start of construction” of the improvement. This term includes
               structures which have incurred “substantial damage”, regardless of the actual
               repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
SUBSTANTIAL    1   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
IMPROVEMENT:   State or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
               identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
               necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
               2.   Any alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the alteration will
               not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a “historic structure” and
               the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant to this ordinance.
               The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
               community^ flood plain management regulations. A structure or other development
               without the Finished Construction Elevation Certificate, other certifications, or
VIOLATION:     other evidence of compliance required in 44 CFR § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)
               (3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until such time as
               that documentation is provided. (Ord. 964, 7-20-1981; amd. Ord. 1008, 4-20-1987;
               Ord. 1393, 5-3-2022)
 
5-17-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Land To Which this Chapter Applies: This Chapter shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazards within the jurisdiction of Burley, Idaho.
   (B)   Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard: The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance Administrator as shown
on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps dated March 9,1982 is hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this Chapter. The Flood Insurance Rate
Map is on file at the office of the City Clerk, City Hall, Burley, Idaho.
   (C)   Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed,
located, extended, converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms
of this Chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (D)   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This Chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this Chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenants, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (E)   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this Chapter,
all provisions shall be:
Considered as minimum requirements;
Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under State
Statutes.
   (F)   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this Chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by man-made or
natural causes. This Chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This Chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the City, any officer or employee thereof, or the Federal Insurance
Administrator for any flood damages that result from reliance on this Chapter
or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 964, 7-20-1981;
amd. Ord. 1008, 4-20-1987; Ord. 1393, 5-3-2022)
5-17-4: ADMINISTRATION:
5-17-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A development permit shall be obtained before construction or development
begins within any area of special flood hazard established in subsection
5-17-3(B) of this Chapter. The permit shall be for all structures including
manufactured homes, as set forth in the “definitions” and for all other
development including fill and other activities, also as set forth in the
“definitions”.
Applicants shall submit a site plan showing compliance with this floodplain
ordinance. (Ord. 1008, 4-20-1987; amd. Ord. 1393, 5-3-2022)
5-17-4-2: DESIGNATION OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR:
The Building Inspector is hereby appointed to administer and implement this
Chapter by granting or denying development permit applications in accordance
with its provisions. (Ord. 964, 7-20-1981)
5-17-4-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR:
   (A)   General Duties: Duties of the Building Inspector shall include, but
not be limited to:
      1.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this Chapter have been satisfied.
      2.   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those Federal, State or local government
agencies from which prior approval is required. (Ord. 964, 7-20-1981)
      3.   Review all development permits to determine if proposed development
is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that the
encroachment provisions of Section
5-17-5-3 are met.
   (B)   Use Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with subsection
5-17-3(B) of this Chapter, the Building Inspector shall obtain, review, and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a
Federal, State, or other source, in order to administer Sections
5-17-5-1 and
5-17-5-3 of this Chapter.
   (C)   Information To Be Obtained And Maintained:
      1.   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the Flood
Insurance Study or required as in subsection
5-17-4-3(B) of this Chapter obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation
to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures, and whether or not the structure contains a
basement. (Ord. 1008, 4-20-87)
      2.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
         a. Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level); and
         b. Maintain the floodproofing certificates required in subsection
5-17-4-1(C).
      3.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this Chapter.
   (D)   Alteration Of Watercourses:
      1.   Notify adjacent communities and the Idaho Department of Water
Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit
evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance Administrator.
      2.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   (E)   Interpretation Of FIRM Boundaries: Make interpretations where needed,
as to exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards
(for example, where there appears to be conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions). The person contesting the location of the boundaries
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation. Such
appeal shall be granted consistent with the standards of section 60.6 of the
rules and regulations of the National Flood Insurance Program (44 CFR 59-76).
   (F)   A community’s base flood elevations may increase or decrease resulting
from physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon as practicable,
but not later than six months after the date such information becomes
available, a community shall notify the Federal Insurance Administrator (FIA)
of the changes by submitting technical or scientific data in accordance with
this part. Such a submission is necessary so that upon confirmation of those
physical changes affecting flooding conditions, risk premium rates and flood
plain management requirements will be based upon current data.
   (G)   Upon occurrence, notify the Federal Insurance Administrator (FIA) in
writing whenever the boundaries of the community have been modified by
annexation or the community has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority to
adopt and enforce flood plain management regulations for a particular area. In
order that all FHBM’s and FIRM’s accurately represent the community’s
boundaries, include within such notification a copy of a map of the community
suitable for reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate limits or new
area for which the community has assumed or relinquished flood plain management
regulatory authority. (Ord. 964, 7-20-81; amd. Ord. 1008. 4-20-1987; Ord. 1393,
5-3-2022)
5-17-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD PROTECTION:
5-17-5-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards the following standards are required:
   (A)   Anchoring:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effect of buoyancy.
      2.   All manufactured homes must likewise be anchored to prevent
floatation, collapse, or collateral movement, and shall be installed using
methods and practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may
include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top and frame ties to ground
anchors (reference FEMA’S “Manufactured Home Installation and Flood Hazard
Areas” guidebook for additional techniques).
      3.   An alternative method of anchoring may involve a system designed to
withstand a wind force of ninety (90) miles per hour or greater. Certification
must be provided to the Building Inspector that this standard has been met.
   (B)   Construction Materials And Methods:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      3.   All new and replacement electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing
and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities shall be designed
and/or otherwise elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or
accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.
   (C)   Utilities:
      1.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
      2.   New and replacement sanitary sewerage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into the flood waters; and
      3.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (D)   Subdivision And Other Development Proposals:
      1.   All subdivision and other development proposals shall be consistent
with the need to minimize flood damage;
      2.   All subdivision and other development proposals shall have public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems
located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
      3.   All subdivision and other development proposals shall have adequate
drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage; and,
      4.   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for all subdivision and
other development proposals which contain at least fifty (50) lots or five (5)
acres (whichever is less).
   (E)   Review Of Building Permits: Where elevation data is not available
either through the flood insurance study or from another authoritative source,
applications for building permits shall be reviewed to assure that proposed
construction will be reasonably safe from flooding. The test of reasonableness
is a local judgment and includes use of historical data, high water marks,
photographs of past flooding, etc., where available. Failure to elevate at
least two feet (2') above grade may result in higher insurance rates. (Ord.
964, 7-20-1981; amd. Ord. 1008, 4-20-1987; Ord. 1393, 5-3-2022)
5-17-5-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in Section
5-17-3, Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard, or subsection
5-17-4-3(B), Use Of Other Base Flood Data, the following provisions are
required:
   (A)   Residential Construction:
      1.   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
base flood elevation.
      2.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding are prohibited, or shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of flood waters. Use of such a space is limited to parking, access or storage.
Designs for meeting this requirement must be either certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of flood
waters.
   (B)   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
      1.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      2.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      3.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certifications shall be
provided to the official as set forth in subsection
5-17-4-3(C)1.
      4.   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed, must
meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described in
subsection
5-17-5-2(A).
      5.   Applicants floodproofing nonresidential buildings shall be notified
that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot (1')
below the floodproofed level (e.g. a building constructed to the base flood
level will be rates as 1 foot below that level).
   (C)   Encroachments: Any proposed development shall be analyzed to determine
effects on the flood carrying capacity of the areas of special flood hazard, as
set forth in subsection
5-17-4-3(A)3, Permit Review.
   (D)   Additions/Improvements.
      1.   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         a.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-
conforming than the existing structure; or
         b.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      2.   Additions to non-compliant post-FIRM structures that are a
substantial improvement with no modifications to the existing structure other
than a standard door in the common wall shall require only the addition to
comply with the standards for new construction.
      3.   Additions and/or improvements to non-compliant post-FIRM structures
when the addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior
modifications to the existing structure are:
         a.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
         b.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
   (E)   Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall be either:
      1.   Temporary Placement:
         a.   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently attached additions): or
      2.   Permanent Placement:
         a.   Recreational vehicles that do not meet the limitations of
Temporary Placement shall meet all the requirements for new construction, as
set forth in
5-17-5-1. (Ord. 964, 7-20-1981; amd. Ord. 1008, 4-20-1987; Ord. 1393, 5-3-2022)
5-17-5-3: FLOODWAYS:
Located within areas of special flood hazard established in subsection
5-17-3(B) are areas designed as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development unless certification by a registered
professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that encroachments
shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge. (Ord. 964, 7-20-1981)
   (B)   If subsection (A) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all application flood hazard
reduction provisions of Section
5-17-5 hereof, Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction. (Ord. 964, 7-20-1981;
amd. Ord. 1008, 4-20-1987)
5-17-5-4: MANUFACTURED HOMES:
All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved within Zones A-
1 - 30, AH, and AE shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the
lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in
accordance with the provisions of subsection
5-17-5-1(A) of this Chapter. (Ord. 1008, 4-20-1987; amd. Ord. 1393, 5-3-2022)
5-17-6: ENFORCEMENT:
5-17-6-1: CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES:
   (A)   Violations to be Corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable State and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (B)   Actions in Event of Failure to Take Corrective Action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      1.   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      2.   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten (10) days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter: and
      3.   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to Take Corrective Action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance, he or she shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring
the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than
sixty (60) calendar days, nor more than one-hundred-eighty (180) calendar days.
Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life
or other property, he or she may order that corrective action be taken in such
lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the Burley City Administrator by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Burley City Clerk
within ten (10) days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of
an appeal, the order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The Burley
City Administrator shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may
affirm, modify and affirm, or revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to Comply with Order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the Burley City Administrator
following an appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished at the discretion of the court. (Ord. 1393, 5-3-2022)
5-17-6-2: VARIANCES:
   (A)   The Burley City Council, or other group of individuals designated by
the Burley City Council, hereinafter referred to as the “appeal board”, shall
hear and decide requests for variances from the requirements of this ordinance.
   (B)   Variances may be issued for:
      1.   the repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      2.   functionally dependent facilities, if determined to meet the
definition as stated in
5-17-2 of this chapter, provided “Conditions for Variances” (see 5-17-6-2(H)
2., 3., and 4. have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by
methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no
additional threats to public safety; or
      3.   any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements of
this Section.
   (C)   In passing upon variances, the appeal board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this ordinance, and:
      1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under
5-17-2 of this chapter as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      6.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development:
      8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      9.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      11.   the costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges.
   (D)   The applicant shall include a written report addressing each of the
above factors ((C)1. - (C)11.) with their application for a variance.
   (E)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this ordinance, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   (F)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the BFE increases risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a
variance to construct a structure below the BFE will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage.
Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions,
including justification for their issuance.
   (G)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
the State of Idaho upon request.
   (H)   Conditions for Variances:
      1.   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other Federal, State, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      2.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if the
variance would result in any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge.
      3.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      4.   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit approval.
      5.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   a showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   a determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (I)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in Special Flood Hazard Areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met:
      1.   The use serves a critical need in the community,
      2.   No feasible location exists for the use outside the Special Flood
Hazard Area.
      3.   The lowest floor of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to at
least the Flood Protection Elevation.
      4.   The use complies with all other applicable Federal State and local
laws.
   (J)   A person designated by the Burley City Council will notify the State
NFIP Coordinator of the Idaho Department of Water Resources of its intention to
grant a variance at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to granting the
variance.
   (K)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in Idaho Code 67-6535. (Ord. 1393, 5-3-
2022)
TITLE 6
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Title
6-1-2: Authority
6-1-3: Purpose
6-1-4: Jurisdiction
6-1-5: Interpretation
6-1-6: Administration
6-1-7: Combining Of Permits
6-1-1: TITLE:
The regulations of this Title shall be known and cited as the City Subdivision
Regulations, hereinafter referred to as the BURLEY SUBDIVISION TITLE. (Ord.
901, 10-18-1976)
6-1-2: AUTHORITY:
The regulations of this Title are authorized by title 67, chapter 65 of the
Idaho Code, as amended or subsequently codified. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-1-3: PURPOSE:
The purposes of these regulations are to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to provide for:
   (A)   The harmonious development of the area;
   (B)   The coordination of streets and roads within the subdivision with
other existing or planned streets and roads;
   (C)   Adequate open space for travel, light, air and recreation;
   (D)   Adequate transportation, water drainage and sanitary facilities;
   (E)   The avoidance of scattered subdivision of land that would result in
either of the following:
      1.   The lack of water supply, sewer service, drainage, transportation or
other public services;
      2.   The unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of public
funds for the supply of such services;
   (F)   The requirements as to the extent and the manner in which:
      1.   Roads shall be created and improved;
      2.   Water and sewer and other utility mains, piping connections or other
facilities shall be installed;
   (G)   The manner and form of making and filing of any plat.
   (H)   The administration of these regulations by defining the powers and
duties of approval authorities. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-1-4: JURISDICTION:
These regulations shall apply to the subdividing of land within the corporate
limits of Burley including the property within one mile outside the corporate
limits of the City or, as mutually defined by both Burley and Cassia and/or
Minidoka Counties, under the requirements of section 67-6513, Idaho Code, as
amended or subsequently codified. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-1-5: INTERPRETATION:
All subdivisions, as defined in Chapter 2 of this Title, shall be submitted for
approval by the Council and shall comply with the provisions of these
regulations. These regulations shall supplement all other regulations and where
at variance with other laws, regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the more
restrictive requirements shall apply. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-1-6: ADMINISTRATION:
The Council shall appoint an administrator to carry out the provisions as
herein specified and to serve at the pleasure of the Council. The administrator
shall receive and process all subdivision applications. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-1-7: COMBINING OF PERMITS:
The Planning and Zoning Commission is hereby required to coordinate with other
departments and agencies concerning all permits which may be required in this
Title and previously or subsequently adopted City ordinances. A one-stop permit
application and processing procedure may be developed with the respective
departments and agencies for the purpose of reducing errors, misunderstanding,
confusion and unnecessary delay for everyone involved. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Terms or words used in this Title shall be interpreted as follows:
   (A)   The present tense includes the past or future tense, the singular
includes the plural and the plural includes the singular.
   (B)   The word "shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive; and the word
"should" is preferred.
   (C)   The masculine shall include the feminine.
The following definitions shall apply to the regulations of this Title:
ADMINISTRATOR: An official, having knowledge in the principles and practices of subdividing, who
               is appointed by the Council to administer this Title.
BLOCK:         A group of lots, tracts or parcels within well defined boundaries, usually
               streets.
BOARD:         The County Commissioners of either Cassia or Minidoka County.
               A structure designed or used as the living quarters for one or more families, or
BUILDING:      a structure designed or used for occupancy by people for commercial or industrial
               uses.
BUILDING SITE: An area proposed or provided and improved by grading, filling, excavating or
               other means for erecting pads for buildings.
CEMETERY:      A lot that has been platted for the selling of sites for the burial of animal or
               human remains.
CITY:          The city having jurisdiction of the parcel of land under consideration.
COMMISSION:    The Planning and Zoning Commission1, appointed by the Council.
               An adopted document that herein may be referred to as a comprehensive plan or
COMPREHENSIVE  comprehensive development plan. The document shall show the general location and
PLAN:          extent of present and proposed development, including, but not limited to,
               housing, industrial and commercial uses, streets, parks, schools and other
               community facilities.
               An estate consisting of an undivided interest in common in real property, in an
CONDOMINIUM:   interest or interests in real property, or in any combination thereof; together
               with a separate interest in real property, or an interest or interests in real
               property, or in any combination thereof, section 55-101B, Idaho Code.
COUNTY         The office of the County Recorder, of either Cassia or Minidoka County.
RECORDER:
COVENANT:      A written promise or pledge.
CULVERT:       A drain that channels water under a bridge, street, road or driveway.
               The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the public by
DEDICATION:    ordinance, resolution or entry in the official minutes as by the recording of a
               plot. Dedicated land becomes public land upon the acceptance by the City.
DEVELOPER:     Authorized agent(s) of a subdivider or the subdivider himself.
DWELLING UNIT: Any building or other structure proposed or built for occupancy by people.
EASEMENT:      A grant by a property owner to specific persons or to the public to use land for
               specific purposes. Also, a right acquired by prescription.
ENGINEER:      Any person who is licensed in the State to practice professional engineering.
               The relatively flat area or low land adjoining the channel of a river, stream,
               lake or other body of water which has been or may be covered by water of a flood
               of 100-year frequency. The flood plain includes the channel, floodway and
               floodway fringe, as established per the engineering practices as specified by the
               Army Corps of Engineers, as follows:
               (A)   "Flood of 100-year frequency" shall mean a flood magnitude which has a one
               percent (1%) chance of being equalled or exceeded in any given year.
               (B)   "Flood" shall mean the temporary inundation of land adjacent to and
               inundated by overflow from a river, stream, lake or other body of water.
               (C)   "Channel" shall mean a natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible
FLOOD PLAIN:   extent, with definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or
               periodically flowing water.
               (D)   "Floodway" shall mean the channel or a watercourse and those portions of
               the flood plain adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to carry and
               discharge the flood water of any watercourse.
               (E)   "Floodway fringe" shall mean that part of the flood plain which is beyond
               the floodway. Such areas will include those portions of the flood plain which
               will be inundated by a flood of 100-year frequency but which may be developed
               when such development will not have a significant effect upon the flood water
               carrying capacity of the floodway and the flood water levels. Such areas are
               characterized by shallow flood depths and low velocities of water flow.
GOVERNING      The City Council of the City of Burley, Idaho.
BODY:
HIGHWAY:       A street designated as a highway by an appropriate State or Federal agency.
HILLSIDE       Any subdivision, or portion thereof, having an average slope of ten percent (10%)
SUBDIVISION:   or more.
IMPROVEMENT:   Any alteration to the land or other physical constructions associated with
               subdivision and building site developments.
LARGE SCALE    A subdivision, the size of which consists of fifty (50) or more lots or dwelling
DEVELOPMENTS:  units.
               A parcel, plot, tract or other land area of suitable size as required in this
LOT:           Title and the existing zoning regulations (Title 5 hereof) and created by
               subdivision for sale, transfer or lease.
               The area of any lot shall be determined exclusive of street, highway, alley, road
LOT AREA:      or other rights of way, except reserved utility easements, on plats or otherwise,
               shall be included in defining lot area.
               As used in these regulations, lot types are as follows:
               (A)   Corner lot is a lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets.
LOT TYPES:     (B)   Interior lot is a lot other than a corner lot, with frontage on only one
               street.
               (C)   Through lot is a lot with frontage on more than one street other than
               corner lot.
               A detached single-family dwelling unit with all of the following characteristics:
               (A)   Designed for long-term occupancy, and containing sleeping accommodations, a
               flush toilet, a tub or shower bath and kitchen facilities, with plumbing and
               electrical connections provided for attachment to outside systems.
MOBILE HOME:   (B)   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels, or on
               flatbed or other trailers or detached wheels.
               (C)   Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling complete,
               including major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy except for
               minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on foundation
               supports, connection to utilities, and the like.
MOBILE HOME    A subdivision designed and intended for exclusive mobile home residential use.
SUBDIVISION:
               Any permanent marker either of concrete, galvanized iron pipe, or iron or steel
MONUMENT:      rods, used to identify any tract, parcel, lot or street lines, as specified in
               section 50-1303 of the Idaho Code.
OPEN SPACE:    An area open to the sky for outdoor recreation activity, exclusive of streets,
               buildings or other covered structures.
ORIGINAL       A lot or tract as recorded on any plat of record on file in the office of the
PARCEL OF      County Recorder, or any unplatted contiguous parcel of land held in one ownership
LAND:          and of record at the effective date hereof.
OWNERSHIP:     The individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership or corporation having
               any interest in the land to be subdivided.
               An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by the subdivider or his
               surety to the City Clerk which guarantees that the subdivider will perform all
PERFORMANCE    actions required by the governing body regarding an approved plat, and provides
BOND:          that if the subdivider defaults and fails to comply with the provisions of an
               approved plat, the subdivider or his surety will pay damages up to the limit of
               the bond, or the surety will itself complete the requirements of the approved
               plat.
               A subdivision designed as a combination of residential, commercial and industrial
PLANNED UNIT   uses planned for a tract of land to be developed as a unit under single ownership
DEVELOPMENT    or control, which is developed for the purpose of selling individual lots or
SUBDIVISION:   estates, whether fronting on private or dedicated streets, which may include two
               (2) or more principal buildings.
               The drawing, mapping or planning of a subdivision, cemetery, townsite or other
PLAT:          tract of land or a replatting of such including certifications, descriptions and
               approvals:
Final Plat:    The final and formal presentation by drawings of an approved subdivision
               development, filed with the government agencies required by law.
Preliminary    The first formal presentation by drawings of a proposed subdivision.
Plat:
RESERVE STRIP: A strip of land between a partial street and adjacent property, which is reserved
               or held in public ownership for future street extension or widening.
RIGHT OF WAY:  A strip of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public way, which normally
               includes streets, sidewalks and other public utilities or service areas.
STANDARD       Shall be the specifications as specified in this Title or as officially adopted
STRIP:         by the City.
STATE:         The State of Idaho.
               A right of way which provides access to adjacent properties, the dedication of
STREET:        which has been officially accepted. The term "street" also includes the terms
               highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place and other
               such terms:
Alley:         A right of way providing secondary access at the back or side of a property
               otherwise abutting a street.
Arterial:      A street designated for the purpose of carrying fast and/or heavy traffic.
Collector:     A street designated for the purpose of carrying traffic from local streets to
               other collector streets and/or arterial streets.
Cul-De-Sac:    A street connected to another street at one end only and provided with a turn-
               around space at its terminus.
Frontage:      A local street, parallel to and adjacent to an arterial street to provide access
               to abutting properties.
Local:         A street which has the primary purpose of providing access to abutting
               properties.
Loop:          A local street with both terminal points on the same street of origin.
Private:       A street that is not accepted for public use or maintenance which provides
               vehicular and pedestrian access.
               A subdivider shall be deemed to be the individual, firm, corporation,
               partnership, association, syndicate, trust or other legal entity that executes
SUBDIVIDER:    the application and initiates proceedings for the subdivision of land in
               accordance with the provisions of this Title. The subdivider need not be the
               owner of the property; however, he shall be an agent of the owner or have
               sufficient proprietary rights in the property to represent the owner.
               The result of an act of dividing an original lot, tract or parcel of land into
               more than two (2) parts for the purpose of transfer of ownership or development;
               which shall also include the dedication of a public street and the addition to,
               or creation of, a cemetery. However, this Title shall not apply to any of the
               following:
               (A)   An adjustment of lot lines as shown on a recorded plat which does not
               reduce the area, frontage, width, depth or building setback lines of each
               building site below the minimum zoning requirements, and does not change the
SUBDIVISION:   original number of lots in any block of the recorded plat.
               (B)   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent or a
               court decree for the distribution of property.
               (C)   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as defined and
               allowed in the Idaho Code.
               (D)   Widening of existing streets to conform to the Comprehensive Plan.
               (E)   The acquisition of street rights of way by a public agency in conformance
               with the Comprehensive Plan.
               (F)   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property boundaries
               which does not result in the change of the present land usage.
SURVEYOR:      Any person who is licensed in the State as a public land surveyor to do
               professional surveying.
UTILITIES:     Installations for conducting water, sewage, gas, electricity, television, storm
               water and similar facilities providing service to and used by the public.
               A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations where such
               modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to
VARIANCE:      conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action of the
               applicant, a literal enforcement of this Title would result in unnecessary and
               undue hardship.
VICINITY MAP:  A small scale map showing the location of a tract of land in relation to a larger
               area. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976; amd. Ord. 1408, 10-17-2023; Ord. 1414, 8-6-2024)
 
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION APPROVAL PROCEDURE
SECTION:
6-3-1: Subdivision Approval Required
6-3-2: Pre-Application Procedure
6-3-3: Preliminary Plat
6-3-3-1: Application
6-3-3-2: Combining Preliminary And Final Plats
6-3-3-3: Content Of Preliminary Plat
6-3-3-4: Requirement Of Preliminary Plats
6-3-3-5: Fee
6-3-3-6: Administrator Review
6-3-3-7: Administrator Recommendation
6-3-3-8: Public Notification
6-3-3-9: Commission Action
6-3-3-10: Appeals
6-3-3-11: Approval Period
6-3-4: Final Plat
6-3-4-1: Application
6-3-4-2: Content Of Final Plat
6-3-4-3: Administrator Report
6-3-4-4: Agency Review
6-3-4-5: Council Action
6-3-4-6: Approval Period
6-3-4-7: Method Of Recording
6-3-1: SUBDIVISION APPROVAL REQUIRED:
Any person desiring to create a subdivision, as defined in Chapter 2 of this
Title, shall submit all necessary applications to the Administrator. No final
plat shall be filed with the County Recorder or improvements made on the
property until the plat has been acted upon by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and approved by the Council. No lots shall be sold until the plat
has been recorded in the office of the County Recorder. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-3-2: PRE-APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Application: The subdivider may submit a pre-application to enable the
Administrator to review and comment on the proposed subdivision. The pre-
application shall include at least one copy of a sketch plan. The sketch plan
shall include the entire developmental scheme of the proposed subdivision, in
schematic form and including the following:
      1.   The general layout and approximate dimension of streets, blocks and
lots in sketch form.
      2.   The existing conditions and characteristics of the land on and
adjacent to the proposed subdivision site.
      3.   The areas set aside for schools, parks and other public facilities.
   (B)   Fee: None required.
   (C)   Administrator Action: The Administrator shall notify the subdivider
within fifteen (15) days from the date of receiving an acceptable pre-
application as to the general conformance or nonconformance of the proposal
with this Title, and shall provide the necessary forms and check lists, as well
as the additional following concerns:
      1.   Compliance of the proposed development with existing local or State
policies, goals and objectives or comprehensive plans.
      2.   Determination if additional special permits or ordinance conflicts,
such as rezone, special development permit or variance are needed and the
manner of coordinating such permits.
      3.   Consideration of any unique environmental features or hazardous
concerns that may be directly or indirectly associated with the subject
property, such as areas that have been designated by the State as areas of
critical environmental concern, flood plain, airport flight pattern and the
like.
      4.   Consideration of other local and State agencies that the subdivider
should contact before preparing a preliminary plat. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-3-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
6-3-3-1: APPLICATION:
The subdivider shall file with the Administrator a completed subdivision
application form and preliminary plat data as required in this Title.
6-3-3-2: COMBINING PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLATS:
The applicant may request that the subdivision application be processed as both
a preliminary and final plat if all the following exist:
   (A)   The proposed subdivision does not exceed ten (10) lots.
   (B)   No new street dedication or street widening is involved.
   (C)   No major special development considerations are involved, such as
development in a flood plain, hillside development or the like.
   (D)   All required information for both preliminary and final plat is
complete and in an acceptable form.
A request to combine both preliminary plat and final plat into one application
shall be acted upon by the Commission upon recommendation by the Administrator.
(Ord. 901, 10-18-1976; amd. Ord. 1408, 10-17-2023)
6-3-3-3: CONTENT OF PRELIMINARY PLAT:
The contents of the preliminary plat and related information shall be in such a
form as stipulated by the Planning and Zoning Commission, however, any
additional maps or data deemed necessary by the Administrator may also be
required such as unique environmental factors or hazard concerns. The
subdivider shall submit to the Administrator at least the following:
   (A)   One (1) paper or electronic copy of the preliminary plat of the
proposed subdivision, drawn in accordance with the requirements hereinafter
stated; each copy of the preliminary plat shall be on good quality paper, shall
have dimensions of not less than twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x
36"), shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one inch to one hundred feet
(1" = 100'), shall show the drafting date, and shall indicate thereon, by
arrow, the general northerly direction.
   (B)   One (1) paper or electronic of preliminary engineering plans (not
meant to be cross-sections or detailed designs) for streets, water, sewers,
sidewalks and other required public improvements; however, such engineering
plans shall contain sufficient information and detail to enable the
Administrator to make a determination as to conformance of the proposed
improvements to applicable regulations, ordinances and standards.
   (C)   A written application requesting approval of the preliminary plat.
   (D)   Appropriate information that sufficiently details the proposed
development within any special development area, such as hillside, planned unit
development, flood plain, cemetery, mobile home, large scale development,
hazardous and unique areas of development. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976; amd. Ord.
1408, 10-17-2023)
6-3-3-4: REQUIREMENT OF PRELIMINARY PLATS:
The following shall be shown on the preliminary plat or shall be submitted
separately:
   (A)   The name of the proposed subdivision.
   (B)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the subdivider or
subdividers and the engineer or surveyor who prepared the plat.
   (C)   The name and address of all adjoining owners of property within a
radius of three hundred feet (300') of the boundaries of the proposed
subdivision, whether or not bisected by a public right of way as shown on
record in the County Assessor's office.
   (D)   The legal description of the subdivision.
   (E)   A statement of the intended use of the proposed subdivision, such as:
residential single-family; two-family and multiple housing; commercial;
industrial; recreational or agricultural and a showing of any sites proposed
for parks, playgrounds, schools, churches or other public uses.
   (F)   A map of the entire area scheduled for development if the proposed
subdivision is a portion of a larger holding intended for subsequent
development.
   (G)   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to the
surrounding area (1/2 mile minimum radius, scale optional).
   (H)   The land use and existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and the
adjacent land.
   (I)   Streets, street names, rights of way and roadway widths, including
adjoining streets or roadways.
   (J)   Lot lines and blocks showing the dimensions and numbers of each.
   (K)   Contour lines, shown at five foot (5') intervals where land slope is
greater than ten percent (10%) and at two foot (2') intervals where land slope
is ten percent (10%) or less, referenced to an established bench mark,
including location and elevation.
   (L)   A site report showing proposed water supply and sewage disposal
systems.
   (M)   Any proposed or existing utilities, including, but not limited to,
storm and sanitary sewers, irrigation laterals, ditches, drainages, bridges,
culverts, water mains, fire hydrants, electric lines, gas lines, telephone
lines and other similar utilities.
   (N)   A copy of any proposed restrictive covenants and/or deed restrictions.
   (O)   Any dedications to the public and/or easements, together with a
statement of location, dimensions and purposes of such.
   (P)   Information required for chapter 5 of this title shall be furnished on
all subdivisions.
   (Q)   A statement as to whether or not a variance, as specified in chapter 7
of this title, will be requested with respect to any provision of this title
describing the particular provision, the variance requested, and the reasons
therefor. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-3-3-5: FEE:
At the time of submission an application fee established by a resolution
adopted by the Burley city council shall be paid. There shall be no additional
fee for the combining of the preliminary and final plats. (Ord. 1160, 5-7-2002)
6-3-3-6: ADMINISTRATOR REVIEW:
   (A)   Certification: Upon receipt of the preliminary plat, and all other
required data as provided for herein, the Administrator shall certify the
application as complete and shall affix the date of application acceptance
thereon.
   (B)   Review By Other Agencies: The Administrator shall refer the
preliminary plat and application to as many agencies as deemed necessary. Such
agencies may include the following:
      1.   Burley Fire Department.
      2.   Other governing bodies having joint jurisdiction.
      3.   The appropriate utility companies, irrigation companies or
districts, highway districts and drainage districts.
      4.   The superintendent of the school district.
      5.   Other agencies having an interest in the proposed subdivision.
      6.   Superintendent of city departments such as water department, street
department, electrical department, recreation department and such other
departments as the administrator may deem necessary. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976;
amd. Ord. 1408, 10-17-2023)
6-3-3-7: ADMINISTRATOR RECOMMENDATION:
   (A)   The Administrator shall review the preliminary plat from the viewpoint
of his or her technical skill and knowledge.
   (B)   The Administrator shall make a recommendation to the Planning and
Zoning Commission on each preliminary plat and on each special request that is
made by the subdivider. The Administrator's recommendation shall include how
deficiencies or shortcomings of the preliminary plat might be overcome. The
Administrator shall prepare a recommendation to the Commission within forty-
five (45) days of the certification of the completed preliminary plat
application unless an extension of time is applied for by the Administrator and
granted by the Commission. Extensions shall be for a reasonable time.
   (C)   The preliminary plat shall be placed on the agenda of a regular
Commission meeting or of a special meeting of the Commission, within forty-five
(45) days of completion of the Administrator’s recommendation, for the purpose
of holding a hearing on the proposed preliminary plat. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976;
amd. Ord. 1408, 10-17-2023)
6-3-3-8: PUBLIC NOTIFICATION:
   (A)   Notification To Property Owners: The Administrator shall notify all
adjoining property owners who appear on the list of property owners' names and
addresses that has been provided by the subdivider. Notification shall include
information regarding when and where the hearing is being held. Such written
notification shall be mailed at least ten (10) days prior to the Commission
meeting.
   (B)   Failure To Notify: The Administrator's failure to comply with the
notification provision shall not invalidate the Commission's actions, provided
the spirit of the procedure is observed. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976; amd. Ord. 1408,
10-17-2023)
6-3-3-9: COMMISSION ACTION:
   (A)   Hearing By Commission: The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a
hearing to review the preliminary plat, any reports from superintendents of
city departments, comments from concerned persons and agencies, the report from
the Administrator, and other relevant information entered upon the record at
the hearing, to arrive at a decision on the preliminary plat.
   (B)   Commission's Findings: In determining the acceptance of a proposed
subdivision, the Commission shall consider the objectives of this Title and at
least the following:
      1.   The conformance of the subdivision with the Comprehensive
Development Plan.
      2.   The availability of public services to accommodate the proposed
development.
      3.   The continuity of the proposed development with any capital
improvement program.
      4.   The public financial capability of supporting services for the
proposed development.
      5.   The other health, safety or environmental problems that may be
brought to the Commission's attention.
   (C)   Action On Preliminary Plat: The Commission may approve, approve
conditionally, disapprove or table the preliminary plat for additional
information. Such action shall occur within thirty (30) days of the date of the
hearing held by the Commission. The action, and the reasons for such action
shall be stated in writing, and forwarded to the applicant. The Administrator
shall also forward a statement of the action taken and the reasons for such
action, together with a copy of the preliminary plat to the Council for their
information and record.
   (D)   Action On Combined Preliminary And Final Plat: If the Commission's
conclusion is favorable to the subdivider's request for the subdivision to be
considered as both a preliminary plat and final subdivision, then a
recommendation shall be forwarded to the Council in the same manner as herein
specified for a final plat. The Commission may recommend that the combined
application be approved, approved conditionally or disapproved. (Ord. 901, 10-
18-1976; amd. Ord. 1408, 10-17-2023)
6-3-3-10: APPEALS:
Any person or aggrieved party who appeared in person or writing before the
Planning and Zoning Commission or the subdivider may appeal in writing the
decision of the Commission relative to the final action taken by the
Commission. Such appeal must be submitted to the Council within twenty (20)
days from such Commission action. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-3-3-11: APPROVAL PERIOD:
   (A)   Failure to file and obtain the certification of the acceptance of the
final plat application by the Administrator within one year after action by the
Commission shall cause all approvals of said preliminary plat to be null and
void, unless an extension of time is applied for by the subdivider and granted
by the Commission.
   (B)   In the event that the development of the preliminary plat is made in
successive contiguous segments in an orderly and reasonable manner, and
conforms substantially to the approved preliminary plat, such segments, if
submitted within successive intervals of one year may be considered for final
approval without resubmission for preliminary plat approval. The one year
limitation may be extended by the Commission upon good cause being shown. (Ord.
901, 10-18-1976)
6-3-4: FINAL PLAT:
6-3-4-1: APPLICATION:
After the approval or conditional approval of the preliminary plat, the
subdivider may cause the total parcel, or any part thereof, to be surveyed and
a final plat prepared in accordance with the approved preliminary plat. The
subdivider shall submit to the Administrator the following:
   (A)   Three (3) copies of the final plat.
   (B)   One (1) copy of the final engineering construction drawings for
streets, water, sewers, sidewalks, utility easements and other public
improvements. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976; amd. Ord. 1408, 10-17-2023)
6-3-4-2: CONTENT OF FINAL PLAT:
The final plat shall include and be in compliance with all items required under
title 50, chapter 13 of the Idaho Code, and shall be drawn at such a scale and
contain lettering of such size as to enable the same to be placed on one sheet
of eighteen (18) inches by twenty-seven (27) inches, with a three-and-one-half
(3-1/2) inch margin at the left end for binding and a one-half (1/2) inch
margin on all other edges. The reverse of said sheet shall not be used for any
portion of the drawing, but may contain written matter as to dedications,
certifications and other information. The final plat shall include at least the
following:
   (A)   A written application for approval of such final plat as stipulated by
the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (B)   Proof of current ownership, or ability to acquire ownership if the
plat is approved, of the real property included in the proposed final plat.
   (C)   Such other information as the Administrator or Commission may deem
necessary to establish whether or not all proper parties have signed and/or
approved said final plat.
   (D)   Conformance with the approved preliminary plat and meeting all
requirements or conditions thereof.
   (E)   Conformance with all requirements and provisions of this Title. (Ord.
901, 10-18-1976; amd. Ord. 1408, 10-17-2023)
6-3-4-3: ADMINISTRATOR REVIEW:
   (A)   Acceptance: Upon receipt of the final plat, and compliance with all
other requirements as provided for herein, the Administrator shall certify the
application as complete and shall affix the date of acceptance thereon.
   (B)   Resubmittal Of Final Plat: The Administrator shall review the final
plat for compliance with the approved or conditionally approved preliminary
plat. If the Administrator determines that there is substantial difference in
the final plat than that which was approved as a preliminary plat or conditions
which have not been met, the Administrator may require that the final plat be
submitted to the Commission in the same manner as required in the preliminary
plat process.
   (C)   Final Plat Copies: The Administrator shall furnish a copy of the final
plat to all utility companies, i.e., telephone, gas, T.V.; however, the failure
to so furnish shall not invalidate the plat. The Administrator may transmit one
copy of the final plat, or other documents submitted for review and
recommendation to the departments and agencies as he deems necessary to ensure
compliance with the preliminary plat approval and/or conditions of preliminary
plat approval. Such department or agency review shall also include the
construction standards of improvements, compliance with health standards, the
cost estimate for all improvements and the legal review of the performance
bond. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976; amd. Ord. 1408, 10-17-2023)
6-3-4-4: ADMINISTRATOR REPORT:
   (A)   The Administrator shall prepare a report to the Council within thirty-
five (35) days of the determination that the final plat is in compliance with
the preliminary plat and all conditional requirements have been met, unless an
extension of time is applied for by the Administrator and granted by the
Council. Extensions shall be for a reasonable time.
   (B)   The final plat shall be placed on the agenda of a regular or a special
meeting of the Council, within thirty-five (35) days of completion of the
Administrator’s report, for the purpose of considering approval of the final
plat. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976; amd. Ord. 1408, 10-17-2023)
6-3-4-5: COUNCIL ACTION:
The Council, within thirty-five (35) days of receipt of the Administrator's
report, shall consider the Planning and Zoning Commission's findings and
comments from concerned persons and agencies to arrive at a decision on the
final plat. The Council shall approve, approve conditionally, disapprove or
table the final plat for additional information within the thirty (30) days of
the date of the meeting at which the plat is first considered. A copy of the
approved plat shall be filed with the Administrator. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976;
amd. Ord. 1408, 10-17-2023)
6-3-4-6: APPROVAL PERIOD:
Final plat shall be filed with the County Recorder within one year after
written approval by the Council, otherwise, such approval shall become null and
void unless prior to said expiration date an extension of time is applied for
by the subdivider and granted by the Council. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-3-4-7: METHOD OF RECORDING:
Upon approval of the final plat by the Council, the subdivider's prepayment of
recording fees, construction of off-site improvements or posting of surety
bond, and compliance with Idaho Code, title 50, chapter 13, the subdivider may
submit the plan for recording. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Minimum Design Standards Required
6-4-2: Dedication Of Streets
6-4-3: Street Locations
6-4-4: Street Specifications
6-4-5: Street Names
6-4-6: Intersections
6-4-7: Pedestrian Walkways
6-4-8: Easements
6-4-9: Blocks
6-4-10: Lots
6-4-11: Planting Strips And Reserve Strips
6-4-12: Public Sites And Open Spaces
6-4-1: MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS REQUIRED:
All plats submitted pursuant to the provisions of this Title, and all
subdivisions, improvements and facilities done, constructed or made in
accordance with said provisions shall comply with the minimum design standards
set forth in this Chapter; provided, however, that any higher standards adopted
by the State or County governmental authority, contract or restrictive
covenants shall prevail over those set forth herein. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-4-2: DEDICATION OF STREETS:
Within a proposed subdivision, all streets shall be dedicated to public use.
(Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-4-3: STREET LOCATIONS:
Street and road location shall conform to the following:
   (A)   Street Location And Arrangements: When an official street plan or
comprehensive development plan has been adopted, subdivision streets shall
conform to such plans.
   (B)   Minor Streets: Shall be so arranged as to discourage their use by
through traffic.
   (C)   Stub Streets: Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the
arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall be such that said streets
extend to the boundary line of the tract to make provisions for the future
extension of said streets into adjacent areas. A reserve strip may be required
and held for public ownership.
   (D)   Relation To Topography: Streets shall be arranged in proper relation
to topography so as to result in usable lots, safe streets and acceptable
gradients.
   (E)   Alleys: Alleys shall be provided in residential areas unless
provisions are made for service access. Off-street loading and service areas
shall be provided in commercial and industrial areas without alleys. Dead-end
alleys shall be prohibited in all cases.
   (F)   Frontage Roads: Where a subdivision abuts or contains an arterial
street, it shall be required that there be frontage roads approximately
parallel to and on each side of such arterial streets; or, such other treatment
as is necessary for the adequate protection of residential properties and to
separate through traffic from local traffic.
   (G)   Cul-De-Sac Streets: Cul-de-sac streets shall not be more than five
hundred feet (500') in length and shall terminate with an adequate turn-around
having a minimum radius of fifty feet (50') for right of way.
   (H)   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited except where unusual
circumstances make such necessary to the reasonable development of a tract in
conformance with this Title and where satisfactory assurance for dedication of
the remaining part of the street is provided. Whenever a tract to be subdivided
borders on an existing half or partial street, the other part of the street
shall be dedicated within such tract.
   (I)   Private Streets: Private streets and roads shall be prohibited except
within planned unit developments. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-4-4: STREET SPECIFICATIONS:
   (A)   Street Right-Of-Way Widths: Street and road right-of-way widths shall
conform to the adopted major street plan or comprehensive development plan and
the rules of the State Department of Highways and the highway district or
department having jurisdiction; minimum right-of-way standards are as follows:
 
Highway And Street Types Width
Expressway or Freeway    160-260 feet
Major Arterial           120 feet
Local                    60 feet
Collector Street         60 feet
 
   (B)   Street Grades: Street grades shall not exceed ten percent (10%) on
either local or collector streets, and six percent (6%) for arterial streets.
   (C)   Street Alignment: Shall be as follows:
      1.   Horizontal Alignment: When street lines deflect from each other by
more than ten degrees (10°) in alignment, the center lines shall be connected
by a curve having a minimum radius of five hundred feet (500') for arterial
streets, and three hundred feet (300') for collector streets. Between reverse
curves on collector and arterial streets there shall be a minimum tangent
distance of two hundred feet (200').
      2.   Vertical Alignment: Minimum stopping sight distances shall be two
hundred feet (200') for local streets and designed in accordance with design
speed for collector and arterial streets. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-4-5: STREET NAMES:
The naming of streets shall conform to the following:
   (A)   Street names shall not duplicate any existing street name within the
City, unless it is a continuation of an existing City street; street names that
may be spelled differently but sound the same as existing streets shall not be
used.
   (B)   All new streets shall be named as follows: streets having a
predominantly north-south direction shall be named "Avenue"; streets having a
predominantly east-west direction shall be named "Street"; meandering streets
shall be named "Drive" or "Lane"; and cul-de-sacs shall be named "Circle",
"Court" or "Place". (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-4-6: INTERSECTIONS:
Intersections shall conform to the following:
   (A)   Angle Of Intersection: Streets shall intersect at ninety degrees (90°)
or as closely thereto as possible, and in no case shall streets intersect at
less than seventy degrees (70°).
   (B)   Sight Triangles: Minimum clear sight distance at all local street
intersections shall permit vehicles to be visible to the driver of another
vehicle when each is one hundred feet (100') from the center of the
intersection.
   (C)   Number Of Streets: No more than two (2) streets shall cross at any one
intersection.
   (D)   "T" Intersections: "T" intersections may be used wherever such design
will not restrict the free movement of traffic.
   (E)   Center Line Offsets: Street center lines shall be offset by a distance
of at least one hundred twenty five feet (125').
   (F)   Vertical Alignment Of Intersection: A nearly flat grade with
appropriate drainage slopes is desirable within intersections. This flat
section shall be extended a minimum of one hundred feet (100') each way from
the intersection. An allowance of two percent (2%) maximum intersection grade
in rolling terrain, and four percent (4%) in hilly terrain, will be permitted.
(Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-4-7: PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS:
Right of way for pedestrian walkways in the middle of long blocks may be
required where necessary to obtain convenient pedestrian circulation to
schools, parks or shopping areas; the pedestrian easement shall be at least ten
feet (10') wide. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-4-8: EASEMENTS:
Unobstructed utility easements shall be provided along front lot lines, rear
lot lines, and side lot lines when deemed necessary; total easement width shall
not be less than ten feet (10'). Unobstructed drainage way easements shall be
provided as required by the Council. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-4-9: BLOCKS:
Every block shall be so designed as to provide two (2) tiers of lots, except
where lots back onto an arterial street, natural feature or subdivision
boundary. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-4-10: LOTS:
Lots shall conform to the following:
   (A)   Zoning: The lot width, depth and total area shall not be less than the
requirements of any applicable zoning regulations.
   (B)   Future Arrangements: Where parcels of land are subdivided into
unusually large lots (such as when large lots are approved for septic tanks),
the parcels shall be divided, where feasible, so as to allow for future
resubdividing into smaller parcels. Lot arrangements shall allow for the
ultimate extension of adjacent streets through the middle of wide blocks.
Whenever such future subdividing or lot splitting is contemplated, the plan
thereof shall be approved by the Commission prior to the taking of such action.
   (C)   Sufficient Area For Septic Tank: Where individual septic tanks have
been authorized sufficient area shall be provided for a replacement sewage
disposal system. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-4-11: PLANTING STRIPS AND RESERVE STRIPS:
Planting strips and reserve strips shall conform to the following:
   (A)   Planting Strips: Planting strips may be required to be placed next to
incompatible features such as highways, railroads, commercial or industrial
uses to screen the view from residential properties. Such screening shall be a
minimum of ten feet (10') wide, and shall not be a part of the normal street
right of way or utility easement.
   (B)   Reserve Strips:
      1.   Reserve Strips, Private: Privately held reserve strips controlling
access to streets shall be prohibited.
      2.   Reserve Strips, Public: A one foot (1') reserve strip may be
required to be placed along half streets which are within the subdivision
boundaries and shall be deeded in fee simple to the City for future street
widening. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-4-12: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
Where it is determined that a proposed park, playground, school or other public
use as shown on the Comprehensive Development Plan is located in whole or in
part within a proposed subdivision, sufficient area for such public use shall
be dedicated to the public or reserved and offered for public purchase at a
fair market value. If within two (2) years of plat recording, the purchase is
not agreed on, the reservation shall be canceled or shall automatically cease
to exist. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
CHAPTER 5
IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Responsibility For Plans
6-5-2: Required Public Improvements
6-5-3: Guarantee Of Completion Of Improvements
6-5-4: Inspection Of Public Improvements Under Construction
6-5-5: Failure To Complete Construction Of Public Improvement
6-5-1: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PLANS:
It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed subdivision
to have prepared by a registered engineer, a complete set of construction
plans, including profiles, cross-sections, specifications and other supporting
data for all required public streets, utilities and other facilities. Such
construction plans shall be based on preliminary plans which have been approved
with the preliminary plat, and shall be prepared in conjunction with the final
plat. Construction plans are subject to approval by the responsible
governmental agency. All construction plans shall be prepared in accordance
with the City standards or specifications. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-5-2: REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Every subdivider shall be required to install the following public and other
improvements in accordance with the conditions and specifications as follows:
   (A)   Monuments: Monuments shall be set in accordance with section 50-1303,
Idaho Code.
   (B)   Streets And Alleys: All streets and alleys shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the Council.
   (C)   Curbs And Gutters: Vertical curbs and gutters shall be constructed on
collector and arterial streets. Rolled curbs and gutters shall be required on
local streets. All construction shall be in accordance with the standards and
specifications adopted by the Council.
   (D)   Bicycle Pathways: Bicycle pathways are encouraged and may be required
within all subdivisions, as part of the public right of way or separate
easement, as may be specified in an overall bicycle plan as adopted by the
Council.
   (E)   Installation Of Public Utilities: Underground utilities are encouraged
and may be required subject to the Council's adopted policies and ordinances.
   (F)   Driveways: All driveway openings in curbs shall be as specified by the
City, Highway District or State Highway Department.
   (G)   Storm Drainage: An adequate storm drainage system shall be required in
all subdivisions. The requirements for each particular subdivision shall be
established by the Council. Construction shall follow the specifications and
procedures established by the Council.
   (H)   Public Water Supply And Sewer Systems: All public water supply or
sewer systems shall be constructed in accordance with any adopted local plans
and specifications. All new public water supply or sewer systems shall be an
extension of an existing public system whenever possible. In the event that the
proposed public water supply or sewer system is not an extension of an existing
public system, there shall be a showing by the subdivider that the extension is
not feasible and not to the best interest of the public.
   (I)   Fire Hydrants And Water Mains: Adequate fire protection shall be
required in accordance with the appropriate fire protection standards.
   (J)   Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall be installed in the
appropriate locations at each street intersection in accordance with the local
standards.
   (K)   Sidewalks And Pedestrian Walkways: Sidewalks shall be required on both
sides of the street. Sidewalks and crosswalks shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications as adopted by the Council.
   (L)   Greenbelt: Greenbelts or landscape screening may be required for the
protection of residential properties from adjacent major arterial streets,
waterways, railroad rights of way or other features. Subdivision plats shall
show the location of any greenbelt areas.
   (M)   Street Lighting: Street lights may be required to be installed at
intersections throughout the subdivision. A subdivider shall conform to the
requirements of the City and the public utility providing such lighting. (Ord.
901, 10-18-1976; amd. Ord. 1414, 8-6-2024)
6-5-3: GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
In lieu of the actual installation of required public improvements before
filing of the final plat, the Council may permit the subdivider to provide a
financial guarantee of performance in one or a combination of the following
arrangements for those requirements which are over and beyond the requirements
of any other agency responsible for the administration, operation and
maintenance of the applicable public improvement:
   (A)   Surety Bond:
      1.   Accrual: The bond shall accrue to the City covering construction,
operating and maintenance of the specific public improvement.
      2.   Amount: The bond shall be in an amount equal to the one hundred ten
percent (110%) of the total estimated cost for completing construction of the
specific public improvement, as estimated by the City Engineer and approved by
the Council.
      3.   Term Length: The term length in which the bond is in force shall be
for a period to be specified by the Council for the specific public
improvement.
      4.   Bonding From Surety Company: The bond shall be with a surety company
authorized to do business in the State of Idaho, acceptable to the Council.
      5.   Escrow Agreement: The escrow agreement shall be drawn and furnished
by the Council.
   (B)   Cash Deposit, Certified Check, Negotiable Bond Or Irrevocable Bank
Letter Of Credit:
      1.   Treasurer, Escrow Agent Or Trust Company: A cash deposit, certified
check, negotiable bond or an irrevocable bank letter of credit, such surety
acceptable by the Council shall be deposited with an escrow agent or trust
company.
      2.   Dollar Value: The dollar value of the cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond or an irrevocable bank letter of credit, shall be equal to one
hundred ten percent (110%) of the estimated cost of construction for the
specific public improvement, as estimated by the City Engineer and approved by
the Council.
      3.   Escrow Time: The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be for a period to
be specified by the Council.
      4.   Progressive Payment: In the case of cash deposits or certified
checks, an agreement between the Council and the subdivider may provide for
progressive payment out of the cash deposit or reduction of the certified
check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit, to the extent of
the cost of the completed portion of the public improvement, in accordance with
a previously entered into agreement.
   (C)   Conditional Approval Of Final Plat: With respect to financial
guarantees, the approval of all final subdivision plats shall be conditioned on
the accomplishment of one of the following:
      1.   The construction of improvements required by this Title shall have
been completed by the subdivider and approved by the Council.
      2.   Surety acceptable to the Council shall have been filed in the form
of a cash deposit, certified check, a negotiable bond, irrevocable bank letter
of credit or surety bond. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-5-4: INSPECTION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION:
Before approving a final plat and construction plans and specifications for
public improvements, an agreement between the subdivider and the Council shall
be made to provide for checking or inspecting the construction and its
conformity to the submitted plans. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-5-5: FAILURE TO COMPLETE CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT:
In the event the subdivider shall, in any case, fail to complete such work
within the period of time as required by the conditions of the guarantee for
the completion of public improvements, it shall be the responsibility of the
Council to proceed to have such work completed. In order to accomplish this,
the Council shall reimburse itself for the cost and expense thereof by
appropriating the cash deposit, certified check, irrevocable bank letter of
credit or negotiable bond which the subdivider may have deposited in lieu of a
surety bond, or may take such steps as may be necessary to require performance
by the bonding or surety company, and as included in a written agreement
between the Council and the subdivider. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
CHAPTER 6
SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Purpose
6-6-2: Hillside Subdivision
6-6-2-1: Appearance And Preservation
6-6-2-2: Hillside Development Evaluation
6-6-2-3: Engineering Plans
6-6-2-4: Grading Plan
6-6-2-5: Development Standards
6-6-2-6: Vegetation And Revegetation
6-6-2-7: Maintenance
6-6-2-8: Utilities
6-6-3: Planned Unit And Condominium Subdivisions
6-6-3-1: General
6-6-3-2: Minimum Area
6-6-3-3: Site Development Plan
6-6-3-4: Private Streets
6-6-3-5: Home Owners' Association
6-6-3-6: Storage Areas
6-6-3-7: Parking Space
6-6-3-8: Maintenance Building
6-6-3-9: Open Space
6-6-3-10: Control During Development
6-6-4: Mobile Home Subdivision
6-6-4-1: General
6-6-4-2: Special Requirements
6-6-5: Large Scale Development Subdivision
6-6-6: Cemetery Subdivision
6-6-7: Subdivision Within Flood Plain
6-6-7-1: Flood Areas
6-6-7-2: Justification For Development
6-6-8: Subdivision Within Area Of Critical Concern
6-6-8-1: General
6-6-8-2: Plan Submission
6-6-8-3: Content Of Environmental Impact Statement
6-6-9: Townhouse Subdivisions
6-6-9-1: Purpose
6-6-9-2: Applicability
6-6-9-3: Application Requirements
6-6-9-4: Process
6-6-9-5: Standards For Garage
6-6-9-6: Conditional Use Permit Required
6-6-9-7: Parking
6-6-9-8: Construction Standards
6-6-9-9: Lot Size
6-6-9-10: Setbacks And Yard Size
6-6-9-11: Public Streets And Easements
6-6-9-12: Conflicting Provisions
6-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to identify various types of developments that
normally pose special concerns to the Planning and Zoning Commission and
elected officials when reviewing and acting upon subdivision requests. This
Chapter outlines the plan submittal requirements and design standards that
shall be taken into consideration when acting on special developments. The
provisions of this Chapter are in addition to the plan requirements, design
standards and improvement standards that are required by Chapters 3, 4 and 5 of
this Title. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-6-2: HILLSIDE SUBDIVISION:
6-6-2-1: APPEARANCE AND PRESERVATION:
In order to preserve, retain, enhance and promote the existing and future
appearance, natural topographic features, qualities and resources of hillsides,
special consideration shall be given to the following:
   (A)   Skyline and ridge tops.
   (B)   Rolling grassy land forms, including knolls, ridges and meadows.
   (C)   Tree and shrub masses, grass, wild flowers and topsoil.
   (D)   Rock outcroppings.
   (E)   Stream beds, draws and drainage swales, especially where tree and
plant formations occur.
   (F)   Characteristic vistas and scenic panoramas. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-6-2-2: HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENT EVALUATION:
All development proposals shall take into account and shall be judged by the
way in which land use planning, soil mechanics, engineering geology, hydrology,
civil engineering, environmental and civic design, architectural and landscape
design are applied in hillside areas, including but not limited to:
   (A)   Planning of development to fit the topography soils, geology,
hydrology and other conditions existing on the proposed site.
   (B)   Orientation of development on the site so that grading and other site
preparation is kept to an absolute minimum.
   (C)   Shaping of essential grading to blend with natural land forms and to
minimize the necessity of padding and/or terracing of building sites.
   (D)   Division of large tracts into smaller workable units on which
construction can be completed within one construction season so that large
areas are not left bare and exposed during the winter-spring runoff period.
   (E)   Completion of paving as rapidly as possible after grading.
   (F)   Allocation of areas not well suited for development because of soil,
geology or hydrology limitations for open space and recreation uses.
   (G)   Minimize disruption of existing plant and animal life.
   (H)   Consideration of the view from and of the hills.
Areas having soil, geology or hydrology hazards shall not be developed unless
it is shown that their limitations can be overcome; that hazard to life or
property will not exist; that the safety, use or stability of a public way or
drainage channel is not jeopardized. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-6-2-3: ENGINEERING PLANS:
The developer shall retain a professional engineer(s) to obtain the following
information:
   (A)   Soils Report: For any proposed hillside development a soils
engineering report shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report
shall include data regarding the nature, distribution and strength of existing
soils, conclusions and recommendations for grading procedures, design criteria
for corrective measures and opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy
of sites to be developed.
   (B)   Geology Report:
      1.   For any proposed hillside development a geology report shall be
submitted with the preliminary plat. This report shall include an adequate
description of site geology and an evaluation of the relationship between the
proposed development and the underlying geology and recommendations for
remedial remedies.
      2.   The investigation and subsequent report shall be completed by a
professional geologist registered in the State of Idaho.
   (C)   Hydrology Report:
      1.   For any proposed hillside development a hydrology report shall be
submitted with the preliminary plat. This report shall include an adequate
description of the hydrology, conclusions and recommendations regarding the
effect of hydrologic conditions on the proposed development, and opinions and
recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to be developed.
      2.   Flood frequency curves shall be provided for the area proposed for
development. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-6-2-4: GRADING PLAN:
   (A)   A preliminary grading plan shall be submitted with each hillside
preliminary plat proposal and shall include the following information:
      1.   Approximate limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to be
achieved by the grading, including all cut and fill slopes, proposed drainage
channels and related construction.
      2.   Preliminary plans and approximate locations of all surface and
subsurface drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs
and other protective devices to be constructed.
      3.   A description of methods to be employed in disposing of soil and
other material that is removed from the grading site, including the location of
the disposal site.
   (B)   A final grading plan shall be submitted with each final plat and shall
include the following information:
      1.   Limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to be achieved by
the grading, including all proposed cut and fill slopes, and proposed drainage
channels and related construction.
      2.   Detailed plans and locations of all surface and subsurface drainage
devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs and other protective
devices to be constructed.
      3.   A schedule showing when each stage of the project will be completed,
including the total area of soil surface which is to be disturbed during each
stage together with estimated starting and completion dates. (Ord. 901, 10-18-
1976)
6-6-2-5: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   (A)   Soils:
      1.   Fill areas shall be prepared by removing organic material, such as
vegetation and rubbish, and any other material which is determined by the soils
engineer to be detrimental to proper compaction or otherwise not conducive to
stability; no rock or similar irreducible material with a maximum dimension
greater than eight inches (8") shall be used as fill material in fills that are
intended to provide structural strength.
      2.   Fills shall be compacted to at least ninety five percent (95%) of
maximum density, as determined by AASHO T 99 and ASTM D698.
      3.   Cut slopes shall be no steeper than two (2) horizontal to one
vertical; subsurface drainage shall be provided as necessary for stability.
      4.   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than two (2) horizontal to one
vertical fill slopes shall not be located on natural slopes two to one (2:1) or
steeper, or where fill slope toes out within twelve feet (12') horizontally of
the top of an existing or planned cut slope.
      5.   Tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from property
boundaries a distance of three feet (3') plus one-fifth (1/5) of the height of
the cut or fill, but need not exceed a horizontal distance of ten feet (10');
tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from structures a
distance of six feet (6') plus one-fifth (1/5) of the height of the cut or
fill, but need not exceed ten feet (10').
      6.   The maximum horizontal distance of disturbed soil surface shall not
exceed seventy five feet (75').
   (B)   Roadways:
      1.   Road alignments should follow natural terrain and no unnecessary
cuts or fills shall be allowed in order to create additional lots or building
sites.
      2.   One-way streets shall be permitted and encouraged where appropriate
for the terrain and where public safety would not be jeopardized. Maximum width
shall be twenty feet (20') between the backs of curbs. Parking on said one-way
streets shall be prohibited.
      3.   The width of the graded section shall extend three feet (3') beyond
the curb back or edge of pavement on both the cut and fill sides of the
roadway. If sidewalk is to be installed parallel to the roadway, the graded
section shall be increased by the width of the sidewalk plus one foot (1')
beyond the curb back.
      4.   Standard vertical curb (6") and gutter shall be installed along both
sides of all paved roadways.
      5.   A pedestrian walkway plan may be required.
   (C)   Driveways And Parking: Combinations of collective private driveways,
cluster parking areas and one-street parallel parking bays shall be used to
attempt to optimize the objectives of minimum soil disturbance, minimum
impervious cover, excellence of design and aesthetic sensitivity. (Ord. 901,
10-18-1976)
6-6-2-6: VEGETATION AND REVEGETATION:
   (A)   The developer shall submit a slope stabilization and revegetation plan
which shall include a complete description of the existing vegetation, the
vegetation to be removed and the method of disposal, the vegetation to be
planted, and slope stabilization measures to be installed. The plan shall
include an analysis of the environmental effects of such operations, including
the effects on slope, stability, soil erosion, water quality and fish and
wildlife.
   (B)   Vegetation sufficient to stabilize the soil shall be established on
all disturbed areas as each stage of grading is completed. Areas not contained
within lot boundaries shall be protected with perennial vegetal cover after all
construction is completed. Efforts shall be made to plant those species that
tend to recover from fire damage and do not contribute to a rapid rate of fire
spread. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-6-2-7: MAINTENANCE:
The owner of any private property on which grading or other work has been
performed pursuant to a grading plan approved or a building permit granted
under the provisions of this title shall continuously maintain and repair all
graded surfaces and erosion prevention devices, retaining walls, drainage
structures or means, and other protective devices, plantings and ground cover
installed or completed. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-6-2-8: UTILITIES:
All new service utilities are encouraged to be placed underground. (Ord. 901,
10-18-1976)
6-6-3: PLANNED UNIT AND CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISIONS:
6-6-3-1: GENERAL:
Planned unit and condominium development shall be subject to requirements set
forth in title 5, "Zoning Regulations", of this code and also be subject to all
provisions within this title provided, however and notwithstanding any other
provision in title 5, "Zoning Regulations", of this code or this title. The lot
area, lot coverage and yard size For a unit within a planned unit development
shall be determined by using the actual area of the unit to which will be added
the area of all commonly owned areas as applicable including, but not limited
to, storage areas, parking space and open space within the planned unit
development divided by the total number of units. (Ord. 1176, 9-16-2003)
6-6-3-2: MINIMUM AREA:
A planned unit development for the following principal uses shall contain an
area of not less than:
   (A)   Three (3) acres or one city block for residential use, except for a
mobile home subdivision.
   (B)   Five (5) acres for mobile home subdivisions.
   (C)   Five (5) acres for residential use with subordinate commercial use.
   (D)   Five (5) acres for commercial use.
   (E)   Five (5) acres for industrial use. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-6-3-3: SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
The developer shall provide the planning and zoning commission with a colored
rendering of adequate scale to show the completed development that will include
at least the following:
   (A)   Architectural style and building design.
   (B)   Building materials and color.
   (C)   Landscaping.
   (D)   Screening.
   (E)   Garbage areas.
   (F)   Parking.
   (G)   Open space. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-6-3-4: PRIVATE STREETS:
Private street construction standards shall be based upon recommendations from
the city engineer. Adequate construction standards may vary depending on the
size of the development and the demands placed on such improvements. (Ord. 901,
10-18-1976)
6-6-3-5: HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION:
The homeowners' association bylaws and other similar deed restrictions, which
provide for the control and maintenance of all common areas, recreation
facilities or open space shall meet with the approval of the council. Any and
all powers as specified in such agreement may also be assigned to the council
for the purpose of assessing property for delinquencies and enforcement of
motor vehicle speed to protect the best interests of the owners involved and of
the general public. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-6-3-6: STORAGE AREAS:
Storage areas shall be provided for the anticipated needs of boats, campers and
trailers. For typical residential development, one adequate space shall be
provided for every two (2) living units. This may be reduced by the council if
there is a showing that the needs of a particular development are less. (Ord.
901, 10-18-1976)
6-6-3-7: PARKING SPACE:
One additional parking space beyond that which is required by the zoning
regulations of the city (title 5 of this code) may be required for every three
(3) dwelling units to accommodate visitor parking. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-6-3-8: MAINTENANCE BUILDING:
A maintenance building shall be provided, size and location to be suitable for
the service needs that are necessary for the repair and maintenance of all
common areas. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-6-3-9: OPEN SPACE:
The location of open space shall be appropriate to the development and shall be
of such shape and area to be usable and convenient to the residents of the
development. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-6-3-10: CONTROL DURING DEVELOPMENT:
Single ownership or control during development shall be required and a time
limit may be imposed to guarantee the development is built and constructed as
planned. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-6-4: MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION:
6-6-4-1: GENERAL:
Mobile home subdivisions shall be subject to any requirements set forth in the
Zoning Title 1  and/or mobile home regulations 2  of the City. (Ord. 901, 10-
18-1976)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 5 of this Code.
2 2. See Title 4, Chapter 6 of this Code.
6-6-4-2: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
Mobile home subdivisions shall be subject to the following special
requirements:
   (A)   Developed as a planned unit development with a minimum lot area for
the planned development of five (5) acres.
   (B)   Screening from adjacent areas, other than subdivisions of the same
type, by aesthetically acceptable fences, walls, living planting areas, and
existing natural or man-made barriers. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-6-5: LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISION:
Due to the impact that a large scale development would have on public utilities
and services, the developer shall submit the following information with the
preliminary plat:
   (A)   Identification of all public services that would be provided to the
development, i.e., fire protection, police protection, central water, central
sewer, road construction, parks and open space, recreation, maintenance,
schools and solid waste and storm water collection.
   (B)   Estimate the public service costs to provide adequate service to the
development.
   (C)   Estimate the tax revenue that will be generated from the development.
   (D)   Suggested public means of financing the services for the development
if the cost for the public services would not be offset by tax revenue received
from the development. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-6-6: CEMETERY SUBDIVISION:
   (A)   Function: The developer shall provide the Planning and Zoning
Commission with written documentation that will sufficiently explain the
functions of the proposed cemetery for either human or animal remains.
   (B)   Compliance With Idaho Code: The developer shall submit a written
statement that has been prepared by an attorney that adequately assures the
compliance of the proposed cemetery with the procedural management requirements
that are outlined in title 27, Idaho Code. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-6-7: SUBDIVISION WITHIN FLOOD PLAIN:
6-6-7-1: FLOOD AREAS:
For any proposed subdivision that is located within a flood plain, the
developer shall provide the Planning and Zoning Commission with a development
plan of adequate scale and supporting documentation that will show and explain
at least the following:
   (A)   Location of all planned improvements.
   (B)   The location of the floodway and the floodway fringe per engineering
practices as specified by the Army Corps of Engineers.
   (C)   The location of the present water channel.
   (D)   Any planned rerouting of waterways.
   (E)   All major drainageways.
   (F)   Areas of frequent flooding.
   (G)   Means of flood proofing buildings.
   (H)   Means of insuring loans for improvements within the flood plain. (Ord.
901, 10-18-1976)
6-6-7-2: JUSTIFICATION FOR DEVELOPMENT:
Upon the determination that buildings are planned within the flood plain or
that alterations of any kind are anticipated within the flood plain area that
will alter the flow of water, the developer shall demonstrate conclusively to
the Planning and Zoning Commission that such development will not present a
hazard to life, limb or property; will not have adverse effects on the safety,
use or stability of a public way or drainage channel.
No subdivision or part thereof shall be approved if levees, canals, fills,
structures or other features within the proposed subdivision will individually
or collectively significantly increase flood flows, heights or damages. If only
part of a proposed subdivision can be safely developed, the Council shall limit
development to that part and shall require that development proceed consistent
with that determination. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-6-8: SUBDIVISION WITHIN AREA OF CRITICAL CONCERN:
6-6-8-1: GENERAL:
Hazardous or unique areas may be designated as areas of critical concern by the
Council. Special consideration shall be given to any proposed development
within an area of critical concern to assure that the development is necessary
and desirable and in the public interest in view of the existing unique
conditions. Hazardous or unique areas that may be designated as areas of
critical concern are as follows:
   (A)   Avalanche paths.
   (B)   Earthquake locations.
   (C)   Unstable soils.
   (D)   Unique animal life.
   (E)   Unique plant life.
   (F)   Scenic areas.
   (G)   Historical significance.
   (H)   Flood plain.
   (I)   Other areas of critical concern. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-6-8-2: PLAN SUBMISSION:
The developer shall prepare and submit an environmental impact statement along
with the preliminary plat application for any development that is proposed
within an area of critical concern. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-6-8-3: CONTENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENT:
The content of the environmental impact statement shall usually be prepared by
an interdisciplinary team of professionals that shall provide answers to the
following questions:
   (A)   What changes will occur to the area of environmental concern as a
result of the proposed development?
   (B)   What corrective action or alternative development plans could occur so
as not to significantly change the area of environmental concern?
   (C)   What changes in the area of environmental concern are unavoidable?
   (D)   What beneficial or detrimental effect would the development have on
the environment, i.e., animal life, social concerns, economic noise, visual and
other? (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-6-9: TOWNHOUSE SUBDIVISIONS:
6-6-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this section is to set forth provisions to provide for the
public health, safety and welfare of purchasers and residents of Townhouse
Developments. (Ord. 1371, 3-17-2020)
6-6-9-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The provisions of this Section
6-6-9 of the Burley City Code shall apply to all property to be subdivided into
townhouse lots to be used for Townhouse Developments or Townhouse Units. All
other provisions of this title and all applicable ordinances, rules and
regulations of the City and all other governmental entities having jurisdiction
shall be complied with by any subdivision that includes lots for Townhouse
Developments or Townhouse Units (Townhouse Subdivision).
   B.   A “Townhouse Development” is defined as a structure containing three
(3) or more dwelling units attached by common walls where each dwelling unit
(Townhouse Unit) is located on a separate lot. A “Townhouse Unit” is defined as
a dwelling including a minimum of one bathroom and a single kitchen, designed
for or occupied as a unit by one family for living and cooking purposes and is
located in a Townhouse Development. (Ord. 1371, 3-17-2020)
6-6-9-3: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The applicant of a Townhouse Subdivision shall submit with the
preliminary plat application a copy of the proposed party wall agreement(s) and
any proposed document(s) creating an association of owners of the proposed
townhouse lots, which shall adequately provide for the control and maintenance
of all commonly held facilities, garages, landscaping, parking and/or open site
areas.
   B.   Prior to final plat approval, the applicant shall submit to the city a
final copy Of agreements and documents as described above and shall file
documents prior to recordation of the plat, which shall reflect the recording
instrument numbers. (Ord. 1371, 3-17-2020)
6-6-9-4: PROCESS:
   A.   Preliminary plat for townhouse subdivisions shall be submitted and
reviewed as set forth in Section 3 Chapter 3 of this title.
   B.   A final plat shall not be approved by the council until the council has
approved a financial guarantee of performance for completion of improvements
pursuant to section 3, chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 1371, 3-17-2020)
6-6-9-5: STANDARDS FOR GARAGE:
   A.   Detached garages may be platted on separate sublots; provided, that the
ownership of detached garages is tied to specific townhouse units on the
townhouse plat and in any owner’s documents. Detached garage(s) may not be sold
and/or owned separately from any dwelling within the Townhouse Development.
(Ord. 1371, 3-17-2020)
6-6-9-6: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED:
Before approval of a preliminary plat, all owners of proposed Townhouse
Subdivisions within the R-2 or R-2A Districts must have received a Conditional
use permit pursuant to procedures identified in chapter 15 of title 5 of this
Code. (Ord. 1371, 3-17-2020)
6-6-9-7: PARKING:
Townhouse Subdivisions shall provide a minimum of two and three tenths (2.3)
parking spaces per townhouse unit. Garages shall not be included for meeting
the required number of parking spaces. Recreational Vehicles shall be
prohibited from parking within townhouse subdivisions except for spaces
specifically designed for Recreational Vehicle parking as indicated on the
final plat. Recreational Vehicle parking spaces shall not be included for
meeting the required number of parking spaces, (Ord. 1371, 3-17-2020)
6-6-9-8: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
All Townhouse Development construction shall be in accordance with the IBC, IRC
and IFC. Each townhouse unit must have separate water, sewer and utility
services, which do not pass through another building or unit. (Ord. 1371, 3-17-
2020)
6-6-9-9: LOT SIZE:
Townhouse lots shall each contain a minimum of two thousand one hundred (2,100)
square feet (excluding any detached garage space) and shall each have at least
twenty five (25) feet of road frontage. (Ord. 1371, 3-17-2020)
6-6-9-10: SETBACKS AND YARD SIZE:
Required setbacks and yard sizes of the zone in which the townhouse lot is
located shall apply except that no side-yard setback shall be required where
two Townhouse Units are joined by a common wall. The minimum distance between
any two Townhouse Developments shall be ten feet (10') or the distance required
by the IBC or the IFC, whichever is greater. Setbacks shall be measured from
the lot line of the townhouse lot. (Ord. 1371, 3-17-2020)
6-6-9-11: PUBLIC STREETS AND EASEMENTS:
A portion of Public Street located entirely within a Townhouse Subdivision may
be twenty-seven feet (27') in width provided that said Public Street does not
front any buildable lot that is not a Townhouse lot, the Townhouse Subdivision
meets the requirement of having at least 2.3 off street parking spaces for each
Townhouse lot, additional easements ten feet (10') in width are granted or
dedicated along each side of the Public Street for sidewalks and utilities, and
the Public Street complies with the “Local B” specifications of the
transportation master plan in effect at the time of the approval of the
Townhouse Subdivision. (Ord. 1371, 3-17-2020)
6-6-9-12: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
For Townhouse Developments and Townhouse Subdivisions the provisions of this
Section
6-6-9 shall supersede any conflicting provision concerning setbacks, Public
Street width, yard size, Lot size and Lot coverage set forth in Title 5 or
Title 6 of this Code. (Ord. 1371, 3-17-2020)
CHAPTER 7
VACATIONS, DEDICATIONS, VARIANCES AND AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Vacations And Dedications
6-7-1-1: Application Procedure
6-7-1-2: Action
6-7-2: Variances
6-7-2-1: Purpose
6-7-2-2: Findings
6-7-3: Amendment Procedures
6-7-1: VACATIONS AND DEDICATIONS:
6-7-1-1: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Application: Any property owner desiring to vacate an existing
subdivision, public right of way or easement, or desiring to dedicate a street
right of way or easement shall complete and file an application with the
Administrator. These provisions shall not apply to the widening of any street
which is shown in the Comprehensive Development Plan, or the dedication of
streets, rights of way or easements to be shown on a recorded subdivision.
   (B)   Administrator Action: Upon receipt of the completed application, the
Administrator shall affix the date of application acceptance thereon. The
Administrator shall place the application on the agenda for consideration at
the next regular meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission which is held
not less than fifteen (15) days after said date of acceptance. (Ord. 901, 10-
18-1976)
6-7-1-2: ACTION:
   (A)   Commission Recommendation: The Planning and Zoning Commission shall
review the request and all agency response and make a recommendation to the
Council for either approval, conditional approval or denial.
   (B)   Council Action:
      1.   When considering an application for vacation procedures, the Council
shall establish a date for a public hearing and give such public notice as
required by law. The Council may approve, deny or modify the application
whenever public rights of way or lands are vacated, the vacated portions shall
vest as provided by law or by Council action.
      2.   When considering an application for dedication procedures, the
Council may approve, deny or modify the application. When a dedication is
approved, the required street improvements shall be constructed or a bond
furnished assuring the construction, prior to acceptance of the dedication. To
complete the acceptance of any dedication of land, the owner shall furnish to
the Council a deed describing and conveying such lands to be recorded with the
County Recorder. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-7-2: VARIANCES:
6-7-2-1: PURPOSE:
The Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend to the Council, as a result of
unique circumstances such as topographic-physical limitations or a planned unit
development, a variance from the provisions of this Title on a finding that
undue hardship results from the strict compliance with specific provisions or
requirements of this Title or that application of such provision or requirement
is impracticable. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-7-2-2: FINDINGS:
No variance shall be favorably acted upon by the Council unless there is a
finding upon recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission, as a result
of a public hearing, that all of the following exist:
   (A)   There are such special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property that the strict application of the provisions of this Title would
clearly be impracticable or unreasonable; in such cases, the subdivider shall
first state his reasons in writing as to the specific provision or requirement
involved.
   (B)   Strict compliance with the requirements of this Title would result in
extraordinary hardship to the subdivider because of unusual topography, other
physical conditions or other such conditions which are not self-inflicted, or
that these conditions would result in inhibiting the achievement of the
objectives of this Title.
   (C)   The granting of the specified variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the area in which the property
is situated.
   (D)   Such variance will not violate the provisions of the Idaho Code.
   (E)   Such variance will not have the effect of nullifying the interest and
purpose of this Title and the Comprehensive Development Plan. (Ord. 901, 10-18-
1976)
6-7-3: AMENDMENT PROCEDURES:
The Council may, from time to time, amend, supplement or repeal the regulations
and provisions of this Title in the manner prescribed by the Idaho Code. A
proposed amendment, supplement or repeal may be originated by the Council,
Planning and Zoning Commission or by petition. All proposals not originating
with the Commission shall be referred to it for a report thereon before any
action is taken on the proposal by the Council. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
CHAPTER 8
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
6-8-1: Detection Of Violation
6-8-2: Enforcement
6-8-3: Penalties
6-8-1: DETECTION OF VIOLATION:
The Administrator shall periodically perform the necessary investigation to
detect any violations of this Title. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
6-8-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The City Attorney shall, in addition to taking whatever criminal action deemed
necessary, take steps to civilly enjoin any violation of this Title. (Ord. 901,
10-18-1976)
6-8-3: PENALTIES:
Penalties for failure to comply with the provisions of this Title shall be as
follows:
Violation of any of the provisions of this Title or failure to comply with any
of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. The landowner, tenant,
subdivider, building, public official or any other person who commits,
participates in, assists in or maintains such violation may each be found
guilty of a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the
Council or any other public official or private citizen from taking such lawful
action as is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this Title or of
the Idaho Code. (Ord. 901, 10-18-1976)
CHAPTER 9
STANDARDS FOR PUBLIC WORKS
SECTION:
6-9-1: Adoption Of The Idaho Standards For Public Works Construction
6-9-1: ADOPTION OF THE IDAHO STANDARDS FOR PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   The Idaho standards for public works construction (ISPWC), along with
all current and future published updates, shall be the standard for public
works infrastructure construction within the jurisdiction of the city of
Burley; provided however, that to the extent the city has previously or
subsequently adopted more stringent standards or variances from the ISPWC, said
policies, regulations, and/or codes shall remain in effect as set forth in this
code or by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   The scope of the projects for which the ISPWC is the standard shall be
limited to the scope of the subject matter contained in the ISPWC.
   (C)   All contractors who bid on projects within the scope of the ISPWC and
in the jurisdiction of the city of Burley shall possess a current version of
the ISPWC together with any other relevant city policies, regulations and/or
codes at the time they submit bids for such projects. (Ord. 1273, 10-19-2010;
Ord. 1386, 9-7-2021)
TITLE 7
FIRE PREVENTION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
7-1-1: Fire Department Created; Officers And Personnel
7-1-2: Chief Of Fire Department
7-1-3: Duties Of Officers And Employees Of The Department
7-1-4: Meetings Of Officers And Members
7-1-5: Fire Department Equipment
7-1-6: Duty Of Police At Fires Or Other Emergencies
7-1-7: Procedure At Fires Or Other Emergencies
7-1-1: FIRE DEPARTMENT CREATED; OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL:
There is hereby organized a fire department of the city to deliver the services
appropriate to prevent and/or minimize the loss of life and property threatened
by the hazards of fires, medical and rescue emergencies, hazardous materials
incidents and disaster situations in our community.
The officers and employees of the fire department shall consist of a chief of
the fire department, an assistant chief of the fire department and such
officers and members as shall be authorized by the mayor and council.
The chief and the assistant chief of the fire department shall be appointed by
the mayor, with the advice and consent of the council. All other officers and
employees of the department and the call men shall be appointed by the mayor
with the advice and consent of the council upon the recommendation of the chief
of the fire department. (Ord. 1189, 12-21-2004)
7-1-2: CHIEF OF FIRE DEPARTMENT:
   (A)   Duties: The chief of the fire department shall at all times, except in
case of absence or inability to act, have full charge of the entire fire
department and shall at all times be subject to such rules as the mayor and
council shall prescribe. It shall be his duty to see that all officers and
employees of the fire department perform the necessary services and that the
department is in continuous efficient working service.
At a fire or other emergency, the chief will have full charge of the matters
pertaining to the department and all things to be done in or about such fire or
other emergency, and he shall in case of necessity arising at a fire or other
emergency, employ aside from his regular call men such other men as may in his
judgment be necessary for the purpose of extinguishing the fire or mitigating
the emergency.
   (B)   Reports: It shall be the duty of the chief of the fire department to
make out and submit annual reports relating to the condition of the department
and all matters of interest relating thereto to the mayor and council. He shall
also report the number of fires that have taken place during the past year,
giving the location of, date of and other particulars of such fires or
incidents. He shall incorporate in said reports such suggestions in regard to
the government of the fire department and the efficiency thereof as may in his
judgment seem proper and necessary. After each fire the chief shall make prompt
and thorough investigation of the cause of the fire, the amount of loss and
insurance carried, time of breaking out, description of building and all
necessary particulars and record the same in the record book kept for that
purpose in the department. (Ord. 1189, 12-21-2004)
7-1-3: DUTIES OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE DEPARTMENT:
It shall be the duty of all officers and employees of the fire department to
attend to the duties of their respective positions under the orders of the
chief of the fire department, or, in case of his absence or inability to serve,
under the assistant chief of the fire department.
They shall strictly carry out all orders given them as above set out, and shall
at all times be under the direct supervision or management of the chief of the
fire department or the officer acting in place of the chief, by reason of the
absence or the inability of said chief. (Ord. 456, 9-4-1951; amd. 1981 Code)
7-1-4: MEETINGS OF OFFICERS AND MEMBERS:
The chief of the fire department is hereby authorized to call the officers and
members of said department together at least once a week. The first meeting of
each month shall be a business meeting of the officers and members of the
department. Other meetings shall be for the purposes designated by the chief of
the fire department, or for fire drills. Members of the department who are not
full time employees shall receive an amount to be fixed by the council for each
meeting or drill attended. (Ord. 456, 9-4-1951; amd. 1981 Code)
7-1-5: FIRE DEPARTMENT EQUIPMENT:
The equipment of the fire department of the city shall consist of the apparatus
now owned by the city and that which may hereafter be purchased by the city and
all other things that are now used and have been used in connection with the
fire department. (Ord. 456, 9-4-1951)
7-1-6: DUTY OF POLICE AT FIRES OR OTHER EMERGENCIES:
It shall be the duty of the regular policemen of the city and those persons
designated at a fire or other emergency as police officers by the chief of the
fire department to see that the provisions of this chapter are complied with.
(Ord. 1189, 12-21-2004)
7-1-7: PROCEDURE AT FIRES OR OTHER EMERGENCIES:
   (A)   Traffic Limits At Fire Or Other Emergency: Whenever a fire or other
emergency shall occur in the city, the fire chief or acting fire chief is
hereby empowered during the continuance of such, and during/following
investigation, to prescribe the limits within which it shall be unlawful for
any person to come, excepting members of said fire company, and such other
persons as may be specially admitted by the said chief or acting chief. It
shall be the duty of such fire chief to plainly indicate such limits, either by
stretching a rope thereon or erecting some other barrier sufficient to apprise
the people of such limits, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than
those above specified to enter within such limits at any time until same are
removed. (Ord. 1189, 12-21-2004)
   (B)   Limit Of Approach To Fire: Any person not an officer of the city or
acting fireman of the city, or any person not interested as owner or employee
of the owner, in the property and goods at the location of any fire who shall
occupy the grounds within fifty feet (50') of the fire, or who impedes the work
of the firemen, or blockade the way to, from or around any fire shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 456, 9-4-1951; amd. 1981 Code)
   (C)   Driving Across Hose, Interference With Equipment Or False Alarm:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to ride or drive
any horse or vehicle of any kind over or across any water hose belonging to the
city while in use.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person other than the members of the
regularly organized fire company of the city to handle or have in their
possession or in any manner interfere with any of the fire apparatus used by
the fire companies of the city, except at the express invitation or permission
of the fire chief or acting fire chief of the city.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to report or give warning that a
fire actually exists when such fire does not exist, and the person giving such
report knew or had knowledge that such fire was not in existence, and such
report was false. (Ord. 456, 9-4-1951; amd. Ord. 592, 6-4-1956)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE ZONES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Fire Zones Designated, Map
7-2-1: FIRE ZONES DESIGNATED, MAP:
The entire incorporated area of the City is declared to be and is hereby
established as a Fire District and the Fire District shall be known and
designated as Fire Zones 1, 2 and 3, and each as shown shall include such
territory or portions of such territory as illustrated and outlined on a
certain map on file in the office of the City Clerk, being marked and
designated as "Fire Zones of the City of Burley, Idaho", which is hereby
adopted as the Fire Zoning Map of the City, for the application and regulations
included in the Uniform Building Code 1 , 1979 Edition, published by the
International Conference of Building Officials. The City Council shall, from
time to time, alter such areas marked on the map designated as "Fire Zones of
the City of Burley" by duly adopted resolutions of the City Council. (Ord. 865,
2-19-1974; amd. Ord. 907, 2-7-1977; Ord. 952, 4-7-1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  4-1-1 of this Code.
CHAPTER 3
FIRE PREVENTION AND LIFE SAFETY CODES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Fire Prevention Code Adopted
7-3-2: Life Safety Code Adopted
7-3-1: FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED:
   (A)   Adoption:
      1.   International Fire Code: The city of Burley hereby adopts the
"international fire code", 2003 edition, with appendices thereto, published by
the International Code Council, Inc., and such later editions as may be so
published and adopted by the state fire marshal as the minimum standards for
the protection of life and property from fire and explosions in the city of
Burley.
      2.   Uniform Fire Code: For the purposes of this chapter, and as
elsewhere as appropriate in this code, the term "uniform fire code" shall be
deemed to refer to the international fire code", 2003 edition, with appendices
and later editions as published and adopted by the state fire marshal. (Ord.
1186, 8-17-2004)
   (B)   Establishment And Duties Of Bureau Of Fire Prevention:
      1.   The uniform fire code as adopted and amended herein shall be
enforced by the fire department of the city which is hereby established and
which shall be operated under the supervision of the chief of the fire
department.
      2.   The chief of the fire department shall recommend to the city the
employment of technical inspectors, who, when such authorization is made, shall
be selected through an examination to determine their fitness for the position.
The examination shall be open to members and nonmembers of the fire department,
and appointments made after examination shall be for an indefinite term with
removal only for cause.
   (C)   Definitions:
      1.   Wherever the word "jurisdiction" is used in the uniform fire code,
it is the city of Burley.
      2.   Where the party responsible for the enforcement of the uniform fire
code is given the title of "fire marshal", add the following definition:
Fire marshal is the chief of the Burley fire department.
   (D)   Amendments To The Uniform Fire Code: The uniform fire code is amended
by the deletion of sections 7902.2.2.1 and 7904.2.5.4.2, in which the storage
of flammable or combustible liquids is restricted, and which sections are not
adopted hereby.
   (E)   Appeals: Whenever the chief disapproves an application or refuses to
grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the
code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have been
misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision
of the chief to the city council, which shall form an appeals panel within
thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed.
   (F)   New Material, Processes Or Occupancies Which May Require Permits: The
mayor, the chief and the city administrator shall act as a committee to
determine and specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be
heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies for which permits are
required in addition to those now enumerated in the fire code. The chief of the
bureau of fire prevention shall post such list in a conspicuous place at the
bureau of fire prevention and distribute copies thereof to interested persons.
   (G)   Penalties:
      1.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of the uniform fire
code as adopted and amended herein or fails to comply therewith, or who
violates or fails to comply with any order made thereunder, or who builds in
violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and
approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from
which no appeal has been taken, or who fails to comply with such an order as
affirmed or modified by the appeals panel or by a court of competent
jurisdiction, within the required time, shall severally for each and every such
violation and noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than three hundred dollars ($300.00) and/or by imprisonment for not less than
one day nor more than one hundred twenty (120) days or by both such fine and
imprisonment. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse
the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required
to correct or remedy such violation or defects within a reasonable time; and
when not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
      2.   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent
the enforced removal of prohibited conditions. (Ord. 1104, 8-3-1998)
7-3-2: LIFE SAFETY CODE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of regulating and controlling life
safety of the city the life safety code, 1985, published by the National Fire
Protection Association, 1985 edition thereof, and as the same may hereafter be
revised or amended. The same is hereby adopted and incorporated as an ordinance
of the city as fully as though set forth at length herein, three (3) copies of
said life safety code, 1985, together with all amendments thereto, duly
certified by the city clerk, being kept on file in his office for use and
examination of and by the public. (Ord. 1004, 10-6-1986)
CHAPTER 4
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Dangerous Fireworks Permit
7-4-3: Safe And Sane Fireworks Permit
7-4-4: Application Required, Fees
7-4-5: Contents Of Application
7-4-6: Investigate Applicants
7-4-7: Issuance Of Permits, Conditions
7-4-8: Insurance Requirements
7-4-9: Premises Requirements For Sale Of Safe And Sane Fireworks
7-4-10: Temporary Fireworks Stands, Requirements
7-4-11: Records Kept
7-4-12: Compliance With State Laws Required
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
DANGEROUS FIREWORKS: "Dangerous fireworks" include any of the following:
   (A)   Firecrackers, cannon crackers, giant crackers, salutes, silver tube
salutes, cherry bombs, mines, ground bombardment, grasshoppers and other
explosive articles of similar nature;
   (B)   Blank cartridges;
   (C)   Skyrockets and rockets, including all similar devices and employing
any combustible or explosive material and which rise in the air during
discharge;
   (D)   Roman candles, including all devices which discharge balls of fire
into the air;
   (E)   Chasers and whistles, including all devices which dart or travel about
the surface of the ground during discharge;
   (F)   Snakes and hats containing bichloride of mercury;
   (G)   Sparklers more than ten inches (10") in length or one-quarter inch (1/
4") in diameter;
   (H)   All articles for pyrotechnic display such as aerial shells, salutes,
flash shells, sky battles, parachute shells, mines, Dago bombs and similar
devices;
   (I)   All torpedoes which explode by means of friction, or which contain
arsenic, and all other similar fireworks devices including cracker balls;
   (J)   Fire balloons or balloons of any type which have burning material of
any kind attached thereto.
FIREWORKS: Blank cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes or toy guns in
which explosives are used, fire balloons (balloons of a type which have burning
materials of any kind attached thereto or which require fire underneath to
propel them), firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, rockets, Roman candles, cone
fountain wheels, Dago bombs, sparklers and other fireworks of like construction
and any fireworks containing any combustible or explosive substance for the
purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration,
explosion or detonation.
Exempted from this definition are all toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes and
toy guns and similar devices such as party poppers or party favors in which
paper caps containing not more than twenty five hundredths (.25) grain of
explosive compound per cap are used and such caps when single, roll or tape
type.
SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS: "Safe and sane fireworks" include any of the
following:
   (A)   Cone fountains with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding fifty grams
(50 g) each;
   (B)   Cylindrical fountains, whether base, spike or handle, with pyrotechnic
composition not exceeding seventy five grams (75 g) each and inside tube
diameter not exceeding three-quarters inch (3/4");
   (C)   Sparklers and "dipped sticks" not more than ten inches (10") in length
or one-quarter inch (1/4") in diameter and Suzuki and morning glories with
pyrotechnic composition not exceeding four grams (4 g) each;
   (D)   Snakes which do not contain bichloride of mercury and pyrotechnic
composition not exceeding two grams (2 g) each;
   (E)   Wheels with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding sixty (60) grains
for each driver unit or two hundred forty (240) grains for each complete wheel.
The inside tube diameter of driver unit shall not exceed one-half inch (1/2");
   (F)   Whistles, without report and which do not dart or travel about the
ground during discharge with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding six grams (6
g) and containing no picric or gallic acid. (Ord. 761, 5-29-1967; amd. Ord.
779, 6-16-1969)
7-4-2: DANGEROUS FIREWORKS PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to import, export, offer for
sale, sell, possess, keep or store, or permit the keeping or storing of any
"dangerous fireworks" for any use or purpose, except that a person holding a
"dangerous fireworks permit" issued pursuant to the terms and conditions of
this chapter may use "dangerous fireworks" for a safely supervised and
conducted public display of fireworks. Said fireworks may be stored for a
period not exceeding ten (10) days immediately preceding the date of said
public display, provided the fireworks are to be used exclusively for the
public display.
The police department and/or the fire department of the city shall have the
right, power and authority to confiscate and destroy all "dangerous fireworks"
being imported, exported, offered for sale, sold, possessed, kept or stored in
violation of these presents. (Ord. 761, 5-29-1967)
7-4-3: SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS PERMIT:
No person, without having a valid "safe and sane fireworks permit" issued
pursuant to terms and conditions set forth in this chapter, shall import,
export, possess for the purpose of sale, offer for sale or sell any "safe and
sane fireworks" for any use or purpose. (Ord. 761, 5-29-1967)
7-4-4: APPLICATION REQUIRED, FEES:
   (A)   Safe And Sane Fireworks: Any reputable person in reasonable pursuit or
furtherance of any legitimate personal business or charitable purpose, desiring
to engage in the sale of "safe and sane fireworks" within the city shall first
make written application to the city clerk for a "safe and sane fireworks
permit". Each applicant shall pay to the city clerk a fee established by a
resolution adopted by the Burley city council at the time he files his
application. In the event no "safe and sane fireworks permit" is issued by the
city by June 15 in the year during which the application is made, the city
clerk shall refund the application fee. At the time and as a condition of such
finding, and with each application, each applicant shall pay an additional fee
to defray costs of preliminary investigations required hereunder and to be
conducted by the city, the fee shall be established by a resolution adopted by
the Burley city council, and shall not be refundable in any event.
   (B)   Dangerous Fireworks: Any reputable person in reasonable pursuit or
furtherance of any legitimate personal business or charitable purpose desiring
to make a public display of "dangerous fireworks" shall first make written
application to the city clerk for a "dangerous fireworks permit". Each
applicant shall pay to the city clerk a fee established by a resolution adopted
by the Burley city council at the time he files his application. In the event
no "dangerous fireworks permit" is issued by the city by June 15 in the year
during which the application is made, the city clerk shall refund the
application fee. At the time and as a condition of such finding, and with each
application, each applicant shall pay an additional fee to defray costs of
preliminary investigations required hereunder and to be conducted by the city,
the fee shall be established by a resolution adopted by the Burley city
council, and shall not be refundable in any event. (Ord. 1160, 5-7-2002)
7-4-5: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
Each applicant for a "safe and sane fireworks permit" or a "dangerous fireworks
permit" shall file his written application with the city clerk. Each
application shall show the following:
   (A)   Name and address of applicant;
   (B)   The purpose for which the applicant is primarily existing and for
which it was organized;
   (C)   The names and addresses of the officers, trustees and/or directors, if
any, of the applicant, should the applicant be other than a sole proprietorship
or a copartnership;
   (D)   The location where the applicant requests permission to sell "safe and
sane fireworks" or display "dangerous fireworks";
   (E)   When and where the applicant was organized and established, or, if a
natural person, the applicant's age;
   (F)   The location of the applicant's principal and permanent meeting place
or places, or principal place or places of business;
   (G)   The applicant's state sales tax permit number;
   (H)   If the applicant is an entity other than a sole proprietorship, the
name and general description of the business activities of each parent or
subsidiary company, business or entity, and a general description of the
ownership organization of each parent or subsidiary, if any;
   (I)   Such other information as the city clerk may require on a standard
form submitted to all applicants and which is reasonably necessary to protect
the public health, safety and morals. (Ord. 761, 5-29-1967)
7-4-6: INVESTIGATE APPLICANTS:
The city clerk shall notify the building inspector and the fire department
which departments, in confidence with the city clerk, shall cause an
investigation to be made of each application and applicant and shall submit a
written report of its findings and recommendations for or against the issuance
of the permit, together with the reasons therefor, to the city council, which
report shall not be public information except on request of the applicant or by
order of the mayor and city council. (Ord. 761, 5-29-1967)
7-4-7: ISSUANCE OF PERMITS, CONDITIONS:
   (A)   The city council shall have the power in its discretion to grant or
deny any application, subject to such reasonable conditions, if any, as it
shall prescribe so long as the denial of the application or any conditions
imposed on the granting of the application are reasonably necessary for
protection of the public health, safety and morals.
   (B)   A "safe and sane fireworks permit" or a "dangerous fireworks permit"
issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid only within the calendar year in
which issued. A permit shall be valid only for the specific premises or
location designated in the permit. However, subject to reasonable conditions
necessary for protection of the public health, safety and morals, an applicant
may be granted permits for more than one premises or location within the city.
No permit shall be transferable or assignable.
   (C)   Each application for a permit to sell "safe and sane fireworks" at
retail shall be filed with the city clerk on or before April 1 of the calendar
year for which the permit is sought; except that for the calendar year of 1967,
applications for a permit may be filed on or before June 15, 1967. (Ord. 761,
5-29-1967)
   (D)   No "safe and sane fireworks" shall be sold or offered for sale except
from twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on June 15 to twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
on July 5 of each year, or at such other times as may be provided by the
statutes of the state of Idaho. (Ord. 1135A, 12-20-1999)
7-4-8: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Each applicant for a "safe and sane fireworks permit" or for a "dangerous
fireworks permit" shall have filed with the city clerk prior to the issuance
and validity of any permit, a policy or certified true copy thereof, of public
liability and products liability insurance, including both "accident" and
"occurrences" coverage. The insurance coverage limits for both public liability
coverage and for products liability coverage shall be at least one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per person per occurrence of bodily injury,
three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) per occurrence of aggregate bodily
injury and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per occurrence of
aggregate property damage. Each policy of insurance shall be in form and
substance acceptable to the city, and shall name as insured parties under the
terms of the policy the city, all officials, elected and appointed of the city,
in performance of official functions regarding all operations under or
pertaining to said permit, any license or licensor of the applicant, and all
vendors of the fireworks covered by the permit to be issued to the applicant.
Said policy of insurance shall be so written that it cannot be canceled without
at least ten (10) days' prior written notice to the city from the underwriting
insurance company. The policy of insurance shall be underwritten through or by
a qualified and duly licensed insurance company or companies doing or
authorized to do insurance business in Idaho, and a copy of said policy shall
be filed with the city clerk prior to the issuance of the permit. (Ord. 761, 5-
29-1967)
7-4-9: PREMISES REQUIREMENTS FOR SALE OF SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS:
Business places from which "safe and sane fireworks" are to be sold shall be
subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   All such business places shall meet the structural stability
requirements of the building regulations of the city and all lighting circuits
and other electrical equipment shall meet the requirements of the electrical
regulations of the city.
   (B)   All doorways of the said business places in which "safe and sane
fireworks" are sold pursuant hereto shall be kept free and clear from all
supplies and materials of every kind and nature at all times. Each business
place shall be provided with such number of fire extinguishers as the fire
chief of the city shall deem adequate, but in all cases the number shall not be
less than two (2). The fire extinguishers shall be of such a type as are
approved by the fire chief of the city. The fire extinguishers shall be in good
working order, easily accessible for use in case of fire and kept in immediate
proximity to the location where the fireworks are retailed.
   (C)   There shall be at least one supervisor, twenty one (21) years of age
or older, on duty at all times. All fireworks shall be effectively segregated
from any kind of self-service by the public and shall be placed in a location
which is unavailable and inaccessible to members of the public in capacities
other than as legal customers.
   (D)   "NO SMOKING" signs shall be prominently displayed in and around the
segregated area in which the fireworks are to be sold. No smoking shall be
permitted within fifteen feet (15') of the segregated area in which the
fireworks are sold.
   (E)   No fireworks shall be discharged in or within twenty five feet (25')
of the segregated area in which the fireworks are kept.
   (F)   No person shall allow any rubbish to accumulate or permit a fire
nuisance to exist in or around the area where fireworks are sold.
   (G)   No building where alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption on the
premises shall be used for the retail sale of "safe and sane fireworks".
   (H)   Fireworks may not be sold at any location where retail sales are not
allowed under the zoning ordinances of the city 1 .
   (I)   The city may establish other regulations for business places where
fireworks are to be sold so long as the said regulations are reasonably
necessary to protect the public health, safety and morals, and to apply
uniformly to all applicants. (Ord. 761, 5-29-1967)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 5 of this code.
7-4-10: TEMPORARY FIREWORKS STANDS, REQUIREMENTS:
Temporary fireworks stands from which "safe and sane fireworks" are to be sold
shall be subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   Area Requirements:
      1.   The stand in which the fireworks will be stored or sold shall not be
located within one hundred feet (100') of any gasoline station or flammable
liquid dispensing device or installation.
      2.   No stand shall have a floor area in excess of seven hundred fifty
(750) square feet.
      3.   No stand shall be erected at a location where retail sales are not
allowed under the zoning ordinances of the city. (Ord. 761, 5-29-1967)
   (B)   Construction Requirements:
      1.   All such stands, when built, shall pass the inspection of and shall
be approved by the building inspector of the city, and any and all lighting
circuits and other electrical equipment located in said stands shall pass the
inspection of and shall be approved by the superintendent of power of the city.
(Ord. 762, 7-6-1967)
      2.   The stand shall have exit doors at least thirty inches (30") wide at
both ends of the structure and one additional door for each twenty five feet
(25') of rear wall in excess of twenty five feet (25'). All doors shall open
outward from the stand and all doorways shall be kept free and clear from all
supplies and materials at all times.
      3.   Each stand shall be provided with a minimum of two (2) 21/2-gallon
water type fire extinguishers, in good working order and easily accessible for
use in case of fire, which shall be kept in immediate proximity to the location
where the fireworks are retailed.
      4.   No temporary stand shall be erected before June of any year. The
premises on which the stand is erected shall be cleared of all structures and
debris, not later than twelve o'clock (12:00) noon of July 26. (Ord. 761, 5-29-
1967)
   (C)   Personnel Requirements:
      1.   There shall be at least one supervisor, twenty one (21) years of age
or older, on duty at all times. All fireworks shall be effectively kept away
from any kind of self-service by the public, and shall be placed in a location
which is unavailable and inaccessible to members of the public in capacities
other than as legal customers. No person under fourteen (14) years of age shall
work at or about any stand where "safe and sane fireworks" are sold or offered
for sale. (Ord. 1121, 4-19-1999)
      2.   No person employed as a watchman shall be permitted to remain inside
of any stand when it is not open for business.
   (D)   Additional Requirements:
      1.   "NO SMOKING" signs shall be prominently displayed both inside and
outside the stand. No smoking shall be permitted within the stand or within
twenty five feet (25') of the stand.
      2.   No fireworks shall be discharged in or within twenty five feet (25')
of any fireworks stand.
      3.   No fireworks stand shall remain unattended at any time regardless of
whether the fireworks stand is open for business or not. If any fireworks are
stored, they shall only be stored at such places as are approved for storage of
the fireworks by the city fire chief or his representative.
      4.   No person shall allow any rubbish to accumulate in or around any
fireworks stand or permit a fire nuisance to exist. (Ord. 761, 5-29-1967)
   (E)   Cash Deposit Required, Removal Of Stands: In those cases where the
applicant conducts the sale of fireworks from a temporary fireworks stand, he
shall post with the city clerk a cash bond or cash deposit in an amount
established by a resolution adopted by the Burley city council or such other
security as may be acceptable to the mayor or council conditioned upon the
prompt removal of the temporary fireworks stand and the cleaning up of debris
from the site of the temporary fireworks stand, which deposit or security shall
be returned to the applicant only in the event he removes said temporary
fireworks stand and cleans up all debris to the satisfaction of the fire chief
and the building department representative of the city, or such other official
as the city council or fire chief may designate. In the event of the
applicant's failure to so remove the stand and debris, said cash bond or cash
deposit shall be forfeited to the city. In no event shall the applicant be
entitled to the return of said cash bond or cash deposit if he has failed to
remove said temporary fireworks stand and clean up all debris by twelve o'clock
(12:00) noon of July 26 of any year. It shall be the legal duty of each
permittee to clear such sites and remove all debris therefrom on or before July
26 of the year in which the permit is granted, and failure so to do shall be
punishable by a two hundred fifty dollar ($250.00) fine and/or thirty (30)
days' confinement in the city jail. (Ord. 1160, 5-7-2002)
7-4-11: RECORDS KEPT:
Each permittee shall be required to retain at the licensed premises while said
premises are open, and at his principal place of business for a year
thereafter, copies of all invoices, receipts and orders evidencing the source
from which he acquired the fireworks which he handled. (Ord. 761, 5-29-1967)
7-4-12: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAWS REQUIRED:
It shall be the duty of every person issued a "fireworks permit" to comply with
all the provisions of the Idaho state fireworks act 1  and this chapter. The
conviction of violation of the aforesaid Idaho state fireworks act or by any of
its agents, employees or officers shall constitute a cause, in and of itself,
to deny any subsequent application for a permit. (Ord. 761, 5-29-1967)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 39-2602 et seq.
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
BURLEY MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
SECTION:
8-1-1: Burley Municipal Airport Established
8-1-2: Airport Rules And Regulations; Compliance
8-1-1: BURLEY MUNICIPAL AIRPORT ESTABLISHED:
All that portion of land, particularly described as follows:
Beginning at a point 1825 feet South and 72 feet East of the Northeast corner
of Section Twenty One (21), Township Ten (10) South, Range Twenty Three (23),
East of the Boise Meridian; thence South 80 degrees 53 minutes East 100 feet;
thence along a 4 degree curve to the right along the North side of the Raft
River Branch of the Oregon Shortline Railroad Company 725 feet; thence South 49
degrees 53 minutes East 2307 feet to the Old Oregon Trail Highway also known as
U.S. 30; thence South 82 degrees 18 minutes, East along the North boundary of
U.S. 30 570 feet; thence along an 8 degree curve to the left 1018.5 feet;
thence North 16 degrees 13 minutes East, more or less 744.15 feet; thence South
67 degrees 12 minutes East a distance of 125 feet; thence North 35 degrees 40
minutes East a distance of 195.90 feet; thence North 3 degrees 40 minutes East
a distance of 172.40 feet; thence North 48 degrees 13 minutes East a distance
of 299.20 feet; thence North 53 degrees 56 minutes West a distance of 147.60
feet; thence North 47 degrees 34 minutes West a distance of 129.30 feet; thence
North 18 degrees 15 minutes East a distance of 417.60 feet; thence North 37
degrees 47 minutes East a distance of 193.00 feet; thence North 78 degrees 42
minutes East a distance of 200.70 feet; thence North 84 degrees 16 minutes East
a distance of 200.50 feet; thence North 18 degrees 03 minutes East a distance
of 271.40 feet; thence North 51 degrees 43 minutes West a distance of 296.18
feet more or less to a point 250 feet East, measured perpendicularly from
center line of runway 2/20 of the Airport of the City; thence North 38 degrees
17 minutes East a distance of 373.10 feet more or less to the South bank of the
Snake River; thence in a Northwesterly direction along the South bank of Snake
River to the intersection of said South bank of Snake River with the East
right-of-way boundary line of Oregon Short Line Railroad; thence in a
Southwesterly direction along said right-of-way boundary line to the
intersection of said right-of-way boundary line with the West boundary line of
the Northeast quarter of the Northeast quarter (NE1/4 of NE1/4) of Section 21,
Township 10 South, Range 23, East of the Boise Meridian; thence South 57
degrees 53 minutes West 86 feet; thence on a 2 degree curve to the right 800
feet; thence 73 degrees 53 minutes West 600 feet; thence North 17 degrees 15
minutes West 60 feet; thence South 73 degrees 53 minutes West 2616 feet to a
point of beginning;
is hereby designated as the Burley Municipal Airport. (Ord. 874, 9-3-1974)
8-1-2: AIRPORT RULES AND REGULATIONS; COMPLIANCE:
The procedures, rules and regulations governing and regulating the use,
maintenance and guarding of the Burley Municipal Airport shall be such
procedures, rules and regulations as may now be prescribed and as may from time
to time hereafter be prescribed by the United States of America Department of
Transportation Federal Aviation Administration, touching and concerning
airports of the class and designation of the Burley Municipal Airport, as
classed and designated by said Administration, which applicable procedures,
rules and regulations as are now in force and effect and as hereafter amended
or supplemented, are hereby adopted by reference.
The Mayor and City Council are hereby authorized to comply with all
requirements of the said United States of America Department of Transportation
Federal Aviation Administration for the designation, operation, management and
employment of personnel in connection with the Burley Municipal Airport as a
designated landing area, as such designated landing area is defined and
determined by said Administration. (Ord. 875, 9-3-1974)
The City Council shall, by resolution, prescribe such other rules, regulations
and fees for the use of the Airport. (1981 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PUBLIC LIBRARY
SECTION:
8-2-1: Public Library Established
8-2-2: Use Of Library; No Charge To City Residents
8-2-1: PUBLIC LIBRARY ESTABLISHED:
A public library and reading room be and the same is hereby established in the
City under the provisions of title 33, chapter 26, Idaho Code, and for such
purpose the City shall annually levy and cause to be collected, in the same
manner as other taxes are collected, a tax not exceeding five (5) mills on the
dollar of the taxable property of the City, to constitute a Library Fund, which
Fund is hereby created, and shall be kept by the City Treasurer, separate and
apart from other moneys of the City and be used exclusively for the purchase of
books, periodicals, necessary furniture and fixtures and whatever is required
for the maintenance of such library and reading room. (Ord. 455, 9-4-1951; amd.
1981 Code)
8-2-2: USE OF LIBRARY; NO CHARGE TO CITY RESIDENTS:
Said library and reading room established under this Chapter shall be forever
free for the use of the residents of the City, subject to such reasonable rules
and regulations as the Library Board 1  may find necessary to adopt and publish
in order to render the use of the library and reading room of the greatest
benefit to the greatest number, and they may exclude and cut off from the use
of said library and reading room any and all persons who shall wilfully violate
such rules. (Ord. 455, 9-4-1951)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 2, Chapter 4 of this Code.
CHAPTER 3
CEMETERIES
SECTION:
8-3-1: Cemetery Area Established; Plats
8-3-2: Sale Of Cemetery Lots; Charges
8-3-3: Opening And Closing Charges
8-3-4: Monument Setting Fees
8-3-5: Payments
8-3-6: Pleasant View Cemetery General Rules And Regulations
8-3-7: Gem Memorial Gardens
8-3-8: Placement Of Decorations In Cemetery
8-3-1: CEMETERY AREA ESTABLISHED; PLATS:
   (A)   Establishment: The following described tract of land is hereby
established as a cemetery and shall be known as Pleasant View cemetery:
The southeast quarter of the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter (SE1/
4NE1/4NW1/4) of Section 28, Township 10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian,
lying south and east of the G-14 lateral of the Burley Irrigation District.
   (B)   Cemetery To Be Mapped: The cemetery shall be surveyed and mapped and
the spaces therein shall be divided into such divisions, lots and blocks with
suitable avenues, walks and alleys designated and numbered in such a manner as
may be deemed expedient. A correct map thereof shall be prepared and signed by
the mayor and attested by the city clerk and shall be filed in the office of
the city clerk. All sales of spaces shall be by reference to said map.
   (C)   Public Ways Designated And Vacated: All of the streets, roadways and
alleys as shown on the official cemetery map be, and the same are hereby
declared public highways and are accepted as such for the use of the public.
Any and all streets, highways or alleys located within the cemetery area as
defined in subsection (A) of this section and that are ways not conforming to
the official cemetery map be, and the same are hereby vacated. (Ord. 935, 5-7-
1979)
8-3-2: SALE OF CEMETERY LOTS; CHARGES:
All spaces or lots within the Pleasant View cemetery and Gem Memorial Gardens
shall be upon a certificate signed by the mayor and countersigned by the clerk
under seal of the city. The certificate shall specify that the person to whom
the certificate is issued is the owner of the space or lot described therein by
number from the official map of the cemetery. The city council shall approve a
suitable form of certificate. All sales shall be at rates fixed by resolution
of the city council.
There is hereby established two (2) space sizes in the Pleasant View cemetery
and Gem Memorial Gardens, being:
"A" size shall be ten feet by four feet (10' x 4').
"B" size shall be all other space sizes in either cemetery. (Ord. 1076, 4-15-
1996)
8-3-3: OPENING AND CLOSING CHARGES:
The fees for the opening and closing of the space shall be fixed by resolution
of the city council. (Ord. 1034, 1-7-1991)
8-3-4: MONUMENT SETTING FEES:
The fees for the setting of monuments shall be fixed by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. 1034, 1-7-1991)
8-3-5: PAYMENTS:
All payments for spaces shall be made at the time of purchase. All fees for
setting of monuments shall be paid for prior to the time the monument is set.
All payments shall be made to the city treasurer who shall deposit the
receipts. All receipts shall be credited to the general fund or such other fund
as the city council may establish from time to time or be authorized by law.
(Ord. 935, 5-7-1979)
8-3-6: PLEASANT VIEW CEMETERY GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The following general rules and regulations shall apply to the Pleasant View
cemetery:
   (A)   No burials shall be had on legal holidays or Sundays, except such
burials as may be ordered at any time by the public health officers where it is
necessary for the best interest of the public.
   (B)   No burial shall take place other than between the hours of nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M.
   (C)   There shall be no planting of trees, shrubs or flowers in the cemetery
without the prior permission from the sexton.
   (D)   All receptacles used for flowers must be removed within forty eight
(48) hours after placement in the cemetery. If the receptacles are not so
removed, the same may be removed by the city without responsibility therefor.
   (E)   Parking in the cemetery shall be under the direction of the sexton.
   (F)   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall enter the
cemetery except when accompanied by or with an adult, unless such person is
attending a burial service.
   (G)   All caskets, except infant caskets, must be placed in an outer
receptacle of a minimum strength of four thousand three hundred ten (4,310)
pounds per cubic inch. Wooden boxes may be used for infants upon prior approval
of the sexton and under such conditions as the sexton may from time to time
prescribe.
   (H)   All stone settings and monument settings must be performed by the city
or by representatives of monument companies qualified in monument setting. The
sexton shall determine from time to time the qualifications of representatives
of the monument companies and no setting shall be done by any person or persons
other than employees of the city without the prior approval of the sexton.
   (I)   All new stone settings must have two (2) flush type flower receptacles
placed in the base and no monument for a single space shall be over thirty four
inches (34") in length.
   (J)   In the event that the stone to be placed weighs under two hundred
(200) pounds, a four and one-half inch (41/2") thick concrete slab shall be
used and an eight inch (8") thick slab shall be used for a stone weighing over
two hundred (200) pounds.
   (K)   All other stone settings not specified in this chapter shall be under
the direction and control of the sexton who shall prescribe such rules and
regulations therefor and affix charges for special handling of the settings.
   (L)   The sexton may prescribe such other rules and regulations as may from
time to time be necessary in the operation of the cemetery with the approval of
the city council.
   (M)   No cement markers or monuments will be authorized in the Pleasant View
cemetery. When any of the cement or concrete monuments and markers now emplaced
in the said cemetery shall have deteriorated to such an extent as to be
hazardous to pedestrian traffic or to the operation of mowers in the said
cemetery, the sexton of the said cemetery shall notify the owner or the nearest
kin of the one in whose name the lot is registered, that such marker or
monument must be repaired, and in the event repair, replacement or removal of
said marker is not performed within thirty (30) days from the date of
notification, the sexton shall remove the said deteriorated marker or monument
from the cemetery.
Notification shall consist of a letter bearing sufficient postage addressed to
the lot owner or the closest relative of the person in whose name the said lot
is registered at his last known address, being deposited in the United States
post office of the city.
In case of removal of cement or concrete marker or monument by the city
employees after the above notification is performed, no recourse shall be had
by the owner or relatives of said owner of said lot thereof against the city or
any of its employees. (Ord. 935, 5-7-1979)
   (N)   In the discretion of the sexton of the cemetery, and subject to such
conditions and rules as he may impose, the second set of human remains of an
infant or a cremated person may be buried or interred in any space in either
the Gem Memorial Gardens or Pleasant View cemetery. The sexton shall take into
consideration the wishes of the family members of the person previous interred
in this space in making his decision together with the physical characteristics
and suitability of the grave for the second interment. The decision of the
sexton shall be final. All fees for opening and closing graves shall be charged
for the second interment. (Ord. 1166, 1-21-2003)
8-3-7: GEM MEMORIAL GARDENS:
The provisions of this chapter are applicable to Gem Memorial Gardens, a city
cemetery, except subsection
8-3-1(A) of this chapter. (Ord. 1034, 1-7-1991)
8-3-8: PLACEMENT OF DECORATIONS IN CEMETERY:
   (A)   The provisions of this section apply to all cemeteries owned or
managed by the city of Burley.
   (B)   Persons decorating graves must place all flowers or other decorations
in flower receptacles flush mounted in the base or permanently incorporated
into the headstone.
   (C)   No flowers or decorations may be placed on the ground.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, flowers only may be placed on the
ground if limited to the surface of the grave itself during the seven (7) days
preceding and following Memorial Day.
   (E)   No grave or headstone decoration may be permanent nor use any metal,
glass, plastic, or other substance resulting in danger to persons or property
during mowing or other cemetery maintenance. Flush mounted flower receptacles
and permanent components of permitted headstones are allowed.
   (F)   No glass containers shall be allowed.
   (G)   No tobacco, alcoholic beverages or illegal substances shall be used
for decoration.
   (H)   All persons decorating graves shall comply with the directions of
Burley employees. Failure to do so shall be an infraction punishable by a fine
of fifty dollars ($50.00).
   (I)   All flowers and decorations may be removed by Burley employees at any
time without notice if necessary for cemetery upkeep and maintenance. There
shall be no right to compensation for removed flowers and decorations.
   (J)   Mowing days will be posted at the entrance to cemeteries. (Ord. 1257,
6-16-2009)
CHAPTER 4
CITY PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-4-1: Supervision
8-4-2: Hours Of Parks
8-4-3: Golf Course Improvement Fund
8-4-4: Rules And Regulations For Parks And Recreational Areas
8-4-5: Permits
8-4-6: Operation Of Motor Powered Vehicles Prohibited
8-4-1: SUPERVISION:
All parks, golf courses and recreational areas operated and maintained by the
city shall be under the supervision of the mayor and council or their duly
designated agents. The mayor and council shall from time to time by resolution
or ordinance, promulgate rules and regulations for the operation and
maintenance of such areas and shall have the authority to establish schedules
of fees to be charged for the use of the same. (Ord. 523, 9-27-1951)
8-4-2: HOURS OF PARKS:
The public parks of the city identified, known as and generally located:
Ball park                        West 5th Street and Conant Avenue
East park                        Between East 11th and Main Street
Freedom park                     Snake River and Airport
K2S marina                       North Burley and Snake River
North park                       Between West 8th and 9th Streets
Riverfront park and golf course  East of city along Snake River
Salmon park and Ball park        Park Avenue
Scholer park                     Snake River and Highway 24 east of city
West park                        Between West 13th and West 14th Streets
 
are hereby closed to the general public between the hours of eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. local time of each and every day and
night, and any and all persons are prohibited from entering in, upon or
loitering about said parks between said designated hours. The term "loitering
about" means remaining around and about the parks on the sidewalks and public
roads adjacent to parking lots or other similar areas of said parks after being
directed by a police officer to leave. (Ord. 955, 7-7-1980, eff. 7-23-1980)
8-4-3: GOLF COURSE IMPROVEMENT FUND:
It is hereby declared the purpose of this section to provide revenues for the
making of capital improvements to the city golf course by establishing a
capital improvement fund (the "fund") to be funded from golf course user fees.
   (A)   There is hereby levied, effective January 1, 1982, five percent (5%)
of all user fees, excluding sales tax, collected at the Burley municipal golf
course for the purpose of funding capital improvements to the golf course.
   (B)   The city treasurer shall deposit all funds collected pursuant to
subsection (A) of this section into the fund and to maintain the same until
expended for the uses provided in subsection (C) of this section. All interest
earned on the fund shall be deposited in the fund and be subject to expenditure
for the uses provided in subsection (C) of this section. The fund may be
deposited with other funds of the city, pursuant to law, so long as the
principal and interest of the fund are separately accounted for by the city
treasurer.
   (C)   The fund shall be used by the city for making capital improvements to
the city golf course. "Capital improvements" means such improvements as
buildings, water system, greens, fairways, traps and such other physical
improvements as the city council deems to be necessary to the golf course, but
expressly excluding annual operation and maintenance.
   (D)   Any expenditure from the fund shall be upon resolution of the city
council that the expenditure is for one of the purposes for which the fund was
established and shall be further subject to all other legal requirements for
the expenditure of public funds. (Ord. 982, 10-17-1983)
8-4-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR PARKS AND RECREATIONAL AREAS:
The following rules and regulations for the use and conduct in parks and
recreational areas of the city shall apply to all parks and recreational areas
under the jurisdiction of the city. It shall be unlawful for any person in a
public park or recreational area to:
   (A)   Mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with or displace or remove any
buildings, tables, benches, fireplaces, signs, notices, stakes, posts, markers,
or other structures or equipment, facilities, or park property or appurtenances
whatsoever either real or personal.
   (B)   Damage, cut, carve, mark, transplant, or remove any tree, plant,
shrub, or in any other way injure the natural beauty or usefulness of any park
or recreational area.
   (C)   Dig or remove any soil, rock, stone, trees, shrubs, or make any
excavation by tool, equipment, or any other means.
   (D)   Bring any glass container into any park or recreational area.
   (E)   Cause or permit to run loose any animal.
   (F)   Walk a domestic animal without a leash, said leash to be no longer
than six feet (6'). The owner or person having custody of such domestic animal
shall be responsible for removal of any animal solid waste.
   (G)   Ride a horse or bring any other animal into the park except as
provided in subsection (F) of this section.
   (H)   Bring into the parks or recreational area any pistol, revolver, rifle,
BB gun, air gun, slingshot, bow and arrow or any other weapon in which the
propelling force is gunpowder, a spring, air, or other similar force, except in
designated areas.
   (I)   Have in his or her possession or set off any fireworks except by a
permit issued by the city council for conducting properly supervised firework
displays in designated park areas.
   (J)   Kindle, build, maintain or use a fire except in places provided for
such purposes. Any fire shall be continuously under the care and direction of a
competent person from the time it is kindled until it is extinguished.
   (K)   Camp or sleep overnight in any park or recreational areas except on a
permit issued by the city council.
   (L)   Use picnic shelters or other areas designated for special use,
baseball and softball fields, tennis courts without obtaining a permit from the
parks and recreation department, provided, however, that if such facilities are
not otherwise in use any person or persons may utilize the same subject to the
privileges of a prior permit holder or holders.
   (M)   Expose or offer for sale any article in any park or recreational area
without a license from the city as a concessionaire.
   (N)   Post, paint, fix, distribute, deliver, place, cast, or leave about any
bill, billboard, placard, handbill, circular or advertisement in any park or
recreational area.
   (O)   Park or drive a motorcycle, motor vehicle, truck, or any other
motorized apparatus except on designated roads and in designated parking areas.
   (P)   Leave a bicycle lying on the ground or paving or set against a tree or
in any other place or position where persons may trip over or be injured by
them.
   (Q)   Engage in threatening, abusive, insulting, or indecent language or
engage in any disorderly conduct or behavior tending to breach the public peace
and the use by others of the park and recreational areas.
   (R)   Disturb or interfere unreasonably with any person or party occupying
any area or participating in any activity in the parks or recreational areas.
   (S)   Conduct any activity for profit except under a permit issued under the
authority of the city council.
   (T)   Throw, place, cause to be placed any rubbish, refuse, garbage, or
other material in any park or recreational area except in receptacles provided.
If there are no receptacles then such rubbish or waste shall be carried away by
the person responsible for its presence and disposed of elsewhere.
   (U)   Use any park area for playing or practicing golf or engage in the
activities related to archery unless the park is designated specifically for
that purpose. (Ord. 997, 5-20-1985)
8-4-5: PERMITS:
Permits for special events in parks and recreational areas shall be obtained by
application to the city council or their designee in accordance with the
following procedure:
   (A)   A person seeking issuance of a permit shall file an application
stating:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant;
      2.   The name and address of the person, persons, corporations or
associations sponsoring the activity;
      3.   The day and hours for which the permit is desired;
      4.   The park or portion thereof for which the permit is desired.
      5.   Any other information reasonably necessary for a determination as to
whether a permit should be issued hereunder.
   (B)   Standards for issuance of a permit should include the following
findings:
      1.   The proposed activity or use of the park or recreational area will
not unreasonably interfere with or detract from the general enjoyment of the
park by the public.
      2.   The proposed activity and use will not unreasonably interfere with
or detract from the promotion of public health, welfare, safety and recreation.
      3.   The proposed activity or uses that are reasonably anticipated will
not include violence, crime, or disorderly conduct.
      4.   The proposed activity will not entail extraordinary or burdensome
expense or police operation by the city.
      5.   The facilities desired have not been reserved for their use on the
date and hour requested in the application.
   (C)   An applicant for permit may be required to submit evidence of
liability insurance covering injuries to the general public arising out of the
permitted activities in such amounts as may be from time to time determined
prior to the commencement of an activity or the issuance of any permit. (Ord.
997, 5-20-1985)
8-4-6: OPERATION OF MOTOR POWERED VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
It shall be a misdemeanor, as defined by the Idaho Code, to park, drive, or
otherwise locate or move a motor powered vehicle on, or across any city park or
golf course located in the city of Burley. A "motor powered vehicle" is any
device moving upon wheels, tracks or similar devices or structures providing
mobility and which is powered by any motor, engine, or propulsion system other
than that provided solely by human effort. A "city park" is any property owned
by the city of Burley which is landscaped with grass, plants, or landscaping
material. A "golf course" includes those areas of the Burley municipal golf
course or any private golf course landscaped with grass, sand, water, or other
landscaping material and which is not specifically identified as a parking area
by posted signs.
This section shall not apply to motor powered wheelchairs or other assistive
devices while occupied by a disabled person; golf carts lawfully operated on a
golf course with the permission of the owner; motor powered vehicles on private
golf courses with the permission of the owner; persons parking for special
events in accordance with a written authority approved in writing by the city
of Burley provided it is in areas specifically marked as an authorized parking
area; or any motor powered vehicle operated by a Burley employee or employee of
any party under contract with the city of Burley, in the actual performance of
their official duties.
A violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor punishable in accordance
with the Idaho Code. (Ord. 1239, 8-5-2008)
CHAPTER 5
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Datum Point Established
8-5-2: Sidewalks; Repair And Construction
8-5-2-1: Permit Required
8-5-2-2: City Engineer To Furnish Lines And Grades
8-5-2-3: Material Specifications
8-5-2-4: Order For Repair Or Construction
8-5-2-5: Manner Of Letting Contract
8-5-2-6: Inspection By City Engineer; Certificate
8-5-3: Openings In Sidewalks
8-5-4: Damage To Sidewalks Prohibited
8-5-5: Removal Of Snow, Ice, Other Accumulations And Obstructions
8-5-6: Gas Meters In Alleys Permitted
8-5-7: Encroachments
8-5-8: Manner Of Numbering Buildings
8-5-1: DATUM POINT ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose of establishing grades in the streets, avenues, alleys and
block intersections in the city, the following named datum point shall be taken
as a base, or starting point: a brass disc, set vertically in the north brick
wall of the city hall, thirty three feet (33') north and 1.5 feet east of the
main entrance, 104.4 feet east of the centerline of Overland Avenue and 92.5
feet south of the centerline of East 14th Street and three feet (3') above the
ground. This disc is a U.S. coast and geodetic survey benchmark stamped "F 30,
1934" and has a recorded elevation above mean sea level of 4167.750 feet. (Ord.
470, 9-4-1951)
8-5-2: SIDEWALKS; REPAIR AND CONSTRUCTION:
8-5-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No sidewalk shall be constructed or repaired by any person within the city
without first having obtained from the city engineer a permit for such
construction or repair. Such permit shall be obtained by application made
therefor upon forms to be provided by the city. (Ord. 393, 5-10-1945; amd. 1981
Code)
8-5-2-2: CITY ENGINEER TO FURNISH LINES AND GRADES:
No sidewalk shall be constructed or repaired along the streets or alleys of the
city until lines and grades therefor shall have been furnished by the city
engineer, and all sidewalks shall be so constructed as to conform to the lines
and grades so furnished and established. It shall be the duty of the city
engineer to supply to any person holding a permit for the construction or
repair of a sidewalk, the grades and lines therefor upon request by such
person. (Ord. 393, 5-10-1945)
8-5-2-3: MATERIAL SPECIFICATIONS:
All sidewalks constructed, reconstructed, repaired or laid within the city
shall be constructed of first quality concrete not less than five feet (5') in
width and three and five-eighths inches (35/8") in thickness, finished so as to
provide a smooth, regular and continuous surface of a sand finish, and where
driveways cross the same, they shall be reinforced so as to make them as nearly
permanent as is practicable. (Ord. 393, 5-10-1945)
8-5-2-4: ORDER FOR REPAIR OR CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   Duty Of Council: It shall be the duty of the city council when, in its
judgment, the necessity exists therefor, to order the construction of any new
sidewalk and the repair or reconstruction of existing sidewalks in the city at
the cost of the owner of the property in front of which or immediately adjacent
to which said sidewalk is ordered to be constructed or repaired.
   (B)   Authority Of Council: When the council shall determine that an
existing sidewalk is in need of repair, or that a new sidewalk is necessary in
front of and adjacent to any property in the city, it shall adopt, at a general
or special meeting called for that purpose, a resolution setting forth the
existence of the necessity for such reconstruction, repair or construction, and
declaring the intention of the council to order such construction or repair.
Such resolution shall specify and describe the property in front of which such
repair or new construction is to be directed to be made; shall state the
general character of the improvement directed to be made and an estimate of the
cost thereof, and that the cost of such improvement is to be assessed against
the property in front of or adjacent to which the same is directed to be made,
unless the owners of the said property shall cause and procure the same to be
done. Said resolution shall further provide and specify a time within which
protests against the said improvement may be filed with the city, which shall
be not less than five (5) nor more than fifteen (15) days after the date of the
adoption of such resolution, and shall likewise specify the date upon which
such protests will be heard and considered by the city council.
   (C)   City Clerk To Publish Order: Upon the adoption by the City Council of
the resolution as specified in subsection (B) hereof, the City Clerk shall
cause said resolution to be published in one issue of a newspaper published in
the City before the time fixed in such resolution as the limit for the filing
of protests against the said improvement, and an affidavit of such publication
shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk.
   (D)   Protests To Order; Filing And Hearing: Any person owning or having any
interest in the property in front of or adjacent to which the construction,
repair or reconstruction of a sidewalk shall have been proposed by resolution
of the City Council, as above provided, shall have the right to file in the
office of the City Clerk, within the time specified in said resolution, a
protest in writing, specifying the interest of the protestant and the nature
and grounds of his objection to the proposed improvement. At the time fixed for
the hearing of protests, the same shall be considered by the City Council and
any person who shall have filed a protest may appear before the Council at such
time and present such evidence as he may desire in support of his said protest.
When said hearing shall have been completed, the City Council shall vote upon
the question of ordering work to proceed in whole or in part, and upon a
majority of the members present voting to proceed therewith, the Council shall
by resolution entered in its minutes, direct that the proposed improvement or a
portion thereof, describing the same, shall be made. The Council may, at its
discretion, order that any portion of the proposed improvements shall not be
made, and such resolution shall be entered on the minutes of the meeting,
together with a statement of the reasons therefor.
   (E)   Notification To Property Owner: Upon the passage of any final
resolution by the City Council, directing the construction, repair or
reconstruction of a sidewalk, as above specified, the City Clerk shall
thereupon cause a written notice, setting forth the said resolution, to be
served upon the owner of the property abutting, fronting on or adjacent to the
sidewalk to be constructed, repaired or reconstructed, notifying such person
that he must commence the construction, repair or reconstruction, as the case
may be, in accordance with the provisions of the said resolution, directing the
commencement of the said work within fifteen (15) days from the date of the
service of said notice. The said notice shall be served by the delivery of a
copy thereof, to the owner of the said property described in the resolution
directing the making of the said improvement, if such owner is a resident of
the City. In the event that any such owner is a nonresident, such notice shall
be served upon him by depositing a copy thereof in the U.S. Post Office,
enclosed in a sealed envelope, with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the
person to be served at his last known address. In the event that any such owner
is a nonresident whose address cannot be discovered, then the City Clerk shall
cause copies of the said notice to be served personally upon any person
occupying the said premises as tenant or otherwise, and a copy thereof shall be
posted in a conspicuous place upon the said property.
   (F)   Procedure Of Council After Notice Given: In the event that, at the
expiration of the time specified in the notice for the commencement of work
therein specified, such work shall not have been commenced by the owner of the
property abutting, fronting or adjacent to the same, then the City shall
proceed as soon as practicable to do the said work or cause the same to be done
under contract, and in accordance with plans and specifications therefor
prepared by the City Engineer. The Council may, if it deems it necessary or
proper, direct the calling of written bids for the doing of the said work; said
bids to be considered at a regular or a special meeting of the City Council as
may be specified in said call. Notice of the call for bids shall be prepared
and signed by the City Clerk, and shall be published once a week for three (3)
successive weeks in a newspaper published in the City, and shall give not less
than five (5) days from the date of the last publication thereof within which
bids may be submitted by bidders. Each bid submitted shall be accompanied by a
certified check payable to the order of the City in an amount equal to ten
percent (10%) of the sum bid, the same to be held and not cashed until the
acceptance of one of the said bids, when all checks of unsuccessful bidders
shall be returned thereto. The check submitted by the successful bidder shall,
on the acceptance of his bid, be cashed and the amount thereof held by the City
Treasurer as a guarantee that he will enter into a written contract with the
City to do the work specified in his bid within five (5) days from the date of
acceptance of his bid by the city council. (Ord. 393, 5-10-1945)
8-5-2-5: MANNER OF LETTING CONTRACT:
Each contract for the performance of work as hereinabove specified shall be in
writing, executed by the successful bidder who shall also deposit with the city
clerk a contractor's bond as required by the laws of the state of Idaho,
conditioned for the faithful performance by him of the terms of the said
contract and the payment by him of all laborers, material, persons to whom he
may become indebted on account of the performance of his said contract; the
amount of the said bond to be not less than seventy five percent (75%) of the
amount of the price to be paid by the city for the doing of the said work as
specified in the said contract, and the surety thereon shall be subject to the
approval by the city council. (Ord. 393, 5-10-1945)
8-5-2-6: INSPECTION BY CITY ENGINEER; CERTIFICATE:
   (A)   Inspection Required: All work done in accordance with the terms and
provisions of this chapter, whether done by the owner of the property, the city
or a contractor shall be done and performed under and subject to inspection by
and the approval of the city engineer, and shall be in accordance with the
plans and specifications therefor prepared by the city engineer as in this
chapter provided.
   (B)   Certificate Filed Upon Completion Of Work: It shall be the duty of the
city engineer to inspect and examine all work done under the provisions of this
chapter and to require that the same be of such quality and type as to meet all
reasonable engineering and construction requirements. Upon the completion of
such work, and its approval by the city engineer, when said work shall have
been done by the city either by its own employees or under contract, he shall
make and cause to be filed with the city clerk a certificate specifying the
completion thereof, and that the said work has been done in accordance with
specifications prepared by him, and has been approved by him. The said
certificate shall describe the property in front of, or adjacent to which said
sidewalk has been constructed, reconstructed or repaired, and shall state the
cost of doing the said work in front of or adjacent to each separate piece or
parcel of land, where the same shall have been done.
   (C)   Clerk To Publish Copy Of Certificate: Upon the filing of said
certificate of completion and approval in his office, the city clerk shall
cause a copy thereof to be published in one issue of a newspaper published in
the city, together with a demand for the immediate payment of the amounts shown
therein to have been the cost of the said work, as apportioned against each
separate parcel of property in front of or adjacent to which the same shall
have been done, within twenty (20) days from the date of the publication of
such certificate and demand, and an affidavit of the publication thereof shall
be filed in the office of the city clerk. If the owner of any of the property
described in the certificate of completion and approval hereinabove referred to
shall fail to pay the amount specified therein to be due on account of the
works so done in front of or adjacent to his said property to the city within a
period of twenty (20) days from the date of the publication of the said
certificate and demand for payment, the city clerk shall certify to the county
tax collector of Cassia County the amount due and owing from each lot or parcel
of real estate in front of or adjacent to which the said sidewalk shall have
been constructed, repaired or reconstructed in the same manner as other
municipal taxes are certified by him to the said officer. All such assessments
shall be known as and shall be designated as special assessments for sidewalks,
and shall be levied and collected as a separate tax in addition to municipal
taxes for general revenue purposes, and shall be placed upon the tax roll for
collection, subject to the same penalties and to be collected and paid to the
city in the same manner as all other taxes. (Ord. 393, 5-10-1945)
8-5-3: OPENINGS IN SIDEWALKS 1 :
   (A)   Trapdoors, Openings Or Gratings Unlawful: It shall be unlawful to
construct or maintain any trapdoor, opening or grating in any public sidewalk
in the city, except upon permission therefor being granted by the city council
by resolution duly adopted. (Ord. 393, 5-10-1945)
   (B)   Regulations: Every person building, maintaining or permitting any
bulkhead, cellar or basement way, stairway, door, window or other hole or
opening leading to or from the street or sidewalk to the premises owned or
occupied by him shall keep the same properly guarded with a good substantial
rail, grate or other device, which rail, grate or other device, together with
the manner of placing and maintaining the same shall be approved by the
building inspector, and the owner or person having control of any premises to
or from which such bulkhead, cellar or basement way, stairway, door, window or
other hole or opening shall open or lead, and not protecting the same as
aforesaid shall be guilty of maintaining a nuisance and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in any sum not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more
than one hundred dollars ($100.00), together with costs of suit. (Ord. 54; amd.
Ord. 497, 9-27-1951)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-6-11 of this title for sidewalk excavations.
8-5-4: DAMAGE TO SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED:
Every person who shall step or walk upon or otherwise mark or deface any part
of the cement sidewalk within the city or who shall permit any dog, horse or
other animal owned by him or under his control to step or walk upon or
otherwise mark or deface the said sidewalk or any part thereof before the same
shall have become dry and cleared for use shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 44, 9-28-1919)
8-5-5: REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, OTHER ACCUMULATIONS AND OBSTRUCTIONS:
   (A)   Removal Of Ice And Snow: Every owner or occupant of any house or other
building and the owners or proprietors, lessees or persons entitled to the
possession of any vacant lot and every person having the charge of any church
or public building within the area of the city designated as the fire district
1 , during the time snow and ice shall be on the ground, shall clear the
sidewalks in front of such house and other buildings and in front of such lot
of snow and ice by nine thirty o'clock (9:30) A.M. each day when necessary, and
keep such sidewalks reasonable and conveniently free therefrom during the day
so as to allow all pedestrians to use concrete sidewalks within said area in an
easy, safe and commodious manner.
   (B)   Obstructions: Every owner or occupant of any house or any other
building and the owners or proprietors, lessees or persons entitled to
possession of any vacant lot and every person having charge of any church or
public building within the city limits shall at all times keep such concrete
sidewalks clean and free from dirt, debris and other obstructions so as to
allow all pedestrians to use the concrete sidewalks in an easy, safe and
commodious manner. (Ord. 585, 2-6-1956)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 2 of this code.
8-5-6: GAS METERS IN ALLEYS PERMITTED:
All gas meters must be located on private property when there is room so to do,
and where such location is not feasible on private property, the building
inspector may permit the installation of gas meters which project into the
alley subject to the following:
   (A)   Such meters shall be permitted only where attached to buildings of
masonry construction.
   (B)   Such meters shall be permitted only at locations where public utility,
telephone or electric power poles are already installed in and upon the alley
and the meters shall be located not less than two feet (2') nor more than five
feet (5') distance from such pole; provided, however, that where no pole
exists, or additional protection is necessary, all such meters shall be
protected by iron or pipe of such size, type and installed by such method of
installation as specified by the building inspector.
   (C)   No meter shall extend further into the alley from the building from
which it is located, whichever shall be the less.
   (D)   That no meter shall be less than nine inches (9") above the surface of
the alley.
   (E)   That in the event that the city requires the meters to be removed, the
gas company installing the same shall do so at their own expense, and this
chapter is not to be construed as giving to anyone an irrevocable right to use
the alley. (Ord. 613, 9-16-1957)
8-5-7: ENCROACHMENTS:
Any encroachment made or allowed to exist for a period of thirty (30) days from
the effective date hereof, excepting those within the allowable limitation
hereof, shall constitute a trespass and a nuisance and shall be subject to
removal at the expense of the encroacher or such encroacher shall be liable to
the city for damages thus created or arising therefrom. (Ord. 446, 1-17-1951)
An "encroachment" within the meaning of this section shall be any fixture,
construction or restriction, permanent or temporary, which intrudes into or
invades any way, alley or street of the city, or encloses a portion thereof,
diminishing its width or area.
The word "hamper" within the meaning of this section shall be that which
interferes with the free and unrestricted use of such way, alley or street of
the city. (Ord. 561, 3-29-1954)
The term "allowable limitation" within the meaning of this section shall be an
encroachment now existing which does not extend into or invade or intrude into
any way, alley or street of the city a distance of more than eight inches (8"),
or an encroachment made, after the effective date hereof, which does not extend
into or invade or intrude into any way, alley or street of the city a distance
of more than four inches (4"); provided, that any such encroachment does not
hamper public use of any such way, alley or street of the city. (Ord. 446, 1-
17-1951)
8-5-8: MANNER OF NUMBERING BUILDINGS:
All structures in the city located on the north side of the streets running
east and west, and on the west side of the streets running north and south,
shall bear even numbers; and all structures located on the south side of
streets running east and west, and on the east side of streets running north
and south shall bear odd numbers. There shall be one number assigned for each
twelve and one-half feet (121/2') of frontage upon a street, and numbers shall
be assigned so as to result in uniformity of numbering throughout the city.
(Ord. 421, 4-5-1948)
The Burley High School shall not be subject to the numbering requirements of
this section and the address of the Burley High School will be 1 Bobcat
Boulevard. (Ord. 1024, 3-7-1989)
CHAPTER 6
STREET EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Short Title
8-6-2: Definitions
8-6-3: Permit Required; Fee
8-6-4: Application For Permit
8-6-5: Surety Bond Required
8-6-6: Cash Deposits
8-6-7: Liability Insurance
8-6-8: Routing Of Traffic
8-6-9: Clearance For Fire Equipment
8-6-10: Removal Of Utilities; Protective Measures
8-6-11: Sidewalk Excavations
8-6-12: Attractive Nuisance
8-6-13: Care Of Excavated Materials
8-6-14: Damage To Existing Improvements
8-6-15: Property Lines And Easements
8-6-16: Clean Up
8-6-17: Breaking Through Pavement; Tunnels
8-6-18: Backfilling; Restoration Of Surface
8-6-19: Prompt Completion Of Work
8-6-20: Urgent Work
8-6-21: Emergency Action
8-6-22: Noise, Dust And Debris
8-6-23: Preservation Of Monuments
8-6-24: Inspections
8-6-25: Maintain Drawings
8-6-26: Exceptions
8-6-27: No Duty
8-6-28: Liability Of City
8-6-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the STREET EXCAVATION ORDINANCE
OF THE CITY OF BURLEY, IDAHO. (Ord. 903, 11-15-1976)
8-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future; words in the
plural number include the singular number; and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
APPLICANT: Any person making written application to the city engineer for an
excavation permit hereunder.
CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer of the city, or his appointed deputy.
EXCAVATION WORK: The excavation and other work permitted under an excavation
permit and required to be performed under this chapter.
PERMITTEE: Any person who has been granted and has in full force and effect an
excavation permit issued hereunder.
STREET: Any street, highway, sidewalk, alley, avenue or other public way or
public grounds in the city. (Ord. 903, 11-15-1976)
8-6-3: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
No person shall engage in any construction, repair, improvement or excavation
in any street, alley, easement, or other public right of way within the City
without first obtaining a permit approved by the City Engineer or their
designee and issued by the City Clerk or their designee for such construction,
repair, improvement or excavation. The issuance of a permit by the City and the
acceptance of said permit by the licensee shall constitute acceptance by the
licensee of all provisions of this chapter in addition to all obligations
created by the enactment of this chapter.
Exceptions: Unless facts exist which would reasonably cause an excavator to
believe that an underground facility exists within the depth of the intended
excavation, a permit shall not be required for the following excavations:
   (A)   The tilling of soil to a depth of less than 15 inches for agricultural
purposes;
   (B)   For placement of highway guardrail posts, sign posts, delineator
posts, culverts, electric poles, telephone poles, and traffic control device
supports in the same location and depth of the replaced item within a public
highway right of way.
A permit fee established by a resolution adopted by the Burley city council
shall be charged by the city engineer for the issuance of an excavation permit
which shall be in addition to all other fees for permits or charges relative to
any proposed construction work. (Ord. 1160, 5-7-2002; amd. Ord. 1365, 9-3-2019)
8-6-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
No permit shall be issued unless a written application for the issuance of a
permit is submitted to the City Engineer. The written application shall state
the name and address of the applicant, the nature, location and purpose of the
excavation, the date of commencement and date of completion of the excavation
and other data as may reasonably be required by the City Engineer. The
application shall be accompanied by detailed plans showing the extent of the
proposed excavation, improvement, repair or construction work, the dimensions
and elevations of both the existing ground and facilities prior to said
excavation and of the proposed excavated surfaces, structures and facilities,
the location of the excavation, improvement, repair and construction work and
such other information as may be prescribed by the City Engineer. All
applications shall include specific type and location descriptions for the
proposed lines or facilities, including details where the proposed lines or
facilities shall be located within the public rights-of-way and the
construction methods to be used for the proposed installation. Applications
shall include maps as required by the City Engineer. Additional information may
be required as necessary for approval by the City Engineer. As required by the
City Engineer, a traffic control plan shall be submitted for any project that
will involve obstruction of the roadway surface, including the shoulder of said
roadway. The City Engineer may also require that a copy of a fully executed and
current franchise agreement, pole attachment agreement, or other similar
document be submitted with the application for permit so long as such agreement
is not prohibited by state or federal law or regulation. (Ord. 903, 11-15-1976;
amd. Ord. 1365, 9-3-2019)
8-6-5: SURETY BOND REQUIRED:
Before an excavation permit, as herein provided, is issued, the applicant shall
deposit with the City Clerk a cash deposit or surety bond in the amount of
twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00), payable to the City. The required surety
bond must be:
   (A)   With a good and sufficient surety.
   (B)   By a surety company authorized to transact business in the State.
   (C)   Satisfactory to the City Attorney in form and substance.
   (D)   The cash deposit or surety bond shall be upon the condition that the
permittee shall comply with this Chapter and shall repair any underground
apparatus, including but not limited to cables, wires and pipes and fill up,
restore and place in good and safe condition as nearly as may be to its
original condition, and to the satisfaction of the City Engineer, all openings
and excavations made in streets, and to maintain any street where excavation is
made in a good condition for the period of twenty four (24) months after said
work shall have been done, usual wear and tear excepted, as it was in before
said work shall have been done. Any settlement of the surface within said two
(2) year period shall be deemed conclusive evidence of defective backfilling by
the permittee. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to require the
permittee to maintain any repairs to pavement made by the City if such repairs
should prove defective. Recovery on such bond for any injury or accident shall
not excuse the bond but it shall cover in its entirety any or all future
accidents or injuries during the excavation work for which it is given. In the
event any suit or claim against the City is filed, by reason of the negligence
or default of the permittee, upon the City's giving written notice to the
permittee of such suit or claim, any final judgment against the City requiring
it to pay for such damages shall be conclusive upon the permittee and his
surety.
   (E)   An annual bond may be given under this provision which shall remain in
force for one year conditioned as above, in the amount specified above and in
other respects as specified above but applicable as to all excavation work in
streets by the principal in such bond during the term of one year from said
date.
   (F)   Any permit issued pursuant to this chapter carries with it an
obligation to respect orderly management and maintenance of public rights-of-
way by the applicant. An applicant authorized hereby to use public rights-of-
way shall employ sound construction practices to maintain the integrity of
public improvements and preexisting rights-of-way conditions and shall be
responsible for repair or replacement of any improvements or maintenance or
restoration of any conditions disrupted by construction activities. The
applicant shall cause any such repair or replacement to be made promptly and in
a manner that complies with adopted standards or as is otherwise appropriate to
restore the rights-of way to conditions existing before installation. All work
shall be expeditiously performed and completed as soon as reasonably possible.
(Ord. 903, 11-15-1976; amd. Ord. 1365, 9-3-2019)
8-6-6: CASH DEPOSITS:
In the event of a cash deposit as allowed in Section
8-6-5 of this Chapter, upon the permittee's completion of the work covered by
such permit in conformity with the Chapter as determined by the City Engineer,
two-thirds (2/3) of such cash deposit, except in the case of an annual deposit,
shall be promptly refunded by the City to the permittee and the balance shall
be refunded by the City to the permittee upon the expiration of such twenty
four (24) months' period; provided, however, that as to the annual deposit,
two-thirds (2/3) thereof shall be refunded by the City at the end of the one-
year period for which the deposit is made or the satisfactory completion of all
excavation work undertaken during such period, whichever is later, and the
balance of the annual deposit shall be refunded at the expiration of a twenty
four (24) month period following the completion of such excavation work; and
provided, further, that the City may use any or all of any such deposit to pay
the costs of any work the City performs to restore or maintain the street as
herein provided in the event the permittee fails to perform such work, in which
event the amount refunded to the permittee shall be refunded to the permittee
shall be reduced by the amount thus expended by the City, or in the event of a
refund and more is needed, the permittee shall be liable therefor. (Ord. 903,
11-15-1976)
8-6-7: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
A permittee, prior to the commencement of excavation work hereunder, shall
furnish the City Engineer satisfactory evidence in writing that the permittee
has in force and will maintain in force during the performance of the
excavation work and the period of the excavation permit public liability
insurance of not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for any
person and three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for any one accident
and property damage insurance of not less than fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) duly issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in
this State. (Ord. 903, 11-15-1976)
8-6-8: ROUTING OF TRAFFIC:
The permittee shall take appropriate measures to assure that during the
performance of the excavation work traffic conditions as nearly normal as
practicable shall be maintained at all times so as to cause as little
inconvenience as possible to the occupants of the abutting property and to the
general public, provided that the City Engineer may permit the closing of a
street to all traffic for a period of time prescribed by him if in his opinion
it is necessary. The permitted shall route and control traffic, including its
own vehicles as directed by the City Police Department. The following steps
shall be taken before any street may be closed or restricted to traffic:
   (A)   The permittee must receive the approval of the City Engineer and the
Police Department therefor;
   (B)   The permittee must notify the Fire Chief of any street so closed;
   (C)   Upon completion of construction work, the permittee shall notify the
City Engineer, Fire Chief and the City Police Department before traffic is
moved back to its normal flow so that any necessary adjustments may be made;
   (D)   Where flagmen are deemed necessary by the City Engineer, they shall be
furnished by the permittee at his own expense. Through traffic shall be
maintained without the aid of detours, if possible. In instances in which this
would not be feasible, the City Engineer will designate detours. The City shall
maintain roadway surfaces of existing streets designated as detours without
expense to the permittee but in case there are no existing streets, the
permittee shall construct all detours at its own expense and in conformity with
the specifications of the City Engineer. The permittee will be responsible for
any unnecessary damage caused to any streets by the operation of its equipment.
(Ord. 903, 11-15-1976)
8-6-9: CLEARANCE FOR FIRE EQUIPMENT:
The excavation work shall be performed and conducted so as not to interfere
with access to fire stations and fire hydrants. Materials or obstructions shall
not be placed within fifteen feet (15') of fire plugs. Passageways leading to
fire escapes or fire-fighting equipment shall be kept free of piles of material
or other obstructions. (Ord. 903, 11-15-1976)
8-6-10: REMOVAL OF UTILITIES; PROTECTIVE MEASURES:
   (A)   Utilities: The permittee shall not interfere with any existing utility
without the written consent of the City Engineer and the utility company or
person owning the utility. If it becomes necessary to remove an existing
utility, this shall be done by its owner. No utility owned by the City shall be
moved to accommodate the permittee unless the costs of such work shall be borne
by the permittee. The costs of moving privately-owned utilities shall be
similarly borne by the permittee unless it makes other arrangements with the
person owning the utility. The permittee shall support and protect by timbers
or otherwise all pipes, conduits, poles, wires or other apparatus which may be
in any way affected by the excavation work, and do everything necessary to
support, sustain and protect them under, over, along or across said work. In
case any of said pipes, conduits, poles, wires or apparatus should be damaged,
they shall be repaired by the agency or person owning them and the expense of
such repairs shall be charged to the permittee, and his bond shall be liable
therefor. The permittee shall be responsible for any damage done to the public
or private property by reason of the breaking of any water pipes, sewer, gas
pipe, electric conduit or other utility and its bond shall be liable therefor.
The permittee shall inform itself as to the existence and location of all
underground utilities and protect the same against damage.
   (B)   Protection Of Adjoining Property: The permittee shall at all times and
at his own expense preserve and protect from injury any adjoining property by
providing proper foundations and taking other measures suitable for that
purpose. Where in the protection of such property it is necessary to enter upon
private property for the purpose of taking appropriate protective measures, the
permittee shall obtain a license from the owner of such private property for
such purpose and if he cannot obtain a license from such owner, the City
Engineer may authorize him to enter the private premises solely for the purpose
of making the property safe. The permittee shall, at its own expense, shore up
and protect the buildings, walls, fences or other property likely to be damaged
during the progress of the excavation work and shall be responsible for all
damage to public or private property or highways resulting from its failure
properly to protect and carry out said work. Whenever it may be necessary for
the permittee to trench through or otherwise excavate any lawn area, all
construction and maintenance work shall be done in a manner calculated to leave
the lawn area clean of earth and debris and in a condition as nearly as
possible to that which existed before such work began. The permittee shall not
remove, even temporarily, any trees or shrubs which exist in parking strip
areas or easements across private property without first having notified the
property owner, or in the case of public property the appropriate City
department or City official having control of such property.
   (C)   Barriers: The permittee shall erect such fence, railing or barriers
about the site of the excavation work as shall prevent danger to persons using
the City street or sidewalks, and such protective barriers shall be maintained
until the work shall be completed or the danger removed. At twilight there
shall be placed upon such place of excavation and upon any excavated materials
or structures or other obstructions to streets suitable and sufficient lights
which shall be kept burning throughout the night during the maintenance of such
obstructions. It shall be unlawful for anyone to remove or tear down the fence
or railing or other protective barriers or any lights provided there for the
protection of the public.
   (D)   Watercourses: The permittee shall provide for the flow of all
watercourses, sewers or drains intercepted during the excavation work and shall
replace the same in as good a condition as he found them as the City Engineer
may direct. The permittee shall not obstruct the gutter of any street but shall
use all proper measures to provide for the free passage of surface water. The
permittee shall make provision to take care of all surplus water, muck, silt,
slickings or other run-off pumped from the excavations or resulting from
sluicing or other operations and shall be responsible for any damage resulting
from his failure to so provide. (Ord. 903, 11-15-1976)
8-6-11: SIDEWALK EXCAVATIONS:
Any excavation made in any sidewalk or under a sidewalk shall be provided with
a substantial and adequate footbridge over said excavation on the line of the
sidewalk, which bridge shall be at least three feet (3') wide and securely
railed on each side so that foot passengers can pass over safely at all times 1
. (Ord. 903, 11-15-1976)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  8-5-3 of this Title for sidewalk openings.
8-6-12: ATTRACTIVE NUISANCE:
It shall be unlawful for the permittee to suffer or permit to remain unguarded
at the place of excavation or opening any machinery, equipment or other device
having the characteristics of an attractive nuisance likely to attract children
and hazardous to their safety or health. (Ord. 903, 11-15-1976)
8-6-13: CARE OF EXCAVATED MATERIALS:
All material excavated from trenches and piled adjacent to the trench or in any
street shall be piled and maintained in such manner as not to endanger those
working in the trench, pedestrians or users of the streets, and so that as
little inconvenience as possible is caused to those using streets and adjoining
property. Where the confines of the area being excavated are too narrow to
permit the piling of excavated material beside the trench, such as might be the
case in a narrow alley, the City Engineer shall have the authority to require
that the permittee haul the excavated material to a storage site and then
rehaul it to the trench site at the time of backfilling. It shall be the
permittee's responsibility to secure the necessary permission and make all
necessary arrangements for all required storage and disposal sites. (Ord. 903,
11-15-1976)
8-6-14: DAMAGE TO EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS:
All damage done to existing improvements during the progress of the excavation
work shall be repaired by the permittee. Materials for such repair shall
conform with the requirements of any applicable code or ordinance of the City.
If upon being ordered, the permittee fails to furnish the necessary labor and
materials for such repairs, the City Engineer shall have the authority to cause
said necessary labor and materials to be furnished by the City and the cost
shall be charged against the permittee who shall also be liable on his bond
therefore. (Ord. 903, 11-15-1976)
8-6-15: PROPERTY LINES AND EASEMENTS:
Property lines and limits of easements shall be indicated on the plan of
excavation submitted with the application for the excavation permit and it
shall be the permittee's responsibility to confine excavation work within these
limits. (Ord. 903, 11-15-1976)
8-6-16: CLEAN UP:
As the excavation work progresses, all streets and private properties shall be
thoroughly cleaned of all rubbish, excess earth, rock and other debris
resulting from such work. All clean-up operations at the location of such
excavation shall be accomplished at the expense of the permittee and shall be
completed to the satisfaction of the City Engineer. From time to time as may be
ordered by the City Engineer and in any event immediately after completion of
said work the permittee shall at his own expense clean up and remove all refuse
and unused materials of any kind resulting from said work and upon failure so
to do within twenty four (24) hours after having been notified by the City
Engineer, said work may be done by the City Engineer and the costs thereof
charged to the permittee, and the permittee shall also be liable for the costs
thereof under the surety bond provided hereunder. (Ord. 903, 11-15-1976)
8-6-17: BREAKING THROUGH PAVEMENT; TUNNELS:
   (A)   Whenever it is necessary to break through existing pavement for
excavation purposes, the pavement in the base shall be removed to at least six
inches (6") beyond the outer limits of the subgrade that is to be disturbed in
order to prevent settlement, and a six inch (6") shoulder or undisturbed
material shall be provided in each side of the excavated trench. The face of
the remaining pavement shall be approximately vertical. A power-driven concrete
saw shall be used so as to permit complete breakage of concrete pavement or
base without ragged edges. Asphalt paving shall be scored or otherwise cut in a
straight line. No pile driver may be used in breaking up the pavement.
   (B)   Tunnels under pavement shall not be permitted except by permission of
the City Engineer and if permitted shall be adequately supported by timbering
and backfilling under the direction of the City Engineer. (Ord. 903, 11-15-
1976)
8-6-18: BACKFILLING; RESTORATION OF SURFACE:
   (A)   Backfilling: Backfilling in any street opened or excavated pursuant to
an excavation permit issued hereunder shall be compacted to a degree equivalent
to the undisturbed ground in which the trench was dug. All backfilling shall be
done in a manner acceptable to the City Engineer. Any water used in backfilling
shall be paid for by the permittee on the terms agreed upon with the City Water
Department.
   (B)   Restoration Of Surface:
      1.   Requirement Of Permittee: The permittee shall restore the surface of
all streets, broken into or damaged as a result of the excavation work to its
original condition in accordance with the specifications of the City Engineer.
Acceptance or approval of any excavation work by the City Engineer shall not
prevent the City from asserting a claim against the permittee and his surety
under the surety bond required hereunder for incomplete or defective work if
discovered within twenty four (24) months from the completion of the excavation
work. The City Engineer's presence during the performance of any excavation
work shall not relieve the permittee of its responsibilities hereunder.
      2.   City's Right To Restore Surface: If the permittee shall have failed
to restore the surface of the street to its original and proper condition upon
the expiration of the time fixed by such permit or shall otherwise have failed
to complete the excavation work covered by such permit, the City Engineer, if
he deems it advisable, shall have the right to do all work and things necessary
to restore the street and to complete the excavation work. The permittee shall
be liable for the actual costs thereof and twenty five percent (25%) of such
cost in addition for general overhead and administrative expenses. The City
shall have a claim for all fees, expenses and amounts paid out and due it for
such work and shall apply in payment of the amount due it any funds of the
permittee deposited as herein provided, and the City shall also enforce its
rights under the permittee's surety bond provided pursuant to this Chapter.
(Ord. 903, 11-15-1976)
8-6-19: PROMPT COMPLETION OF WORK:
The permittee shall prosecute with diligence and expedition all excavation work
covered by the excavation permit and shall promptly complete such work and
restore the street to its original condition, or as near as may be, as soon as
practicable and in any event not later than the date specified in the
excavation permit therefor. (Ord. 903, 11-15-1976)
8-6-20: URGENT WORK:
If in his judgment traffic conditions, the safety or convenience of the
traveling public or the public interest require that the excavation work be
performed as emergency work, the City Engineer shall have full power to order,
at the time the permit is granted, that a crew of men and adequate facilities
be employed by the permittee twenty four (24) hours a day to the end that such
excavation work may be completed as soon as possible. (Ord. 903, 11-15-1976)
8-6-21: EMERGENCY ACTION:
In the event of any emergency in which a sewer, main, conduit or utility in or
under any street breaks, bursts or otherwise is in such condition as to
immediately endanger the life, property, health or safety of any individual,
the person owning or controlling such sewer, main, conduit or utility, without
first applying for and obtaining an excavation permit hereunder, shall
immediately take proper emergency measures to cure or remedy the dangerous
conditions for the protection of property, life, health and safety of
individuals. However, such person owning or controlling such facility shall
apply for an excavation permit not later than the end of the next succeeding
day during which the City Engineer's office is open for business, and shall not
proceed with permanent repairs without first obtaining an excavation permit
hereunder. (Ord. 903, 11-15-1976)
8-6-22: NOISE, DUST AND DEBRIS:
Each permittee shall conduct and carry out the excavation work in such manner
as to avoid unnecessary inconvenience and annoyance to the general public and
occupants of neighboring property. The permittee shall take appropriate
measures to reduce to the fullest extent practicable in the performance of the
excavation work, noise, dust and unsightly debris and during the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. shall not use, except with
the express written permission of the City Engineer, or in case of an emergency
as herein otherwise provided, any tool, appliance or equipment producing noise
of sufficient volume to disturb the sleep or repose of occupants of the
neighboring property. (Ord. 903, 11-15-1976)
8-6-23: PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS:
The permittee shall not disturb any surface monuments or hubs found on the line
of excavation work until ordered so to do by the City Engineer. (Ord. 903, 11-
15-1976)
8-6-24: INSPECTIONS:
The City Engineer shall make such inspections as are reasonably necessary in
the enforcement of this Chapter. The City Engineer shall have the authority to
promulgate and cause to be enforced such rules and regulations as may be
reasonably necessary to enforce and carry out the intent of this Chapter. (Ord.
903, 11-15-1976)
8-6-25: MAINTAIN DRAWINGS:
Users of subsurface street space shall maintain accurate drawings, plans and
profiles showing the location and character of all underground structures
including abandoned installations. Corrected maps shall be filed with the City
Engineer within sixty (60) days after new installations, changes or
replacements are made. (Ord. 903, 11-15-1976)
8-6-26: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this Chapter shall not be applicable to any excavation work
under the direction of competent City authorities by employees of the City or
by any contractor of the City performing work for and on behalf of the City
necessitating openings or excavations in streets. (Ord. 903, 11-15-1976)
8-6-27: NO DUTY:
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed or construed to impose any private duty
or obligation upon the City to properly or accurately locate any utility line
or facility or to insure a result of the failure of any permittee to comply
with the provisions hereof. (Ord. 903, 11-15-1976; amd. Ord. 1365, 9-3-2019)
8-6-28: LIABILITY OF CITY:
This Chapter shall not be construed as imposing upon the City or any official
or employee any liability or responsibility for damages to any person injured
by the performance of any excavation work for which an excavation permit is
issued hereunder; nor shall the City or any official or employee thereof be
deemed to have assumed any such liability or responsibility by reason of
inspections authorized hereunder, the issuance of any permit or the approval of
any excavation work. (Ord. 903, 11-15-1976)
CHAPTER 7
SEWER SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-7-1: Definitions
8-7-2: Prohibited Acts
8-7-3: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-7-4: Private Sewage Disposal System
8-7-5: Building Sewer Regulations
8-7-5-1: Classification Of Building Sewer Permits
8-7-5-2: Permit Required; Application; Fees
8-7-5-3: Installation Costs And Expenses
8-7-5-4: Use Of Building Sewers
8-7-5-5: Construction Specifications
8-7-5-6: Connection Regulations
8-7-5-7: Excavations To Be Guarded
8-7-6: Regulations Applicable To All Industrial Users
8-7-7: User Classifications; Rate Schedules And Charges
8-7-7-1: Residential And Commercial Users, Rate Schedules
8-7-7-2: Other Users
8-7-7-3: Administrative Charge
8-7-7-4: Billing, Collection, And Termination Of Utility Service
8-7-7-5: Disconnection; Reconnection Charge
8-7-7-6: Delinquent Charges
8-7-7-7: Revenue
8-7-8: Inspection
8-7-9: Industrial Cost Recovery
8-7-10: System Damage
8-7-11: Property Assessable
8-7-12: Notice Of Violation
8-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions in section
8-7-6 of this chapter and unless the context specifically indicates otherwise,
the meanings of terms used in this chapter shall be as follows:
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewers, beginning five
feet (5') (1.5 m) outside the inner face of the building walls.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
COMMERCIAL: A building or buildings used for business, industrial, professions,
trades or manufacturing.
DIRECTOR OF WASTEWATER SERVICES: That person appointed to oversee the operation
of the Wastewater Services Department.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
association, joint stock company, trust, estate, society, corporation, group,
government, governmental agency or other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns. The definition includes all Federal, State
and local government entities.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 cm) in any
dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
RESIDENTIAL: A building or buildings used for purposes in which people dwell or
make their homes.
RESIDENTIAL/COMMERCIAL: A building or buildings used for both "residential" and
"commercial" as defined in this section, shall be defined as "commercial".
SS (Suspended Solids): Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of
sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SHALL, MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Termed "Storm Sewer"): A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 1357, 3-19-2019)
8-7-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City, any human excrement,
garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge sewage or other wastewater to any
storm sewer within the City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City,
without obtaining approval from the appropriate Federal or State agency and
written approval from the City.
   (C)   Except as provided in section
8-7-4 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy,
privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the
disposal of sewage.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, ground water from non-residential dewatering operations, roof
runoff or subsurface drainage to any sanitary sewer. (Ord. 1357, 3-19-2019)
8-7-3: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, commercial purposes, recreation or other purposes, situated within
the City or within the jurisdiction of the City and abutting on any street,
alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be
located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the City, is hereby required at
the expense of the owner to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to
connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, within ninety (90) days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that a public sewer is within three hundred
feet (300') of the property line. Any building within three hundred feet (300')
not connected to the City sewer will be charged at the same rate as though
connected to the City sewer based on applicable water consumption as provided
in this chapter. (Ord. 1357, 3-19-2019)
8-7-4: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM:
   (A)   Connection Permitted: Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not
available under the provisions of section
8-7-3 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Permit Required; Application; Fee: Before commencement of construction
of a private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written
permit signed by the Director of Wastewater Services. The application for such
permit shall be made on a form furnished by the City, which the applicant shall
supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as is deemed
necessary by the Director of Wastewater Services. A permit and inspection fee
in an amount established by a resolution adopted by the Burley City Council
shall be paid to the City at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   Inspection: A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not
become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Director of Wastewater Services. The Director shall be allowed to inspect the
work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the Director of Wastewater Services when the work is ready
for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The
inspection shall be made within twenty four (24) hours of the receipt of notice
by the Director of Wastewater Services that the system is ready for inspection.
   (D)   System Limitations And Restrictions: The type, capacities, location
and layout of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all
requirements of the State or other agency having jurisdiction. No permit shall
be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil
absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than eight thousand
(8,000) square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any natural outlet.
   (E)   Use Of Public Sewer Required: At such time as a public sewer becomes
available to a property served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter,
and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities
shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   Sanitary Operation Of System: The owner shall operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no
expense to the City.
   (G)   Applicability Of Provisions: In the event there is a conflict between
this section and the statutes and regulations of the State relating to such
systems, this section shall govern unless the Director of Wastewater Services
believes it to be in the best interest of the City to use the State standards.
(Ord. 1357, 3-19-2019)
8-7-5: BUILDING SEWER REGULATIONS:
8-7-5-1: CLASSIFICATION OF BUILDING SEWER PERMITS:
There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits:
   (A)   For residential and commercial service.
   (B)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes. (Ord. 1357,
3-19-2019)
8-7-5-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEES:
   (A)   Permit Required: No person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Director of Wastewater
Services.
   (B)   Application For Permit: The owner or the agent of the owner applying
for either class of building sewer permit shall make application on a special
form furnished by the City. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment
of the Director of Wastewater Services.
   (C)   Fees: A permit and tap fee shall be paid to the City at the time the
application is filed in an amount to be established by a resolution adopted by
the Burley City Council. (Ord. 1357, 3-19-2019)
8-7-5-3: INSTALLATION COSTS AND EXPENSES:
All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be paid by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the City
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer. (Ord. 1357, 3-19-2019)
8-7-5-4: USE OF BUILDING SEWERS:
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except:
      1.   Where one building is located at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer; or
      2.   Where access to the public sewer would otherwise require cutting a
paved public city road and the City has denied the request to cut the pavement
due to the paved road surface being less than three (3) years old, and boring
beneath the road would also result in damage to the paved road surface when
connecting to the existing sewer main and no private sewer is available or can
be constructed, the building sewer may be connected to an existing building
sewer provided all requirements of the Idaho State Plumbing Code (including but
not limited to Section 721.2) are satisfied.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Director of Wastewater
Services, to meet all requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 1357, 3-19-2019; amd.
Ord. 1372, 4-7-2020)
8-7-5-5: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
Building and Plumbing Code 1  or other applicable rules and regulations of the
City. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and WPCF "Manual of Practice No. 9" shall apply.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   Drainage piping serving fixtures, the flood level rims of which are
located below the elevation of the curb or property line, at the point where
the buildings which are under the curb or property line and above the crown
level of the main sewer, shall drain by gravity into the main sewer, and shall
be protected from backflow of sewage by installing an approved type backwater
valve, and each backwater valve shall be installed only in that branch or
section of the drainage system which receives the discharge from the fixtures
located below the elevation of the curb or property line.
   (D)   All excavating and backfilling will be completed by the customer and
the area restored to its original condition. (Ord. 1357, 3-19-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4, chapter 1 of this Code for the Building Code.
8-7-5-6: CONNECTION REGULATIONS:
   (A)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (B)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the City or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF "Manual of Practice No. 9".
All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from
the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Director of
Wastewater Services.
   (C)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Director
of Wastewater Services when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the Director of Wastewater Services or authorized
representative. (Ord. 1357, 3-19-2019)
8-7-5-7: EXCAVATIONS TO BE GUARDED:
All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the City. (Ord. 1357, 3-19-
2019)
8-7-6: REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL INDUSTRIAL USERS:
   (A)   General Provisions:
      1.   Applicability: These City of Burley Industrial Pretreatment Program
Regulations, herein after "these regulations" set forth uniform requirements
for all industrial users that discharge domestic and/or non-domestic wastewater
into the publicly-owned treatment works (POTW) and enables the City of Burley
to comply with all applicable State and Federal laws, including IDAPA 58, title
01, chapter 25, the Federal Clean Water Act (33 USC, section 1251 et seq.), and
the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 CFR part 403) and the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued by the U.S.
Environmental Protections Agency or the Idaho Department of Environmental
Quality. These regulations shall apply to all industrial users of the POTW.
      2.   Objectives: The objectives of these regulations are to:
a. Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW which will interfere
with its operation, including interference with its use of disposal of
Municipal sludge;
b. Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTWs which will pass
through the treatment works or otherwise be incompatible with the POTW;
c. Protect personnel who may be affected by wastewater and sludge in the course
of their employment and to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
general public;
d. Improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim Municipal and industrial
wastewater and sludge from the POTW;
e. Provide for fees, charges and assessments for the equitable distribution of
the cost of operation of the City's Pretreatment Program; and
f. Enable the City to comply with its NPDES waste discharge permit conditions,
Federal and State requirements applicable to sludge use and disposal, and any
other Federal or State laws or regulations to which the POTW is subject.
      3.   Authority Of The City Manager: Except as otherwise provided, the
City Manager shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of these
regulations. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the City Manager may
be delegated by the City Manager to other City personnel.
      4.   Notification To Industrial Users: The City Manager shall notify in
writing any industrial user whom the City has reason to believe is subject to a
National Categorical Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, or other applicable
requirements promulgated by the EPA under the provisions of section 204(b) or
405 of the Act, or under the provisions of sections 3001, 3004, or 4004 of the
Solid Waste Disposal Act. Failure of the City to so notify industrial users
shall not relieve said industrial users from the responsibility of complying
with applicable requirements. It is the responsibility of a significant
industrial user to apply for and receive a permit prior to discharge, whether
significant industrial user has been identified and formally requested to do
so.
      5.   Discharge By Industrial Users: If wastewaters containing any
pollutant, including excess flow, or as otherwise defined in these regulations,
are discharged, have the potential to discharge in the opinion of the City
Manager or proposed to be discharged to the POTW, the City Manager may take any
action necessary to:
         a. Prohibit the discharge of such wastewater;
         b. Require an industrial user to demonstrate that in-plant facility
modifications will reduce or eliminate the discharge of such substances in
conformity with these regulations;
         c. Require treatment, including storage facilities or flow
equalization necessary to reduce or eliminate the potential for a discharge to
violate these regulations;
         d. Require the industrial user making, causing or allowing the
discharge to pay any additional cost or expense incurred by the City for
handling, treating, disposing or remediation costs because of wastes discharged
to the wastewater treatment system;
         e. Require the industrial user to apply for and obtain a permit,
including a zero-discharge permit or other control mechanism;
         f. Require timely and factual reports from the industrial user; or
         g. Take such other action as may be necessary to meet the objectives
of these regulations.
   (B)   Definitions And Abbreviations:
      1.   Definitions: For the purposes of these regulations, the following
terms, phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meanings provided in
these regulations or as otherwise defined in this chapter and applicable
Federal and State Statutes, rules, or regulations that apply to the activity
being regulated. Words not otherwise defined, shall be given their common and
ordinary meaning.
    ACT OR THE ACT: Is the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY: Is the Director of the State of Idaho, Department of
Environmental Quality.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE
INDUSTRIAL USER: Means:
         a. If the industrial user is a corporation:
            (1) The president, secretary, treasurer, or vice president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
            (2) The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operating facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for reporting requirements established by the
City; if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the
manager in accordance with corporate procedures;
         b. If the industrial user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a
general partner or proprietor, respectively;
         c. If the industrial user is a limited liability company: the managing
member(s) of the limited liability company;
         d. If the industrial user is a Federal, State, or local governmental
facility: a Director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the
operation and performance of the activities of the government facility, or
designee of such official;
         e. The individuals described in subsections a through d of this
definition, may designate another duly authorized representative if the
authorization is made in writing, the authorization specifies the individual or
position responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the
discharge originates or having overall responsibility for environmental matters
for the company, and the written authorization is submitted to the City.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES OR BMPs: Are schedules of activities, prohibitions
of practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to
implement the prohibitions listed in subsection (C) of this section. BMPs also
include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control
plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage
from raw materials storage. BMPs shall be considered local limits and
Pretreatment Standards for the purposes of these regulations and section 307(d)
of the Act as specified at 40 CFR section 403.5(c)(4).
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER: Is an industrial user subject to a Categorical
Pretreatment Standard.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR CATEGORICAL STANDARD: Means any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with section 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 USC section 1317), as
amended, which apply to a specific category of industrial users and that appear
in 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N, parts 405 - 471.
   CITY: Means the City of Burley, Idaho, a municipal corporation organized and
existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Idaho. The City
Manager is designated by the City to supervise the implementation and
enforcement of this chapter or their duly authorized representative.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE: Is a representative flow-proportioned sample containing at
least twelve (12) aliquots and collected within a twenty four (24) hour period
or the industrial user's operating data as appropriate. The aliquots are
combined according to flow. Time-proportional composite samples consisting of
at least twelve (12) aliquots may be approved or used by the City where time-
proportional samples are believed representative of the discharge.
   CONTRIBUTING JURISDICTION: Is a municipality other than the City that
contributes wastewater to the POTW.
   COOLING WATER: Includes:
      a. Contact: Water used for cooling purposes which comes in contact with
any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or finished product.
      b. Noncontact: Water used for cooling purposes which does not come in
contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or finished
product and the only pollutant added is heat.
   DAILY MAXIMUM DISCHARGE LIMIT: Means the maximum allowable discharge limit
of a pollutant that may be discharged during a twenty four (24) hour period or
as specified in the industrial wastewater discharge permit. Where daily maximum
limits are expressed in units of mass, the daily discharge is the total mass
discharged over the sampling period. Where daily maximum limits are expressed
in terms of a concentration, the daily discharge is the arithmetic average
measurement of the pollutant concentration derived from all measurements taken
during that sampling period.
   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER: Means water carrying human wastes, including kitchen,
bath, and laundry wastes from residences, buildings, industrial establishments
and other places, of similar volume or chemical make-up to that of a
residential dwelling unit unless otherwise regulated at an industrial user by
an applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standard.
   ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN OR ERP: Is a document that outlines the general
framework for investigating and responding to industrial user violations of
these regulations or any control mechanism issued by the City. The ERP is
maintained on file in the Office of the Pretreatment Coordinator and Director
of Wastewater Services and is available to the public.
   EXISTING SOURCE: Is a categorical industrial user that is not a new source.
   EXTRA JURISDICTIONAL USER: Is an industrial user located outside the City
limits that contributes wastewater to the POTW.
   5 DAY BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND OR BOD5: Is the quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five (5) days at 20 degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in
milligrams per liter (mg/L) by weight, using methods approved under 40 CFR part
136.
   GRAB SAMPLE: Is a sample which is taken from a wastestream on a one-time
basis with no regard to the flow in the wastestream and over a period of time
not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE: Is any waste designated as hazardous under the provisions
of 40 CFR part 261 and IDAPA 58.01.05.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE: Is the discharge or introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any industrial user as defined in these regulations and all other
industrial users regulated under section 307(b), (c) or (d) of the Act (33 USC
1317), including holding tank waste from a non-domestic user discharged into
the POTW.
   INDUSTRIAL OR NON-DOMESTIC WASTE: Means a liquid or solid waste from
industrial manufacturing processes, trade or business activities distinct from
domestic wastewater.
   INDUSTRIAL USER: Is a source of indirect discharge or any other industrial
or commercial facility or business that has a sewer connection to the POTW,
whether or not the user discharges non-domestic wastewater.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT: Is a type of control mechanism
issued by the City to an industrial user that allows, limits and/or prohibits
the discharge of pollutants or flow to the POTW as set forth in these
regulations.
   INSTANTANEOUS DISCHARGE LIMIT: Means the maximum or minimum concentration or
measurement for a pollutant or pollutant property allowed to be discharged at
any time as determined by use of a grab sample or direct measurement.
   INTERFERENCE: Means a discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, both:
      a. Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or operations
or its sludge processes, use or disposal, and
      b. Therefore is a cause of a violation of the City's NPDES permit
(including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory or regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or
any more stringent State or local regulations: section 405 of the Act; the
Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), including title II commonly referred to as the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any State regulations contained
in any State sludge management plan prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the
Solid Waste Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act;
and the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act.
   LOCAL LIMIT: Is any regulation containing discharge limits developed by the
City in accordance with 40 CFR section 403.5(c) and (d) which are Pretreatment
Standards and are specified in subsection (C) of this section.
   NPDES PERMIT: Is a permit issued by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
pursuant to section 402 of the Clean Water Act or the Idaho Department of
Environmental Quality (IDAPA 58, title 01, chapter 25) that establishes special
and general conditions for discharging treatment plant effluent into waters of
the State by the City's POTW.
   NEW SOURCE: Is a categorical industrial user meeting the definition as set
forth in 40 CFR section 403.3(m) and herein incorporated by reference.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTEWATER: Means wastewater, when analyzed in
accordance with procedures established in 40 CFR part 136, as amended, contains
no more than two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/L) of 5-day
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD5) or two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250
mg/L) of total suspended solids. Discharges to the POTW that exceed these
concentrations may be surcharged for the concentrations above these levels.
   NORTH AMERICAN INDUSTRY CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM CODE OR NAICS CODE: Is the
industrial classification scheme developed by the United States Office of
Management and Budget used to classify business establishments for the
collection, tabulation, presentation, and analysis of statistical data
describing the U.S. economy. Also, see definition of Standard Industrial
Classification Code.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT: Is that portion of the POTW or any portion thereof
designed to provide treatment of wastewater.
   PASS THROUGH: Means a discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the
State in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of an NPDES permit issued to the City, including an increase in the
magnitude or duration of a violation.
   PERSON: Means any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
association, joint stock company, trust, estate, society, corporation, group,
government, governmental agency or other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns. The definition includes all Federal, State
and local government entities.
   pH: Is the intensity of acid or base condition of the solution expressed as
the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions
expressed in moles per liter of solution and reported as standard units (SU).
   POLLUTANT: Means any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter
backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, explosives, munitions, medical waste,
chemical wastes, corrosive substance, biological material, biological nutrient,
toxic substance, radioactive materials, heat, malodorous substance, wrecked or
discharged equipment, rock, sand, slurry, cellar dirt, untreatable waste, or
industrial, domestic, or agricultural wastes and certain characteristics of
wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS turbidity, color, BOD5, COD, toxicity or
odor) discharged into or with water.
   PRETREATMENT: Is the reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination
of pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to, or in lieu of, discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into the POTW. The reduction or
alteration can be obtained by physical process, biological process, or by other
process or means, except as prohibited by 40 CFR section 403.6(d). Appropriate
pretreatment technology includes control equipment, such as equalization tanks
or facilities, for protection against surges or slug loadings that might
interfere with or otherwise be incompatible with the POTW. However, where
wastewater from a regulated process is mixed in an equalization facility with
unregulated wastewater or with wastewater from another regulated process, the
effluent from the equalization facility must meet an adjusted pretreatment
limit calculated in accordance with 40 CFR section 403.6(e).
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENT: Is any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a Pretreatment Standard, imposed on an
industrial user.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARD: Is any regulation containing pollutant limitations
promulgated by the EPA in accordance with section 307(b) and (c) of the Act
which applies to industrial users. The term includes prohibited discharge
limits established pursuant to 40 CFR section 403.5 and those standards, BMPs,
local limits and specific prohibitions established by the City. In cases of
differing standards, the more stringent shall apply.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS OR POTW: Is a treatment works as defined by
section 212 of the Act (33 USC 1292), which is owned by the City. This
definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection, storage,
treatment, recycling, and reclamation of Municipal sewage or industrial wastes
of a liquid nature and any sewers, pipes or other conveyances which convey
wastewater to the treatment plant. The term also means the Municipality having
jurisdiction over the indirect discharges to and the discharges from the
treatment works.
   SECTOR CONTROL PROGRAM: Is a program designed to control specific pollutants
from industrial users with similar operations, waste generation or treatment
through the implementation of Pretreatment Standards and Requirements,
including Best Management Practices. The Sector Control Program requirements
may be found in subsection (N) of this section.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE: Is sewage and solids from domestic activities pumped from
a septic tank serving one or more private residences, wastes from chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, or cesspools. Specific regulations for hauled
wastes are specified in subsection (N)4 of this section.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER OR SIU: Is:
      a. A categorical industrial user;
      b. An industrial user that:
         (1) Discharges an average of twenty five thousand (25,000) gpd or more
of process wastewater to the POTW (excluding domestic, noncontact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewater); or
         (2) Contributes a process wastestream which makes up five percent (5%)
or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW
treatment plant; or
         (3) Is designated as a SIU by the City on the basis that the
industrial user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's
operation; or for violating any Pretreatment Standard or Requirement (in
accordance with 40 CFR section 403.8(f)(6)).
      c. Upon finding that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
subsection b of this definition has no reasonable potential for adversely
affecting the POTW's operation or for violating any Pretreatment Standard or
Requirement, the City may, at any time, on its own initiative or in response to
a petition received from an industrial user, and in accordance with 40 CFR
403.8(f)(6), determine that such industrial user is not a significant
industrial user.
   SLUG LOAD OR SLUG DISCHARGE: Is any discharge of a non- routine, episodic
nature, including but not limited to an accidental spill or a non-customary
batch discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass
through, or in any other way violate the POTW's regulations, local limits or
permit conditions. This includes a discharge which exceeds the hydraulic or
design of an industrial user's treatment system or any part of the treatment
unit.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION CODE OR SIC CODE: Is a classification
pursuant to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the
Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972, as
amended. Also, see definition of North American Industry Classification System
Code.
   STORMWATER: Means that portion of precipitation, including snowmelt, that
does not naturally percolate into the ground or evaporate, but flows via
overland flow, interflow, pipes, and other features of a stormwater drainage
system into a receiving water or stormwater facility.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS OR TSS: Means the solids that either float on the
surface of or are suspended in water, sewage, or other liquid, and which are
removable by laboratory filtering in accordance with procedures approved in 40
CFR part 136, as amended.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT: Is any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as
toxic in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the EPA under section
307(a) of the Act or as otherwise listed in 40 CFR part 122, appendix D.
   WASTEWATER: Means the liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes
from residences, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing facilities,
and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are discharged to the
POTW.
      2.   Abbreviations: The following abbreviations, when used in these
regulations, shall have the designated meanings:
BMPs       Best Management Practices
BOD5       5-day biochemical oxygen demand
°C        Degrees Celsius
CFR        Code of Federal Regulations
CIU        Categorical industrial user
COD        Chemical oxygen demand
EPA        U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
ERP        Enforcement Response Plan
°F        Degrees Fahrenheit
FOG        Fat, oil and grease
FSE        Food service establishment
gpd        Gallons per day
IDAPA      Idaho Administrative Procedure Act
IPDES      Idaho Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
LEL        Lower explosive limit
mg         Milligrams
mgd        Million gallons per day
mg/L       Milligrams per liter
NAICS Code North American Industry Classification System Code
NPDES      National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
O&G        Oil and grease
O&M        Operation and maintenance
POTW       Publicly owned treatment works
RCRA       Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIC Code   Standard Industrial Classification Code
SIU        Significant industrial user
SNC        Significant noncompliance
SWDA       Solid Waste Disposal Act
TSS        Total suspended solids
USC        United States Code
 
   (C)   Wastewater Discharge Prohibitions And Limitations:
      1.   General Prohibitions: No industrial user shall introduce into the
POTW any pollutant which causes pass through or interference. These general
prohibitions and the specific prohibitions in subsection (C)2 of this section
apply to all industrial users of the POTW whether they are subject to
Pretreatment Standards, or any other national, State, or local Pretreatment
Requirements.
      2.   Specific Prohibitions: No industrial user shall introduce or cause
to be introduced into the POTW the following pollutants:
         a. Any substance which either alone or by interaction with other
substances creates a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW, including, but not
limited to wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint of less than one hundred
forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) (60°C) using the test method specified in 40
CFR section 261.21. The City Manager may require industrial users with the
potential to discharge flammable, combustible or explosive substances to
install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter or explosion
hazard meter. No two (2) successive readings on an explosion hazard meter at
the point of discharge shall be more than five percent (5%), nor any one
reading more than ten percent (10%), of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the
meter.
         b. Wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or more than 11.0, or any
wastewater capable of causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW unless
the POTW is specifically designed to accommodate such discharges.
         c. Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts which cause obstruction to
the flow in the POTW resulting in interference.
         d. Any pollutant, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD, COD,
etc.) released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which will cause interference with the POTW.
         e. Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in interference, but in no case heat in such quantities that the
temperature at the POTW treatment plant exceeds forty decrees Celsius (40°C)
(104°F) unless the approval authority, upon request of the POTW, approves
alternate temperature limits.
         f. Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin that exceed fifty milligrams per liter (50 mg/L) and in any amount
that will cause pass through or interference.
         g. Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity which may cause acute worker health and
safety problems or pollutants which singly or cumulatively or by interaction
with other wastes are sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life
or are sufficient to prevent or interfere with entry into the sewers for their
maintenance and repair.
         h. Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the City.
         i. Wastewater which contains grease or oil or any other substances
that will solidify or become discernibly viscous at temperatures between thirty
two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) (0°C) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit
(150°F) (65.5°C).
         j. Wastewater from food facilities containing free or floating oil and
grease, or any discharge containing animal fat or grease by-product in excess
of two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/L). This limit will not apply if
the industrial user has installed an appropriately sized gravity grease
interceptor (GGI), is properly operating and maintaining the GGI and
implementing all required BMPs as specified in subsection (N)2 of this section
for food facilities.
         k. Wastewater generated as a result of wastes pumped from gravity
grease interceptors, hydromechanical grease interceptors or grease traps, oil/
water separators or other storage tanks or treatment units back into the POTW,
either directly or indirectly, without approval of the City Manager.
         l. Wastewater which imparts color to the POTW's effluent such as, but
not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions.
         m. Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable State and Federal regulations.
         n. Medical wastes that cause or contribute to pass through or
interference.
         o. Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, subsurface drainage, yard
drainage, roof drain, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized water,
effluent from groundwater pump-and-treat systems and unpolluted water shall not
be discharged through any direct or indirect connection to the Municipal
sanitary sewer system unless authorized by the City.
         p. Any substance that causes the City to violate its NPDES permit or
applicable water quality standards.
         q. Sludge, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes or industrial processes except as authorized by an industrial
wastewater discharge permit, special approved discharge authorization or other
control mechanism issued by the City.
         r. A slug discharge as defined in subsection (B)1 of this section.
         s. Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or treatment
residues, sludge or sludge products produced for public distribution, or scums,
to be unsuitable for reclamation or reuse or which otherwise interferes with
the reclamation process.
         t. Any waste designated as hazardous under the provisions of 40 CFR
part 261 and IDAPA 58.01.05 unless done so in compliance with subsection (M)11
of this section and authorized by the City.
         u. Any pesticides, herbicides or fungicides that cause or contribute
to pass through, interference or other problems at the treatment works or in
the receiving waters. In no case, shall an industrial user discharge wastewater
that is generated from the rinsing of any container that contains or contained
any concentrated or formulated pesticide, herbicide or fungicide.
         v. No chemicals, materials, or substances, including but not limited
to, paints, solvents, boiler or water treatment chemicals, sludges, chemicals,
or wastes shall be stored in proximity to a floor drain or other sewer openings
unless secondary containment is provided or there are physical barriers to
entry to the wastewater collection system. The storage of any chemicals,
materials, substances, or wastes that leak or have potential to leak or
discharge into the POTW which may create an explosion hazard or in any way have
a deleterious effect to the POTW or constitute a nuisance or a hazard to POTW
personnel, the general public, the environment, or the receiving stream shall
be prohibited;
         w. Bulk, expired, outdated or concentrated prescription or non-
prescription drugs.
         x. Wastewater or pollutants discharged directly into a manhole or
other opening to the POTW unless specifically authorized by the City Manager or
as otherwise permitted under these regulations. Prohibited is the opening of a
manhole or discharging into any opening in violation of these regulations.
         y. Wastewater contaminated because of discharge from aboveground and/
or underground gasoline, diesel fuels, fuel oil, kerosene, and jet fuel tanks,
tank accessories, and/or pipelines without applying for and obtaining a permit
prior to discharge.
         z. Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources, the
POTW effluent to fail a whole effluent toxicity (WET) test.
         aa. Detergents, surfactants and other surface-active agents, or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the POTW or cause or contribute
to pass through or interference.
         bb. Discharge of nonylphenol from the use of bulk or concentrated
nonylphenol containing detergents as employed by some industrial or commercial
laundries, car washes or asphalt manufacturers or other industrial users.
         cc. Discharge of any wastewater containing perchloroethylene (PCE)
(also known as tetrachloroethene and tetrachloroethylene) from any industrial
user involved in the dry-cleaning business.
         dd. Total inorganic nitrogen (TIN) that causes or contributes to pass
through or interference.
         ee. Discharge of any pollutant or pollutant property that interferes
with UV transmittance or UV disinfection.
      3.   Dilution Prohibited: Dilution is prohibited as a substitute for
treatment and shall be a violation of these regulations. Except where expressly
authorized to do so by an applicable Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, no
industrial user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any other
way attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with a Pretreatment Standard or
Requirement. The City may impose mass limitations on industrial users which are
using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements or in
other cases where the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
      4.   Local Limits:
         a. No significant industrial user or other designated non-SIU shall
discharge or cause to be discharged, wastewater containing pollutants that
exceed the following limits:
          Daily Maximum
Pollutant Discharge Limits1
          (mg/L)
                                                  Daily Maximum
Pollutant                                         Discharge Limits1
                                                  (mg/L)
Arsenic (As)                                      0.021
Cadmium (Cd)                                      0.019
Chromium (Cr)                                     4.62
Copper (Cu)                                       0.655
Lead (Pb)                                         0.146
Mercury (Hg)                                      0.0055
Moybdenum (Mo)                                    0.14
Nickel (Ni)                                       0.225
Selenium (Se)                                     0.067
Silver (Ag)                                       1.532
Zinc (Zn)                                         1.556
5-day biochemical oxygen demand (BOD5) lbs/day(3) 2501
Total suspended solids (TSS) lbs/day(3)           5233
Ammonia, lbs/day(3)                               180.4
Phosphorus, lbs/day(3)                            116.0
Oil and grease, vegetable                         100
 
   Notes:
      1.    All pollutants as total and in milligrams per liter unless
otherwise specified.
      2.    Maximum Allowable Industrial Load (MAIL). The City may implement
local limits through allocation of the MAIL to Significant Industrial Users and
specific permitted non-SIUs that correspond to the uniform concentration local
limits shown in the table above and are hereby incorporated by reference.
      3.   Where a permitted industrial user exceeds the concentration of BOD5
or TSS as defined by normal domestic strength wastewater the City may surcharge
for excess strength waste for these pollutants in pounds per day (lbs/day). If
the City determines that ammonia or phosphorus are being discharged in
significant concentrations, the City may surcharge for excess strength waste on
a case-by-case basis.
      b.   Industrial users that discharge significant concentrations of total
inorganic nitrogen (TIN) as determined by the City, may be required to develop
and implement BMPs to minimize TIN in the discharge or the City may develop and
apply specific daily maximum discharge limits for TIN specific to the
industrial user.
      c.   A significant industrial user or other designated industrial user
who introduces wastewater into the POTW may be required to submit a Total
Dissolved Solids (TDS) Control Plan if monitoring of the industrial user's
discharge shows it exceeds nine hundred milligrams per liter (900 mg/L) TDS.
This plan shall contain a description of the chemicals and materials used that
contribute to the TDS concentration and the source control measures that could
be implemented to reduce the TDS concentration in the discharge to less than
nine hundred milligrams per liter (900 mg/L) or to a level specified by the
City that prevents discharges that cause or contribute to pass through or
interference.
   5.   Benzene And BTEX: The following limits shall apply to wastewaters that
are discharged from:
      a.   Groundwater cleanup of petroleum or gasoline underground storage
tanks or other remediation wastewaters containing these pollutants;
      b.   Discharges where one or more of these pollutants are present; or
      c.   Where these pollutants are appropriate surrogates.
   It shall be unlawful for any industrial user to discharge or cause to be
discharged any waste or wastewater to the POTW that exceeds the following
limits:
 
Pollutant1,3 Daily Maximum Limit
             (mg/L)
   Benzene0.050
   BTEX2  0.750
 
   Notes:
      1.    All pollutants shown in the table are total.
      2.    BTEX shall be measured as the sum of benzene, ethylbenzene, toluene
and xylenes.
      3.    These limits are based upon installation of air stripping
technology as described in the EPA document: "Model NPDES Permit for Discharges
Resulting from the Cleanup of Gasoline Released from Underground Storage Tanks.
June 1989".
      7.   Most Stringent Limits: The City Manager may establish more stringent
pollutant limits, additional site-specific pollutant limits, Best Management
Practices, or additional Pretreatment Requirements when, in the judgment of the
City Manager, such limitations are necessary to implement the provisions of
these regulations.
      8.   State Requirements And Limitations: State requirements and
limitations on discharges shall apply in any case where they are more stringent
than Federal Pretreatment Standards and Requirements or those in these
regulations.
   (D)   Categorical Pretreatment Standards:
      1.   Industrial users shall comply with the Categorical Pretreatment
Standards found at 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N, parts 405 - 471 that apply
to the regulated industrial category assigned to the user's business activity.
      2.   Where a Categorical Pretreatment Standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the City
may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with this
section and 40 CFR part 403.6(c).
      3.   When Categorical Pretreatment Standards are expressed only in terms
of a mass of pollutant per unit of production, the City may convert the limits
to equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of pollutant discharged per
day or effluent concentration for purposes of calculating effluent limitations
applicable to individual industrial users. The industrial user shall supply
appropriate actual or projected long-term production rates for the unit of
production specified in order to facilitate this process pursuant to 40 CFR
part 403.6(c)(2) as required by the City.
      4.   The City may allow wastewater subject to a Categorical Pretreatment
Standard to be mixed with other wastewaters prior to treatment. In such cases,
the industrial user shall identify all categorically regulated wastestreams and
provide sufficient information for each non-categorical wastestream to
determine whether it should be considered dilute for each pollutant. In such
situations, the City shall apply the appropriate formula as found at 40 CFR
part 403.6(e) to determine appropriate limits.
      5.   When a Categorical Pretreatment Standard is expressed only in terms
of pollutant concentrations, an industrial user may request that the City
convert the limits to equivalent mass limits. The determination to convert
concentration limits to mass limits is within the discretion of the City
Manager. The City may establish equivalent mass limits if the industrial user
meets all of the following conditions:
         a.    To be eligible for equivalent mass limits, the industrial user
must:
            (1)    Employ, or demonstrate that it will employ, water
conservation methods and technologies that substantially reduce water use
during the term of its control mechanism;
            (2)    Currently use control and treatment technologies adequate to
achieve compliance with the applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standard, and
not have used dilution as a substitute for treatment;
            (3)   Provide sufficient information to establish the facility's
actual average daily flow rate for all wastestreams, based on data from a
continuous effluent flow monitoring device, as well as the facility's long-term
average production rate. Both the actual average daily flow rate and the long-
term average production rate must be representative of current operating
conditions;
            (4)    Not have daily flow rates, production levels, or pollutant
levels that vary so significantly that equivalent mass limits are not
appropriate to control the discharge; and
            (5)    Have consistently complied with all applicable Categorical
Pretreatment Standards during the period prior to the industrial user's request
for equivalent mass limits.
         b.    An industrial user subject to equivalent mass limits shall:
            (1)   Maintain and effectively operate control and treatment
technologies adequate to achieve compliance with the equivalent mass limits;
            (2)    Continue to record the facility's flow rates by a continuous
effluent flow monitoring device;
            (3)    Continue to record the facility's production rates;
            (4)    Notify the City if production rates are expected to vary by
more than twenty percent (20%) from the submitted baseline production rates.
The City may reassess and revise equivalent limits as necessary to reflect
changed conditions; and
            (5)    Continue to employ the same or comparable water conservation
methods and technologies so long as it discharges under its equivalent mass
limit.
         c.    Equivalent mass limits:
            (1)    Shall not exceed the product of the actual average daily
flow rate of the regulated process(es) of the industrial user and the
applicable concentration-based daily maximum and monthly average standards (and
the appropriate unit conversion factor);
            (2)    Upon notification of a revised production rate, must
reassess the equivalent mass limit and recalculate the limit as necessary to
reflect changed conditions at the facility; and
            (3)    May be retained in subsequent industrial wastewater
discharge permits if the industrial user's actual average daily flow rate was
reduced solely as a result of the implementation of water conservation methods
and technologies, and the actual average daily flow rates used in the original
calculation of the equivalent mass limit were not based on the use of dilution
as a substitute for treatment pursuant to subsection (C)3 of this section. The
industrial user must also be in compliance with 40 CFR section 403.17
(regarding the prohibition of bypass).
         d.    The City may not express limits in terms of mass for pollutants
such as pH, temperature, radiation, or other pollutants which cannot
appropriately be expressed as mass.
      6.   The City may convert the mass limits of the Categorical Pretreatment
Standards at 40 CFR parts 414, 419, and 455 to concentration limits for
purposes of calculating limitations applicable to individual industrial users
under the following conditions. When converting such limits to concentration
limits, the City must use the concentrations listed in the applicable subparts
of 40 CFR parts 414, 419, and 455 and document that dilution is not being
substituted for treatment as prohibited by these regulations.
      7.   Equivalent limitations are deemed Pretreatment Standards for the
purposes of these regulations and section 307(d) of the CWA. The City must
document how the equivalent limits were derived and make this information
publicly available. Once incorporated into the industrial wastewater discharge
permit, the industrial user must comply with the equivalent limitations in lieu
of the promulgated categorical standards from which the equivalent limitations
were derived.
      8.   Many Categorical Pretreatment Standards specify one limit for
calculating maximum daily discharge limitations and a second limit for
calculating maximum monthly average, or 4-day average limitations. Where such
standards are being applied, the same production or flow figure shall be used
in calculating both the average and the maximum equivalent limitation.
      9.   Any industrial user operating under an industrial wastewater
discharge permit incorporating equivalent mass or concentration limits
calculated from a production-based standard shall notify the City within two
(2) business days after the industrial user has a reasonable basis to know that
the production level will significantly change within the next calendar month.
Any industrial user not notifying the City of such anticipated change will be
required to meet the mass or concentration limits in its control mechanism that
were based on the original estimate of the long-term average production rate.
   (E)   Pretreatment And Monitoring Facilities:
      1.   Treatment Required: An industrial user shall provide wastewater
treatment required to comply with these regulations and shall achieve
compliance with all applicable Federal, State and local pretreatment standards
and requirements within the time limitations specified by the EPA, the Idaho
Department of Environmental Quality, or the City, whichever is more stringent.
Any pretreatment facilities necessary for compliance with these regulations
shall be provided, operated and maintained at the industrial user's expense and
satisfy applicable requirements established by the City Building Codes. Unless
waived by the City, such reports shall be prepared under the supervision of,
and bear the seal of, a professional licensed engineer and submitted to the
City for review. The review and acceptance of the engineering report, plans,
specifications and operation and maintenance manual, shall in no way relieve
the industrial user from its obligation to comply with the provisions of these
regulations, including modification of its pretreatment facility as necessary
to produce a discharge that complies with the IU's permit and these
regulations.
      2.   Proper Operation And Maintenance: The industrial user shall at all
times properly operate and maintain all facilities and systems of treatment and
control (and related appurtenances) by qualified personnel which are installed
or used by the industrial user. This provision requires the operation of back-
up or auxiliary facilities or similar systems which are installed by an
industrial user when the operation is necessary to achieve or assure compliance
with conditions of the industrial wastewater discharge permit. Calibration of
meters and monitoring equipment shall be performed as required by
manufacturer's specification or the City.
      3.   Monitoring Facilities: The City may require an industrial user to
install at the industrial user's expense, suitable monitoring facilities or
equipment that allows for the representative sampling and accurate observation
of wastewater discharges. Whether constructed on public or private property,
the monitoring facilities shall be constructed in accordance with the City's
requirements and all applicable construction standards and specifications.
Monitoring equipment and structures shall be maintained in proper working
order, calibrated as required by manufacturer's recommendations and kept safe
and accessible at all times to City personnel. The monitoring equipment shall
be located and maintained on the industrial user's premises outside of the
building unless otherwise approved by the City. The monitoring facility shall
be provided with an enclosure that can be locked during sampling with a lock
provided by the City. When such a location would be impractical, the City may
allow such facility to be constructed in the public street or easement area,
with the approval of the City department or other agency having jurisdiction
over such street or easement and located so that it will not be obstructed by
public utilities, landscaping or parked vehicles. No industrial user shall
cover any manhole, sewer cleanout, or other openings in the wastewater
collection system with earth, paving, or otherwise render it inaccessible.
      4.   Wastewater Discharge Control: The City may require an industrial
user to restrict discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specified sewers, relocate and/or
consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial
wastestreams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW
and demonstrate the industrial user's compliance with the requirements of these
regulations.
      5.   Flow Equalization: The City may require any industrial user
discharging into the POTW to install and maintain, on their property and at
their expense, a suitable storage and flow- control facility to ensure
equalization of flow. An industrial wastewater discharge permit may be issued
solely for flow equalization.
      6.   Multitenant Buildings: When more than one industrial user is able to
discharge into a common service line, the City may require installation of
separate monitoring equipment or structures for each industrial user.
      7.   Safety And Access: There shall be unobstructed, safe, and easy
access to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling, and associated equipment shall be maintained at all times
in a safe and proper operating condition by the user.
      8.   Flow, pH, LEL And Other Meters And Equipment: If the City determines
an industrial user is required to measure and report: a) wastewater flow, b)
discharge process wastewaters necessitating continuous pH measurement or c)
discharge wastewater that may contain flammable substances or other pollutants
of concern, the City may require the industrial user to install and maintain,
at the industrial user's expense, approved meters and equipment.
      9.   Tampering With Metering Devices Prohibited: No person shall install,
change, bypass, adjust, remove, alter, or otherwise tamper with any metering
device or any piping arrangement connected to a metering device to show the
quantity of water used at or discharged from the facility is different than the
actual quantity used or discharged.
   (F)   Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permitting:
      1.   Permits Required: All significant industrial users proposing to
connect to or discharge wastewater into the POTW shall apply for and obtain an
industrial wastewater discharge permit from the City. An existing significant
industrial user that has filed a timely wastewater permit application in
accordance with these regulations may continue to discharge if authorized by
the City.
      2.   New Industrial Users; Applying For An Industrial Wastewater
Discharge Permit: Any industrial user required to obtain an industrial
wastewater discharge permit who proposes to begin or recommence discharging
into the POTW must apply for and obtain such permit prior to the beginning or
recommencing of such discharge. The industrial user shall file a permit
application on forms provided by the City containing the information specified
in subsection (F)6 of this section. The completed application for the
industrial wastewater discharge permit must be filed at least ninety (90) days
prior to the date upon which any discharge will begin or recommence. A permit
application containing incomplete or inaccurate information will not be
processed and will be returned to the industrial user. The City may issue a
permit at any time after receipt of the completed permit application.
      3.   Existing Industrial Users; Applying For An Industrial Wastewater
Discharge Permit Re-Issuance: An industrial user with an expiring industrial
wastewater discharge permit shall apply for a new permit by submitting a
complete permit application at least ninety (90) days prior to the expiration
of the industrial user's existing discharge permit. The industrial user shall
file a permit application on forms provided by the City containing the
information specified in subsection (F)6 of this section. A permit application
containing incomplete or inaccurate information will not be processed and will
be returned to the industrial user.
      4.   Other Industrial Users: The City may require other industrial users
to apply for and obtain a permit or other control mechanism to carry out the
purposes of these regulations. The City may issue an industrial wastewater
discharge permit, a permit requiring zero (0) discharge of pollutants or
wastestreams or other control mechanism, including, but not limited to,
authorizations to discharge and letters authorizing discharge, etc., as needed.
      5.   Enforceability: Any violation of the terms and conditions of an
industrial wastewater discharge permit, failure to apply for an industrial
wastewater discharge permit or discharging without an industrial wastewater
discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of these regulations and subjects
the industrial user to enforcement by the City. Obtaining an industrial
wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a permittee of its obligation to
comply with all State and Federal Pretreatment Standards or Requirements.
      6.   Permit Application Contents:
         a.    Name of business, address of the facility, location of the
discharge if different from the facility address, and contact information for
the owner, operator and the authorized representative of the industrial user.
         b.    Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility.
         c.    Description of operations.
            (1)    A brief description of the nature, average and maximum rate
of production (including each product produced by type, amount, processes, and
rate of production);
            (2)    The Standard Industrial Classification(s) (SIC Code) and/or
NAICS Code of the operation(s) carried out by such industrial user;
            (3)    A schematic process diagram showing each process step,
wastestream, treatment step, internal recycling process, and points of
discharge to the POTW. This diagram shall identify which wastestreams are
subject to a Categorical Pretreatment Standard, if applicable. The industrial
user shall also submit site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans
and details showing all sewers, sewer connections, floor drains, inspection
manholes, and sampling chambers by size, location, and elevation;
            (4)    A listing of all non-domestic process streams and the type
(s) of wastes generated from each process;
            (5)    A list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at
the facility;
            (6)    Number of employees; and
            (7)    Hours of operation.
         d.    Time and duration of discharges including the date the
industrial user first began discharge or plans to discharge to the POTW.
         e.    The location for sampling the wastewater discharges from the
industrial user.
         f.    Flow measurement. Information showing the average daily and
maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in 40 CFR section 403.6(e). For new sources and new
permittees not currently discharging, an estimate of flows may be used for
meeting the requirements of the Baseline Monitoring Report required in
subsection (M)2 of this section.
         g.    Measurement of pollutants.
            (1)    The Categorical Pretreatment Standards applicable to each
regulated process;
            (2)    The local limits adopted by the City as specified in
subsection (C)4 of this section;
            (3)    The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature
and concentration (or mass) of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each
regulated process where required by the standard or by the City;
            (4)    Instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average
concentrations, or mass, where required;
            (5)    The sample shall be representative of daily operations and
shall be collected and analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in
subsection (L) of this section. Where an alternate concentration or mass limit
has been calculated in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6(e) for a categorical user
covered by a Categorical Pretreatment Standard, this adjusted limit, along with
supporting data, shall be submitted as part of the application; and
            (6)    Where the standard requires compliance with a BMP or
pollution prevention alternative, the industrial user shall submit
documentation as required by the City or the applicable standard to determine
compliance with the standard.
         h.    A list of hazardous waste(s) generated and a description of the
storage area and procedures for handling and disposal of the wastes.
         i.    Slug Discharge Control Plan for significant industrial users as
described in subsection (M)5 of this section shall be submitted and as required
by the City Manager for other industrial users.
         j.    Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or operation
and maintenance (O&M) will be required to meet the Pretreatment Standards, the
shortest schedule by which the industrial user will provide such additional
pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable Pretreatment
Standard.
            The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
            (1)    The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the
form of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to
the construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the
industrial user to meet the applicable Pretreatment Standards (e.g., hiring an
engineer, completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing
contract for major components, commencing construction, completing
construction, etc.). No such increment shall exceed nine (9) months.
            (2)    Not later than fourteen (14) days following each date in the
schedule and the final date for compliance, the industrial user shall submit a
progress report to the City Manager including, as a minimum, whether or not it
complied with the increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the
date on which it expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason
for delay, and the steps being taken by the industrial user to return the
construction to the schedule established. In no event shall more than nine (9)
months elapse between such progress reports to the City Manager.
         k.    Certification. A statement, reviewed by the authorized
representative of the industrial user and certified by a qualified
professional, indicating whether Pretreatment Standards are being met on a
consistent basis, and, if not, whether additional operation and maintenance
(O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the industrial user to
meet the Pretreatment Standards and Requirements.
         l.    Signatory certification. All industrial wastewater discharge
permit applications and certification statements must be signed by the
authorized representative of the industrial user and contain the applicable
certification statement(s) in subsection (M)8 of this section.
         m.    Any other information as may be deemed by the City Manager to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
      7.   Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance:
         a.    Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to
exceed five (5) years. A permit may be issued for a period of less than five
(5) years at the City's discretion or may be stated to expire on a specific
date.
         b.    Where the City is issuing a permit containing a permit specific
Pretreatment Standard or Requirement not otherwise contained in these
regulations, the Pretreatment Standard or Requirement shall be noticed for
public comment for thirty (30) days in a newspaper of general circulation that
provides meaningful public notice or processed through the City Council
approval process.
         c.    The City shall issue an industrial wastewater discharge permit
to the applicant if the City finds that all of the following conditions are
met:
            (1)    The applicant has provided a timely and complete permit
application to the City;
            (2)    The proposed discharge by the applicant is in compliance
with the Pretreatment Standards and Requirements established in these
regulations;
            (3)    The proposed operation and discharge of the applicant would
permit the normal and efficient operation of the POTW; and
            (4)    The proposed discharge by the applicant would not result in
a violation by the City of the terms and conditions of its NPDES permit or
cause pass through or interference.
         d.    If the City finds that the condition set out in subsection (F)7c
(2) of this section is not met, the City may, at their discretion, issue an
industrial wastewater discharge permit to the applicant if the conditions set
out in subsections (F)7c(1), (F)7c(3) and (F)7c(4) of this section have been
met and if the applicant submits, and the City approves, a compliance schedule
setting out the measures to be taken by the applicant and the dates that such
measures will be implemented to insure compliance with applicable Pretreatment
Standards and Requirements. At no time shall a discharge be allowed to cause a
violation of any general or specific prohibitions established in subsection (C)
of this section nor shall the final compliance date for a Categorical
Pretreatment Standard be extended.
      8.   Administrative Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit Appeals:
         a.    Any industrial user may file an appeal to reconsider the terms
of an industrial wastewater discharge permit or appeal a decision by the City
to deny issuing an industrial wastewater discharge permit. Failure to submit a
timely petition for review shall be deemed to be a waiver of the administrative
appeal. The effectiveness of the wastewater discharge permit shall not be
stayed pending the appeal.
         b.    An industrial user must file a written appeal request to the
City Manager to reconsider a permitting action or decision by the City within
fifteen (15) days of such City action. The industrial user shall set forth in
detail the facts that support the industrial user's request for
reconsideration. Such facts must include a statement that sets forth any newly
discovered relevant fact that was not known or was unavailable to the
industrial user at the time of the City action. The City Manager shall render a
written decision with respect to such request for reconsideration within sixty
(60) days after receipt of the industrial user written appeal.
      9.   Temporary Industrial Wastewater Discharge Authorization: A temporary
Industrial Wastewater Discharge Authorization may be required of an industrial
user who is not a significant industrial user and is seeking to discharge
wastewater to the POTW. The industrial user shall be required to complete an
application for discharge authorization as prescribed by the City Manager. No
discharge shall be made until such time as the City authorizes the discharge.
      10.   Transferability:
         a.    An industrial wastewater discharge permit is issued to a
specific industrial user for a specific operation. An industrial wastewater
discharge permit shall not be reassigned or transferred or sold to a new owner,
new industrial user, different premises, or a new or changed operation without
the prior written approval of the City. Failure to provide advance notice of a
transfer renders the industrial wastewater discharge permit void as of the date
of facility transfer and discharge of wastewater prohibited.
         b.    Duly authorized representatives of the existing industrial user
and the new owner of the industrial user shall jointly or separately submit a
written request to the City at least thirty (30) days prior to the sale or
transfer of ownership which:
            (1)    States that there shall be no changes to the facility's
operations and processes unless a permit application has been submitted by the
new duly authorized representative of the industrial user;
            (2)    Identifies the specific date on which the facility transfer
will occur;
            (3)    Identifies the legal name and trade name, if any, of the new
industrial user and the address of its corporate offices;
            (4)    Identifies the contact information of the new facility's
duly authorized representative, the mailing address at which such
representative may receive notice(s) from the City, and the name and contact
information for the facility manager, if different than the duly authorized
representative of the industrial user;
            (5)    Acknowledge and agree that:
   A.    The new owner or operator has received a copy of the industrial
wastewater discharge permit and has a legal, valid and binding obligation to
comply with all requirements of the transferred industrial wastewater discharge
permit;
   B.    Such transfer is within the power and authority of the existing
permittee and the new owner or operator without the joinder or consent of any
other party and has been authorized by all requisite corporate or partnership
action on the part of the permittee and new owner or operator;
   C.    Neither the transfer nor the City's approval of the transfer shall in
any respect relieve the permittee any obligation or liability occurring prior
to the transfer of or responsibility for acts or omissions occurring prior to
the transfer, known or unknown;
   D.    The City waives none of its rights with respect to the permittee's or
the new owner's or operator's compliance with the terms and conditions of the
industrial wastewater discharge permit;
   E.    The City grants its approval of the transfer in reliance upon the
representations, documents, and information provided by the permittee and new
owner or operator in connection with the request for transfer; and
   F.    That the approval of the transfer shall not in any way be deemed a
representation by the City that the permittee or new owner or operator are in
full compliance with the terms and conditions of the permit.
      11.   Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit Conditions:
         a.    Industrial wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly
subject to all provisions of these regulations and all other applicable
regulations, user charges and fees established by the City.
         b.    Industrial wastewater discharge permits shall contain the
following:
            (1)    A statement that indicates the permit's issuance date,
expiration date and effective date;
            (2)    The legal name and trade name, if any, of the user and the
address of its corporate offices and a requirement to notify the City at least
thirty (30) days prior of a change to the legal name of the permittee;
            (3)    The name and contact information of the duly authorized
representative of the industrial user, the mailing address at which such
representative may receive notice(s) from the City, and the name and contact
information for the facility manager, if different than the duly authorized
representative;
            (4)    A statement on permit transferability;
            (5)    Effluent limits, including Best Management Practices, based
upon applicable Pretreatment Standards and information submitted by the
permittee or identified by the City;
            (6)    Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and
record-keeping requirements including, but not limited to, identification of
the pollutants or BMPs to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency
and sample type, 24-hour notice of non-compliance and other applicable
Pretreatment Requirements based on Federal, State and local law;
            (7)    Statements of applicable enforcement remedies and
administrative, civil and criminal penalties for the violation of Pretreatment
Standards and Requirements, the permit, these regulations, and any applicable
compliance schedule;
            (8)    Requirements to immediately notify the City of any changes
at its facility affecting potential for a slug discharge and for the industrial
user to immediately report any slug discharges, spills or accidental
discharges, including any discharges that may cause problems at the POTW; and
            (9)    Reapplication requirements.
         c.    Permits may also include, as appropriate:
            (1)    Applicable schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged into a public sewer;
            (2)    Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow equalization;
            (3)    Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection
and sampling facilities and equipment;
            (4)    Best Management Practices (BMPs) to control specific
pollutants as necessary to meet the objectives of these regulations;
            (5)    Compliance schedules;
            (6)    Requirements to reapply for a new permit prior to expiration
of the existing permit;
            (7)    Requirements for the installation of pretreatment
technology, pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment
devices, designed to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of
pollutants into the treatment works;
            (8)    Requirements to develop and implement waste minimization
plans to reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
            (9)    Closure requirements for permitted facilities undergoing
partial or complete closure activities to ensure closure activities are
completed and wastes have been properly disposed and remaining access to
sanitary and storm sewers are protected;
            (10)    Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the City Manager
to ensure compliance with all applicable local, State and Federal rules and
regulations.
      12.   Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit Modification:
         a.    The notification of an industrial wastewater discharge permit
modification does not stay any wastewater discharge permit condition. The City
may modify an industrial wastewater discharge permit for good cause, including,
but not limited to, the following reasons:
            (1)    To incorporate any new or revised Federal, State, or local
Pretreatment Standards or Requirements or to reflect changes in applicable
State or Federal standards;
            (2)    To address significant alterations or additions to the
industrial user's operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since
the time of the industrial wastewater discharge permit issuance;
            (3)    A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or
permanent reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
            (4)    Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a
threat to the POTW, City personnel, or the receiving waters;
            (5)    Violation of any terms or conditions of the industrial
wastewater discharge permit;
            (6)    Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant
facts in the industrial wastewater discharge permit application or in any
required reporting;
            (7)    To reflect a change in the legal name of the permittee,
transfer of the facility ownership and/or operation to a new owner/operator;
            (8)    When there is a revision of, or a variance is granted from,
Categorical Pretreatment Standards;
            (9)    To correct typographical or other errors in the industrial
wastewater discharge permit; or
            (10)    Upon request of the permittee, provided such request does
not result in a violation of any applicable Pretreatment Standards or
Requirements, or these regulations.
         b.    The industrial user shall file a written request for a
modification of an industrial wastewater discharge permit whenever there has
been a change in the legal name or trade name of the user or a change in the
name or mailing address of the duly authorized representative of the industrial
user. The request shall be submitted to the City as soon as practicable but no
later than thirty (30) days following implementation of the change. A permit
will be non-transferable and subject to revocation if such request is not filed
in the timeframe required.
      13.   Revocation Of Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit And
Authorization To Discharge: A violation of the conditions of an industrial
wastewater discharge permit, other control mechanisms, authorization to
discharge, these regulations or of applicable State or Federal regulations
shall be reason for revocation of an industrial user's permission to discharge.
Upon revocation of the permit or authorization, any wastewater discharge from
the affected industrial user shall be considered prohibited and discharge of
such wastewater in violation of these regulations. Grounds for revocation of a
permit include, but are not limited to, the following:
         a.    Failure of an industrial user to accurately disclose or report
the wastewater constituents and characteristics of any discharge;
         b.    Failure of the industrial user to report significant changes in
operations or wastewater constituents and characteristics as required;
         c.    Refusal of timely access entry to the industrial user's premises
for the purpose of inspection or monitoring;
         d.    Falsification of records, reports or monitoring results;
         e.    Tampering with monitoring methods or equipment;
         f.    Failure to submit, misrepresentation or failure to fully
disclose all relevant facts in the industrial wastewater discharge permit
application;
         g.    Failure to pay fines or penalties;
         h.    Failure to pay sewer charges, surcharges, or pretreatment
programs fees;
         i.    Failure to meet compliance schedules;
         j.    Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility;
         k.    Failure to provide required reports, including but not limited
to, a wastewater survey, baseline monitoring report, 90-day compliance report,
permit application, self-monitoring report or other permit required reports or
notifications within the timeframe required by the City;
         l.    Invoking of the City's emergency authority as cited in
subsection (O)3 of this section;
         m.    Closure of the facility or failure of the industrial user to
commence discharge within one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective
date of the industrial wastewater discharge permit; or
         n.    Violation of any Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, or any
terms of the industrial wastewater discharge permit or these regulations.
   (G)   Special Agreements And Contracts: No statement contained in these
regulations shall be construed as prohibiting special written agreements
between the City and any industrial user allowing industrial waste or
wastewater of unusual strength or character to be discharged to the POTW,
provided said industrial user compensates the City for any additional costs of
treatment. Such agreement, however, shall not allow or cause:
      1.   Any adverse effect to the POTW;
      2.   A violation of the POTW NPDES permit;
      3.   A violation of a general or specific prohibition;
      4.   A maximum allowable industrial load (MAIL) to be exceeded;
      5.   A violation of State or Federal law or regulation; or
      6.   Provide any waiver to applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standard.
Application for a special approved discharge authorization shall be submitted
at least ninety (90) days prior to the requested discharge date. The fees for a
special approved discharge, which are established by the City shall be based on
the quantity and strength of the wastewater discharged.
   (H)   Right Of Entry:
      1.   Ready Access: Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes of
these regulations, the City may enter upon any industrial user's facility,
property, or premises and shall have ready access to all parts of the premises
subject to these regulations for the purposes of:
         a.    Performing all inspection, surveillance and monitoring
procedures necessary to determine, independent of information supplied by
industrial users, compliance or noncompliance with applicable Pretreatment
Standards and Requirements by an industrial user. Compliance monitoring and
inspection shall be conducted at a frequency as determined by the City and may
be announced or unannounced;
         b.    Setting up on the industrial user's property, or require
installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling and/or
metering of the industrial user's operations;
         c.   Examining and copying any records required to be kept under the
provisions of these regulations or of any other local, State or Federal
regulation;
         d.    The City may use a camera to photograph any areas of the
facility as deemed necessary for carrying out the duties of the industrial
pretreatment program including, but not limited to, documentation of the
industrial user's compliance status and for reinforcement of required written
reports. The industrial user shall be allowed to review copies of photographs
for trade secret claims;
         e.    Inspecting any monitoring equipment or method, pretreatment
system equipment and/or operation;
         f.    Sampling any discharge of wastewater into POTW; and/or
         g.    Inspecting any production, manufacturing, fabricating or storage
area where pollutants, regulated under these regulations, could originate, be
stored, or be discharged to the POTW.
      2.   Proper Assistance Provided: The occupant of such property or
premises shall render all proper assistance in such activities. Where an
industrial user has security measures in place which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the industrial
user shall make necessary arrangements with its security personnel so that
authorized representatives of the City will be permitted to enter without delay
to perform their specified functions.
      3.   Private Property: The City Manager and other duly authorized agents
and employees of the City are entitled to enter all private properties through
which the City or any connecting jurisdiction holds an easement or similar
access or occupancy right.
      4.   Failure To Allow Entry Or Unreasonable Delays: In the event the City
or other duly authorized representative of the City is refused admission or
unreasonably delayed, such refusal or delay is a violation of these regulations
and may result in enforcement action as allowed for under these regulations
including revocation of the industrial wastewater discharge permit.
      5.   Obstructions: Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and
easy access to the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly
removed by the industrial user at the written or verbal request of the City
Manager and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be
borne by the industrial user.
      6.   Search Warrants: If the City has been refused access to a building,
structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of these regulations or
that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection
and sampling program of the City designed to verify compliance with these
regulations or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety and welfare of the community, the City Manager may seek
issuance of a search warrant from the Cassia County Court or another court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (I)   Regulation Of Industrial Users From Outside Jurisdictions:
      1.   Discharge To City's POTW: The City may allow an industrial user
located outside the City's jurisdictional boundary to discharge industrial
wastewater into the City's POTW if the City determines that it has available
capacity, treatment capability and the legal authority to regulate and control
such discharges. The City shall enter into a Pretreatment Interlocal Agreement
(PIA) with the contributing jurisdiction where the industrial user is located.
Such agreement shall affix responsibilities in an enforceable manner to assure
that the City's Pretreatment Program is fully administered and enforced in all
contributing jurisdictions and to ensure that the City has adequate legal
authority to oversee implementation and enforcement of the jurisdiction,
including over-filing where timely and appropriate enforcement has not been
taken. The City also requires that the jurisdiction adopts adequate legal
authority to assure that emergency termination of a non-complying industrial
user discharge can be made. If the contributing jurisdiction is an approved
pretreatment program, the PIA shall specifically define the distribution of
responsibility between the City and jurisdiction to ensure that the City's
approved Pretreatment Program is fully implemented and enforced as required by
the City's NPDES permit.
      2.   Information From Outside Jurisdiction: Prior to entering into the
Pretreatment PIA, the City shall obtain the following information from the
contributing jurisdiction:
         a.    A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged
to the POTW by the contributing jurisdiction;
         b.    An inventory of all industrial users located within the
contributing jurisdiction that are discharging to the POTW through the
jurisdiction;
         c.    A requirement that the contributing jurisdiction provide the
City with access to all information that the contributing jurisdiction obtains
regarding effluent quantity and quality from non-domestic users; and
         d.    Other requirements as necessary for the City to guarantee the
effective administration and enforcement of the Pretreatment Program.
      3.   PIA Provisions: A Pretreatment PIA under this section shall, at a
minimum, contain the following provisions:
         a.    A requirement for a contributing jurisdiction to adopt a Sewer
Use or Pretreatment Ordinance which establishes pretreatment standards and
requirements at least as stringent as these regulations, along with a
requirement to revise such ordinance to reflect any changes to these
regulations the City adopts in the future within a reasonable time frame, but
not to exceed nine (9) months. Alternatively, the jurisdiction may adopt a
Sewer Use Code that delegates all authority to the City to implement and
enforce the pretreatment program for industrial users located within the
jurisdiction and meeting the definition of an industrial user;
         b.    A requirement for the contributing jurisdiction to submit a
revised user inventory on an annual basis, or more frequently if requested by
the City;
         c.    A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including, but not limited to, issuing industrial wastewater
discharge permits, conducting compliance inspections, sampling, and enforcement
will be conducted by the contributing jurisdiction and which activities will be
conducted by the City;
         d.    A requirement for the contributing jurisdiction to provide the
City with access to all information that the contributing jurisdiction obtains
as part of its pretreatment activities;
         e.    A requirement to enforce limits on the nature, quality, and
volume of the contributing jurisdiction's wastewater at the point where it
discharges to the POTW;
         f.    A provision ensuring the City's access to the facilities of all
industrial users within the contributing jurisdiction for inspection, sampling,
and to confirm that the City's pretreatment program is properly administered
and that industrial users are properly categorized; and
         g.    Provisions for addressing any breach of the terms of the
pretreatment interlocal agreement.
      4.   Existing Pretreatment PIAs: Existing pretreatment interlocal
agreements that are not in compliance with the provisions of this section,
shall be amended to conform, or shall be superseded by a pretreatment PIA that
conforms, to the requirements of this section within a reasonable time frame,
but not to exceed nine (9) months following the effective date of these
regulations.
      5.   Industrial Users In Outside Jurisdictions With No PIA In- Place:
Until such time as the City and a jurisdiction enter into a PIA for
pretreatment program delegation, the City shall have the option to exercise any
of the following options:
         a.    Prohibit the discharge of non-domestic wastewater from an
industrial user located in another jurisdiction.
         b.    Request the jurisdiction to issue a permit or order to the
industrial user that is equivalent to the industrial wastewater discharge
permit that includes all Pretreatment Standards and Requirements as required by
the City.
         c.    Enter into a contract with the industrial user that binds the
industrial user to compliance with all Pretreatment Standards and Requirements
in an industrial wastewater discharge permit issued by the City to the
industrial user.
   (J)   Recordkeeping:
      1.   In addition to any recordkeeping requirements set forth in an
industrial wastewater discharge permit or other control mechanism, all
industrial users subject to the reporting requirements of these regulations
shall retain and make available for inspection and copying, all records,
reports, monitoring, calibration logs or other data, applications, permits and
all other information and documentation required by these regulations,
including documentation associated with Best Management Practices.
      2.   Industrial users shall retain such records and shall keep such
records available for inspection for at least three (3) years. This
recordkeeping period shall be extended automatically for the duration of any
litigation concerning the industrial user's compliance with any provision of
these regulations, or when the industrial user has been specifically and
expressly notified of a longer records retention period by the City Manager.
      3.   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the U.S. Postal Service, the date of receipt of the report
by the City shall govern.
   (K)   Confidentiality:
      1.   All records, reports, data or other information supplied by any
person or industrial user because of any disclosure required by these
regulations or information and data from inspections shall be available for
public inspection except as otherwise provided in this section, 40 CFR section
403.14 and the Idaho Open Records Code, title 74, chapter 1.
      2.   These provisions shall not be applicable to any information
designated as a trade secret by the person supplying such information.
Materials designated as a trade secret may include, but shall not be limited
to, processes, operations, style of work or apparatus or confidential
commercial or statistical data. Any information and data submitted by the
industrial user which is desired to be considered a trade secret shall have the
words, "Confidential Business Information", stamped in a reasonably noticeable
manner on each page containing such information. The industrial user must
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City that the release of such
information would divulge information, processes or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets of the industrial user.
      3.   Information designated as a trade secret pursuant to this section
shall remain confidential and shall not be subject to public inspection. Such
information shall be available only to officers, employees or authorized
representatives of the City charged with implementing and enforcing the
provisions of these regulations and properly identified representatives of the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the Idaho Department of Environmental
Quality.
      4.   Effluent data from any industrial user whether obtained by self-
monitoring, monitoring by the City or monitoring by any State or Federal
agency, shall not be considered a trade secret or otherwise confidential. All
such effluent data shall be available for public inspection.
   (L)   Sample Collection And Analytical Methods:
      1.   Sample Collection: Compliance determinations with respect to
prohibitions and limitations in these regulations may be made based on either
grab or composite samples of wastewater as specified by the City. Such samples
shall be taken at a point or points which the City determines to be suitable
for obtaining a representative sample of the discharge. Composite samples may
be taken over a twenty four (24) hour period, or over a longer or shorter time
span, as determined by the City to meet specific circumstances.
      2.   Sample Type: Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements
must be based on data obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis
performed during the period covered by the report and based on data that is
representative of conditions occurring during the reporting period.
         a.    Except as indicated in subsections (L)2b and (L)2c of this
section, the industrial user must collect representative wastewater samples
using twenty four (24) hour flow proportional composite sampling techniques,
unless time-proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is required by the
City. Where time- proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is
authorized by the City, the samples must be representative of the permitted
discharge. Composite and grab samples are defined in subsection (B)1 of this
section.
         b.    Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total
phenols, sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab
collection techniques. Using protocols (including appropriate preservation)
specified in 40 CFR part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab
samples collected during a twenty four (24) hour period may be composited prior
to the analysis as follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the
samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile
organics and oil and grease, the samples may be composited in the laboratory.
Composited samples for other parameters unaffected by the compositing
procedures as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by the
City, as appropriate. In addition, grab samples may be required to show
compliance with instantaneous discharge limits, including pH.
         c.    For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-
day compliance reports required in subsection (M)2 of this section, a minimum
of four (4) grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and
grease, sulfide, and volatile organic compounds for facilities for which
historical representative sampling data do not exist. Where historical data are
available, the City may authorize a lower minimum. The industrial user is
required to collect the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure
compliance with applicable Pretreatment Standards and Requirements.
      3.   Analytical Requirements: All pollutant analysis, including sampling
techniques, to be submitted as part of an industrial wastewater discharge
permit application, report, permit or other analyses required under these
regulations shall be performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in
40 CFR part 136 and amendments thereto, unless otherwise specified in an
applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standard. If 40 CFR part 136 does not
contain sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, or
where the EPA determines that the part 136 sampling and analytical techniques
are inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses shall be
performed by using validated analytical methods or any other applicable
sampling and analytical procedures, including procedures suggested by the City
or other parties approved by the EPA.
      4.   Records: Records shall include for all samples:
         a.    The date, exact place, method, and time of sampling and the name
of the person(s) taking the samples;
         b.    The date(s) and time analyses were performed;
         c.    The name of the person performing the analyses;
         d.    The analytical techniques/methods used, including method
detection limits and QA/QC sample results;
         e.    All chain-of-custody records; and
         f.    The results of such analyses.
   (M)   Reporting And Notification Requirements:
      1.   Periodic Compliance Reports (PCR) - All Significant Industrial
Users:
         a.    Any significant industrial user that is subject to a Federal,
State, or City Pretreatment Standard or Requirement must submit reports, at a
frequency determined by the City but no less than once per six (6) months,
indicating the nature, concentration of pollutants in the discharge which are
limited by Pretreatment Standards, including reporting of mass where
applicable, and the average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
In cases where the Pretreatment Standard requires compliance with a Best
Management Practices (BMPs) or pollution prevention alternatives, the
industrial user must submit documentation required by the City or the
Pretreatment Standard necessary to determine compliance status of the
industrial user. All industrial monitoring reports must be signed and certified
in accordance with subsection (M)8 of this section.
         b.    The periodic compliance report shall include a record of the
nature and concentrations (and mass if specified in the user's industrial
wastewater discharge permit) of the pollutants in the effluent, subject to a
pretreatment standard, that were measured, including a record of measured or
estimated average and maximum daily flows taken at the user's designated
sampling location. Flows shall be reported based on an actual measurement,
unless the City allows a user to report average and maximum flows by verifiable
techniques when the City determines an actual measurement is not feasible.
         c.    The periodic compliance report shall also include any sampling
information required by the user's industrial wastewater discharge permit,
including information necessary to determine compliance with applicable Best
Management Practices, pollution prevention alternatives, maintenance,
treatment, and record keeping requirements. Production data shall be reported
if required by the user's industrial wastewater discharge permit, or when a
user is subject to a unit production-based concentration limit established by
an applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standard. Sampling and analysis that is
conducted by the user at the designated sampling location more frequently than
is required by this section shall be included in the report.
         d.    The City may require other industrial users to report other
monitoring, sampling and analysis as needed to determine compliance with these
regulations.
         e.    The City may agree to perform sampling and analysis in lieu of
the industrial user for certain pollutant parameters. If the City agrees to
perform such sampling and analysis, the City may charge the industrial user for
such activities based upon the costs incurred by the City for the sampling and
analyses, including personnel time. Any such charges shall be added to the
normal sewer use charges and shall be payable as part of the sewer bills. The
industrial user is responsible to assure that all monitoring required by the
industrial wastewater discharge permit is completed.
      2.   Baseline Monitoring Reports - Categorical Industrial Users:
         a.    Within either one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective
date of a Categorical Pretreatment Standard, or the final administrative
decision on a category determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is
later, existing industrial users currently discharging to or scheduled to
discharge to the POTW shall submit a report which contains the information
listed in subsection (M)2b of this section. At least ninety (90) days prior to
commencement of their discharge, new sources, and sources that become
categorical industrial users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable
Categorical Pretreatment Standard, shall submit to the City a report which
contains the information listed in subsection (M)2b of this section. A new
source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet
applicable pretreatment standards. A new source also shall give estimates of
its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged from regulated
process streams and other non- process streams.
         b.    Baseline monitoring reports shall include the following
information:
            (1)    All information required in subsection (F)6 of this section.
            (2)    Measurement of pollutants.
               (a)    The industrial user shall take a minimum of one
representative sample to compile the data necessary to comply with the
requirements of this paragraph;
               (b)    Samples shall be taken immediately downstream from
pretreatment facilities if such facilities exist or immediately downstream from
the regulated processes if no pretreatment facilities exist. Users shall
measure the flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula in 40 CFR section 403.6(e) if other wastewaters are mixed
with the regulated wastewater prior to pretreatment. Where an alternate
concentration or mass limit has been calculated in accordance with 40 CFR
section 403.6(e) this adjusted limit along with supporting data shall be
submitted to the City. Both daily maximum and average concentrations (where
determined) shall be reported;
               (c)    Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance
with the sampling techniques described in subsection (L) of this section and 40
CFR part 136;
               (d)    The City may allow the submission of a BMR report which
uses historical data only, provided the data is sufficient to determine the
need for industrial pretreatment measures;
               (e)    The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and
place of sampling, and the methods of analysis. Industrial users shall certify
that such sampling and analysis is representative of normal work cycles and
expected pollutant discharges to the POTW.
               (f)    All BMRs shall be signed and certified by the duly
authorized representative of the industrial user in accordance with subsection
(M)8 of this section.
      3.   90-Day Compliance Reports - Categorical Industrial Users:
         a.    New Sources: All new sources subject to existing Categorical
Pretreatment Standards shall submit a report to the City within ninety (90)
days from the date of first discharge to the POTW demonstrating actual and
continuing compliance with those standards.
         b.    Existing Sources: All existing sources required to comply with
newly promulgated Categorical Pretreatment Standards shall submit a report to
the City within ninety (90) days of the date on which compliance is required
with those standards demonstrating that actual and continuing compliance with
such standards has been achieved.
         c.    Report Content: Such 90-day Compliance Report shall contain:
            (1)    The information required in subsections (F)6f, (F)6g, (F)6k,
(F)6l, and (F)6m of this section;
            (2)    Any changes to the information previously reported in the
permit application;
            (3)    For industrial user's subject to equivalent mass or
concentration limits established by the City in accordance with the procedures
in 40 CFR section 403.6(c), this 90-Day Compliance Report shall contain a
reasonable measure of the industrial user's long-term production rate; and
            (4)    For industrial user's subject to Categorical Pretreatment
Standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), the 90-Day Compliance Report shall
include the industrial user's actual production during the appropriate sampling
period.
      4.   Twenty Four Hour Notice And Thirty-Day Re-Sampling: If sampling
performed by an industrial user indicates a violation of these regulations, the
industrial user shall notify the City within twenty four (24) hours of becoming
aware of the violation. The industrial user shall also repeat the sampling and
analysis and submit the results of the repeat analysis to the City within
thirty (30) days after becoming aware of the violation. The industrial user is
not required to resample if either of the following occurs:
         a.    The City performs sampling at the industrial user's facility at
a frequency of at least once per month.
         b.    The City performs sampling at the industrial user's facility
between the time when the industrial user performs its initial sampling and the
time when the industrial user receives the results of this sampling. It is the
sole responsibility of the industrial user to verify if the City has performed
this sampling.
      5.   Slug And Spill Discharges - Notification And Plan Development:
         a.    Protection From Spills And Discharges: Each industrial user
shall provide protection from spills and slug discharges of pollutants
regulated under these regulations. Facilities to prevent the discharge of
spills or slug discharges shall be provided and maintained at the industrial
user's expense.
         b.    Reporting Of Spills: Each significant industrial user shall
report all spills to the City that occur within the boundaries of the user's
facility whether or not the spill results in a discharge to the POTW.
         c.    City Evaluation: The City shall evaluate whether or not each
significant industrial user needs a Slug/Spill Control Plan or other action to
control spills and slug discharges. The City may require any industrial user to
develop, submit for approval, and implement a Slug/Spill Control Plan or take
such other action that may be necessary to control spills and slug discharges.
         d.    Control Plan: A Slug/Spill Control Plan shall address, at a
minimum, the following:
            (1)    Detailed plans (schematics) showing facility layout and
plumbing representative of operating procedures;
            (2)    Description of contents and volumes of any process tanks;
            (3)    Description of discharge practices, including non-routine
batch discharges;
            (4)    Listing of stored chemicals, including location and volumes;
            (5)    Procedures for immediately notifying the City of any spill
or slug discharge. It is the responsibility of the industrial user to comply
with the reporting requirements in this subsection (M)5 and subsection (M)6 of
this section;
            (6)    Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or
slug discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response; and
            (7)    Any other information as required by the City.
         e.    Notice To Employees: A notice shall be permanently posted on the
industrial user's bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees
who to call in the event of an accidental or slug discharge. Employers shall
ensure that all employees who work in any area where an accidental or slug
discharge may occur or originate are advised of the emergency notification
procedures.
      6.   Reports Of Potential Problems - Slug Discharges:
         a.    In the case of any slug discharge as defined in subsection (B)1
of this section, the industrial user shall immediately telephone and notify the
City of the incident. This notification shall include:
            (1)    Name of the facility;
            (2)    Location of the facility;
            (3)    Name of the caller;
            (4)    Date and time of discharge;
            (5)    Date and time discharge was halted;
            (6)    Location of the discharge;
            (7)    Estimated volume of discharge;
            (8)    Estimated concentration of pollutants in discharge;
            (9)    Corrective actions taken to halt the discharge;
            (10)    Method of disposal if applicable.
         b.   Within five (5) working days following such discharge, the
industrial user shall, unless waived by the City, submit a detailed written
report that includes all the information contained in subsection (M)6a of this
section and any other information describing the cause(s) of the discharge and
the measures to be taken by the industrial user to prevent similar future
occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the industrial user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which might be incurred because of
damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the industrial user of any fines,
penalties, or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to these
regulations.
         c.    The industrial user shall immediately contact the City when a
change occurs at its facility affecting the potential for a slug discharge. The
industrial user shall follow-up on this immediate notification with a written,
detailed report outlining the changes that were identified and how the
industrial user will prevent slug discharges to the POTW.
      7.   Reports For Other Industrial Users: If the City deems it necessary
to assure compliance with provisions of these regulations, any industrial user
of the POTW may be required to submit an industrial wastewater discharge permit
application, questionnaire, reports on BMP implementation, or other reports and
notifications in a format and timeframe as specified by the City.
      8.   Signatory Certification: All reports and other submittals required
to be submitted to the City shall include the following statement and signatory
requirements.
         a.    The authorized representative of the industrial user signing any
application, questionnaire, any report or other information required to be
submitted to the City must sign and attach the following certification
statement with each such report or information submitted to the City.
I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to ensure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system
or the persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of a fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.
         b.    If the authorized representative is no longer accurate because a
different individual or position has responsibility for the overall operation
of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental matters for the
company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of this subsection and
meeting the definition in subsection (B)1 of this section must be submitted to
the City prior to or together with any reports to be signed by an authorized
representative.
      9.   Compliance Schedules: Should any schedule of compliance be
established in accordance with the requirements of these regulations, the
compliance schedule shall be as specified in subsection (F)6j of this section.
      10.   Notification Of Change In Discharge Or Operations:
         a.    Change In Volume Or Character Of Pollutants: Every permitted
industrial user shall file a written notification with the City a minimum of
thirty (30) days prior to any significant change either in the volume or
character of pollutants in its discharge, or a change in any manufacturing
process or pretreatment modifications that may alter the volume or character of
pollutants in its wastewater discharge, including the listed or characteristic
hazardous wastes for which the user has submitted initial notification under 40
CFR 403.12(p). A significant change shall be a change equal to or greater than
twenty percent (20%) in the mass of a pollutant or volume of flow discharged to
the POTW. For purposes of this subsection, an industrial user becomes aware
when it knows, or reasonably should have known, of the facts giving rise to a
reporting obligation.
         b.    Change In Production Levels When Concentration Limits Imposed:
Industrial users with an industrial wastewater discharge permit that imposes
wastewater concentration limits based on production levels shall notify the
City in writing within two (2) days of when the industrial user becomes aware
that production levels will significantly change during the next calendar
month.
         c.    Information Submission For Evaluation: The City may require an
industrial user submit information needed to evaluate the changed discharge,
including submission of a new or revised industrial wastewater discharge permit
application. The City may issue, reissue, or modify a permittee's industrial
wastewater discharge permit in response to the notice under this subsection.
         d.    Known Or Anticipated Facility Closure: The industrial user is
required to notify the City at least thirty (30) days prior to facility
shutdown or closure which might alter the character, nature, quality, or volume
of its wastewater.
      11.   Notification Of The Discharge Of Hazardous Waste:
         a.    Any industrial user shall notify the City, in writing, of any
discharge into the POTW of a substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would
be hazardous waste under 40 CFR part 261 or Idaho Department of Environmental
Quality Rules and Standards for Hazardous Wastes, IDAPA 58.01.05. Such
notification to the City shall be made within the appropriate time frames
specified in subsections (M)4, (M)6 and (M)10 of this section or within twenty
four (24) hours of becoming aware of the discharge, whichever is shorter.
         Such notification must include:
            (1)    The name of the hazardous waste as set forth at 40 CFR part
261 and IDAPA 58.01.05;
            (2)    The EPA hazardous waste number;
            (3)    The type of discharge (continuous, batch, or other);
            (4)    An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in
the wastes;
            (5)    An estimation of the mass and concentration of such
constituents in the wastestream discharged during that calendar month;
            (6)    An estimation of the mass of constituents in the wastestream
expected to be discharged during the following twelve (12) months;
            (7)    Certification that the industrial user has a program in
place to reduce the volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the
degree it has determined to be economically practical; and
            (8)    Signatory certification as required by subsection (M)8 of
this section.
         b.    Any industrial user shall notify the EPA Regional Waste
Management Division Manager and the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality,
in writing, of the discharge into the POTW of a substance which, if otherwise
disposed of, would be hazardous waste under 40 CFR part 261 and/or IDAPA
58.01.05 and meets the reporting criteria specified at 40 CFR section 403.12
(p). Notification to the State and EPA is the responsibility of the industrial
user and shall be made as required under 40 CFR section 403.12(p). The
industrial user shall copy the City on all notifications made to the State and
EPA.
         c.    In the case of any new regulation under section 3001 of the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) identifying additional
characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional substance as
hazardous waste, the industrial user must notify the City, the EPA Regional
Waste Management Waste Division and Idaho Department of Environmental Quality
program of the discharge of such substance within ninety (90) days of the
effective date of such regulations.
         d.    This provision does not create a right to discharge any
substance not otherwise allowed to be discharged by these regulations, a permit
issued hereunder, or any applicable Federal or State law.
      12.   Requests For Information:
         a.    A permittee shall furnish to the City, within the timeframe set
by the City Manager, any information which the City may request to determine
whether cause exists for modifying, revoking, and reissuing, or terminating an
industrial wastewater discharge permit, or to determine compliance with the
industrial wastewater discharge permit or these regulations. A permittee shall
also, upon request, provide to the City, within the timeframe required by the
City Manager, copies of any records that are required by the industrial
wastewater discharge permit, discharge authorization or these regulations.
         b.    When requested by the City, any industrial user shall submit
information to the City Manager regarding industrial processes, nature and
characteristics of wastes and wastewaters generated at the industrial facility,
method of disposal of wastes, or other information required by the City Manager
to meet the responsibilities under these regulations, State law, and 40 CFR
part 403. Failure to provide information within the timeframe specified shall
be a violation of these regulations.
   (N)   Sector Control Programs:
      1.   General Requirements:
         a.    Authority: The City may establish specific sector control
programs for industrial users to control specific pollutants as necessary to
meet the objectives of these regulations. Pollutants subject to these sector
control programs shall generally be controlled using Best Management Practices
(BMPs).
         The City may implement these Sector Control Programs through an
industrial wastewater discharge permit, by letter, an authorization to
discharge, or other control mechanisms or by directly enforcing these
regulations. All industrial users that are covered by these Sector Control
Programs shall comply with this section, whether specifically notified by the
City to do so.
         b.    Notification To The City By The Industrial User And Management
Review: The City shall review new construction and existing facilities
undergoing any physical change, change in ownership, change in operations, or
other change that could change the nature, properties, or volume of wastewater
discharge, to ensure that current sector control program requirements are
incorporated and implemented.
         The industrial user shall inform the City prior to:
            (1)    Sale or transfer of ownership of the business; or
            (2)    Change in the trade name under which the business is
operated; or
            (3)    Change in the nature of the services provided that affect
the potential to discharge sector control program pollutants; or
            (4)    Remodeling of the facility that may result in an increase in
flow or pollutant loading or that otherwise requires the facility to submit
plans or specifications for approval through a building or zoning department,
or any other formal approval process of a city, county or other jurisdiction.
         c.    Inspections:
            (1)    The City may conduct inspections of any facility with or
without notice for determining applicability and/or compliance with these
Sector Control Programs.
            (2)    If any inspection reveals non-compliance with any provision
of a sector control program requirement, corrective action shall be required.
            (3)    Inspection results will be provided in writing to the
facility upon request.
         d.    Closure: The City may require closure of plumbing, treatment
devices, storage components, containments, or other such physical structures
that are no longer required for their intended purpose. Closure may include the
removal of equipment, the filling in and/or cementing, capping, plugging, etc.
         e.    Enforcement And Compliance:
            (1)    These Sector Control Program requirements form a part of
these regulations. Enforcement of this regulation is governed by the express
terms in these regulations.
            (2)    Any extraordinary costs incurred by the City due to
interference, damage, pass through, or maintenance necessary in the treatment
and/or collection system shall be paid by the industrial user to the City. The
direct costs of all labor, equipment and materials incurred in rectifying the
interference or damage, including reasonable attorney's fees, shall be billed
directly to the owner or the industrial user by the City, and such costs shall
become part of the total charges due and owing to the City and shall constitute
a lien on the industrial user until paid in full.
      2.   Best Management Practices For Fats, Oil And Grease (FOG) Facilities:
a. Definitions:
    FATS, OIL AND GREASE OR FOG: Means non-petroleum organic polar compounds
derived from animal or plant sources such as fats, non-hydrocarbons, fatty
acids, soaps, waxes, and oils that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride
molecules. These substances are detectable and measurable using the approved
method for hexane extractable materials in the analytical procedures
established in 40 CFR part 136.
   GRAVITY GREASE INTERCEPTOR OR GGI: Is an in-ground tank containing at least
one baffle in which solids, greases and oils are separated from wastewater,
located outside the industrial user's building and made accessible by at least
two (2) manhole covers.
   GREASE TRAP OR HYDROMECHANICAL GREASE INTERCEPTOR OR HMGI: Is a small device
hooked directly to the outgoing drains of sinks located inside a commercial
food preparation facility that allows for the separation of fats, oils and
grease of a non-petroleum nature from wastewater prior to being discharged into
the POTW.
         b.    Applicability: These Best Management Practices (BMPs) establish
requirements for any facility the City Manager determines that has the
potential to discharge floatable or settleable material. The requirements
established in this BMP shall apply to facilities where preparation,
manufacturing, processing of food or washing/sanitizing of dishes or equipment
occurs. Included food establishments may include, but are not limited to,
restaurants, cafes, fast food outlets, pizza outlets, delicatessens, sandwich
shops, coffee shops, schools, nursing homes and other facilities that prepare,
service or otherwise make foodstuff available for consumption. Trucks
containing mobile kitchens shall discharge their grease containing wastewater
to a discharge point that has a grease interceptor installed such as a
commissary or as otherwise required by the City. These facilities shall install
and maintain a gravity grease interceptor (GGI) within ninety (90) days of
being notified of such requirement.
         c.    When GGI Required: No food service establishment covered by
subsection (N)2b of this section shall discharge or cause to be discharged any
wastewater containing free or floating oil and grease, or any discharge
containing animal fat or grease by- product in excess of two hundred milligrams
per liter (200 mg/L). Unless otherwise approved by the City Manager, a food
service establishment shall install and properly operate and maintain a gravity
grease interceptor, implement all required BMPs and not violate a general or
specific prohibition as specified in subsection (C) of this section.
         d.    Prior Installation Of GGI: A GGI that was legally and properly
installed at an industrial user's facility prior to the effective date of these
regulations shall be acceptable as an alternative if such device is effective
in removing floatable and settleable material and is designed and installed in
such a manner that it can be inspected and properly maintained. If the City
Manager determines at any time that such GGI is incapable of adequately
retaining the floatable and settleable material or if it was installed in such
a manner that it cannot be inspected and properly maintained, the industrial
user shall install a GGI that complies with all City codes within ninety (90)
days after being notified of such requirement.
         e.    Variance:
            (1)    A variance as to the requirements may be granted by the City
Manager for good cause. The facility has the burden of proof of demonstrating
through data and other information why a variance should be granted. In no case
shall a variance result in violation of any Pretreatment Standard or
Requirement specified in these regulations and applicable to the discharge. The
granting of any variance shall be at the sole discretion of the City Manager
and may be revoked at their discretion.
            (2)    If a variance is granted, the facility shall institute Best
Management Practices and other mitigation measures as specified by the City
Manager. These BMPs may include, but not be limited to:
   A.    Allow the installation of a hydromechanical grease interceptor (HMGI)
or continue to allow the use of an HMGI in lieu of installing a GGI, where the
HMGI is shown to be effective. If a HMGI is not shown to be effective, the City
Manager may require the industrial user to install a GGI.
   B.    All sinks and drains which are connected to the sanitary sewer shall
be equipped with a fixed or removable mesh or screen which shall catch garbage
and food debris and prevent it from entering the sewer system.
   C.    Food grinders are prohibited unless the industrial user installs and
properly operates a solids separator prior to discharge to the POTW.
   D.    Biological treatment or enzyme treatment shall not be used unless
approved by the City Manager. Use of enzymes or other chemical or biological
treatment or product that emulsifies or acts to emulsify FOG is prohibited.
   E.    An employee training program shall be instituted on a periodic basis
and for all new employees on FOG waste management.
   F.    Provide quarterly cleaning of its private service line to prevent the
buildup of oil, grease and solids or as otherwise specified by the City
Manager.
   G.    Submit records of the private service line cleaning as specified by
the City Manager.
   H.    Pay the costs incurred by the City or other jurisdiction for
accelerated sewer line cleaning on the sewer line providing service between the
facility and the POTW, costs to the City for treating the excess strength waste
and any costs for sampling and analysis.
         f.   General Control Requirements:
            (1)    A GGI shall be required for the proper handling of liquid
wastes which may be harmful to, or cause obstruction in the wastewater
collection system or cause or contribute to pass through or interference.
            (2)    It shall be the responsibility of the industrial user and/or
owner of the property to contact the City for obtaining necessary permits for
the installation of a grease removal device or any modifications to the
facility's plumbing. Written approval from the City must be obtained prior to
installation of the interceptor. The time of review and approval of such
permits shall in no way relieve the industrial user from the responsibility of
producing a discharge acceptable to the City under the provisions of these
regulations.
            (3)    The design and sizing of GGIs shall be in accordance with
applicable City Building Codes or the Building Codes that are in effect for the
FOG facility if located in another jurisdiction. The GGI shall be designed,
sized, installed, maintained and operated to accomplish the intended purpose of
intercepting pollutants from the industrial user's wastewater and preventing
the discharge of such pollutants to the City's wastewater collection system,
including pollutants that result in toxic, noxious or malodorous conditions
that create a public nuisance or unsafe working conditions, which endanger life
or the environment.
            (4)    Upon change of ownership of any existing facility which
would be required to have an interceptor under these regulations, the applicant
for sanitary sewer service shall have the burden to demonstrate that a properly
sized and functioning GGI is installed.
            (5)    All sinks which are connected to a GGI shall be equipped
with a fixed or removable mesh or screen which shall catch garbage and food
debris and prevent it from entering the GGI. Food grinders are prohibited
unless the industrial user installs and properly operates a solids separator
prior to the GGI.
            (6)    The industrial user must ensure interceptors are easily
accessible for inspection, cleaning, and removal of FOG.
            (7)    The industrial user must maintain interceptors at their
expense and keep in efficient operating condition at all times by the regular
removal of accumulated FOG.
            (8)    Each industrial user that is required to use and maintain a
GGI shall keep a record of every time the GGI is pumped, cleaned or repaired.
This record shall include the date, the name of the company that pumped or
cleaned the GGI and the amount of waste that was removed. Such records shall be
made available to the City Manager upon request. The removed contents from any
GGI shall be handled by a person licensed to haul such waste and shall be
disposed of in accordance with Federal, State and local regulations.
         g.    Required Maintenance:
            (1)    GGIs shall be maintained by regularly scheduled cleaning so
that they will properly operate as intended to efficiently intercept the fats,
oil and grease from the facility's wastewater and prevent the discharge of said
materials into the City's wastewater collection system. A GGI shall be serviced
at a minimum of every ninety (90) days, whenever the combined thickness of the
floating greases and settled solids is greater than twenty five percent (25%)
of the hydraulic working capacity of the GGI or if toxic, noxious, malodorous
conditions create a public nuisance or unsafe working conditions which endanger
health.
            (2)    The City may require more frequent cleaning than that
prescribed in subsection (N)2g(1) of this section. A variance from the
requirement in subsection (N)2g(1) of this section may be obtained if the
industrial user can demonstrate through analytical data that less frequent
cleaning is sufficient.
            (3)    Maintenance of grease interceptors shall be done in a
workman-like manner only by a business/professional normally engaged in the
servicing of such plumbing fixtures.
            (4)    In the event a GGI is not properly maintained by the
industrial user, owner, lessee, or other authorized representative of the
facility, the City may authorize such maintenance work be performed on behalf
of the industrial user. The costs of such maintenance shall be billed directly
to the tenant/owner and shall become part of the charges due and owing to the
City.
            (5)    Biological treatment or enzyme treatment shall not be a
substitute for the servicing of a GGI. Use of enzymes or other chemical or
biological treatment or product that emulsifies or acts to emulsify FOG is
prohibited.
            (6)    The industrial user must document each pump-out with a waste
manifest or trip ticket and kept by the industrial user on site for at least
three (3) years.
            (7)    The industrial user must take reasonable steps to assure
that all waste is properly disposed of in accordance with Federal, State and
local regulations (i.e., through a statement certifying proper disposal by the
hauler included on the waste manifest or trip ticket for each load).
      3.   Best Management Practices For Oil/Water Separators:
         a.    Applicability: These Best Management Practices (BMPs) establish
requirements for any facility that has the potential to discharge petroleum
oil, mineral oil, cutting oils, non-food grease and solids. All facilities
subject to these BMPs must comply with the requirements which include both the
requirement for installation and proper operation and maintenance of a
separator and other reporting requirements.
         b.    Oil/Water Separator Defined: "Oil/water separator" or
"separator" is a plumbing appurtenance or appliance that is installed in a
sanitary drainage system to intercept sand (or other aggregate) and petroleum-
based oil and grease from a wastewater discharge and are designed considering
retention times, volumes in gallons calculated for each facility, and gravity
separation; such interceptors include baffle(s) and a minimum of two (2)
compartments.
         c.    Prior Installation: An oil/water separator that was legally and
properly installed at an industrial user's facility prior to the effective date
of this chapter shall be acceptable as an alternative if such device is
effective in removing floatable and settleable material and is designed and
installed is such a manner that it can be inspected and properly maintained. If
the Director determines at any time that such separator is incapable of
adequately retaining the floatable and settleable material or if it was
installed in such a manner that it cannot be inspected and properly maintained,
the industrial user shall install a separator that complies with all City codes
within ninety (90) days after being notified of such requirement.
         d.    Implementation: These separator requirements may be implemented
by letter, order or permit.
         e.    General Control Requirements:
            (1)    A separator shall be required for the proper handling of
liquid wastes which may be harmful to, or cause obstruction in the wastewater
collection system or cause or contribute to pass through or interference.
            (2)    It shall be the responsibility of the industrial user and
owner of the property, business or industry or an authorized representative of
the industrial user to contact the City for obtaining a plan review. The plan
review shall determine the need, size, location, and other requirements of the
interceptor required to control discharges into the POTW. Written approval from
the City must be obtained prior to installation of the separator and meet all
applicable Building Codes. The review of such plans and operating procedures
shall in no way relieve the industrial user from the responsibility of
modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the
City under the provisions of this chapter.
            (3)    Upon change of ownership of any existing facility which
would be required to have a separator under this section, the applicant for
sanitary sewer service shall have the burden to demonstrate that a properly
sized and functioning separator is installed.
            (4)    Toilets, urinals and similar fixtures shall not waste
through a separator. Such fixtures shall be plumbed directly into the building
sewer and waste system.
            (5)    The industrial user shall ensure the separator is easily
accessible for inspection, cleaning, and removal of sand, oils and other
accumulated wastes.
            (6)    The industrial user shall always maintain separators at
their expense and keep in efficient operating condition by the regular removal
of waste materials.
         f.    Required Maintenance:
            (1)    Oil/water separators shall be maintained by regularly
scheduled cleaning so that they will properly operate as intended to
efficiently intercept the sand and oil from the industrial user's wastewater
and prevent the discharge of said materials into the City's wastewater
collection system. A separator shall be serviced at a minimum once per twelve
(12) months or more frequently as necessary. The industrial user should
periodically check the separator for the accumulation of pollutants or solids
to avoid exceeding the capacity of the separator.
            (2)    The City may require more frequent cleaning. A variance from
this requirement may be obtained when the industrial user can demonstrate with
analytical data that less frequent cleaning is sufficient.
            (3)    Maintenance of separators shall be done in a workman-like
manner only by a business/professional normally engaged in the servicing of
such plumbing fixtures.
            (4)    In the event a separator is not properly maintained by the
industrial user, owner, or lessee, the City may authorize such maintenance work
be performed on behalf of the facility. The costs of such maintenance shall be
billed directly to the customer and shall become part of the charges due and
owed to the City.
            (5)    The industrial user must document each pump-out with a waste
manifest or trip ticket and keep on site for at least three (3) years.
            (6)    The industrial user must take reasonable steps to assure
that all waste is properly disposed of in accordance with Federal, State and
local regulations (i.e., through a statement certifying proper disposal by the
hauler included on the waste manifest or trip ticket for each load).
            (7)    Each industrial user that is required to use and maintain a
separator shall keep a record of every time the separator is pumped or cleaned
or repaired. This record shall include the date, the name of the company that
pumped or cleaned the oil separator and the amount of waste that was removed.
Such records shall be made available to the Director upon request. The removed
contents from any separator shall be handled by a person licensed to haul such
waste and shall be disposed of in accordance with Federal, State and local
regulations.
      4.   Best Management Practices For The Acceptance Of Trucked And Hauled
Waste: The requirements established in this subsection shall apply to persons
and operators of companies who discharge trucked and hauled waste to the POTW,
including any discharge that enters the City's sewerage system. Where the City
elects to accept hauled waste, the following conditions will apply:
         a.    Locations And Times For Discharge Into POTW: Hauled wastes may
be introduced into the POTW only at locations designated by the City Manager,
and at such times as are established by the City Manager.
         b.    City Has Right To Refuse: The City shall have the right to
refuse any hauled waste load.
         c.    No Violation Of Prohibited Discharge Standards: Waste haulers
are prohibited from discharging wastes that would violate any prohibited
discharge standards specified in subsection (C) of this section.
         d.   Hazardous Wastes: Waste haulers are prohibited from discharging
hazardous wastes to the POTW or other wastes that are generated by a
categorical industrial user as defined in subsection (B)1 of this section.
         e.    Pollutant Limitations: The waste hauler shall comply with
specific pollutant limitations established by the City specific for the hauled
waste to be discharged.
         f.    Authorization: The City shall require compliance with these BMPs
by permit, authorization to discharge, letter, or another control mechanism.
The City Manager may require generators of the hauled wastes to obtain a
control mechanism.
         g.    Sampling And Analysis By City: The City may sample and analyze
the hauled wastes or require the hauler to perform such sampling and analysis
to verify that each hauled load complies with applicable Pretreatment Standards
and/or Requirements.
         h.   Sampling And Analysis By Hauler: The City may sample and analyze
the hauled wastes or require the hauler to perform such sampling and analysis
at the location where the waste is generated.
         i.    Prior Approval: The City may require the industrial waste hauler
to receive prior approval or consent before discharging.
         j.    Change In Nature Of Hauled Waste: The waste hauler must notify
the City of any new commercial or industrial customers or changes in the nature
of hauled waste originating from existing customers. Customer lists shall be
considered confidential business information if so designated by the waste
hauler.
         k.    Restriction On Number Of Loads And Discharge Rate: The City may
restrict the maximum number of loads that a waste hauler may discharge during a
specific period of time, and the discharge rate of each load.
         l.    Manifest Form Required; Content: Waste haulers must provide a
manifest form or similar trip ticket for every load prior to discharge. The
form or ticket shall include, at a minimum:
            (1)    The name and address of each customer or source of waste;
            (2)    Permit number;
            (3)    Truck identification;
            (4)    Volume of wastewater from each source;
            (5)    Type of waste to be discharged;
            (6)    Known or suspected pollutants present in load(s);
            (7)    Signatory certification; and
            (8)    Certification that the hauled waste is not hazardous.
         m.    City Approval Of Manifest Form: The waste hauler shall use a
manifest form/trip ticket approved by the City.
         n.    Fees: The City may impose fees or charges for hauled wastes.
         o.    Waste Hauler Responsibilities: The waste hauler shall:
            (1)    Maintain tanks, pumps, valves, hoses, racks, cylinders,
diaphragms, pipes, connections, and other appurtenances on a vehicle in good
repair and free from leaks.
            (2)    Provide a safety plug or cap for each tank.
            (3)    Ensure that the vehicle exterior is clean at the beginning
of each work day (prior to entry to the POTW).
            (4)    Clean the inside of tanks to ensure that non-permitted
residual wastes are not left in the tank and allowed to mix with permitted
wastes.
            (5)    Ensure that tanks are an integral part of a vehicle to
transport liquid waste. Portable tanks or other containers temporarily
installed in vehicles are prohibited (unless prior approval is obtained from
the City, e.g., portable toilets).
            (6)    Piping, valves, and connectors (excluding the discharge
hose) shall be permanently attached to tank and/or vehicle.
            (7)    Tanks must be liquid tight, and tanks constructed so that
every interior and exterior portion can be easily cleaned.
            (8)    Opening of tank to be constructed so that collected waste
will not spill during filling, transfer, transport or disposal.
            (9)    Outlet connections to be constructed so that no liquid waste
will leak, run, or spill out from the vehicle.
            (10)    Outlets to be of a design and type suitable for the liquid
waste handled and capable of controlling flow or discharge without spillage and
undue spray on or flooding of immediate surroundings while in use.
            (11)    Pumps, valves, cylinders, diaphragms, and other
appurtenances to be of a design and type suitable for the type of waste
handled, capable of operation without spillage, spray, or leakage, and capable
of being easily disassembled for cleaning.
         p.    Authorized Disposal Site: Only a disposal site authorized in
writing by the City Manager shall receive trucked and hauled waste. Disposal of
trucked and hauled wastes at sites other than those allowed by permit is
prohibited and a violation of these regulations.
         q.    Sanitation And Safety Standards: Each hauler who discharges
wastes to the system shall be responsible for the cleanliness and safety
practices at the points of disposal. It shall be the responsibility of the
industrial user to discharge wastes in such a manner as to keep the area clean
and free from spills or other debris. Any spills shall be promptly cleaned up.
The permittee is also responsible for keeping their vehicle and related
facilities clean and in good repair while being used for disposal to the POTW.
These sanitary and safety practices shall be carried out in a manner acceptable
to the City. Failure to comply with these sanitation and safety standards shall
be grounds for suspension of the authorization to discharge.
         r.    Quality Of Wastes: Wastes approved for discharge to the POTW
shall be representative of what the waste hauler disclosed in the manifest. The
waste hauler consents to the City's right to sample and analyze the contents of
any vehicle utilizing the POTW for the discharge of wastes and charge the user
for such sampling and analytical costs. The purpose of such sampling and
analysis will be to determine conformance with these regulations. It shall be
the responsibility of the industrial user to assist in sample collection as
directed by the City.
         s.    Performance Bond: All trucked and hauled waste haulers may be
required to obtain bonding in an amount as specified by the City and
indemnifying the City against damages sustained by any reason; any spill,
dumping or discharge of any liquid waste, hazardous waste, or incompatible
waste within the jurisdictional limits of the City. Proof of bonding shall be
provided to the City prior to authorization to discharge. In addition, the City
may decline to authorize discharge to any user who has failed to comply with
any provision of these regulations unless such industrial user first files a
satisfactory bond, payable to the City, in a sum not to exceed a value
determined by the City to be necessary to achieve consistent compliance.
         t.    Suspension Of Discharge: The City, at its discretion, may revoke
the authorization to discharge and take other enforcement actions as specified
in subsection (O) of this section. Violations that may result in a suspension
of authorization to discharge include:
            (1)    Failure to submit accurate reports;
            (2)    Failure to submit timely reports;
            (3)    Failure to pay proper charges;
            (4)    Failure to maintain the vehicle as required;
            (5)    Failure to discharge at an authorized disposal site;
            (6    Failure to meet sanitation standards;
            (7)    Discharging of industrial sludges or other unacceptable
wastes into the system;
            (8)    Suspension as necessary to protect the POTW;
            (9)    Failure to maintain valid and current registrations,
permits, and licenses as required by any local, State or Federal regulation or
requirement; or
            (10)    Other violations of these regulations.
      5.   Best Management Practices For Dental Facilities:
         a.    Applicability: These BMPs apply to dental dischargers. Dental
dischargers are not significant industrial users unless the City designates the
dental discharger as such. Dental dischargers are not categorical industrial
users as defined in subsection (B)1 of this section. These BMPs do not apply to
dental dischargers that:
            (1)    Exclusively practice one or more of the following dental
specialties: oral pathology, oral and maxillofacial radiology, oral and
maxillofacial surgery, orthodontics, periodontics, or prosthodontics;
            (2)    Discharge wastewater from a mobile unit operated by a dental
discharger;
            (3)    Do not discharge any amalgam process wastewater to a POTW,
such as dental dischargers that collect all dental amalgam process wastewater
for transfer to a centralized waste treatment facility as defined in 40 CFR
part 437;
            (4)    Do not place dental amalgam, and do not remove amalgam
except in limited emergency or unplanned, unanticipated circumstances defined
herein as less than ten (10) times per year, and that certify such to the City
as required in 40 CFR section 441.50.
         b.    Definitions:
    AMALGAM PROCESS WASTEWATER: Means any wastewater generated and discharged
by a dental discharge facility through the practice of dentistry that may
contain dental amalgam.
   AMALGAM SEPARATOR: Is a collection device designed to capture and remove
dental amalgam from the amalgam process wastewater of a dental facility.
   DENTAL AMALGAM: Is an alloy of elemental mercury and other metals that is
used in the practice of dentistry.
   DENTAL DISCHARGER: Is a dental discharge facility where the practice of
dentistry is performed, including, but not limited to, institutions, permanent
or temporary offices, clinics, home offices, and facilities owned and operated
by Federal, State or local governments, that discharges wastewater to a POTW.
   MOBILE UNIT: Is a specialized mobile self-contained van, trailer, or
equipment used in providing dentistry services at multiple locations.
   NEW SOURCE DENTAL DISCHARGE FACILITY: Is a dental discharge facility whose
first discharge to a POTW occurs on or after July 15, 2017, or where a transfer
of ownership occurred on or after July 15, 2017.
         c.    Reporting: The duly authorized representative of a dental
discharge facility shall submit a Dental Discharger Survey and one-time
certification to the City on a form provided by the City. One-time
certification reports shall be maintained permanently by the dental discharge
facility.
            (1)    A new source dental discharger shall provide the dental user
survey and one-time certification within ninety (90) days of discharge to the
sanitary sewer system.
            (2)    An existing source dental discharger shall provide the
dental user survey and one-time certification to the City by October 12, 2020.
            (3)    Exempt dental dischargers shall provide the dental user
survey and one-time certification by October 12, 2020, or within ninety (90)
days of operation if a new facility.
         d   . Amalgam Separator Requirements:
            (1)    A new source shall install, operate, and maintain an amalgam
separator or device compliant with 40 CFR section 441.30 prior to discharge to
the POTW.
            (2)    All dental facilities that discharge amalgam process
wastewater to the POTW shall install an amalgam separator or device and
implement the required Best Management Practices (BMPs) in accordance with this
section.
            (3)    Existing sources shall install, operate, and maintain an
amalgam separator compliant with 40 CFR section 441.30 by July 14, 2020.
Existing facilities with non-compliant amalgam separators shall comply by June
14, 2027, unless replaced earlier due to malfunction.
         e.    Amalgam Separator Required Best Management Practices:
            (1)    These BMPs are not required for an exempt dental discharger.
            (2)    As referenced above, amalgam separators shall be installed
in all dental facilities and meet the following criteria:
   A.    The amalgam separator shall be compliant with 40 CFR section 441.30(1)
and certified to meet at least a ninety five percent (95%) solids removal
efficiency as specified by Federal or State regulations per 40 CFR section
441.30(1)(i).
   B.    The amalgam separator shall be designed and approved for a flow rate
capable of handling the maximum volume discharged from the dental facility.
   C.    The amalgam separator shall allow the dental discharge facility to
make direct observations as to the level of solids in the collection container,
proper solid and liquid separation, and the condition of all plumbing
connections.
   D.    The amalgam separator shall be installed so that all amalgam
contaminated wastewater passes through the unit before being discharged to the
POTW.
   E.    The amalgam separator shall be installed so they are accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
   F.    The amalgam separator shall be serviced at a minimum of once every
twelve (12) months, in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions or more
frequently if visual inspections indicate that the level of solids is at or
over eighty five percent (85%) of the recommended maximum level whichever is
more stringent.
   G.    Amalgam waste removed from the amalgam separator shall be collected
and handled in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions and Federal,
State, and local laws and regulations.
            (3)    Each dental discharge facility shall ensure dental amalgam
wastestreams from chair side traps, screens, vacuum pump filters, dental tools,
cuspidors, or collection devices discharge through an appropriate amalgam
separator.
            (4)   Each dental discharge facility shall operate and maintain all
equipment in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
            (5)    Each dental discharge facility shall use disinfecting line
cleaners that are non-acidic and non-oxidizing with a pH between 6 - 8 standard
units. Prohibited cleaning chemicals include but are not limited to: bleach;
chorine; iodine; and peroxide chemicals and other oxidizing cleaners.
            (6)    All water containing amalgam waste shall be plumbed through
the amalgam separator. When cleaning, ensure all filters or traps are rinsed
over sinks or drains that discharge to the amalgam separator.
            (7)    Each dental discharge facility shall ensure proper disposal
of amalgam waste through a licensed amalgam recycler or a permitted, licensed,
treatment, dangerous waste storage or disposal facility in accordance with
Federal, State and local regulations.
            (8)    The dental discharge facility shall not cause or contribute
to pass through or interference, violate a specific prohibition as specified in
subsection (C) of this section or cause the City to exercise its emergency
authority as specified in subsection (O)3 of this section.
         f.    Record Keeping: All records shall be kept on site for a minimum
of three (3) years and shall be made available to the City. Each dental
discharge facility shall maintain records of:
            (1) Amalgam Disposal: Records shall include the date, name and
address of the facility where amalgam waste is shipped, and the amount shipped;
            (2) Visual Inspections: Inspection logs shall include the date and
time of the visual inspection, name and initials of person conducting the
inspection, level of solids, maintenance needed, or other identified problems
(e.g., leaks); and
            (3) Amalgam Separator: Records shall include all maintenance and
service completed on the amalgam separator.
         g. Business Modifications:
            (1) The dental discharge facility shall inform the City prior to:
   A. Sale or transfer of ownership of the facility;
   B. Change in the trade name under which the business is operated;
   C. Change in the nature of the services provided that affects the potential
to discharge amalgam; or
   D. Remodel of the facility that may result in an increase in flow or
pollutant loading or that otherwise requires the facility to submit plans or
specifications for approval through a Building or Zoning Department, or any
other formal approval process by the City.
         h. Inspections And Data Collection:
            (1) The City may conduct inspections and/or require an additional
or updated dental user survey for any dental discharge facility. Inspections
may be conducted unannounced for determining applicability and/or compliance
with the required BMPs.
            (2) If an inspection reveals noncompliance with any provision of
the required BMPs, corrective action shall be required. The corrective action
shall not limit the ability of the City to take enforcement action.
         i. Closure: The City may require closure of plumbing, treatment
devices, storage components, containments, or other such physical structures
that are no longer required for their intended purpose. Closure may include the
decommissioning and removal of equipment.
   (O)   Compliance And Enforcement:
      1.   Enforcement Response Plan: The City may adopt enforcement policies
and procedures as set forth in the City's Pretreatment Enforcement Response
Plan for carrying out the provisions of these regulations.
      2.   Publication Of Industrial Users In Significant Noncompliance: The
City shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general circulation that
provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdiction served by the POTW, a
list of the significant industrial users which, at any time during the previous
twelve (12) months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements and meets any of the criteria below. In
addition, any industrial user found to be in significant noncompliance with
subsection (O)2c, (O)2d or (O)2h of this section shall also be published in the
newspaper. The following criteria shall be used to define significant
noncompliance:
         a. Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits in which sixty
six percent (66%) or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter during a six (6) month period exceed by any magnitude, a numeric
Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, including instantaneous limits;
         b. Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here in which
thirty three percent (33%) or more of all measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter during a six (6) month period equal or exceed the product
of the numeric Pretreatment Standard or Requirement including, instantaneous
limits, multiplied by the applicable TRC (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and
grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
         c. Any other violation(s) of a Pretreatment Standard or Requirement,
including daily maximum, long-term average, instantaneous limit or narrative
standard, that the City determines to have caused, alone or in combination with
other discharges, pass through and/or interference including endangering the
health of the general public or the health of POTW personnel;
         d. Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the City
exercising its emergency authority to halt or prevent such discharge;
         e. Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
compliance order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
         f. Failure to provide, within thirty (30) days after the due date, any
required report, including a Baseline Monitoring Report, 90-Day Compliance
Report, periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with
compliance schedules;
         g. Failure to accurately report non-compliance; or
         h. Any other violation or group of violations, which may include a
violation of Best Management Practices, which the City determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local Pretreatment
Program.
      3.   Administrative Enforcement:
         a. Notice Of Violation (NOV): Whenever the City Manager finds that an
industrial user has violated or continues to violate, any provision of these
regulations, an industrial wastewater discharge permit, authorization, order or
other control mechanism issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or
Requirement, the City Manager may serve upon such industrial user a written
Notice of Violation. Within five (5) working days of the receipt of such
notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for satisfactory correction
and prevention of further violations shall be submitted to the City Manager.
Submission of such a plan in no way relieves the industrial user of liability
for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the Notice of
Violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the City to
take any action, including emergency actions or any other enforcement action,
without first issuing a Notice of Violation.
         b. Administrative Order: When the City finds that an industrial user
has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of these regulations, an
industrial wastewater discharge permit, authorization or order issued
hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, the City may
issue an Administrative Order to the industrial user responsible for the
discharge directing that the industrial user come into compliance within a
specific time. If the industrial user does not come into compliance within the
time provided, sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment
facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are installed and properly
operated. Administrative orders also may contain other requirements to address
the noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management
practices designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW.
An Administrative Order may not extend the deadline for compliance established
for a Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve
the industrial user of liability for any violation, including any continuing
violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the industrial user.
         c. Consent Order: The City may enter into a Consent Order, assurances
of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement
with any industrial user responsible for noncompliance. Such documents shall
include specific actions to be taken by the industrial user to correct the
noncompliance within a time period specified by the document. A Consent Order
may include penalties, supplemental environmental projects, or other conditions
and requirements as agreed to by the City and the industrial user. A Consent
Order shall have the same force and effect as an Administrative Order and shall
be judicially enforceable.
         d. Show Cause Hearing:
            (1) The City Manager, when he or she finds that an industrial user
which has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of these
regulations, an industrial wastewater discharge permit, authorization or order
issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, may order
the industrial user to appear before the City Manager and show cause why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the
user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement
action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user show cause why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be
served on any authorized representative of the industrial user. A show cause
hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
            (2) After the City Manager has reviewed the evidence, the City
Manager may issue an order to the industrial user responsible for the discharge
directing that, following a specified time period, the sewer service be
discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related
appurtenances shall have been installed or existing treatment facilities,
devices or other related appurtenances are properly operated. Further orders
and directives as are necessary and appropriate to correct the violation may be
issued.
         e. Cease And Desist Order:
            (1) When the City Manager finds that an industrial user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of these regulations, an
industrial wastewater discharge permit, authorization or order issued
hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, or that the
industrial user's past violations are likely to recur, the City Manager may
issue a Cease and Desist Order to the industrial user directing it to cease and
desist all such violations and directing the industrial user to:
               A. Immediately comply with all requirements; and
               B. Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
            (2) Issuance of a Cease and Desist Order shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the industrial
user.
         f. Administrative Fines:
            (1) When the City Manager finds that an industrial user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of these regulations, an
industrial wastewater discharge permit, authorization or order issued
hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, the City Manager
may fine such industrial user in an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per violation per day. In the case of monthly or other long-term
average discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day during the
period of violation. The City may add the actual costs of preparing
administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to the fine.
            (2) Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after sixty (60)
calendar days, be assessed an additional penalty of twenty five percent (25%)
of the unpaid balance. Interest shall accrue thereafter at a rate of one
percent (1%) per month. A lien against the industrial user's property will be
sought for unpaid charges, fines, and penalties. The failure to pay a penalty
may be the basis for revocation of the industrial wastewater discharge permit
as specified in subsection (F)13 of this section.
            (3) Industrial users that dispute such fines must file a written
request for the City to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine
amount within thirty (30) days of being notified of the fine. Where a request
has merit, the City may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the
industrial user's appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest
accruing thereto, shall be returned to the industrial user.
            (4) Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against,
or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the industrial user.
         g. Emergency Suspension Of Service:
            (1) Endangerment To Health Or Welfare Of The Community: The City,
through other than a formal notice to the affected industrial user, may
immediately and effectively halt or prevent any discharge of pollutants into
any natural waterway, surface drainage within the City, any area under
jurisdiction of the City, the POTW of the City or any wastewater system
tributary thereto, by any means available to them, including physical
disconnection from the wastewater system, whenever it reasonably appears that
such discharge presents an imminent endangerment to the health or welfare of
the community.
            (2) Endangerment To Environment Or Treatment Works: The City, after
written notice to the discharger may halt or prevent any discharge of
pollutants into any natural waterway, surface drainage within the City, any
area under jurisdiction of the City, the POTW, wastewater system tributary
thereto, by any means available to them, including physical disconnection from
the wastewater system, whenever such discharge presents or may present an
endangerment to the environment or threatens to interfere with the operation of
the POTW.
            (3) Compliance: Any person notified of a suspension of the
wastewater treatment service and/or the industrial wastewater discharge permit
shall immediately stop or eliminate the contribution. In the event of a failure
of the person to comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the City shall
take such steps as deemed necessary including immediate severance of the sewer
connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW system or endangerment to
individuals or the environment. The City may reinstate the industrial
wastewater discharge permit and/or the wastewater treatment service upon proof
of the elimination of the non-complying discharge.
            (4) Statement Provided: A detailed written statement submitted by
the industrial user describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the
measures taken to prevent any future occurrence shall be provided to the City
within five (5) days of the date of occurrence. Suspension of service shall not
be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the
industrial user.
         h. Revocation Of Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit Or
Authorization To Discharge:
            (1) A violation of the conditions of an industrial wastewater
discharge permit, authorization, or order under these regulations or of
applicable State or Federal regulations shall be reason for revocation of such
permit or authorization to discharge by the City as provided for in subsection
(F)13 of this section. Upon revocation of the permit, any wastewater discharge
from the affected industrial user shall be considered prohibited and discharge
of such wastewater in violation of these regulations.
            (2) Any industrial user whose industrial wastewater discharge
permit or authorization to discharge is revoked or who is served with a notice
of an intended order for the revocation of the industrial user's authorization
to discharge may file with the City Manager a request for a hearing with
respect thereto; provided, however, that the filing of such a request shall not
stay the existing or proposed suspension.
            (3) If a hearing is requested with respect to an existing or
proposed suspension or revocation, other than the suspension of service because
of an action taken by the City under subsection (O)3g of this section the City
Manager shall hold a hearing following the process in subsection (O)3d of this
section.
      4.   Judicial Enforcement Remedies:
         a. Injunctive Relief: When the City finds that an industrial user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of these regulations, an
industrial wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, the City may petition a court of
competent jurisdiction for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction,
as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance of the
industrial wastewater discharge permit, order, or other requirement imposed by
these regulations on activities of an industrial user. The City may also seek
such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief,
including a requirement for the industrial user to conduct environmental
remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against an industrial user.
         b. Civil Penalties:
            (1) An industrial user who has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of these regulations, an industrial wastewater discharge permit,
or order issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement
shall be liable to the City for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per day per violation. In the case of a monthly or
other long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for each day
during the period of violation.
            (2) The City may recover reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs,
and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling
and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the
City.
            (3) Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against,
or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against an industrial user.
         c. Civil/Administrative Fine Pass Through: If an industrial user
discharges such pollutants which cause the City to violate any condition of its
NPDES permit and the City is fined by the EPA or the State for such violation,
then such industrial user shall be fully liable for the total amount of the
fine assessed against the City by the EPA and/or the State.
         d. Criminal Penalties:
            (1) An industrial user that willfully, recklessly or negligently
violates any provision of these regulations, including making false statements,
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation and/or by
imprisonment up to six (6) months. Each day any violation of these regulations
occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
            (2) The City may refer violations that may warrant criminal
prosecution to the U.S. Attorney General's Office, State Attorney General, EPA
Criminal Investigation Division or other appropriate agency. This referral
shall not preclude the City from taking a parallel administrative or civil
enforcement action.
      5.   Other Actions By The City:
         a. Liability Insurance: The City may decline to issue or reissue an
industrial wastewater discharge permit to any industrial user who has failed to
comply with any provision of a permit, these regulations or order issued
hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, unless the
industrial user first submits proof that it has obtained financial assurances
sufficient to restore or repair damage to the POTW caused by its discharge.
         b. Performance Bonds: The City may decline to issue or reissue an
industrial wastewater discharge permit to any industrial user who has failed to
comply with any provision of a permit, these regulations or order issued
hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, unless such user
first files a satisfactory bond, payable to the City, in a sum not to exceed a
value determined by the City to be necessary to achieve consistent compliance.
         c. Water Supply Severance: Whenever a user has violated or continues
to violate any provision of these regulations, an industrial wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard
or Requirement, water service to the industrial user may be severed. Service
will only recommence, at the industrial user's expense, after it has
satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply.
         d. Public Nuisance: A violation of any provision of these regulations,
an industrial wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any
other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, is hereby declared a public
nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the City. Any person
(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the provisions of the City
codes governing such nuisances, including reimbursing the City for any costs
incurred in removing, abating, or remedying said nuisance.
         e. Vandalism: No person shall willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, tamper with, or prevent access to any structure,
appurtenance or equipment, or other part of the POTW. Any person found in
violation of this requirement shall be subject to the penalties adopted by the
City for such violations.
   (P)   Affirmative Defenses To Discharge Violations:
      1.   Upset:
         a. For the purposes of this section, "upset" means an exceptional
incident in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with
Categorical Pretreatment Standards because of factors beyond the reasonable
control of the industrial user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the
extent caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or
improper operation.
         b. An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with Categorical Pretreatment Standards if the
requirements of subsection (P)1c of this section, are met.
         c. An industrial user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense
of upset shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating
logs, or other relevant evidence that:
            (1) An upset occurred, and the industrial user can identify the
cause(s) of the upset;
            (2) The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
            (3) The industrial user has submitted the following information to
the City Manager within twenty four (24) hours of becoming aware of the upset
(if this information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided
within 5 days):
               A. A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
               B. The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times,
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
               C. Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
         d. In any enforcement proceeding, the industrial user seeking to
establish the occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
         e. Industrial users will have the opportunity for a judicial
determination on any claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for
noncompliance with Categorical Pretreatment Standards.
         f. Users shall control (decrease) production of all discharges to the
extent necessary to maintain compliance with Categorical Pretreatment Standards
upon reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility
is restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
      2.   Prohibited Discharge Standards: An industrial user shall have an
affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought against it for
noncompliance with the general prohibitions at subsection (C)1 of this section
and the specific prohibitions in subsection (C)2c, (C)2d, (C)2e, (C)2f, or
(C)2g of this section where the industrial user can demonstrate that:
         a. It did not know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone
or in conjunction with discharges from other sources, would cause pass through
or interference; and
         b. A local limit designed to prevent pass through and/or interference
was developed for each pollutant in the industrial user's discharge that caused
pass through or interference, and the industrial user was in compliance with
each such local limit directly prior to and during the pass through or
interference; or
         c. If a local limit designed to prevent pass through and/or
interference, as the case may be, has not been developed for the pollutant(s)
that caused the pass through or interference, the industrial user's discharge
directly prior to and during the pass through or interference did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge
activity when the POTW was regularly in compliance with the POTW's NPDES permit
requirements and, in the case of interference, applicable requirements for
sewage sludge use or disposal.
      3.   Bypass:
         a. Definitions: For the purposes of this subsection:
    BYPASS: Means the intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of
a user's treatment facility.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE: Means substantial physical damage to property,
damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. "Severe property damage" does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
         b. Bypass For Essential Maintenance: An industrial user may allow any
bypass to occur which does not cause Pretreatment Standards or Requirements to
be violated, but only if it also is for essential maintenance to assure
efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to the provision of
subsections (P)3c and (P)3d of this section but are reportable under
subsections (M)1, (M)4, (M)6, (M)10, and (M)11 of this section, as applicable.
         c. Notice:
            (1) If an industrial user knows in advance of the need for a
bypass, it shall submit prior notice to the City Manager at least ten (10) days
before the date of the bypass.
            (2) An industrial user shall submit oral notice to the City Manager
of an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable Pretreatment Standards
within twenty four (24) hours from the time the industrial user becomes aware
of the bypass. A written submission shall also be provided within five (5) days
of the time the industrial user becomes aware of the bypass. The written
submission shall contain a description of the bypass and its cause; the
duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if the bypass has
not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps
taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent recurrence of the bypass.
The City Manager may waive the written report on a case-by-case basis if the
oral report has been received within twenty four (24) hours.
         d. Exceptions: Bypass is prohibited, and the City Manager may take an
enforcement action against an industrial user for a bypass, unless:
            (1) Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury, or severe property damage;
            (2) There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
            (3) The industrial user submitted notices as required under
subsection (P)3c of this section.
         e. The City Manager may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the City Manager determines that it will
meet the conditions listed in subsection (P)3d of this section.
   (Q)   Pretreatment Charges And Fees: The City may adopt reasonable fees for
reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the City's Pretreatment
Program which may include, but not limited to:
      1.   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the cost
of processing such applications;
      2.   Fees for monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedures
including the cost of collection and analyzing a user's discharge, and
reviewing monitoring reports submitted by users;
      3.   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
      4.   Fees for filing appeals; and
      5.   Other fees as the City may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered
by this chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines, and penalties
chargeable by the City.
   (R)   Severability: If any portion of these regulations, as now or hereafter
amended, or its application to any person or circumstances, is held invalid,
unenforceable or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall not affect the
validity of these regulations, as now or hereafter amended, or any section,
provision or part hereof or thereof not adjudicated to be invalid,
unenforceable or unconstitutional, and its application to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected.
   (S)   Remedies Non-Exclusive: The remedies provided for in these regulations
are not exclusive of any other remedies that the City may have under Idaho law.
The City may take any, all, or any combination of actions described in these
regulations against an industrial user who violates these regulations. The City
may seek damages from any industrial user who discharges or causes to be
discharged to the POTW, any pollutant that causes damage or detrimental effects
on the POTW or otherwise causes the City to expend resources to respond to such
discharge. Furthermore, the City may pursue any other available remedies that
exist in law or equity against an industrial user that violates these
regulations. Enforcement for violations of these regulations will generally be
in accordance with subsection (O) of this section and the Enforcement Response
Plan. (Ord. 1357, 3-19-2019; amd. Ord. 1369, 11-19-2019)
8-7-7: USER CLASSIFICATIONS; RATE SCHEDULES AND CHARGES:
8-7-7-1: RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL USERS, RATE SCHEDULES:
The rate schedules and charges for residential and commercial users shall be
established by a resolution adopted by the Burley City Council. (Ord. 1357, 3-
19-2019)
8-7-7-2: OTHER USERS:
Any user not included in the foregoing classifications and any user outside the
City limits, shall have a rate fixed by the City Council, which rate may change
from time to time without hearing, but with ten (10) days' prior notice. (Ord.
1357, 3-19-2019)
8-7-7-3: ADMINISTRATIVE CHARGE:
In addition to all other charges and fees to be levied and assessed, there
shall be an administrative charge assessed in an amount to be established by a
resolution adopted by the Burley City Council. (Ord. 1357, 3-19-2019)
8-7-7-4: BILLING, COLLECTION, AND TERMINATION OF UTILITY SERVICE:
Billing, collection, and termination for utility service shall be processed
pursuant to the City billing, collection, and termination policies established
by City Council resolution or motion, or as set forth in this chapter. City
shall establish rates for sewer service supplied by City in an amount set from
time to time by resolution or motion of the City Council. Fines and penalties
may be collected pursuant to policies set forth by resolution or motion of the
City Council or by any other means allowed by law. (Ord. 1357, 3-19-2019)
8-7-7-5: DISCONNECTION; RECONNECTION CHARGE:
Upon disconnection for nonpayment of bills, a reconnection charge in an amount
established by a resolution adopted by the Burley City Council shall be charged
and collected before sewer or water service, or both, shall be recommenced 1 .
(Ord. 1357, 3-19-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-8-6 of this title.
8-7-7-6: DELINQUENT CHARGES:
All charges or fees, as provided by this chapter, not paid within thirty (30)
days of the date when due shall be delinquent and the City Clerk shall, at the
time of certifying the City taxes of the City, certify such delinquencies
together with all penalties to the tax collector of the appropriate County, and
the same will be collectible as other taxes pursuant to Idaho Code section 50-
1008. (Ord. 1357, 3-19-2019)
8-7-7-7: REVENUE:
All monies collected by the City Clerk under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid over to the City Treasurer in the same manner as is required of
the payment of other City monies. (Ord. 1357, 3-19-2019)
8-7-8: INSPECTION:
   (A)   While performing the necessary work on private properties, the
Director of Wastewater Services or duly authorized employees of the City shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises and the owner shall be held
harmless for injury or death to any City employee and the City shall indemnify
the owner against loss or damage to its property by City employees and against
liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted
against the owner and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except
as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the owner to maintain safe
conditions.
   (B)   The Director of Wastewater Services and other duly authorized
employees of the City bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the City holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement. Any entry and subsequent work, if
any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
easement pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 1357, 3-19-2019)
8-7-9: INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY:
All industrial users shall be required to pay that portion of any applicable
Federal assistance grant under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
allocable to the treatment of waste from such users. The system for industrial
cost recovery shall be implemented and maintained according to the following
requirements:
   (A)   Each year during the industrial cost recovery period, each industrial
user of the treatment works shall pay its share of the total Federal grant
amount divided by the recovery period.
   (B)   The industrial cost recovery period shall be equal to thirty (30)
years or the useful life of the treatment works, whichever is less.
   (C)   Payments shall be made by industrial users no less often than
annually. The first payment by an industrial user shall be made not later than
one year after such user begins use of the treatment works.
   (D)   An industrial user's share shall be based on all factors which
significantly influence the cost of the treatment works, such as strength,
volume and flow rate characteristics. As a minimum, an industry's share shall
be based on its flow versus treatment works capacity except in unusual cases.
   (E)   An industrial user's share shall be adjusted when there is a
substantial change in the strength, volume or flow rate characteristics of the
user's wastes, or if there is an expansion or upgrading of the treatment works.
   (F)   An industrial user's share shall not include any portion of the
Federal grant amount allocable to unused or unreserved capacity.
   (G)   An industrial user's share shall include any firm commitment to the
City of increased use by such user.
   (H)   An industrial user's share shall not include an interest component.
This requirement applies only to those features of wastewater treatment and
transportation facilities which have been constructed with Federal assistance
administered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or the State of Idaho
under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (PL 92-500). (Ord. 1357, 3-19-
2019)
8-7-10: SYSTEM DAMAGE:
No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 1357, 3-19-2019)
8-7-11: PROPERTY ASSESSABLE:
All property in the City to which Municipal sewage facilities are available but
are not used by the owner or occupier of said parcel of land, are still subject
to assessment under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1357, 3-19-2019)
8-7-12: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
sections
8-7-6 and
8-7-10 of this chapter, shall be served by the City with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   In addition to all other remedies and actions available to the City,
any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided for
in a notice served by the City as described in this section, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
liable to the City for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the City by
reason of such violation. (Ord. 1357, 3-19-2019)
CHAPTER 8
WATER SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-8-1: Application For Use Of Water
8-8-2: Mayor And Council To Control Chapter
8-8-3: Water Meters Required
8-8-4: Connection Charges
8-8-5: Water Rates
8-8-5-1: Definitions
8-8-5-2: Water Commission (Rep. by Ord. 1077, 4-15-1996)
8-8-5-3: Basis For Water User Charges (Rep. by Ord. 1077, 4-15-1996)
8-8-5-4: Water Use Rate Schedule (Rep. by Ord. 1077, 4-15-1996)
8-8-5-5: Water Rates And Charges
8-8-5-6: Tables (Rep. by Ord. 1077, 4-15-1996)
8-8-6: Charges Payable To City Clerk
8-8-7: Faulty Meter; Rate
8-8-8: Notice Of Temporary Shutoff
8-8-9: Inspections; Testing Water
8-8-10: Liability Of City
8-8-11: Installation Regulations
8-8-12: Prohibited Acts
8-8-13: Low Pressure Irrigation Water Rates
8-8-14: Low Pressure Tap And Disconnect Fee
8-8-1: APPLICATION FOR USE OF WATER:
Application for use of water must be made at the office of the city clerk on
such forms as shall be prescribed by the said city clerk. Said application must
be made by the tenant or owner of the property to be benefited and shall give
information indicating the lot and block on which it is to be used and he must
agree to conform to the rules and regulations established from time to time as
a condition for the use of water. (Ord. 488, 9-17-1951)
8-8-2: MAYOR AND COUNCIL TO CONTROL CHAPTER:
In all cases wherein, by this chapter, any discretion is invested in the
superintendent of water or the city clerk, such discretion shall be subject to
the control of the mayor and council. (Ord. 488, 9-17-1951)
8-8-3: WATER METERS REQUIRED:
   (A)   Water Metered: All water will be measured by means of a meter, the
meter to be placed at a point to be designated by the superintendent of water
between the mains and the house bibbs or other openings. All meters must be
installed in a frostproof box or building. Said meters shall be and remain
under the supervision and control of the city.
   (B)   Two Buildings On Same Meter: When two (2) or more houses or buildings
located on separate lots of fifty foot (50') frontage or more are supplied with
water from the same meter, each house or building shall be required to pay an
amount established by a resolution adopted by the Burley city council per month
for the water consumed in each of such houses or buildings during the service
month. Provided, however, that hereafter there shall be a meter installation
for each separate lot of fifty foot (50') frontage upon which a house or
building is constructed. (Ord. 1160, 5-7-2002)
8-8-4: CONNECTION CHARGES:
   (A)   Inside City Limits: At the time of making application for water
connection to the present water system for use inside the city limits, the
applicant shall pay a connection and permit fee for the city to process the
application and construct the meter box in an amount established by a
resolution adopted by the Burley city council.
For larger meters all installation and materials of the meter shall be subject
to approval by the water superintendent. Meters and taps above two inches (2")
will be installed, constructed and paid for by the customer according to city
specification. The costs of the meter and strainer shall be paid for by the
customer. All excavating and backfilling will be completed by the customer and
the area restored to its original condition. A permit and inspection fee shall
be paid to the city at the time of an application for a disconnect from, or a
hookup to, the meter yoke.
   (B)   Outside City Limits: At the time of making application for water
connection where water is to be used outside the City limits, the applicant
shall pay a connecting and permit fee equal to two (2) times the rate specified
in subsection (A) of this section. All services rendered outside the City
limits shall be the responsibility of the property owner or user. Meters will
be located at a point to be designated by the Superintendent of Water, and the
property owner or user shall install all piping and fittings necessary from the
City limits to the point of use, and full responsibility for excavations,
refilling and materials necessary for installation shall rest with the property
owner or user.
   (C)   Fire Connection Fee: The fee for processing the application and
connection to the present water system for a fire line shall be in an amount
established by a resolution adopted by the Burley City Council per inch (1") of
pipe measured on the inside diameter. All work and material shall be subject to
approval of the Water Superintendent. (Ord. 1160, 5-7-2002)
8-8-5: WATER RATES:
8-8-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this section shall be as follows:
AVAILABLE CONNECTION: An improved lot within the City whereby the culinary
water system is located within three hundred feet (300') of the lot.
CULINARY WATER SYSTEM: All of the components and facilities owned, operated and
maintained by the City, for domestic and other uses, except the "low pressure
system" of the City.
IMPROVED LOT: Any lot in the City upon which any structures or buildings are
constructed.
MONTH: A month as used herein shall mean the period between scheduled water
meter readings. The City will, as nearly as possible, schedule the water meter
readings thirty (30) days apart.
RESIDENTIAL USER: A user whose primary use of water is from the culinary water
system for domestic and/or irrigation use.
SPECIAL USER: Any user not classified as a residential user. (Ord. 488, 9-17-
1951; amd. Ord. 1077, 4-15-1996)
8-8-5-2: WATER COMMISSION:
(Rep. by Ord. 1077, 4-15-1996)
8-8-5-3: BASIS FOR WATER USER CHARGES:
(Rep. by Ord. 1077, 4-15-1996)
8-8-5-4: WATER USER RATE SCHEDULE:
(Rep. by Ord. 1077, 4-15-1996)
8-8-5-5: WATER RATES AND CHARGES:
All water users of the culinary water system shall pay user charges in amounts
established by a resolution adopted by the Burley City Council. (Ord. 1160, 5-
7-2002)
8-8-5-6: TABLES:
(Rep. by Ord. 1079, 4-15-1996)
8-8-6: CHARGES PAYABLE TO CITY CLERK:
All charges will be due and payable at the Office of the City Clerk as billed.
Said charges shall be payable within sixteen (16) days following the mailing
date of the statement indicating such charges, and if such charges are more
than twenty six (26) days delinquent, the water service may be disconnected and
a fee established by a resolution adopted by the Burley City Council will be
charged for connection and turn on 1 . (Ord. 1160, 5-7-2002)
 
Notes
  1. See also sections
1 8-7-7-4 and
  8-7-7-5 of this title.
8-8-7: FAULTY METER; RATE:
If, for any reason, a meter is faulty or fails to register the correct amount
of water used, the rate shall be fixed at an established rate of use based upon
the average of the prior two (2) months' consumption. In the event that the
meter has been faulty for the above stated estimated period of time, a
competent meter shall be installed and consumption for the next thirty (30)
days will be the basis for the charge. (Ord. 488, 9-17-1951)
8-8-8: NOTICE OF TEMPORARY SHUTOFF:
Should it be desired to discontinue the use of water supplying the premises for
a period of not less than one month, notice in writing must be given to the
city clerk and payment in full made at his office. The water shall then be
turned off, and turned on again upon application without charge, but no
remission of rent shall be made until after said notice is given. (Ord. 488, 9-
17-1951)
8-8-9: INSPECTIONS; TESTING WATER:
   (A)   Inspections: Officers and employees of the city water department shall
have free access at proper hours of the day to all parts of buildings on which
water may be delivered from the city mains, for the purpose of inspecting the
conditions of the pipes and fixtures, and the manner in which the water is
used.
   (B)   Water Drawn For Tests: It shall be the duty of the superintendent of
water, at least every fifteen (15) days, to draw or have drawn specimens of
water from at least four (4) points in the water system, such points to be
chosen by the superintendent of water. The water so drawn for specimen shall be
submitted to the state department of public health for test as to purity, and
the report of the state department of public health for test as to purity, and
the report of the state department of public health on such tests shall be
filed in the office of the superintendent of water. (Ord. 488, 9-17-1951)
8-8-10: LIABILITY OF CITY:
The water may at any time be shut off from the mains without notice, for the
purpose of making repairs, extensions or other necessary purposes and persons
having boilers supplied by direct pressure from the mains are cautioned against
danger of explosion or collapse and the city shall not be responsible for the
safety of boilers on the premises of any water consumers; provided, however,
that when water is to be shut out of the mains of the city, the water
department shall notify the fire department prior to the time of making such
shutoff. (Ord. 488, 9-17-1951)
8-8-11: INSTALLATION REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Stop And Waste Cock Required: Within the property line a stop and
waste cock, protected from frost, must in all cases be placed by means of which
the service pipes on the property may be drained during freezing weather.
Additional stop and waste cocks shall also be placed in sags and bends in the
pipes when they cannot otherwise be drained. The superintendent of water shall
refuse to turn on the water until the provisions of this subsection are
complied with.
   (B)   Pipes Protected From Freezing: The service pipes within the premises
not owned by the city must be kept in repair and protected from freezing at the
expense of the owner thereof, who will be responsible for all damages resulting
from all leaks or breaks, resulting from the negligence of the consumer. (Ord.
488, 9-17-1951)
8-8-12: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   (A)   Unlawful Tapping: All tapping of mains must be done by the
superintendent of water, or under his direct supervision. Any person violating
this provision shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined in a sum not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00).
(Ord. 1077, 4-15-1996)
   (B)   Turning On Water After Shut Off: Should the owner or occupant of the
premises turn on the water, or suffer or cause it to be turned on, after it has
been shut off at the property line, it will be turned off at the main, and a
charge in an amount established by a resolution adopted by the Burley city
council must be paid before the same shall be turned on again. (Ord. 1160, 5-7-
2002)
   (C)   Interference With System: Any person who shall interfere with, molest
or injure the waterworks system of the city or any part thereof shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any
amount not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) and costs of prosecution.
   (D)   Turning Water On And Off: No person shall turn water on and off at the
main valve which connects the customer's system to the main city service except
in the case of an emergency. (Ord. 1077, 4-15-1996)
8-8-13: LOW PRESSURE IRRIGATION WATER RATES:
The charge for the service of low pressure irrigation water in the city shall
be established by a resolution adopted by the Burley city council. (Ord. 1160,
5-7-2002)
8-8-14: LOW PRESSURE TAP AND DISCONNECT FEE:
There shall be a charge for a tap connection to the low pressure system in an
amount established by a resolution adopted by the Burley city council. (Ord.
1160, 5-7-2002)
CHAPTER 9
IRRIGATION
SECTION:
8-9-1: Definitions
8-9-2: Rate Schedule
8-9-3: Rules And Regulations
8-9-4: Irrigation Schedule
8-9-5: Penalty
8-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Chapter, the following terms shall be defined as hereinafter
specified:
HOSE CONNECTION: The point where a hose is connected to the "service
connection" as herein defined.
LOW PRESSURE SYSTEM: The wells, pumps and water distribution system established
and maintained by the City for the production and distribution of water at low
pressure for irrigation use by residents of the City.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The pipe connected to the City-installed and City-owned
water main for the delivery of irrigation water to the user thereof. (Ord. 423,
4-19-1948)
8-9-2: RATE SCHEDULE:
The following rates and fees for the identified services and connections are
hereby established.
Service call to low pressure system
from five o'clock (5:00) P.M. to
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M., Monday
through Friday, and on Saturday,
Sunday and holidays.   $40.00
The City Clerk shall bill the person receiving the service of irrigation water
upon the electric and/or water bill at the location where the service is used.
This charge shall be accounted for as any other account due and payable to the
City.
If the charge is not paid by the first of the calendar year following the
season within which it is used, the City shall disconnect the service from the
main, and said account shall be paid in full plus a labor and material charge
for both the connection and disconnection prior to the continuation of service.
(Ord. 1079, 4-15-1996)
8-9-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Mayor and City Council may, by resolution duly adopted, establish such
rules and regulations as they deem necessary for the operation and maintenance
of the provisions of this Chapter, and such rules and regulations so adopted
shall be considered binding, and violation of same shall subject such violator
to the penalty provisions of this Chapter. The following regulations shall
apply to and govern the use of water from the low pressure system of the City:
   (A)   New irrigation service connections located south of Railroad Avenue
shall have a maximum size of one and one-fourth inch (11/4") pipe from the
alley main to the boundary line of the property of the user, and shall have a
one and one-fourth inch (11/4") valve installed within one foot (1') of the
property line in such manner as to be readily accessible from the alley.
New irrigation service connections located north of Railroad Avenue shall have
a maximum size of one and one-fourth inch (11/4") pipe from the alley main to
the boundary line of the property of the user, and shall have a one and one-
fourth inch (11/4") valve installed within one foot (1') of the property line
in such manner as to be readily accessible from the alley.
   (B)   No pumps of any kind or other auxiliary devices shall be hooked to and
used on the low pressure system.
   (C)   The City shall have the right to place a seal or other locking device
upon the valve in the service connection adjacent to the alley at the close of
each irrigating season, and the same shall not be removed from such valve
except by a duly authorized City employee after the water user shall have paid
for the use of the water in advance of the succeeding season.
   (D)   There shall be not more than one service connection for each fifty
foot (50') lot. Service connections shall be made only to alley mains, and no
connections shall be made to the circulating lines. Where existing service
connections have been attached to trunk or circulating lines, the City shall
have the right, at its expense, to remove the same and attach them to alley
mains.
   (E)   Each water user shall furnish pipe and valves required for the service
connection, at his own cost and expense, together with the necessary excavation
and replacement for the installation thereof, but the actual connection between
his service line and the City main shall be made by a City employee.
   (F)   No water from the low pressure irrigation system shall be operated
except with a hose and sprinkling device duly attached.
   (G)   No person shall use water from the low pressure system in such manner
as to waste the same by permitting it to run into the streets or alleys or
otherwise, and the City shall have the right to discontinue service to any
person who shall refuse or neglect to keep sprinkling devices on hoses
connected to the low pressure system, or who wastes water in the streets or
alleys.
   (H)   All service connections shall have a master valve as required by
subsection (A) of this Section. Where existing irrigation service connections
do not have a valve, and the City has disconnected the service connection for
any reason, the person desiring to reestablish such service connection must
install a valve as required in subsection (A) above, prior to the
reestablishment of service.
   (I)   Where any user shall use low pressure irrigation water through an
underground sprinkling system consisting of multiple or gang sprinklers, such
user shall not operate such system for more than one hour during each rotation
period when water is available to such user, and the City shall have the right
to refuse to deliver water to any user who shall fail, neglect or refuse to
comply herewith. (Ord. 1079, 4-15-1996)
8-9-4: IRRIGATION SCHEDULE:
Users of the low pressure system will rotate on two (2) day intervals. The two
(2) days are specified in the following table with the alleys in the respective
blocks being the dividing line.
Watering days for east side of alley:
April May June July Aug. Sept.
April May June July Aug. Sept.
15    1   2    1    1    2
16    2   3    4    2    3
19    5   6    5    5    6
20    6   7    8    6    7
23    9   10   9    9    10
24    10  11   12   10   11
27    13  14   13   13   14
28    14  15   16   14   15
     17  18   17   17   18
     18  19   20   18   19
     21  22   21   21   22
     22  23   24   22   23
     25  26   25   25   26
     26  27   28   26   27
     29  30   29   29   30
     30          30    
 
Watering days for west side of alley:
April May June July Aug. Sept.
17    3   1    2    3    1
18    4   4    3    4    4
21    7   5    6    7    5
22    8   8    7    8    8
25    11  9    10   11   9
26    12  12   11   12   12
29    15  13   14   15   13
30    16  16   15   16   16
     19  17   18   19   17
     20  20   19   20   20
     23  21   22   23   21
     24  24   23   24   24
     27  25   26   27   25
     28  28   27   28   28
     31  29   30   31   29
            31        
 
(Ord. 1079, 4-15-1996)
8-9-5: PENALTY:
Any person who shall use water from the low pressure irrigating system of the
City in violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter or of the rules and
regulations established by resolutions of the City relating to same, or who
shall break any lock or seal placed by the City on a valve or headgate, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 423, 4-19-1948; amd. Ord. 546, 11-17-1952;
Ord. 569, 4-18-1955; 1981 Code)
CHAPTER 10
RAILROADS
SECTION:
8-10-1: Obstructing Street Crossings
8-10-2: Speed Limit Of Trains
8-10-1: OBSTRUCTING STREET CROSSINGS:
It shall be unlawful for the engines, cars or trains of any railway company
within the corporate limits of the City to stand upon any street crossing in
any place so as to interfere with travel along said street at any time longer
than five (5) minutes. (Ord. 524, 9-27-1951)
8-10-2: SPEED LIMIT OF TRAINS:
Any person who shall run, or cause to be run, any railroad locomotive or
railroad train, within the corporate limits of the City, at a greater speed
than twenty (20) miles per hour, or across any street crossing at a greater
speed than twelve (12) miles per hour, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord.
524, 9-27-1951; amd. 1981 Code)
CHAPTER 11
USE OF THE RIGHT-OF-WAY BY TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS
SECTION:
8-11-1: Purpose And Intent
8-11-2: Definitions
8-11-3: Application Fee And Cost Reimbursement
8-11-4: Business License Required
8-11-5: Permit Required
8-11-6: Applications
8-11-7: Traffic Control Plan
8-11-8: Road Closures
8-11-9: Terms And Conditions
8-11-10: Franchise Or Other Agreement Required
8-11-11: Lease Or Other Agreement Required
8-11-12: Relief
8-11-13: Taxes
8-11-14: Nonexclusive Grant
8-11-15: Police Power
8-11-16: Regulation By The City
8-11-17: Codes
8-11-18: Compliance With One-Number Locator Service
8-11-19: Minimize Interference With The Public Ways
8-11-20: Damage To Property
8-11-21: Notice Of Work - Emergencies
8-11-22: Maintenance Of Telecommunications Facilities
8-11-23: Relocation Or Removal Of Telecommunications Facilities
8-11-24: Moving A Building
8-11-25: Removal Of Unauthorized Telecommunications Facilities
8-11-26: Emergency Removal Of Telecommunications Facilities
8-11-27: Damage To Telecommunications Facilities
8-11-28: Restoration Of Public Ways
8-11-29: Duty To Provide Information
8-11-30: Fiber Capacity
8-11-31: Insurance
8-11-32: Indemnification
8-11-33: Limitation On Damages
8-11-34: Security Fund
8-11-35: Construction Bond
8-11-36: Coordination Of Construction Activities
8-11-37: Underground Construction And Boring Techniques
8-11-38: Assignment Or Transfer
8-11-39: Safety Requirements
8-11-40: Additional Ducts Or Conduits
8-11-41: Non-Complying Work
8-11-42: Restoration
8-11-43: Trees And Landscaping
8-11-44: Above-Ground Telecommunications Facilities
8-11-45: Fines And Penalties
8-11-46: Severability
8-11-47: Conflict
8-11-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this Chapter is to regulate and control the use of public Right-
of-Way, and the intent of this Chapter is, to the extent consistent with
Federal and State laws, as they may be amended from time to time, to:
   (A)   Establish a local policy concerning the use of public ways by
telecommunications infrastructure and service providers;
   (B)   Establish clear local guidelines, standards and time frames for the
exercise of local authority with respect to the regulation of
telecommunications providers;
   (C)   Promote competition in telecommunications;
   (D)   Encourage the provision of advanced and competitive telecommunications
services on the widest possible basis to the businesses, institutions and
residents of the City;
   (E)   Permit and manage reasonable access to the public ways of the City for
telecommunications purposes on a competitively neutral basis;
   (F)   Assure that all telecommunications providers constructing, repairing
or maintaining telecommunications facilities within the public ways comply with
the ordinances, rules and regulations of the City; and
   (G)   Assure that the City can continue to fairly and responsibly protect
the public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, and the interpretation and enforcement
thereof, the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings,
unless the context of the sentence in which they are used shall indicate
otherwise. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future, words in the plural include the singular, and words
in the singular include the plural. Words not defined shall be given their
common and ordinary meaning:
APPLICANT: Any Person or entity that applies for any permit pursuant to this
Chapter.
CITY: The City of Burley, Idaho.
CITY PROPERTY: All real property owned in fee by the City or dedicated for a
specific purpose, other than public ways and utility easements as those terms
are defined herein. City property shall also include, for example, all City-
owned poles, buildings and antenna support structures and infrastructure
outside of the public ways, provided that additional Agreements, Pole
Attachment Agreements or Leases with the City shall be required for their use.
PERMIT: The authorization in whatever form whereby the City may grant
permission for construction to a provider to enter and use the specified public
ways for the purpose of installing, maintaining, operating, repairing or
removing facilities.
PERSON: Includes any natural person, sole proprietorship, joint venture,
corporations, associations, partnerships, limited liability companies and any
other form of entity. Person shall not include the City.
PROVIDER: Includes telecommunications service providers and telecommunications
infrastructure providers.
PUBLIC WAYS or PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHT-OF-WAY: Any highway, street, alley,
utility easement (unless its use is otherwise restricted), or other public
Right-of-Way under the jurisdiction and control of the City which has been
acquired, established, dedicated or devoted to or hereafter held by the City.
STATE: The State of Idaho.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: A telecommunications service provider or a
telecommunications infrastructure provider, or both, as applicable.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: As defined in 47 U.S.C. Section 153 (53).
UTILITY EASEMENT: Any easement owned by the City and acquired, established,
dedicated or devoted for public utility purposes not inconsistent with
telecommunications facilities. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-3: APPLICATION FEE AND COST REIMBURSEMENT:
   (A)   A person or entity seeking a telecommunications permit, franchise or
agreement for the use of City Right-of-Way or other property for
telecommunications facilities shall:
      1.   Pay to the City a non-refundable application fee as determined by
the Burley City Council or by an engineer of the City, to cover the cost of all
direct and indirect administrative expenses and staff efforts devoted to
developing, drafting, negotiating and finalizing a telecommunications permit,
franchise or agreement for the use of City Right-of-Way or other property for
telecommunications facilities;
      2.   Reimburse the City for all out-of-pocket processing costs, including
but not limited to the cost of publication of notices relating to the
telecommunications permit, franchise or agreement for the use of City Right-of-
Way or other property for telecommunications facilities;
      3.   Reimburse the City for the City's reasonable outside attorneys'
fees, consultants' fees and expenses incurred in developing, drafting,
negotiating and finalizing the telecommunications permit, franchise or other
agreement for use of City Right-of-Way or other property for telecommunications
facilities; and
      4.   Pay all franchise fees, pole attachment fees, permit fees, and other
fees and taxes as permitted by Federal and State law.
   (B)   The fees, taxes and costs paid shall not be offset against any
franchise fees or other amounts payable to the City during the term of the
franchise or other agreement. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-4: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
A City business license is required for all telecommunications providers. (Ord.
1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-5: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Prior to the construction, excavation, installation, maintenance or operation
of any telecommunications facilities within the public ways or on City
property, the provider shall, at its cost, obtain a telecommunications permit
and all other requisite permits from the City. The provisions and requirements
of this Chapter 11 are in addition to all other provisions and requirements of
the Burley City Code, including but not limited to the provisions and
requirements of
Chapter 6  of this Title. If the applicant is requesting a permit under this
Chapter and an excavation permit under Chapter 6, the two permits may be
processed simultaneously. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-6: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for permits to install, maintain, operate, repair and remove
telecommunications facilities shall be submitted to the City upon forms to be
provided by the City and shall be accompanied by drawings, plans and
specifications in sufficient detail to demonstrate:
   (A)   That the installation, maintenance, operation, repair or removal of
telecommunications facilities will be in accordance with all applicable codes,
rules and regulations;
   (B)   Preliminary engineering plans, specifications and a map showing where
the telecommunications facilities are to be located within the City, all in
sufficient detail to identify:
      1.   The precise location and route requested for the applicant's
proposed telecommunications facilities.
      2.   The precise location of the applicant's overhead and underground
telecommunications lines and equipment in the public ways along the proposed
route.
      3.   The specific trees, structures, improvements, facilities, lines and
equipment and obstructions, if any, that the applicant proposes to temporarily
or permanently remove or relocate and a landscape plan for protecting,
trimming, removing, replacing and restoring any trees or areas to be disturbed
during construction.
      4.   All distances between any telecommunications facility and all
existing utility facilities in the same cross-section of the right-of-way.
   (C)   If the Applicant is proposing an underground installation with new
ducts or conduits to be constructed within the public ways:
      1.   The precise location proposed for the new ducts or conduits;
      2.   Evidence that there is sufficient capacity within the public ways
for the proposed telecommunications facilities;
      3.   All distances between any proposed ducts and conduits, and all
existing utility facilities in the same cross-section of the right-of-way.
   (D)   The construction methods to be employed for protection of existing
structures, fixtures, lines and other facilities within or adjacent to the
public ways.
   (E)   The proposed construction schedule and work hours which may be limited
by the City for public health, safety and welfare related issues. (Ord. 1412,
3-19-2023)
8-11-7: TRAFFIC CONTROL PLAN:
All permit applications which involve work on, in, under, across, or along any
public way shall be accompanied by a traffic control plan demonstrating the
protective measures and devices that will be employed, consistent with the
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to
persons or property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and
vehicular traffic. The traffic control plan must be approved prior to approval
of the permit. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-8: ROAD CLOSURES:
The applicant must give the City Engineer forty-eight (48) hours' notice before
any lane or road closures are permitted, with closure information and time
frames for closures. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-9: TERMS AND CONDITIONS:
   (A)   All work being performed within City Right-of-Way is subject to City
inspection or inspection by a representative of the City who works for a third
party. The telecommunications provider's contractor shall notify adjacent
residents and businesses of the proposed work and make accommodations to
maintain access to the properties affected by construction activities.
   (B)   Contractor shall ensure that any open trenches are protected to
prevent accidental ingress by people or vehicles. Trenches may not be left open
without active work in them for more than three (3) consecutive days.
   (C)   Contractor will provide the City with detailed compaction reports for
all backfill activities.
   (D)   Unless stated otherwise in the permit, the permit is granted for
ninety (90) calendar days, and all work must be completed in that time. The
applicant or permittee may apply for an extension. Any work, repairs, or
remediation not completed in time shall be subject to a weekly inspection fee
until work has been completed to the satisfaction of the City. Failure to
timely complete the permitted work may also be a cause for revoking a permit.
   (E)   Failure to abide by any of the terms and conditions of a permit or of
any associated agreement is considered due cause for revoking a permit.
   (F)   Permittee shall file, at least monthly, a statement of system
construction and build-out to date, and as-built maps of underground and aerial
build-out and per linear foot distances and locations in a GIS format
acceptable to the City.
   (G)   A telecommunications provider may have up to six (6) open permits in
process at one time. Where the maximum number of City-approved permits are
open, the City will not approve a new permit until complete restoration of the
Right-of-Way, sidewalks, curbs and gutters occurs, and, to the extent
applicable, work is done on affected private property.
   (H)   The telecommunications provider will reimburse the City for the fees,
costs and expenses incurred by the City for application reviews, plan reviews,
review and administration of applicable permits, testing and inspection within
City Rights-of-Way and project work on other City-owned property. This
includes, by way of illustration and not limitation, correct plant mix;
pavement placement; sidewalk replacement; landscaping repair including sod,
irrigation lines, sprinklers, shrubs, and trees; traffic control set up; street
restoration; graffiti removal; clean-up and public safety. A telecommunications
provider shall reimburse such fees, costs and expenses within thirty (30) days
after written demand from the City.
   (I)   To the extent practicable and economically feasible, the construction
and location of facilities shall be of minimal impact to private property
including, but not limited to, yards and fences. All construction and
maintenance of any and all facilities on private property shall, regardless of
who performs the construction, be and remain the responsibility of the
telecommunications provider. Prior to beginning any construction, permittee
shall provide private property owners with a door hanger or other appropriate
written notice at least five ( 5) days before commencing work and a
construction schedule for work on private property. The contractor shall not
leave gates open, or hop fences, or leave yards in disarray.
   (J)   When any opening is made in a yard on private property or fences are
disturbed, such shall be promptly restored to as good or better condition than
that existing before the work commenced. If the permittee fails to complete the
work referred to herein within the time prescribed and to the City's
satisfaction, the City may cause such work to be done and bill the cost of the
work to the telecommunications provider. Payment shall be remitted to the City
within ten (10) days of receipt of an itemized list of those costs. All of the
work shall be done by a permittee in compliance with all laws, regulations and
ordinances of the City and State of Idaho.
   (K)   The transmission and distribution system, wires and appurtenances of
the telecommunications provider shall be located, installed and maintained so
as not to endanger or interfere with the lives of persons, or to unnecessarily
hinder or obstruct the free use of private property, Rights-of-Way, or other
public property.
   (L)   Unless a written exception is granted in the permit, all
telecommunications facilities shall be located at least three (3) feet from all
existing or planned water and sewer facilities. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-10: FRANCHISE OR OTHER AGREEMENT REQUIRED:
In addition to obtaining any and all requisite permits from the City, a
telecommunications provider desiring to place its telecommunications facilities
in public ways must first obtain a Franchise or other Agreement from the City,
unless a specific exception is clearly provided by Federal or State law. (Ord.
1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-11: LEASE OR OTHER AGREEMENT REQUIRED:
In addition to obtaining any and all requisite permits from the City, a
telecommunications provider desiring to place its telecommunications facilities
on City property ( other than public ways) must first obtain a Lease or other
Agreement from the City. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-12: RELIEF:
The City may seek legal or equitable relief to enjoin any acts or practices and
abate any condition which constitutes or will constitute a violation of the
applicable provisions of this Chapter. Violation of the terms of this Chapter
may also result in the revocation of any permit or franchise or other agreement
granted hereunder. The rights and remedies provided by this Chapter are
cumulative and the use of any one right or remedy shall not preclude or waive
the City's right to use any or all other remedies. Said rights and remedies are
given in addition to any other rights the City may have by law, statute,
ordinance or otherwise. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-13: TAXES:
‘he franchise fees, pole attachment fees, permit fees, and other charges
provided for in a Franchise or other agreement, and any compensation charged
and paid for the use of public ways provided for herein, whether monetary or
in-kind (to the extent permitted by law), are separate from, and additional to,
any and all federal, state, local, and City taxes as may be lawfully levied,
imposed or be due from a telecommunications provider, its customers or
subscribers or on account of the sale, delivery or transmission of
telecommunications services. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-14: NONEXCLUSIVE GRANT:
No permit issued hereunder shall confer any exclusive right or privilege to
occupy or use the public ways for delivery of telecommunications services or
any other purposes. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-15: POLICE POWER:
In accepting any permits issued hereunder, the telecommunications provider
acknowledges that its rights thereunder are subject to the legitimate rights of
the police power of the City to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary
to protect the safety, health and welfare of the public, it being understood
that such exercise must be done in accordance with applicable law and be
related to use and management of the public ways. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-16: REGULATION BY THE CITY:
In addition to the inherent powers of the City to regulate and control any
permit it issues, and those powers expressly reserved by the City, or agreed to
and provided for in any permit, the right and power is hereby reserved by the
City to adopt such additional regulations as it may find necessary in the
exercise of its lawful powers to manage the public ways. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-17: CODES:
Construction of telecommunications facilities with respect to public ways shall
be done in accordance with all applicable Federal, State and Local laws, codes,
rules and regulations. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-18: COMPLIANCE WITH ONE-NUMBER LOCATOR SERVICE:
All telecommunications providers shall, before commencing any construction in
the public ways, comply with the Idaho DIGLINE ("Idaho 811"). Underground
utilities must be located and marked prior to any trenching or boring work.
(Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-19: MINIMIZE INTERFERENCE WITH THE PUBLIC WAYS:
No Person may locate or maintain its telecommunications facilities so as to
unreasonably interfere with the use of the public ways by the City, the general
public or other Persons authorized to use or be present in or upon the public
ways. All such telecommunications facilities shall be moved by the
telecommunications provider or other Person at its own cost, temporarily or
permanently, as determined by the City. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-20: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
No telecommunications provider or other Person shall take any action or allow
any action to be done which may impair or damage any public ways, any City
property or other property (whether public or private). The City may, without
advance notice, perform construction and maintenance activities within the
Right-of-Way. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-21: NOTICE OF WORK - EMERGENCIES:
In the event of an unexpected repair or emergency, a telecommunications
provider may commence such repair and emergency response work as required under
the circumstances, provided the telecommunications provider shall notify the
City as promptly as possible, before such repair or emergency work commences or
as soon thereafter as possible if advance notice is not practicable. Further,
the telecommunications provider shall apply for a permit and pay all associated
fees as soon as the emergency is abated. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-22: MAINTENANCE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
Each telecommunications provider shall maintain its telecommunications
facilities in good and safe condition and in a manner that complies with all
applicable Federal, State and local requirements. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-23: RELOCATION OR REMOVAL OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
   (A)   A telecommunications provider shall temporarily or permanently remove,
relocate, change, or alter the position of any telecommunications facilities
within the public ways whenever the City has determined that such removal,
relocation, change, or alteration is reasonably necessary for the construction,
maintenance, alteration, repair or improvement of the public ways for purposes
of public welfare, health or safety. Such action shall be performed at the cost
and expense of the telecommunications provider.
   (B)   When the City orders relocations under this section, the
telecommunications provider shall be given reasonable advance notice thereof,
which period of time shall be no less than sixty (60) days except for emergency
situations.
   (C)   In the event of an unforeseen emergency which creates a threat to the
public health, safety, or welfare, the City may require a telecommunications
provider to relocate its telecommunications facilities at the
telecommunications provider's own expense.
   (D)   If payment of the costs of relocation is in dispute, the
telecommunications provider shall still commence and complete the relocation as
provided herein on a timely basis for public works projects undertaken by the
City. Telecommunications providers shall indemnify, hold harmless, and defend
the City, its City Council, officers, officials, employees, agents and
representatives from any and all any damages, claims, liabilities, actions,
causes of action, suits, costs, expenses and attorneys' fees for delay or
delays on public improvement projects caused by the telecommunications
providers, or their contractors or subcontractors of any tier, to relocate the
telecommunications facilities in a timely manner. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-24: MOVING A BUILDING:
Whenever any Person shall have obtained permission from the City to use any
public ways for the purpose of moving any building, a telecommunications
provider upon seven (7) days' written notice from the City shall raise or
remove, at the expense of the Person desiring to move the building, any of the
telecommunications provider's telecommunications facilities which may obstruct
the removal of such building; provided, that the Person desiring to move the
building shall comply with all requirements of the City for the movement of
buildings and remit the applicable cost of raising or removing the
telecommunications provider's telecommunications facilities prior to the
telecommunications provider's commencement of such work. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-25: REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
Within thirty (30) days following written notice from the City, any
telecommunications provider or other Person who owns, controls, or maintains
any unauthorized telecommunications facilities or related appurtenances within
the public ways shall, at its own expense, provide written confirmation
acknowledging the City's notice. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of notice,
the telecommunications provider or other Person must provide a corrective
action plan to either remove such telecommunications facilities or bring such
telecommunications facilities into compliance. Telecommunications facilities
are unauthorized and subject to removal in the following circumstances:
   (A)   Upon abandonment of the telecommunications facilities within the
public ways of the City, or if a telecommunications provider does not respond
within thirty (30) days after notice from the City, such property shall also
then be deemed abandoned.
   (B)   If the telecommunications facilities were constructed or installed
without a valid permit.
   (C)   If the telecommunications facilities were constructed or installed at
a location not allowed by a permit. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-26: EMERGENCY REMOVAL OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
The City retains the right and privilege to remove or relocate any
telecommunications facilities located within the public ways, as the City may
determine to be necessary, appropriate or useful in response to any public
health or safety emergency. The City shall not be liable to any
telecommunications provider, or any other Person for any direct, indirect, or
any other such damages suffered by any Person or entity of any type as a direct
or indirect result of the City's actions under this subsection. The City shall
attempt to contact the telecommunications provider and provide an opportunity
for the telecommunications provider to perform the necessary cutting or moving
unless the emergency necessitates City action prior to such contact. (Ord.
1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-27: DAMAGE TO TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
Unless directly and proximately caused by the sole negligence or willful
misconduct of the City, the City shall not be liable for any damage to any
telecommunications facilities within the public ways as a result of or in
connection with any public works, public improvements, construction,
excavation, grading, filling, or work of any kind within the public ways by or
on behalf of the City. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-28: RESTORATION OF PUBLIC WAYS:
   (A)   When a telecommunications provider or other Person does any work in or
affecting any public ways, it shall, at its own expense, promptly remove any
obstructions therefrom and restore such public ways to the condition as existed
before the work was undertaken.
   (B)   If weather or other conditions do not permit the complete restoration
required by this subsection, the telecommunications provider shall temporarily
restore the affected public ways. Such temporary restoration shall be at the
telecommunications provider's sole expense and the telecommunications provider
shall promptly undertake and complete the required permanent restoration when
the weather or other conditions no longer prevent such permanent restoration.
   (C)   A telecommunications provider or other person acting on its behalf
shall use suitable barricades, flags, flaggers, lights, flares, and other
measures as required for the safety of all members of the general public and to
prevent injury or damage to any Person, vehicle, or property by reason of such
work in or affecting such public ways.
   (D)   The City Engineer shall be responsible for inspection and final
approval of the condition of the public ways following any construction and
restoration activities.
   (E)   Whenever a telecommunications provider intends to discontinue using
any facility within the Right-of-Way, it shall submit for the City's approval a
complete description of the facility and the date on which it intends to
discontinue using the facility. The telecommunications provider may remove the
facility or request that the City permit it to remain in place. Notwithstanding
a request that any such facility remain in place, the City may require removal
of the facility from the Right-of-Way or modify the facility to protect the
public health, welfare, safety and convenience, or otherwise serve the public
interest at no cost to the City. The City may require a combination of
modification and removal of the facility. The telecommunications provider shall
complete such removal or modification in accordance with a schedule set by the
City. Until such time as removal or modification of the facility occurs as
directed by the City, or until the rights to and responsibility for the
facility are accepted by another person having authority to construct and
maintain such facility, the telecommunications provider shall be responsible
for all necessary repairs and relocations of the facility, as well as
maintenance of the Right-of-Way, in the same manner and degree as if the
facility were in active use, and shall retain all liability for such facility.
If the telecommunications provider abandons its facilities, the City may choose
to use such facilities for any purpose whatsoever.
   (F)   If, after giving ten (10) days prior written notice by the City, the
telecommunications provider fails to complete any required work to the
satisfaction of the City, the City may cause the work to be done, and the
telecommunications provider shall reimburse the City for the reasonable costs
and expenses incurred within thirty (30) days after receipt of an itemized list
of the City's expenses and costs, or the City may recover its expenses and
costs from the bonds or pursue any other judicial remedies for the collection
thereof. Any expenses incurred in the collection by the City of such obligation
shall be included in the monies due the City including reasonable attorneys'
fees, court costs and expenses for work conducted by the City's staff or its
agents and outside counsel. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-29: DUTY TO PROVIDE INFORMATION:
Within ten (10) days of a written request from the City, each
telecommunications provider shall furnish the City with information sufficient
to demonstrate:
   (A)   That the telecommunications provider has complied with all of the
requirements of this Chapter; and
   (B)   All books, records, maps and other documents maintained by the
telecommunications provider with respect to the location of its
telecommunications facilities within the public ways shall be made available
for inspection by the City at reasonable times and intervals. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-
2023)
8-11-30: FIBER CAPACITY:
A telecommunications provider shall have the right, without prior City
approval, to offer or provide fiber capacity or bandwidth to other carriers,
resellers, customers, or subscribers consistent with such permit; provided,
however, that the telecommunications provider shall remain responsible for
compliance with this Chapter and such permit, and provided that the other
carrier or reseller must obtain any necessary Franchise or other Agreement
required by the City. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-31: INSURANCE:
   (A)   Each telecommunications provider shall secure and maintain the
following insurance policies insuring both the telecommunications provider and
the City against claims for death or injuries to Persons, or damages to
property which may arise from or in connection with the exercise of the rights,
privileges, and authority granted to the telecommunications provider:
      1.   Comprehensive general liability insurance, written on an occurrence
basis, with limits not less than:
         (a)   Three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each Person; and
         (b)   Three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident.
      2.   Automobile liability insurance for owned, non-owned and hired
vehicles with a combined single limit of three million dollars ($3,000,000.00)
for each accident;
      3.   Worker's compensation within statutory limits and Employer's
liability insurance with limits of not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00);
      4.   Excess umbrella liability with limits of no less than five million
dollars ($5,000,000.00) per occurrence and in the aggregate.
   (B)   Insurance shall be placed with insurers licensed to do business in the
State with an A.M. Best's rating of A-VII or better. The liability insurance
policies required by this subsection shall be maintained by the
telecommunications provider throughout the term of the permit, and such other
period of time during which the telecommunications provider has
telecommunications facilities in the public ways or is engaged in the removal
of its telecommunications facilities. Failure to maintain such insurance shall
be grounds for cancellation of the permit, Franchise or Agreement. The
telecommunications provider shall furnish acceptable certificates of insurance,
together with an endorsement naming the City, its elected and appointed
officers, officials, agents, employees, representatives, consultants, and
volunteers as additional insureds, to the City prior to the commencement of any
work or installation of any telecommunications facilities pursuant to said
permit(s).
   (C)   The telecommunications provider's insurance shall be primary and non-
contributory insurance as respects the City. Any insurance maintained by the
City shall be in excess of the telecommunications provider's insurance and
shall not contribute with it. Maintenance of insurance shall not be construed
to limit the liability of the telecommunications provider to the coverage
provided by such insurance or otherwise limit the City's recourse to any remedy
available at law or in equity.
   (D)   In addition to the coverage requirements set forth in this subsection,
the telecommunications provider must notify the City of any cancellation or
reduction in said coverage at least forty-five (45) days in advance in writing.
At least fifteen (15) days prior to said cancellation or reduction in coverage,
the telecommunications provider shall obtain and furnish to the City
replacement insurance and certificates of insurance meeting the requirements of
this subsection.
   (E)   All insurance coverage shall be kept in force while the
telecommunications provider has any facilities in the City and for one (1) year
thereafter.
   (F)   All insurance policies shall contain a waiver of subrogation against
the City for any claims arising out of the telecommunications provider's work
or service. The telecommunications provider shall be responsible for all
deductibles under the policies. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-32: INDEMNIFICATION:
   (A)   A telecommunications provider shall indemnify, protect, defend and
hold harmless the City, its City Council, boards, officers, officials,
employees, agents and representatives from any and all actions, causes of
action, suits, claims, costs, damages, expenses, attorneys' fees, judgments,
settlements, awards or liability to any Person arising from injury, sickness,
or death of any Person or damage to property arising out of the acts or
omissions of the telecommunications provider, its contractors of any tier,
agents, servants, officers or employees with regard to a permit, Franchise or
Agreement, and its operations thereunder.
   (B)   Inspection or acceptance by the City of any work performed by the
telecommunications provider at the time of completion of construction shall not
be grounds for avoidance of any of these covenants of indemnification.
Provided, that the telecommunications provider must be given written notice by
the City of any such claim, and said indemnification obligations shall also
extend to claims which are not reduced to a suit and any claims which may be
compromised prior to the culmination of any litigation or the initiation of any
litigation. The City has the right to defend or participate in the defense of
any such claim, and has the right to approve any settlement or other compromise
of any such claim.
   (C)   In the event that the telecommunications provider refuses the tender
of defense in any suit or claim, said tender having been made pursuant to this
subsection, and said refusal is subsequently determined by a court having
jurisdiction ( or such other tribunal that the parties agree to decide the
matter), to have been a wrongful refusal on the part of the telecommunications
provider, then the telecommunications provider shall pay all of the City's
costs for defense of the action, including all expert witness fees, attorneys'
fees, and expenses.
   (D)   The obligations of the telecommunications provider under the
indemnification provisions of this subsection shall apply regardless of whether
liability for damages arising out of bodily injury or death to Persons or
damages to property were caused or contributed to by the negligence of the
City, its officers, agents, employees or contractors. The court shall apportion
liability accordingly. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-33: LIMITATION ON DAMAGES:
In no event shall the City be liable for any indirect, incidental, special,
consequential, exemplary, or punitive damages, including by way of example and
not limitation lost profits, lost revenue, loss of goodwill, or loss of
business opportunity in connection with the City's performance or failure to
perform. The telecommunications provider releases and waives any and all such
claims against the City, its City Council, boards, officers, officials, agents,
employees and representatives. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-34: SECURITY FUND:
   (A)   Prior to issuance of a permit pursuant to this Chapter, each
telecommunications provider shall establish a security fund with the City by
depositing the amount of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00), or such
other amount as deemed necessary by the City Administrator, with the City in
the form of a performance bond or an irrevocable letter of credit, based upon
operating history in the public ways and the cost of removal of the
telecommunications provider's facilities; which fund shall be maintained at the
sole expense of the telecommunications provider so long as any of the
telecommunications provider's telecommunications facilities are located within
the public ways. The performance bond shall be issued by a corporate surety
authorized to do surety business in the State.
   (B)   Telecommunications providers shall replenish the security fund within
fourteen (14) days after written notice from the City that there has been a
draw against the security fund and that there is a deficiency in the amount of
the fund. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-35: CONSTRUCTION BOND:
Telecommunications providers performing work in the public ways must also
provide a construction bond written by a corporate surety acceptable to the
City equal to at least one hundred and fifty percent (150%) of the estimated
cost of each phase of construction and restoring the public ways to their
preconstruction condition. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-36: COORDINATION OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES:
All telecommunications providers are required to cooperate with the City and
with each other in coordination of construction activities. The City Engineer
shall coordinate all construction locations, activities, and schedules to
minimize public inconvenience, disruption, or damage to the public ways. (Ord.
1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-37: UNDERGROUND CONSTRUCTION AND BORING TECHNIQUES:
All underground construction and boring techniques are subject to the written
pre-approval of the City Engineer, which must be obtained by the excavator or
permittee prior to such construction or boring. In the event of non-compliance
by a telecommunications provider, the City Engineer shall give written notice
and the provider shall have ten (10) days to cure the deficiency. If the
deficiency is not cured to the satisfaction of the City Engineer, a written
stop work order will be sent to the provider and no new permits will be issued
until the deficiency or default is cured to the satisfaction of the City.
Unless a written exception is granted in the permit, all boring shall be
performed using bentonite or boring gel and in compliance with the latest
version of ISPWC standards. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-38: ASSIGNMENT OR TRANSFER:
A change in ownership or control of a permit, Franchise or Agreement granted
hereunder may not occur, directly or indirectly, or be transferred, assigned or
disposed of by sale, merger, consolidation or other act of a telecommunications
provider, without the prior written consent of the City, which consent shall
not be unreasonably withheld. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-39: SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
A telecommunications provider in accordance with applicable Federal, State, and
local safety requirements shall, at all times, employ reasonable and ordinary
care. All structures and lines, equipment and connections in, over, under, and
upon the public ways permitted by a permit shall at all times be kept and
maintained in a safe, suitable condition, and in good order and repair. (Ord.
1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-40: ADDITIONAL DUCTS OR CONDUITS:
The City may require that a telecommunications provider that is constructing,
relocating, or placing ducts or conduits in the public ways provide the City
with additional ducts or conduits and related structures necessary to access
the same. The terms and conditions under which such additional ducts and
conduits shall be provided shall be subject to the mutual written agreement of
the telecommunications provider and the City. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-41: NON-COMPLYING WORK:
Whenever the City determines that any condition of any public way is in
violation of, or public ways are being used contrary to, any provision of this
Chapter or permit, the City Engineer may order the correction and/ or
discontinuance of such condition or any activity causing such condition.
Failure to comply will result in work stoppage or revocation of the permit(s).
(Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-42: RESTORATION:
Upon completion of any construction, installation, maintenance, repair or
replacement work, the permitee shall promptly repair and restore any and all
public ways and private property including improvements, fixtures, structures,
and other facilities in the public ways damaged during the course of
construction, installation, maintenance, repair or replacement, restoring the
same as nearly as practicable to their condition before the start of
construction, installation, maintenance, repair or replacement. The City
Engineer shall have final approval of the completeness of all restoration and
repair work and all telecommunications providers shall warrant said restoration
and repair work and the condition of the public ways for a period of at least
two (2) years. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-43: TREES AND LANDSCAPING:
   (A)   All trees, landscaping and grounds removed, damaged or disturbed as a
result of the construction, installation, maintenance, operation, repair, or
replacement of telecommunications facilities, shall be replaced or restored as
nearly as may be practicable, to the condition existing prior to performance of
the work.
   (B)   All landscape restoration work within the public ways shall be done in
accordance with landscape plans approved by the City Engineer. (Ord. 1412, 3-
19-2023)
8-11-44: ABOVE-GROUND TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
Installation in the public ways of above-ground telecommunications wires and
facilities by telecommunications providers may create safety hazards and
adverse visual impacts. Consequently, the City is authorized to impose
reasonable conditions in order to mitigate those potential adverse impacts.
(Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-45: FINES AND PENALTIES:
In addition to the other remedies provided for in this Chapter, in the event of
non-compliance by a telecommunications provider, after the giving of written
notice by the City and a ten (10) day opportunity to cure, the City may impose
fines and penalties in accordance with a published schedule adopted by the City
Council. The City may also seek all remedies, both civil and criminal,
available at law, in addition to those provided in this Chapter or in this
Code. In addition to all other remedies, fines and penalties, any person found
to have violated any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of an
infraction for each day that the person is in violation after having been given
or sent, by United States mail, ten (10) days written notice of said violation.
(Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-46: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, clause, or phrase of this Chapter, or its
application to any Person or circumstance, is, for any reason, declared
invalid, in whole or in part by any court or agency of competent jurisdiction,
said decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
Chapter or of this City Code. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
8-11-47: CONFLICT:
In the event of a conflict between the regulations in this Chapter and any
other provision of the City Code, the regulations in this Chapter shall
prevail. (Ord. 1412, 3-19-2023)
TITLE 9
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
SECTION:
9-1-1: Short Title
9-1-2: Definitions
9-1-3: Garbage And Rubbish Collection Provided
9-1-4: Mandatory Collection
9-1-5: Sanitation Inspector Publish Rules And Regulations
9-1-6: Containers
9-1-7: Placement Of Containers
9-1-8: Sanitary Service Fees
9-1-9: Delinquent Accounts
9-1-10: Use Of Streets And Alleys
9-1-11: Storing Refuse; Clean-Up Days
9-1-12: Street Litter Cans
9-1-13: Construction Debris
9-1-14: Burning Prohibited Except By Permit
9-1-15: Interfere With Sanitation Inspector
9-1-16: Suppressing Nuisances
9-1-17: Appeals
9-1-18: Penalties
9-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the MUNICIPAL REFUSE COLLECTION
SERVICE ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BURLEY, IDAHO. (Ord. 832, 3-6-1972)
9-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number and words in the singular number
include the plural. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
ASHES: The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other combustible
materials.
COLLECTOR: The person holding the contract issued or granted by the City
authorizing such person to operate, conduct and maintain a Municipal garbage
and refuse collection and disposal system upon, on and over streets, alleys and
public ways of the City.
GARBAGE: Putrescible animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
INSPECTOR: The Sanitation Inspector of the City.
OWNER AND OCCUPANT: A person in possession, charge, custody and control of any
premises where garbage, refuse and rubbish is collected or accumulated.
PREMISES: Land and all buildings and structures therein including but not
limited to by enumeration, single or multi-family dwellings, rooming houses or
apartment houses, hospitals, convalescent and nursing homes, hotels and motels,
restaurants, drive-in establishments, schools and any other place of
habitation, offices, shops or establishments or places of conducting a
business, trade or occupation. (Ord. 832, 3-6-1972)
REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid waste (except body waste)
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
automobiles and solid market and industrial waste.
RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid waste consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible waste, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippage, wood,
glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
SANITARY CONTAINERS: Sanitary containers or receptacles shall be any of the
following:
   (A)   Ninety (90) gallon or three hundred (300) gallon round plastic
containers; or
   (B)   Such other containers as shall be approved by the City Council and
which containers are compatible with the refuse disposal system and the refuse
to be removed. (Ord. 909, 2-7-1977)
9-1-3: GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION PROVIDED:
The Municipal refuse collection and disposal service of the City shall, by such
means as the City Council deems appropriate, collect and dispose of all
garbage, rubbish, refuse, paper, glass, tin cans, ashes and other debris; shall
operate this service and the regulations provided herein shall be and remain
applicable thereto until duly amended as provided by law. All garbage and
refuse accumulated in the City shall be collected, conveyed and disposed of by
the City or its duly authorized contractor. No persons shall collect, convey
over any of the streets or alleys of the City or dispose of any refuse
accumulated in the City except by the terms of this Chapter or resolution of
the City Council. The right and power to amend this Chapter from time to time
and to repeal the same is reserved to the City. The City may from time to time
grant an exclusive contract for the operation of the Municipal refuse
collection and disposal service. (Ord. 832, 3-6-1972)
9-1-4: MANDATORY COLLECTION:
   (A)   Collection From Entire City: All garbage, refuse, rubbish and ashes
from the entire residential, commercial and industrial sections of the City
properly placed for collection, as provided for herein, shall be collected by
the City or its duly authorized contractor necessary to maintain and preserve
sanitation of the community. Temporary failure to make such collection due to
circumstances beyond the control of the City shall not relieve the occupant or
the owner of the premises from the payment of sanitary service fees herein
prescribed.
   (B)   Collection And Disposal Service Compulsory; Exemption: No person shall
be permitted to refuse to accept the refuse collection and disposal service
herein provided for, and the failure of any person to receive such service
shall not exempt such person from the payment of charges herein specified save
and except any of those persons residing in areas in which no collection
service is provided for the entire area, and in such areas where no service is
rendered by the City or its contractor, no charge will be made. Boundaries
within the City excepted from such charges will be established by the
Sanitation Inspector with the consent and approval of the City Council. (Ord.
832, 3-6-1972)
9-1-5: SANITATION INSPECTOR PUBLISH RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Sanitation Inspector is hereby empowered to prepare and publish such rules
and regulations as may be necessary in connection with the Municipal refuse
collection and garbage collection and disposal service subject to the approval
of the City Council and may direct that the City garbage and waste disposal
crew or authorized contractor will not collect garbage and other waste from any
premises where rules and regulations are not complied with, and the failure to
collect the same by direction shall not relieve the owner or occupant from the
payment of fees or penalties provided for in this Chapter. (Ord. 832, 3-6-1972)
9-1-6: CONTAINERS:
   (A)   Requirements: Sanitary containers or containers authorized under this
Section shall be provided by the City. All containers shall be maintained in
good condition and at ground level. The Sanitation Inspector shall have
authority to refuse collection service for failure to comply herewith. It shall
be the duty of the user to maintain the same in a reasonably sanitary condition
in keeping with reasonable health standards. The Sanitation Inspector shall
have the responsibility of inspecting containers and to notify the user for
failure to maintain the same in a reasonably sanitary condition. (Ord. 909, 2-
7-1977)
   (B)   Garbage Placement: All garbage shall be placed in sanitary containers
as defined herein. (Ord. 832, 3-6-1972)
9-1-7: PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS:
The garbage, refuse and rubbish in and about any private residence, dwelling
house, commercial or industrial building shall be placed in sanitary containers
and shall be placed at ground level near the alley line if there is a public
alley right of way, or if there is no access to the alley from the dwelling or
other building, then such sanitary containers shall be placed at or near the
street line so as to be easily seen. Refuse generating property not abutting
public streets or alleys shall permit ground level access to the City or its
refuse collection agency for the collection and disposal of such refuse placed
thereon in approved sanitary containers. If the collector should miss a refuse
pick up and the city or the collector is so notified prior to two o'clock (2:
00) P.M. of said day, such refuse shall be removed the same day. The sanitary
containers placed on streets, where there is no alley access, shall be removed
from the street within eight (8) hours after pick up. (Ord. 832, 3-6-1972)
9-1-8: SANITARY SERVICE FEES:
Fees for sanitary service shall be established by a resolution adopted by the
Burley city council.
   (A)   Residential: A single-family unit is each housekeeping unit.
Residential pick up shall be once each week at a day designated by the city.
   (B)   Commercial: Service to restaurants, retail and wholesale
establishments, hospitals, nursing homes, motels, service stations, offices,
banks, and other commercial establishments and institutions, and mobile home
parks.
Any commercial customer may make application in writing to the city
administrator to share a container for once a week pick up with another
customer.
The city administrator, in acting on the application, shall take into
consideration the quantity of refuse likely to be deposited in the container
and the number of customers that propose to use the container.
   (C)   Rates, When Effective: For any pick up not expressly provided herein,
the rate shall be fixed by resolution of the city council. From and after the
passage of the resolution, the rate shall be in full force and effect as though
part of this chapter.
   (D)   Use Of Containers: All commercial customers shall use such containers
either alone or sharing with other customers as prescribed by the council.
   (E)   Size Of Containers: Residential customers shall use either ninety (90)
gallon containers or three hundred (300) gallon containers as directed by the
sanitation inspector. In directing the size to use, the sanitation inspector
shall consider alley or front pick up, accessibility to customer use, and
density of surrounding population.
   (F)   Special Circumstances: The city council may make provision, if
necessary, for users having special circumstances that, in the opinion of the
city council, are unable to comply with provisions of this chapter because of
such special circumstances. A variance hereunder shall be by resolution setting
forth the findings of special circumstances, why compliance is impossible and
the acts required of the user in refuse removal and the charges therefor.
   (G)   Charges: The following services designated shall be charged in
accordance with a resolution adopted by the Burley city council:
      1.   Use of a front end loader to remove refuse of any residential or
commercial customer of the city that is over seventy (70) pounds. Such charges
shall be in addition to any other fees owed by the residential or commercial
customer.
      2.   For the use of a truck to haul the refuse loaded by the front end
loader provided in subsection (G)1 of this section to be paid in addition to
all other charges of the residential or commercial customer.
      3.   Each tire and/or wheel hauled by the city from any residential or
commercial customer which fee shall be in addition to all other fees applicable
to that commercial or residential customer.
      4.   A special handling fee shall be paid by any residential or
commercial customer in addition to all other fees charged when there is a
hauling necessary by the city such as, but not limited to, appliances, carpet,
furniture, tree limbs and any other items customarily not placed in the
requisite refuse containers. This fee shall be in addition to all other fees
charged to the residential or commercial customer.
      5.   All tree limbs and tree branches that are not cut in maximum forty
inch (40") lengths and bundled in bundles not to exceed seventy (70) pounds
shall be subject to the special handling charge which shall be in addition to
all other charges of the commercial or residential customer.
      6.   There shall be a minimum charge for the destruction of weeds in the
city as provided in title 10, chapter 8 of this code. Such fees may be
certified by the city treasurer to the county treasurer under the provisions of
Idaho Code 50-317 and 50-1008. (Ord. 1160, 5-7-2002)
9-1-9: DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS:
All accounts shall be considered delinquent if not paid by the fifteenth of the
month following for which service is rendered. All delinquent accounts are
subject to stoppage of service without notice. If a delinquent account is not
paid within thirty (30) days, the sanitation inspector shall cease all refuse
collection for that account unless otherwise directed by the city council.
Service shall be resumed thereafter only on payment of the accumulated fees for
the period of collection. Stoppage of service hereunder for nonpayment shall be
in addition to the right of the city or its contractor to proceed for the
collection of such unpaid charges in a manner provided by law for the
collection of amounts due and owing. (Ord. 832, 3-6-1972)
9-1-10: USE OF STREETS AND ALLEYS:
No persons shall be permitted to transport garbage, refuse, rubbish and ashes
over the streets and alleys of the city from outside the city in anything other
than watertight containers and not until they have first secured a written
permit authorizing such hauling from the sanitation inspector. All such
vehicles shall be closed on all sides and top and shall be watertight. The city
sanitation inspector shall provide suitable forms for any person hauling over
the streets or alleys from outside the city through the city. (Ord. 832, 3-6-
1972)
9-1-11: STORING REFUSE; CLEANUP DAYS:
   (A)   No person shall place any garbage, rubbish or refuse in any street,
alley or other public place or upon any private property, whether owned by such
person or not, within the city except that placed in proper containers at
ground level for collection, under the method provided pursuant to the
authority of this chapter. Any unauthorized accumulation of refuse, garbage or
rubbish on any premises is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited.
Failure to remove any existing accumulation of refuse within twenty four (24)
hours after notice from the sanitation inspector shall be deemed a violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall cast, place, sweep or deposit anywhere within the city
any refuse or garbage in such a manner that it may be carried or deposited by
the elements upon any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place or in or on
any occupied premises within the city. The city may authorize storage of refuse
on streets and alleys for spring and fall cleanup. The city shall designate
such places and times where such accumulation is allowed by resolution. (Ord.
909, 2-7-1977)
9-1-12: STREET LITTER CANS:
Litter and waste disposal containers are not to be used by merchants and store
employees for store and sidewalk sweepings, trash, papers or cartons. They are
placed there by the city for pedestrians to use in the depositing of waste
material to prevent the same from littering upon the city sidewalks and street
gutters. (Ord. 832, 3-6-1972)
9-1-13: CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS:
Debris resulting from the construction, reconstruction or repair of premises
shall not be placed with other refuse for collection but shall be disposed of
directly by the person owning, occupying or leasing the premises. (Ord. 832, 3-
6-1972)
9-1-14: BURNING PROHIBITED EXCEPT BY PERMIT:
Burning of substances of any kind within the city is prohibited except by
special permit issued by the city fire chief in accordance with state and
federal regulation 1  and the uniform fire code then in effect in the city.
(Ord. 1028, 5-7-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. IC 39-102 et seq.
9-1-15: INTERFERE WITH SANITATION INSPECTOR:
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or obstruct the
sanitation inspector during the performance of his duties under this chapter.
(Ord. 832, 3-6-1972)
9-1-16: SUPPRESSING NUISANCES:
The sanitation inspector shall take cognizance of all nuisances within the
limits of the city and shall take such measures as may be effectual to suppress
and abate the same. (Ord. 832, 3-6-1972)
9-1-17: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by regulations under this chapter by the sanitation
inspector or any contractor whom the city has contracted for the garbage and
refuse collection may appeal to the city council. Such appeal shall be
perfected by filing a written specification of grievances with the city clerk.
Within a period of not less than ten (10) nor more than thirty (30) days, the
city council shall meet to hear such appeal. Notice of the time and place of
hearing shall be given to the person appealing at the address shown on the
person's notice of appeal. The city council shall hear all parties in interest
and shall issue its order, its findings of fact and conclusions and order based
thereon. Decision of the council shall be final. (Ord. 832, 3-6-1972)
9-1-18: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as such. Each day such
violation is committed or permitted to continue constitutes a separate offense.
Provisions hereof shall prevent the city from any other judicial action for the
abatement of a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 832, 3-6-1972; amd. 1981 Code)
CHAPTER 2
INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT 1
(Rep. by Ord. 1357, 3-19-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 7 of this Code.
CHAPTER 3
WATER SYSTEM PROTECTION
SECTION:
9-3-1: Purpose
9-3-2: Responsibility
9-3-3: Definitions
9-3-4: Requirements
9-3-5: Violations And Penalties
9-3-6: Fees And Charges
9-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is:
   (A)   To protect the public potable water supply of the City of Burley from
the possibility of contamination or pollution by isolating within its
customers' internal distribution system(s) or its customers' private water
system(s) such contaminants or pollutants which could backflow or back-siphon
into the public water supply system; and
   (B)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross- connections,
actual or potential, between its customers' in- plant potable water system(s)
and non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures and industrial piping systems;
and
   (C)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing Program of Cross-
Connection Control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems. (Ord. 1336, 9-5-2017)
9-3-2: RESPONSIBILITY:
The City Water Superintendent shall be responsible for protection of the public
potable water distribution system from contamination or pollution due to the
backflow or back- siphonage of contaminants or pollutants through the water
service connection. If, in the judgment of said City Water Superintendent, an
approved backflow prevention device is required, for the safety of the water
system, the writing to said customer to install such an approved backflow
prevention device at an appropriate place on or at the premises of the customer
shall provide notice of the needed protection. The customer shall immediately
install such approved device or devices at customer's own expense; and failure,
refusal or inability on the part of the customer to install said device or
devices immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to
the premises until such device or devices have been properly installed. (Ord.
1336, 9-5-2017)
9-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
AIR-GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere between
the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank, plumbing
fixture, or other device and the flood level rim of said vessel.
APPROVED DEVICE: Accepted by the City Water Superintendent as meeting the
applicable specifications in the latest edition of the AWWA Pacific Northwest
Section Cross Connection Control Manual, the University of Southern California
Manual of Cross- Connection Control, and Facility and Design Standards found in
the Idaho Rules for Public Drinking Water Systems (IDAPA 58.01.08.543).
ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER: A device which allows air to enter the water line
when the line pressure is reduced to a gauge pressure of zero (0) or below. The
atmospheric vacuum breaker is designed to prevent back-siphonage only. It is
not effective against backflow due to back pressure and shall not be installed
where it will be under continuous operating pressure for more than twelve (12)
hours in any 24-hour period.
Poppets of all atmospheric vacuum breakers should be precision fitted to insure
positive closure.
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY: Any water supply on or available to the premises other
than the City's approved public potable water supply. These auxiliary waters
may include water from another public potable water supply or any natural
source(s) such as a well, spring, river, stream, etc., or "used waters" or
"industrial fluids". These waters may be polluted or contaminated or they may
be objectionable and constitute an unacceptable water source over which the
City does not have sanitary control.
BACK PRESSURE BACKFLOW: Backflow due to an increased pressure above the supply
pressure, which may be due to pumps, boilers, gravity or other sources of
pressure.
BACK-SIPHONAGE: The flowing back of used, contaminated, or polluted water from
a plumbing fixture or vessel into a water supply due to a negative pressure in
such a pipe.
BACKFLOW: The flow of contaminated water or other non-potable liquids,
mixtures, or substances under pressure into the distributing pipes of a potable
water supply system from any source or sources other than its intended source.
BACKFLOW PREVENTER: A device or means designed to prevent backflow or back-
siphonage.
CITY: The City of Burley, who is the water purveyor invested with the authority
and responsibility for the implementation of an effective Cross-Connection
Control Program and for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the potable water by any fluid,
gas, or substance other than the intended potable water with which the system
is supplied.
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL BY CONTAINMENT: The installation of an approved
backflow prevention device at the water service connection to any customer's
premises where it is physically and economically infeasible to find and
permanently eliminate or control all actual or potential cross-connections
within the customer's water system; or, it shall mean the installation of an
approved backflow prevention device on the service line leading to and
supplying a portion of a customer's water system where there are actual or
potential cross-connections which cannot be effectively eliminated or
controlled at the point of cross-connection.
CROSS-CONNECTIONS, CONTROLLED: A connection between a potable water system and
a nonpotable water system with an approved backflow prevention device properly
installed that will continuously afford the protection commensurate with the
degree of hazard.
CROSS-CONTAMINATION: Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or
fixtures between two (2) otherwise separate piping systems one (1) of which
contains potable water and any fluid, gas, or substance of questionable safety,
through which, or because of which, backflow or back-siphonage may occur into
the potable water system. A water service connection between a public potable
water system and a customer's water distribution system which is cross-
connected to a contaminated fixture, industrial fluid system or with a
potentially contaminated supply or auxiliary water system, constitutes one (1)
type of cross-connection. Other types of cross-connections include connectors
such as swing connections, removable sections, four-way plug valves, spools,
dummy sections of pipe, swivel or change-over devices, sliding multiport tube,
solid connections, etc.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly of two (2) independently operating
approved check valves with tightly closing shut-off valves on each side of the
check valves, plus properly located test cocks for the testing of each check
valve. To be approved these devices must be readily accessible for in-line
maintenance and testing.
HAZARD, DEGREE OF: Derived from an evaluation of the potential risk to public
health and the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water system.
HAZARD, HEALTH: Any condition, device, or practice in the water supply system
and its operation which could create, or in the judgment of the City Water
Superintendent may create a danger to the health and well-being of the water
consumer. An example of a health hazard is a structural defect, including
cross-connections, in a water supply system.
HAZARD, PLUMBING: A plumbing type cross-connection in a consumer's potable
water system that has not been properly protected by a backflow prevention
device. Unprotected plumbing type cross-connections are considered to be a
health hazard.
HAZARD, POLLUTIONAL: An actual or potential threat to the physical properties
of the water system or to the potability of the public or the consumer's
potable water system but which would constitute a nuisance or be aesthetically
objectionable or could cause damage to the system or its appurtenances, but
would not be dangerous to health.
HAZARD, SYSTEM: An actual or potential threat of severe damage to the physical
properties of the public potable water system or the consumer's potable water
system or of a pollution or contamination which would have a protracted effect
on the quality of the potable water in the system.
INDUSTRIAL FLUIDS SYSTEM: Any system containing any fluid, gas, or substance
other than the intended potable water with which the system is supplied which
may be chemically, biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form
or concentration such as would constitute a health, system, pollutional or
plumbing hazard if introduced into an approved water supply. This may include,
but not be limited to: polluted or contaminated water; all types of process
waters and used water originating from the public potable water system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality; chemicals in fluid form; plating
acids and alkalies, circulated cooling waters connected to an open cooling
tower and/or cooling towers that are chemically or biologically treated or
stabilized with toxic substances; contaminated natural waters such as from
wells, springs, streams, rivers, bays, harbors, seas, irrigation canals, or
systems, etc.; oils, gases, glycerin, paraffin, caustic and acid solutions and
other liquid and gaseous fluids used in industrial or other purposes or for
fire-fighting purposes.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic, or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness or quality of the water to a degree which does
not create an actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect such waters for domestic use.
PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER WITH INTERNAL CHECK VALVE: Pressure vacuum breaker
assemblies consist of a check valve (sometimes 2), vacuum relief, inlet and
discharge shutoffs, and properly installed test cocks. The pressure vacuum
breaker has a vacuum relief valve which is internally loaded, normally by means
of a spring. This spring loading allows the device to be installed on the
pressure side of a shutoff valve.
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE DEVICE: An assembly of two (2) independently
operating approved check valves with an automatically operating differential
relief valve between the two (2) check valves, tightly closing shut off valves
on either side of the check valves, plus properly located test cocks for the
testing of the check and relief valves. The device shall operate to maintain
the pressure in the zone between the two (2) check valves at a level less than
the pressure on the public water supply side of the device. At cessation of
normal flow the pressure between the two (2) check valves shall be less than
the pressure on the public water supply side of the device. In case of leakage
of either of the check valves the differential relief valve shall operate to
maintain the reduced pressure in the zone between the check valves by
discharging to the atmosphere. When the inlet pressure is two (2) pounds per
square inch or less, the relief valve shall open to the atmosphere. To be
approved these devices must be readily accessible for in-line maintenance and
testing and be installed in a location where no part of the device will be
submerged.
WATER, NONPOTABLE: Water which is not safe for human consumption or which is of
questionable potability.
WATER, POTABLE: Any water which, according to recognized standards is safe for
human consumption.
WATER, SERVICE CONNECTIONS: The terminal end of a service connection from the
public potable water system; i.e., where the City loses jurisdiction and
sanitary control over the water at its point of delivery to the customer's
water system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service connection,
then the service connection shall mean the downstream end of the meter. There
should be no unprotected takeoffs from the service line ahead of any meter or
backflow prevention device located at the point of delivery to the customer's
water system. Service connection shall also include water service connection
from a fire hydrant and all other temporary or emergency water service
connections from the public potable water system.
WATER, USED: Any water supplied by the City's public potable water system to a
consumer's water system after it has passed through the point of delivery and
no longer under the sanitary control of the City. (Ord. 1336, 9-5-2017)
9-3-4: REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Water System: The water system shall be considered as made up of two
(2) parts: the utility system and the customer system.
      1.   Utility system shall consist of the source facilities and the
distribution system; and shall include all those facilities of the water system
under the complete control of the utility, up to the point where the customer's
system begins.
         a. The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized
in the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the
distribution system.
         b. The distribution system shall include the network of conduits used
for the delivery of water from the source to the customer's system.
      2.   The customer's system shall include those parts of the facilities
beyond the termination of the utility distribution system which are utilized in
conveying utility-delivered domestic water to points of use.
   (B)   Facilities:
      1.   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or
maintained by the City unless the water supply is protected as required by
State laws and standards referred to by this chapter. Service of water to any
premises shall be discontinued by the City Water Superintendent if a backflow
prevention device required by this chapter is not installed, tested and
maintained, or if it is found that a backflow prevention device has been
removed, by-passed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on the
premises. Assemblies that cannot pass annual tests or those found to be
defective shall be repaired, replaced, or isolated within ten (10) business
days. If the failed assembly cannot be repaired, replaced, or isolated within
ten (10) business days, water service to the failed assembly shall be
discontinued. Service will not be restored until such conditions or defects are
corrected.
      2.   The customer's system should be open for inspection at all
reasonable times to authorized representatives of the City to determine whether
cross-connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including violations
of these regulations, exist. When such a condition becomes known, the City
Water Superintendent shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the
premises by providing for a physical break in the service line until the
customer has corrected the condition(s) in conformance with State and City
ordinances relating to plumbing and water supplies and the regulations adopted
pursuant thereto.
      3.   A premises isolation or containment approved backflow prevention
device shall also be installed on each service line to a customer's water
system at or near the property line or immediately inside the building being
served; but, in all cases, before the first branch line leading off the service
line wherever the following conditions exist:
         a. In the case of premises having an auxiliary water supply which can
supply water to the customer through an auxiliary water supply. The public
water system shall be protected against backflow from the premises by
installing a backflow prevention device in the service line appropriate to the
degree of hazard.
         b. In the case of premises on which any industrial fluids or any other
objectionable substance is handled in such a fashion as to create an actual or
potential hazard to the public water system shall be protected against backflow
from the premises by installing a backflow prevention device in the service
line appropriate to the degree of hazard. This shall include the handling of
process waters and waters originating from the utility system which have been
subject to deterioration in quality.
         c. In the case of premises having: 1) internal cross- connections that
cannot be permanently corrected and controlled, or 2) intricate plumbing and
piping arrangements or where entry to all portions of the premises is not
readily accessible for inspection purposes, making it impractical or impossible
to ascertain whether or not the public water system shall be protected against
backflow from the premises by installing a backflow prevention device in the
service line.
         d. In the case of wet fire system connections.
      4.   The type of protective device required under subsections (B)3a,
(B)3b, (B)3c and (B)3d of this section shall depend upon the degree of hazard
which exists as follows:
         a. In the case of any premises where there is an auxiliary water
supply as stated in subsection (B)3a of this section and it is not subject to
any of the following rules, the public water system shall be protected by an
approved air-gap separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device.
         b. In the case of any premises where there is water or substance that
would be objectionable but not hazardous to health, if introduced into the
public water system, the public water system shall be protected by an approved
double check valve assembly.
         c. In the case of any premises where there is any material dangerous
to health which is handled in such a fashion as to create an actual or
potential hazard to the public water system, the public water system shall be
protected by an approved air-gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device. Examples of premises where these
conditions may exist include sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations,
chemical manufacturing plants, hospitals, mortuaries and plating plants.
         d. In the case of any premises where there are "uncontrolled" cross-
connections either actual or potential, the public water system shall be
protected by an approved air-gap separation or an approved backflow prevention
device at the service connection.
         e. In the case of any premises where, because of security requirements
or other prohibitions or restrictions it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete in-plant cross- connection survey, the public water system shall be
protected against backflow or back-siphonage from the premises by the
installation of a backflow prevention device in the service line. In this case
maximum protection will be required that is, an approved air-gap separation or
an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be
installed in each service to the premises.
         f. In the case of a wet fire systems connection where there is an
actual or potential danger to pollution or contamination of such system, the
public water system shall be protected by a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device or a double check valve assembly.
      5.   Any backflow prevention device required herein shall be of a model
and size approved by the City Water Superintendent and listed in the University
of Southern California (USC) Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and
Hydraulic Research List of Approved Backflow Prevention Assemblies. If double
check valve backflow prevention assemblies and/or reduced pressure principle
backflow prevention assemblies are used, they must pass a performance test
conducted by the University of Southern California Foundation for Cross-
Connection Control and Hydraulic Research. In addition, they shall meet
American Water Works Association (AWWA) Standards C-510 or C-511, or an
equivalent standard approved by the City Water Superintendent. If atmospheric
vacuum breakers and/or pressure vacuum breakers are used, they shall be marked
approved by the International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials
(IAPMO) or by the American Society of Sanitation Engineers (ASSE). Pressure
vacuum breakers must pass a performance test conducted by the University of
Southern California Foundation for Cross Connection Control and Hydraulic
Research.
The following testing laboratory has been qualified by the City Water
Superintendent to test and certify backflow preventers:
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research
University of Southern California
University Park
Los Angeles, California 90007
Testing laboratories other than the laboratory listed above will be added to an
approved list as they are qualified by the City Water Superintendent. Backflow
preventers, which may be subjected, to back pressure or back siphonage that
have been fully tested and have been granted a Certificate of Approval by said
qualified laboratory and are listed on the laboratory's current list of
"Approved Devices" may be used without further test or qualification.
      6.   It shall be the duty of the customer-user at any premises where
backflow prevention devices are installed to have the devices pass certified
inspection and operational tests made at the time of installation and at least
once per year thereafter. In those instances where the City Water
Superintendent deems the hazard to be great enough, the City Water
Superintendent may require certified inspections at more frequent intervals.
These inspections and tests shall be performed by a certified tester approved
by the City Water Superintendent and the Idaho Bureau of Occupational Licenses.
It shall be the duty of the City Water Superintendent to see that these timely
tests are made. The customer-user shall notify the City Water Superintendent in
advance when the tests are to be undertaken so that he or his representatives
may witness the tests if it is so desired. These devices shall be repaired,
overhauled or replaced at the expense of the customer-user whenever said
devices are found to be defective. Records of such tests, repairs, and overhaul
shall be kept and made available to the City Water Superintendent.
      7.   All presently installed backflow prevention devices which do not
meet the requirements of this section but were approved devices for the
purposes described herein at the time of installation and which have been
properly maintained, shall, except for the inspection and maintenance
requirements of these under subsection (B)6 of this section, be excluded from
the requirements of these rules so long as the City Water Superintendent is
assured that they will satisfactorily protect the utility system. Whenever the
existing device is moved from the present location or requires more than
minimum maintenance or when the City Water Superintendent finds that the
maintenance constitutes a hazard to health, the unit shall be replaced by a
backflow prevention device meeting the requirements of this section.
      8.   On new installations, the department will provide on-site evaluation
and/or inspection of plans in order to determine the type of backflow
preventer, if any, that will be required, will issue permits if required, and
perform inspection and testing. Owners and/or installers of water services
shall allow City personnel to inspect water system connections and service line
installations prior to backfilling operations in order to insure that
installations are in compliance with local and State regulations. (Ord. 1336,
9-5-2017)
9-3-5: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person who violates, omits, disobeys, neglects, refuses to comply
with any of the provisions of this chapter or any other rules and regulations
with regard to cross- connection adopted by the City of Burley, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor or felony. Each day in which the violation occurs shall
continue to be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall also
be liable to the City of Burley for any expense, loss, or damage, occasioned by
the City by reason of such violation.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter will be denied
delivery of water until the violation is corrected.
   (D)   Assemblies that cannot pass annual tests or those found to be
defective shall be repaired, replaced, or isolated within ten (10) business
days. If the failed assembly cannot be repaired, replaced, or isolated within
ten (10) business days, water service to the failed assembly shall be
discontinued. (Ord. 1336, 9-5-2017)
9-3-6: FEES AND CHARGES:
The City reserves the right to assess or impose fees or charges for the
following services or permits:
   (A)   Testing fees;
   (B)   Re-testing fees;
   (C)   Fee for re-inspection;
   (D)   Charges for after-hours inspections and/or tests;
   (E)   Cross-connection permits.
The City of Burley is hereby authorized to review rates periodically and change
rates accordingly if deemed appropriate to insure continued proper operation of
the system. The City is hereby directed and authorized to provide for annual
notification of water system fees and costs to users. User connections fee
rates are subject to review periodically and the City is hereby authorized to
change such rates if deemed appropriate to insure continued operation of the
system. (Ord. 1336, 9-5-2017)
TITLE 10
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
10-1-1: Police Department Created
10-1-2: Appointment And Qualifications Of Members
10-1-3: Powers Of Police
10-1-4: Members Under Chief
10-1-5: Report Of Chief Of Police
10-1-6: Police Training
10-1-1: POLICE DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created a Police Department in the City. Said Department shall
consist of a Chief of Police, such number of policemen as shall be authorized
by the Mayor and Council and such special police as may be authorized from time
to time, or as exigencies arise, by the Mayor and Council. (Ord. 457, 9-4-1951;
amd. 1981 Code)
10-1-2: APPOINTMENT AND QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS:
The Mayor, with the consent of the Council, shall appoint the Chief of Police
and the authorized policemen provided for in Section
10-1-1 of this Chapter and he shall have authority, with the consent of the
Council, to appoint special policemen from time to time as exigencies arise.
(Ord. 457, 9-4-1951)
10-1-3: POWERS OF POLICE:
   (A)   The officers and members of the Police Department shall have power to
arrest all offenders against the laws of the State or of the City, by day or by
night, in the same manner as other police officers of the State.
   (B)   Whenever such police officers shall be in the fresh pursuit of an
offender against any law of the State or of the City, and the offense has been
committed within the corporate limits of the City, such police officer, while
in such fresh pursuit, may go beyond the corporate or geographical limits of
the City for the purpose of making such arrest.
   (C)   The Chief of Police or any member of the Police Department shall have
authority to call upon any person to assist him in making an arrest, capturing
or retaining in custody any person. Any person, when so requested, who shall
refuse or fail, to the best of his ability, to render such aid as required
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 457, 9-4-1951; amd. 1981 Code)
10-1-4: MEMBERS UNDER CHIEF:
All persons appointed under the provisions of this Chapter as policemen or
special police shall be under the direction and supervision of the Chief of
Police. The Chief of Police may designate one of the policemen to be Assistant
Chief of Police and in the absence of the Chief of Police, he shall have all
the authority herein vested in the Chief of Police. The policemen shall be
subject to the orders of the Chief of Police, except in cases otherwise
provided by ordinance. It shall be their duty to cause the public peace to be
preserved and to see that all laws and ordinances are enforced within the City
limits. (Ord. 457, 9-4-1951; amd. 1981 Code)
10-1-5: REPORT OF CHIEF OF POLICE:
The Chief of Police shall make a written report monthly giving a true account
of the number of arrests made, persons arrested and nature of offense charged,
during the month and such further reports as may at any time be requested by
the Mayor and Council. (Ord. 457, 9-4-1951)
10-1-6: POLICE TRAINING:
The City declares that it desires to qualify to receive aid for police training
from the Law Enforcement Planning Commission under the provisions of chapter
51, section 19-5118 of the Idaho Code.
Pursuant to section 19-5117, Idaho Code, of said chapter 51, title 19, the
City, while receiving aid from the Law Enforcement Planning Commission pursuant
to chapter 51, will adhere to the standards for employment, recruitment and
training established by the Idaho Law Enforcement Planning Commission. (Ord.
797, 3-2-1970)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMALS AND FOWL
SECTION:
10-2-1: Animal Control Supervisor And Officers
10-2-2: Animals And Fowl At Large Prohibited; Impounding
10-2-3: Impounding Fees
10-2-4: Time Of Holding Animals
10-2-5: Removal Of Animals From Pound
10-2-6: Certain Animals Restricted
10-2-7: Trailing Livestock Or Sheep Through City
10-2-8: Leaving Animals And Fowl Unattended
10-2-1: ANIMAL CONTROL SUPERVISOR AND OFFICERS:
   (A)   Appointment: The mayor shall appoint, subject to confirmation by the
city council, a qualified person as animal control supervisor for the purpose
of enforcing the provisions of birds, animals and fowl within the city. He and
his assistants shall be known as animal control officers, and they shall
possess all of the authority of police officers of the city, for the purpose of
enforcing said provisions.
   (B)   Duties: The animal control supervisor shall be in charge of
supervising the animal control officers and shall be in charge of the animal
shelter for the impounding of dogs and other animals. (Ord. 852, 10-1973; amd.
1981 Code)
10-2-2: ANIMALS AND FOWL AT LARGE PROHIBITED; IMPOUNDING:
   (A)   Animals: It shall be unlawful for any horses, mules, asses, cattle,
swine, sheep or goats to run at large within the corporate limits of the city.
      If any horse, mule, ass, cattle, swine, sheep or goat shall be allowed or
permitted to run at large and unguarded, within the corporate limits of the
city, it shall be the duty of the chief of police or animal control supervisor
to take up such animal and hold the same in a place to be designated by the
city council until the owners thereof shall call for and pay all charges and
damages assessed against such animal, or until the same shall be disposed of as
hereinafter provided. (Ord. 23, 11-3-1909; amd. 1981 Code)
   (B)   Fowl: Every person owning or having in his care or under his control
any chicken, duck, goose or fowl of whatsoever kind who shall permit the same
to run at large within the corporate limits of the city shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 137, 3-22-1916; amd. 1981 Code)
10-2-3: IMPOUNDING FEES:
For every horse, mule, ass, cow, swine, sheep or goat running at large, which
shall be taken up as herein provided,there shall be assessed a fee in an amount
established by a resolution adopted by the Burley city council for each head
that enters the pound. Such fee shall be all that shall be assessed against any
animal if the same is removed before the expiration of twelve (12) hours. If
any animal is not removed before the expiration of twelve (12) hours, then
there shall be a fee in an amount established by a resolution adopted by the
Burley city council for every twelve (12) hours or fractional part of twelve
(12) hours that any animal may remain in the pound.
All fees collected under this chapter shall be paid to the animal control
supervisor, who shall keep a strict and accurate account of all fees paid to
him and said fees shall then be paid by him into the city treasury at the end
of each day. (Ord. 1160, 5-7-2002)
10-2-4: TIME OF HOLDING ANIMALS:
Any animal taken up under the provisions of this chapter shall be held by the
animal control supervisor for a period of seventy two (72) hours, and if at the
expiration of that time the owner has not redeemed the same, then it shall be
disposed of in the manner provided for the disposition of estrays by title 25,
chapter 23 of the Idaho Code. (Ord. 23, 11-3-1909; amd. 1981 Code)
10-2-5: REMOVAL OF ANIMALS FROM POUND:
Any person who shall remove or take from the estray pound any animal herein
specified without first having paid all costs and charges thereon or without
the consent of the animal control supervisor, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 23, 11-3-1909; amd. 1981 Code)
10-2-6: CERTAIN ANIMALS RESTRICTED:
   (A)   Regulations: Every person who shall, within the corporate limits of
the city, keep or have in his possession any hog or pig, except while such hog
or pig is being transported through for the purpose of lawful disposal, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Restricted Areas; Animals Prohibited Enumerated: It shall be unlawful
for any person to keep or maintain any horses, cattle, hogs, pigs, sheep,
goats, rabbits, chickens or poultry, except baby chickens under four (4) weeks
of age, within the restricted district as defined below.
There is hereby created and established a restricted district within the city,
described as follows:
All of the territory within the city limits excepting licensed agricultural
marketing establishments and the Cassia County Fairgrounds.
   (C)   Mink, Bees, Foxes And Coyotes: The keeping of mink, bees, foxes or
coyotes within the city limits is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and
no person shall hereafter keep any such mink, bees, foxes or coyotes within the
city limits.
   (D)   Exceptions For Educational Purposes: The prohibitions and restrictions
described in this section shall not apply to the following:
      1.   The raising of rabbits within confined and completely enclosed
facilities upon land owned by a lawfully existing public school district for
educational purposes.
      2.   Keeping or maintaining within a completely enclosed structure
horses, cattle, hogs, pigs, sheep or goats upon land owned by a lawfully
existing public school district on a temporary basis for no longer than ten
(10) continuous days, for the purpose of exhibiting, evaluating, judging or
demonstrating husbandry practices, for the education of students of the school
district. However, a violation shall occur if any individual animal is kept or
maintained longer than ten (10) days of any calendar year on school district
property.
   (E)   Violations: A person's first violation of any provision of this
section shall constitute an infraction as defined by Idaho Code section 18-111
punishable by a fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00) exclusive of any costs
imposed by the court. A person's second or subsequent violation of this section
shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) and one hundred eighty (180) days of jail. Each person in
violation of this section is guilty of a separate offense for each and every
day during any portion of which any violation of this section is committed,
continued or permitted by any such person. The penalties provided herein are to
be enforced in addition to and separate from any civil action or process for
revocation of a permit. (Ord. 1320, 10-6-2015)
10-2-7: TRAILING LIVESTOCK OR SHEEP THROUGH CITY:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to drive or trail or permit the driving or
trailing of bands or herds of sheep or livestock in or through the city limits,
except on Park Avenue from north Railroad Avenue to the north boundary line of
the city, and approaches to the stockyard in the commercial addition north of
the railroad right of way. (Ord. 626, 2-17-1958)
10-2-8: LEAVING ANIMALS AND FOWL UNATTENDED:
Any person who shall leave standing in the streets, alleys or other places in
the city, any animal or fowl for a period of twenty four (24) hours shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 56, 5-18-1911; amd. 1981 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Definitions
10-3-2: License And Registration Required
10-3-3: Tag And Collar; Registration Date And Renewal; Penalties
10-3-4: Dogs Running At Large Prohibited
10-3-5: Impounding Dogs
10-3-6: Sale And/Or Disposal Of Impounded Animals
10-3-7: Rabies Control
10-3-8: Vicious Dogs And Cats
10-3-9: Unlawful And Prohibited Acts
10-3-10: Kennel License; Application; Kennel Restrictions; Penalties
10-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as set forth
herein, unless the context indicates otherwise:
AT LARGE: Either on or off the premises of the owner, and not under the control
of the owner or a member of his immediate family either by leash, cord, chain
or other similar device, or confined in an enclosure.
CAT: The common definition found in "Webster's Dictionary", second edition, as
applied to animals, shall apply.
CONFINED ON THE PREMISES: That condition in which a dog is securely and
physically confined and restrained on and within the premises of the owner by
means of walls, fences, ropes, chains, leashes or other devices of such
strength and size as is physically required to prevent the same from leaving
the premises.
DOG: Any member of the canine species, both male and female.
OWNER: Any person owning, keeping or harboring a dog or cat. (Ord. 1130, 3-20-
2000)
10-3-2: LICENSE AND REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
All dogs kept, harbored or maintained by their owners in the city shall be
licensed and registered if over two (2) months of age. Cats may be voluntarily
licensed. Licenses shall be issued by the city clerk upon payment of a license
tax in an amount established by a resolution adopted by the Burley city council
for each dog or cat. If the animal is neutered the fee shall be reduced. Dogs
or cats may receive a lifetime license provided that they have an embedded
microchip meeting city specifications and upon payment of a lifetime license
tax in an amount established by a resolution adopted by the Burley city
council. The owner shall state at the time the application is made for such
license and upon forms printed for such purpose, the owner's name and address,
and the name, breed, color, and sex of each dog or cat owned or kept. The
provisions of this section are not intended to apply to dogs or cats whose
owners are nonresidents temporarily within the city, nor to the dogs or cats
brought into the city for the purpose of participating in any animal shows, nor
to "seeing eye" dogs properly trained to assist blind persons when such dogs
are actually being used by such blind persons for the purpose of aiding them in
going from place to place. (Ord. 1160, 5-7-2002)
10-3-3: TAG AND COLLAR; REGISTRATION DATE AND RENEWAL; PENALTIES:
Upon the payment of a license fee the clerk shall issue to the owner a license
certificate and a tag of a metallic, plastic or other similar substance for
each dog or cat so licensed. The size and shape of the tag shall be as
determined by the animal control supervisor 1 , and shall have stamped thereon
the number corresponding with the number of the certificate. In case a tag is
lost or destroyed, a duplicate will be issued by the clerk upon presentation of
the receipt showing the payment of a license fee and the payment in an amount
established by a resolution adopted by the Burley city council for each such
duplicate. The dog or cat tags shall not be transferable from one dog or cat to
another and no refund will be made on any license issued because of death of
the dog or cat or the owner's leaving the city. The tag must be affixed to a
collar on the dog's neck at all times. Display of cat tags shall be in the
discretion of the owner. Licenses shall be purchased when a dog is two (2)
months of age and shall be purchased annually prior to January 1. Licenses
shall expire December 31 of each year. If a dog license is not purchased or
renewed within thirty (30) days from the date required herein a penalty of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) in addition to the license tax shall be imposed by
the city clerk at the time of registration. It is the duty of the owner or
keeper of the dog to prove the age of the dog and in cases where the animal
control supervisor or officers cannot determine by examination the age of the
dog, or absent competent proof to the contrary, all animals shall be presumed
to be over two (2) months of age.
Any owner of a dog who fails to license his or her animal and/or display said
license as set forth in section
10-3-2 of this chapter and this section shall, in addition to being required to
purchase or renew a license and pay any applicable late penalty, be in
violation of this code and shall be notified by a citation or notice of
violation personally served or posted at the residence of the offender. The
notification will require the owner of the dog to appear at the Burley city
clerk's office on or before a date set forth on the notice. The owner may
appear by mail or in person. At the time of appearance the owner may admit the
violation and pay a fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00), to the city of
Burley, as part of the administrative collection of animal control violation
penalties, or may deny the violation. If the owner fails to appear, the owner
of the dog shall be sent a written notice requiring appearance within a period
of ten (10) days. Thereafter, any owner failing to report, or denying the
violation, shall be charged with an infraction. If an infraction is charged,
any owner violating said sections shall be guilty of an infraction and shall be
punishable by a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) excluding court costs and fees.
All other violations of this chapter shall constitute a general misdemeanor as
set forth in subsection
10-3-9I of this chapter. (Ord. 1275, 12-21-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-2-1 of this title.
10-3-4: DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to knowingly or unknowingly allow
such dog to be at large within the city, and it shall be unlawful for any dog
to run at large within the city at any time. (Ord. 1130, 3-20-2000)
10-3-5: IMPOUNDING DOGS:
   (A)   Confinement; Capture; Surrender:
      1.   Animal control officers, all policemen of the city and such other
persons as the mayor may designate are hereby directed to pick up all dogs
found at large in violation of the provisions of this chapter and confine them
in the animal shelter or at any other place that may be designated by the
mayor.
      2.   Any property owner or lawful occupant of property, or the city of
Burley acting through its employees, may deem any animal found on its premises
a nuisance animal and may request the animal control officers of the city of
Burley to trap the animal. Upon being trapped the animal shall be impounded by
the city of Burley as hereinafter provided. All necessary measures may be used
by authorized city employees to capture offending animals, including lethal
measures if necessary for public safety. Neither the city nor its employees
will be liable for injury to or death of an offending animal.
      3.   Any resident of the city of Burley may bring a dog or cat to the
animal shelter to be impounded without charge, provided, the person shall
complete a form provided by the animal control supervisor. The form, at a
minimum, shall require an identification of the name and address of the person
delivering the animal; the ownership of the animal, if known; the place and
circumstances under which the animal came into the possession of the person and
whether the animal was collared or tagged at the time taken into possession.
(Ord. 1130, 3-20-2000)
   (B)   Impounding Fees:
      1.   Animal control officers shall charge a pick up fee in an amount
established by a resolution adopted by the Burley city council per each animal
apprehended and impounded by the officer or other person authorized to pick up
and impound the same. Dogs or cats which are tagged in compliance with this
chapter will not be charged a pick up fee for the first time impounded in any
given calendar year provided, however, the animal shall still be subject to
charges for the costs of sustenance as hereafter set forth. No dog or cat will
be released by the animal control officer unless neutered or the owner provided
an affidavit the animal is used for breeding.
      2.   At the cost of the city, the animal control supervisor and the
animal control officers shall provide suitable and necessary sustenance for all
animals picked up and impounded. In addition to the pick up charge, the animal
control officers shall charge for the cost of sustenance of impounded animals
in an amount established by a resolution adopted by the Burley city council.
Each fraction of a day an animal is impounded shall be considered a full day
for computation of room and board costs.
      3.   The animal control officers shall not release any impounded animal
to its owner until all pick up charges, room and board charges, and any
required vaccination charges are paid in full, it is licensed, if required, and
it has been vaccinated for rabies.
      4.   All proceeds from the pick up charges, sustenance charges or other
charges shall be remitted to the city clerk by the animal control supervisor or
officers and placed in the general fund of the city. (Ord. 1160, 5-7-2002)
   (C)   Enter Premises: The animal control supervisor and animal control
officers, in the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, are authorized
to enter upon the premises of any person to take possession of any unlicensed,
at large, fierce, dangerous or vicious dog or when in fresh pursuit of a dog at
large at the time the dog goes onto private property. Entry into a private
building or residence shall require permission of the property owner or lawful
occupant. (Ord. 1130, 3-20-2000)
10-3-6: SALE AND/OR DISPOSAL OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
   (A)   Any animal impounded by an animal control officer, other than an
animal suspected of biting a person, may be sold, destroyed or otherwise
disposed of by the city after three (3) working days after the time of its
impoundment at the animal shelter in the event that the owner of such animal
has failed to pay the pick up charge, the room and board charge and the
veterinarian expense. If the dog or cat is tagged, the time provided in the
preceding sentence, shall be four (4) working days.
   (B)   If an impounded dog or cat is displaying a tag or tags, the animal
control officer shall make reasonable efforts to identify the owner thereof and
to contact the owner following the impoundment to advise the owner of the
impoundment of said dog or cat and to advise that the said dog or cat will be
subject to be sold, destroyed or otherwise disposed of after the four (4)
working days from its impoundment. Reasonable efforts shall be deemed to
include, but not limited to, either a telephone call, a written notice, a
combination of such two (2) methods or actual notice. If the efforts to locate
the owner are not successful, the dog or cat shall be sold, destroyed or
otherwise disposed of. If the dog or cat is not displaying any of the above
described tags by which its owner can be identified, the animal control
officers need not make any attempt to determine ownership and give any notice
before the destruction or disposal of such impounded dog or cat. The city shall
not be responsible for not contacting the owner under this section prior to
disposal of the dog or cat.
   (C)   The method and manner of disposal or destruction of any impounded
animal, not suspected of biting a person, shall be directed by the animal
control supervisor in a humane manner. The humane manner shall be within the
discretion of the animal control supervisor. (Ord. 1130, 3-20-2000)
10-3-7: RABIES CONTROL:
In the case of any animal capable of carrying or transmitting rabies, or other
disease that has bitten or otherwise injured a person, it shall be the duty of
the animal control officer to impound the same for a period of fourteen (14)
days at either the animal shelter or at a licensed veterinarian's hospital for
the purpose of keeping the same under supervision, except in the case of an
emergency when it is impossible to capture the animal, no animal suspected of
being rabid or otherwise diseased shall be destroyed until such destruction is
recommended by a licensed veterinarian or the animal control supervisor. If, in
the opinion of the animal control supervisor, vaccination or consultation with
a licensed veterinarian is required, all such charges of the licensed
veterinarian shall be in addition to the charges elsewhere imposed in this
chapter. (Ord. 1130, 3-20-2000)
10-3-8: VICIOUS DOGS AND CATS:
A "vicious dog or cat" means a dog or cat disposed to attack persons or other
animals or which acts in a manner which is threatening, fearsome or violently
aggressive towards persons on public streets, sidewalks, parks or property or
upon private property with the permission of the owner. It shall be unlawful to
maintain or have any vicious dog or cat in the city of Burley. (Ord. 1130, 3-
20-2000)
10-3-9: UNLAWFUL AND PROHIBITED ACTS:
   (A)   Breaking Into Animal Shelter; Obstructing Officers And Equipment: It
shall be unlawful and in violation of this chapter for any person to tamper
with, break open, assist or advise directly or indirectly in the breaking open
or tampering with the animal shelter or any equipment of the animal control
department. No person shall hinder, delay or obstruct any person duly
authorized to pick up, impound or keep any animal subject to being impounded
under this chapter.
   (B)   Harboring Dogs And Cats Making Loud Noises: It shall be unlawful for
any person to own, keep or harbor any dog or cat that causes annoyance or
disturbance to any resident of the city by loud and frequent barking, howling
and/or yelping, mewing or other similar loud or raucous sounds. Prosecutions
under this subsection shall be made only upon the sworn written complaint filed
by any person so annoyed or disturbed.
   (C)   Abandon Dog Or Cat: It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog or
cat to abandon or desert such dog or cat or to permit such dog or cat to become
a stray. The animal control officers and other authorized persons shall impound
any dog or cat that has been abandoned or deserted. Any dog or cat found at
large and not wearing any tag or tags indicating proof of registration with the
city shall be presumed to have been abandoned or deserted.
   (D)   Confinement To Premises: It shall be unlawful for any person to cause,
permit, or allow a dog or dogs, owned, harbored, controlled, or kept by him or
her to be restrained on the premises in which the dog or dogs are owned,
harbored, controlled, or kept, by a leash or chain of sufficient length to
enable the dog or dogs to go off of the premises in which the dog or dogs are
owned, harbored, controlled or kept and onto adjacent or contiguous private or
public property.
   (E)   Defecating By Dogs Or Cats: It shall be unlawful for any person owning
or having the charge, care, custody or control of any dog or cat to permit it
to defecate on any public property unless that person immediately and
completely removes and properly disposes of the feces, or upon private property
without consent of the owner.
   (F)   Offensive Odors And Conditions: It shall be unlawful for any person to
maintain dogs or cats and to allow accumulations of feces, waste or debris
resulting in odors or visual conditions offensive to neighboring private
properties or persons lawfully upon public properties.
   (G)   Number Of Dogs Or Cats; Kennel: It shall be unlawful for any person to
own, harbor or maintain numerous dogs or cats at a single premises in the city
of Burley, under conditions substantially interfering with the rights of
neighboring occupants to the quiet enjoyment of their property or to maintain a
commercial kennel in the city of Burley, provided this subsection shall not
apply to veterinary clinics at which a licensed veterinarian actively practices
his profession. A commercial kennel shall refer to any person or business which
cares for three (3) or more dogs at any one time, for a fee or consideration.
   (H)   Cemetery, Dog Limitations: It shall be unlawful for any person to take
or allow a dog into a cemetery in the city of Burley unless it is confined in a
vehicle.
   (I)   Penalty: Any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor,
punishable as provided by this code or by the statutes of the state of Idaho.
(Ord. 1130, 3-20-2000)
10-3-10: KENNEL LICENSE; APPLICATION; KENNEL RESTRICTIONS; PENALTIES:
   (A)   Kennel License; Application: It is unlawful to keep, maintain or
possess upon the premises of any one household more than five (5) canines two
(2) months of age or older in an incorporated area of the city unless the
owner, or person in charge thereof, first obtains a kennel license. Such kennel
license shall only be permitted and issued in accordance with the terms and
provisions of the city zoning ordinance; provided, however, that notice of any
public hearing required on any application for a kennel license shall be mailed
to all abutting property owners within the boundary line of an area determined
by the intersection of lines drawn six hundred feet (600') at right angles out
from and parallel to all sides of the tract whereupon such kennel is to be
erected or maintained. Where dedicated street rights of way are encountered,
they shall be included in establishing the six hundred foot (600') boundary
line around the tract.
   (B)   License Fees: A kennel license shall be issued when the applicant pays
the annual kennel license fee as established by the board plus the annual tag
fee for each canine two (2) months of age or older to be kept in the kennel,
provided the requirements established in this section have been fulfilled.
   (C)   Location: No kennel shall be established within one hundred fifty feet
(150') of any dwelling house other than that of the kennel owner; provided,
however, that a kennel license may be issued to establish a kennel within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of a dwelling house other than that of the kennel
owner upon consent of all property owners within three hundred feet (300') of
the kennel.
   (D)   Condition; Noise: Said canine kennel shall be kept at all times in a
clean and sanitary condition and the canines shall be reasonably restrained
from annoying the neighborhood or the general public by loud, frequent, or
habitual barking, yelping or howling.
   (E)   Penalties: Any violation of the provision of the requirements of this
section shall constitute a misdemeanor. (Ord. 1275, 12-21-2010)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
10-4-1: Weapons
10-4-2: Injure Property
10-4-3: Open Bottle Law
10-4-4: Toxic Inhalants
10-4-5: Loitering
10-4-5-1: Loitering On Private Property In Commercial Areas
10-4-6: Labor Disputes
10-4-7: Paint Rifles, Pistols And Grenades
10-4-8: Graffiti
10-4-9: Public Indecency
10-4-10: Prowling
10-4-11: Unlawful Use Of Coasting Devices
10-4-12: Boat Ramp Interference
10-4-13: Penalty
10-4-14: Public Disturbance
10-4-15: Storybook Park
10-4-16: Vehicle Sounds
10-4-1: WEAPONS:
   (A)   Use Of Bow And Arrow: It shall be unlawful for any person to dislodge
an arrow from a bow except at a duly established archery range.
   (B)   Discharge Of Air Guns Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person to
fire or discharge any air rifle or air pistol, including but not limited to
airsoft guns, within the corporate limits of the city, except at such locations
as may be authorized in writing for such purposes by the City Council where
such weapon can be fired, discharged or operated in a manner such as not to
endanger persons or property.
   (C)   Use Or Discharge Of Slingshot Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any
person to use, operate or discharge any slingshot or other device of a like
nature within the corporate limits of the city.
   (D)   Firearms:
      1.   No person shall discharge any firearm within the city of Burley with
the exception of any employee or agent of the city of Burley or law enforcement
officer, acting within the course and scope of their official duties, police or
military salutes upon command from a proper military or police officer, or use
as a starting, ending, or other signal at any organized sporting event
recognized by a public school or the city of Burley.
      2.   As used herein the term "firearm" shall mean any barreled device of
any description, including barreled devices having partially obstructed barrels
to prevent discharge of projectiles while allowing compressed gases to escape,
which can be discharged by the action of an explosive or compressed gas, or the
igniting of flammable or explosive substances.
      3.   This subsection (D) shall not apply to the discharge of a firearm
within the city of Burley in the lawful defense of person or persons or
property. Further, this subsection (D) shall not apply to the discharge of a
firearm at locations authorized by the City Council as described in subsection
(B), or within the city of Burley in an indoor shooting range. As used herein,
the term "indoor shooting range" shall refer to a fully enclosed, roofed
facility designed and constructed with soundproofing adequate to prevent
disturbance to the peace of the surrounding neighborhood, with backstop and
ricochet protection sufficient to assure no projectile can escape from the
premises.
      4.   A violation of this subsection (D) shall be a misdemeanor with the
penalties provided for misdemeanors by the ordinances of the city of Burley or,
in the alternative, by the statutes of the state of Idaho. (1981 Code; amd.
Ord. 362, 10-21-1940; Ord. 1307, 9-2-2014; Ord. 1413, 6-18-2024)
10-4-2: INJURE PROPERTY:
   (A)   Riding Or Driving Animal Or Vehicle On Sidewalks: Any person who shall
run, lead or drive any horse or mule, car or wagon or team of horses or team of
mules with a car or wagon thereto attached; or who shall permit a horse, mule
or wagon under his control to go upon, over or across any sidewalk within the
city except at a street or alley crossing shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 49, 2-1-1911)
   (B)   Injuring Trees, Shrubs And Grass: Any person who shall cut, break or
otherwise injure any tree or shrub, or who shall permit any animal owned by him
or under his control to break bark, eat, bite or otherwise injure any tree,
shrub or grass planted in the streets, alleys or parks of the city shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 49, 2-1-1911; amd. 1981 Code)
   (C)   Posting Bills Or Notices On Poles: Any person who shall post any bill,
notice or other document or announcement of any kind upon any electric light or
telephone pole within the corporate limits of the city shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 56, 5-18-1911)
10-4-3: OPEN BOTTLE LAW:
   (A)   Definitions: The following terms as used in this section shall mean:
    ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR:
      1. "Alcohol" means the product of distillation of any fermented liquor,
rectified either once or more often, whatever may be the origin thereof, or
synthetic ethyl alcohol.
      2. "Spirits" means any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by
distillation mixed with drinkable water and other substances in solution,
including among other things, brandy, rum, whiskey and gin.
      3. "Wine" means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of
the natural sugar content of fruits (grapes, apples, etc.) or other
agricultural products containing sugar (honey, milk, etc.).
      4. Any liquid or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits or
wine and susceptible of being consumed by human beings for beverage purposes
containing more than four percent (4%) of alcohol by weight. (Ord. 824, 6-21-
1971)
   BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt and/or other ingredients in drinkable water and
containing not more than four percent (4%) of alcohol by weight.
   PUBLIC AREA: All areas in the zones designated as "C-1", "C-2", "C-3" and
"S" in the Zoning Title (Title 5 of this Code) as now in effect and as may be
amended from time to time, used as parking areas and lots, sidewalks, building
traffic areas, loading and unloading areas, alleys, public easement, roadways
along canals and ditches, rights of way for public utilities and railroads,
school grounds, parking along and adjacent to public streets and similar such
areas of public use and the same described areas located in zoned residential
areas of the City as defined in the Zoning Title of this Code. (Ord. 891, 2-17-
1976)
   (B)   Possession, Consumption And Transportation Of Beer And Alcoholic
Liquor Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Consume beer or alcoholic liquor upon the public streets or public
areas in the City.
      2.   Break open, or allow to be broken or opened, any container of beer
or alcoholic liquor while the same is being transported or is in an automobile
or other vehicle upon the public streets or public areas of the City. (Ord.
824, 6-21-1971)
      3.   To possess an open container of beer or alcoholic liquor upon the
public streets or public areas of the City. (Ord. 1021, 9-6-1988)
10-4-4: TOXIC INHALANTS:
   (A)   Use Of Toxic Inhalants Prohibited: No person shall breathe, inhale or
drink any compound, liquid, chemical or other substance containing toluol,
hexane, trichloroethylene, acetone, toluene, ethyl acetate, methylethyl ketone,
trichloroethane, isopropanol methyl isobutyl ketone, methyl cellosolve acetate,
cyclohexanone, pentachlorophenol, petroleum ether, benzene, ethylene
dichloride, or any other substance for the purpose of indicating a condition of
intoxication, stupefaction, depression, giddiness, paralysis, euphoria,
exhilaration, or in any manner changing, distorting or disturbing the auditory,
visual or nervous processes.
   (B)   Sale Prohibited: No person shall sell or offer to sell to any person
any container of substance containing a solvent having the property of
releasing toxic vapors or fumes, if he has cause to suspect that the product
sold or offered for sale will be in violation of subsection (A) hereof.
   (C)   Exception: The provisions of this Section shall not apply to the use
or inhalation of anesthesia when administered or prescribed for medical or
dental purposes. (Ord. 859, 10-21-1974)
10-4-5: LOITERING:
   (A)   Definitions: As used in this Section:
    LOITERING: Shall mean remaining idle in essentially one location and shall
include the concept of spending time idly; to be dilatory; to linger; to stay;
to saunter; to delay; to stand around and shall also include the colloquial
expression "hanging around".
   PUBLIC PLACE: Shall mean any place to which the general public has access
and a right to resort for business, entertainment or other lawful purpose, but
does not necessarily mean a place devoted solely to the uses of the public. It
shall also include the front or immediate area of any store, shop, restaurant,
tavern or other place of business, parking lots and also public grounds, areas
or parks.
   (B)   Loitering, Police Order To Disperse:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, loaf, wander, stand
or remain idle either alone and/or in consort with others in a public place in
such manner so as to:
a. Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other
public place, parking lot or building by hindering or impeding or tending to
hinder or impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or
pedestrians.
b. Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any
other public place, parking lot or building any act or thing which is an
obstruction or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or
with any business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or facing or fronting
on any such public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public
place or building, all of which prevents the free and uninterrupted "ingress,
egress and regress therein, thereon and thereto.
      2.   When any person causes or commits any of the conditions enumerated
in subsection (B)1 above, a police officer or any law enforcement officer shall
order that person to stop causing or committing such conditions and to move on
or disperse. Any person who fails or refuses to obey such orders shall be
guilty of a violation of this Section. (Ord. 880, 7-7-1975)
10-4-5-1: LOITERING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY IN COMMERCIAL AREAS:
   (A)   Definition: As used in this Section "loitering" shall mean remaining
idle in essentially one location and shall include the concepts of spending
time idly, loafing, walking around aimlessly, sitting or standing in motor
vehicles while spending time idly and shall include the colloquial expression
of "hanging around" or the colloquial expression of "hang out".
   (B)   Loitering Prohibited: No person shall loiter on private property that
is customarily used by the public as an integral part of a commercial venture
in such a manner as to:
      1.   Disturb the peace as defined in Idaho Code, section 18-6409.
      2.   Obstruct the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles;
      3.   Obstruct or interfere with any person lawfully seeking access or the
use of the commercial enterprise conducted on the property or adjacent or
contiguous to said private property;
      4.   The making of offensive, disgusting, or insulting remarks that are
calculated to annoy or disturb the person to, or in whose hearing, they are
made;
      5.   The having of an open container of beer or alcohol in possession
while loitering or the consumption of beer or alcohol while loitering.
   (C)   Notice: No person shall be guilty of a violation of this Section
unless:
      1.   The property owner or tenant shall post the property with "NO
LOITERING" signs or other notices of like meaning at the entrance(s) to the
property from streets or highways and at intervals of not less than fifty feet
(50') on such property. Property of fifty feet (50') or less may contain only
one sign; or
      2.   When verbally or in writing requested by the owner or tenant of the
property or a police officer to leave the property because of conduct specified
in subsection (B) of this Section; and
a. Shall refuse to leave, or
b. Having been verbally or in writing requested to leave and, having left,
return to the property within twenty four (24) hours and engages in any of the
prohibited conduct of subsection (B) of this Section.
   (D)   Authorization: Any tenant or owner of any property where commercial
ventures are conducted may in writing request of the Sheriff of Cassia County
to authorize law enforcement officers to request persons loitering on the
premises to leave. Any police officer shall not be obligated to request persons
to leave the premises of any commercial venture unless the owner or tenant
thereof shall have on file in the office of the Cassia County Sheriff a written
authorization for such officers to request persons to leave the premises. (Ord.
1009, 4-6-1987)
10-4-6: LABOR DISPUTES:
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council of the City shall have the final authority
in all matters involving City employees in the course of their employment with
the City.
   (B)   Any City employee shall have the right at any time to present any
grievances arising out of his employment with the City individually to the
Mayor and the City Council or his immediate supervisor. (Ord. 734, 7-19-1965)
10-4-7: PAINT RIFLES, PISTOLS AND GRENADES:
   (A)   Definitions: As used in this Section:
    PAINT GRENADE: A missile consisting of a container that bursts on contact
or by a bursting charge and ejecting paint that is propelled by hand or a
weapon.
   PAINT PELLETS: A colored pellet designed to be discharged from a paint rifle
or pistol, being either washable or nonwashable.
   PAINT RIFLE AND/OR PISTOL: Any rifle or pistol that discharges paint pellets
by air using CO2 or other chemical cartridges.
   (B)   Possession, Discharge And Use Of Paint Rifles, Pistols And Grenades:
No person in the City shall possess, except within his or her own domicile or
his or her own place of business, discharge, propel or otherwise use a paint
rifle, pistol or grenade except that the prohibition shall not apply to any
established business or on any private grounds or premises under circumstances
where such rifle, pistol or grenade can be discharged or used in such a manner
as not to endanger persons or property, and also in such a manner as to prevent
the paint pellet or grenade from traversing any grounds or space outside the
established business, grounds or residence and further provided that nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prevent the carrying of any paint pistol
or rifle when unloaded and properly cased to or from a place of business or
from where the pistol or rifle may be used as herein provided, and provided
further, that nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent the
carrying of a paint grenade or grenades to or from a place of business or to a
place of use as herein provided so long as the grenade or grenades are in a
container that is sealed, tied, stapled or otherwise secured during the
transporting process. (Ord. 1036, 5-20-1991)
10-4-8: GRAFFITI:
   (A)   Definition: As used herein, "making graffiti" means the act of
defacing, damaging or destroying any real or personal property of another by
the unauthorized inscription of a word, figure or design that is marked,
etched, scratched, drawn or painted on any building by the use of an aerosol
container of spray paint, paintbrush, broad-tipped marker or similar
instruments or tools that may apply paint or other substances to a surface or
etch the same therein. The defacing shall include, but not be limited to,
walls, buildings, billboards, signs, rocks, markings, monuments, gravestones,
fences, roads, bridges, vehicles or any other public or private property.
   (B)   Public And Private Property: No persons shall make graffiti on any
public or private, real or personal property owned by any person, firm,
corporation or public agency.
   (C)   Violation: The making of graffiti in violation of subsection (B) of
this Section shall be a misdemeanor.
   (D)   Penalty: In addition to any penalty imposed by any court of competent
jurisdiction, the defendant found guilty of making graffiti shall be civilly
liable to the City or the building owner or lessee for the cleanup of the
graffiti and in the case of a minor found guilty of making graffiti, the parent
or guardian shall be civilly liable for the damages as subject to the
limitations provided in Idaho Code section 6-210. (Ord. 1067, 5-1-1995)
10-4-9: PUBLIC INDECENCY:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Appear on or be observed from any street, avenue, highway, parking
lot, road, sidewalk, beach, beachfront, park or other public place or waterway
located in the City, or appear in any public place, store, or business in said
City while the nature or condition of his or her clothing, or absence of
clothing, exposes any part of the person's anus, penis, genitals or pubic area
to public view, or exposes substantially all of a female breast to public view.
      2.   No person shall urinate or defecate on any street, parking lot,
avenue, highway, road, sidewalk, beachfront, waterway, yard, lot, park or other
public or private place other than in an enclosed public or private restroom
facility connected to the City sanitary sewer system, a lawful septic tank
system or a self-contained human waste storage and disposal system.
      3.   No person shall loiter in or about any public toilet or public
restroom facility open to the public at a time or in a manner so as to offend
other users of the facility or, while there, engage in or solicit any lewd or
lascivious or unlawful act.
   (B)   A violation of this section shall be known as "public indecency" and
shall be a misdemeanor and be subject to the penalties provided for by section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1109, 10-19-1998)
10-4-10: PROWLING:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon public or private
property within the city and while thereon, without the permission of the owner
or the lawful agent of the owner, enter into or climb upon any building,
structure or enclosed area not generally open for public use or access unless
such entry is specifically allowed by law, nor view or attempt to view, or
position oneself to view persons, contents or the interior of any building,
structure or enclosed area through windows, doors or other openings, or while
thereupon to hide or secret oneself, or otherwise act in a manner which would
cause a reasonable law abiding person to fear for the safety of persons or
property upon the premises or in the vicinity of the premises, or constitute an
invasion of the privacy rights of occupants.
   (B)   A violation of this section shall be known as "prowling", and shall be
a misdemeanor, having the penalties provided by section
1-4-1 of this code.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to any peace officer or public employee
acting in the course of their official duties. (Ord. 1110, 10-19-1998)
10-4-11: UNLAWFUL USE OF COASTING DEVICES:
   (A)   Defined: "Coasting devices" shall include skateboards, roller skates,
in-line skates, scooters, coasters, bicycles, or other rolling or wheeled
devices propelled by human power, gravity, wind or motor, and footwear equipped
with metallic, plastic or other rigid surfaces to allow sliding or gliding upon
rails, pipes, boards, structures or improvements, but shall not include
licensed motor vehicles or devices being used to transport or enhance the
mobility of infants or disabled persons.
   (B)   Unlawful Uses Specified: It shall be a misdemeanor to be known as
"unlawful use of coasting devices" for any person to use or operate a coasting
device:
      1.   On any public park, playground, parking lot, recreation area or
other public property which has been posted with signs prohibiting the use of
the type of coasting device being used;
      2.   Upon any private parking lot or other private property which has
been posted with signs prohibiting the use of the type of coasting device being
used;
      3.   And fail to yield the right of way to any pedestrian; or
      4.   Upon any bench, rail, wall, divider, structure, improvement,
personal property, or landscaping without the written consent of the owner
unless specifically posted to allow such use.
   (C)   Seizure Of Evidence: Any coasting device used in violation of this
section shall be seized by any law enforcement officer witnessing the offense
and be held as evidence pending disposition in accordance with Idaho law. (Ord.
1113, 2-1-1999)
10-4-12: BOAT RAMP INTERFERENCE:
   (A)   There is hereby established a misdemeanor to be known as "boat ramp
interference", whereby it shall be unlawful for any person to swim, wade, float
or otherwise be present upon, above or within a publicly owned and maintained
boat ramp facility in the city of Burley, Idaho, or for any parent, guardian or
custodian of a minor child through action or neglect, to allow a minor to be in
violation of this section.
   (B)   "Boat ramp facility" shall mean an improvement designed and maintained
for allowing trailers for boats or other watercraft to be moved into the Snake
River for the purpose of loading or unloading, within the area that vehicles
commonly begin backing into the water to where boats or watercraft are
completely free from their trailers and able to begin forward motion.
   (C)   It shall not be unlawful under this section to be on or in a boat ramp
facility for a purpose related to loading or unloading a boat or watercraft
from or onto a trailer, or loading or unloading passengers into or from boats
or other watercraft by way of docks or walkways installed for that purpose.
   (D)   Violation of this chapter shall be first treated administratively,
then, if unresolved, filed as a misdemeanor as hereafter provided.
      1.   A written violation notice will be served upon any person violating
this chapter, and upon the parent, guardian or custodian of any minor child
who, through action or neglect, has allowed a minor to be in violation of this
section. The notification will require the person to appear at the Burley city
clerk's office on or before a date set forth on the notice. The person may
appear by mail or in person. At the time of appearance, the person may admit
the violation and pay a fine of thirty dollars ($30.00) or may deny the
violation.
      2.   Any person failing to appear, or denying the violation, shall be
charged with a misdemeanor subject to the penalties provided by Idaho law.
(Ord. 1215, 7-3-2007)
10-4-13: PENALTY:
A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. The
penalty for such a violation shall be as provided by section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1111, 10-19-1998)
10-4-14: PUBLIC DISTURBANCE:
   (A)   Purpose: To protect the peaceful enjoyment and the free and
unobstructed use and access to the public places of the city of Burley.
   (B)   Definitions:
    PUBLIC DISTURBANCE: Any conduct or use of property which is a health or
injury risk, or is indecent or offensive to the senses, or any obstruction of
the free and peaceful use of the public place by others, or interference with
lawful enjoyment of life or property by any person, or obstruction to the free
passage or use, in any customary manner of any public place, or wilfully
causing any loud or unusual noise, including vulgar language in a loud or
boisterous manner, is a public disturbance.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any property owned by the city of Burley to which the general
public has access for any lawful purpose, but does not necessarily mean a place
devoted solely to the uses of the public. It shall also include every airport,
library, public building, park, square, cemetery, public grounds, parking lot,
boat dock or sports facility.
   (C)   Reporting Of Disturbance: Any person, city employee or law enforcement
officer may report a public disturbance. The report must clearly set forth the
name of the person alleged to have committed or caused the public disturbance,
the conduct constituting the disturbance, and when and where the disturbance
took place.
   (D)   Order To Appear And Hearing: Upon receipt of a report, the Burley
mayor may issue an order to appear to the person alleged to have committed or
caused the public disturbance. The order to appear shall be personally served
upon the person accused. The order to appear shall inform the accused of the
facts set forth in the report and that he or she must appear before the Burley
city council at a certain date and time to show why he or she should not be
prohibited from returning to the public place where the disturbance occurred,
and other public places. The order to appear shall also state that a failure to
appear by the accused will result in an order from the city council prohibiting
the accused from access to the place where the disturbance occurred and other
public places for up to two (2) years. At the hearing evidence shall be
presented in support of the report. The person accused shall have a right to
examine the witness and present evidence in the person's own behalf.
   (E)   Punishment: Upon a finding by a majority of the city council that the
accused committed or wilfully caused the public disturbance, or after a finding
that the accused had notice of the hearing and failed to appear, the city
council may issue an order prohibiting the accused from returning to the place
where the disturbance occurred and other public places for up to two (2) years
from the date the disturbance occurred. Anyone violating a city council order
prohibiting a person from returning to the place of public disturbance shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (F)   Notification To Sheriff: If the Burley city council issues an order
prohibiting access, a copy shall be delivered to the Cassia County sheriff.
   (G)   Appeal: Appeal from an order under this section shall be pursuant to
the Idaho administrative procedures act. (Ord. 1145, 9-5-2000)
10-4-15: STORYBOOK PARK:
It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to:
   (A)   Possess or consume beer, wine, or alcoholic liquor as defined by Idaho
Code section 23-105, in the city block bounded by Burton Avenue, West 13th
Street, Conant Avenue, and West 14th Street, otherwise known as Storybook park,
in the city of Burley.
   (B)   Use or consume any tobacco product in "Storybook park" as defined in
the preceding subsection.
A violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor and be subject to the
penalties provided for by section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1179, 9-16-2003)
10-4-16: VEHICLE SOUNDS:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to cause, or for any person in
possession of property to allow, or for the owner of any motor vehicle to allow
to originate from the property or motor vehicle, sound that is a public
disturbance as hereinafter provided. The following sounds are determined to be
a public disturbance:
      1.   The frequent, repetitive, or continuous sounding of any horn or
siren attached to a motor vehicle, except as a warning of danger or as
specifically permitted or required by law.
      2.   The use of motor vehicles without mufflers; and the use of engine or
compression brakes on commercial semitractor trucks or other diesel powered
vehicles.
      3.   Sound from motor vehicle sound systems, such as tape players,
radios, and compact disc players, operated at a volume so as to be audible
greater than fifty feet (50') from the vehicle itself.
   (B)   A violation of this section shall be known as "public disturbance" and
shall be an infraction as defined by Idaho Code section 18-111.
   (C)   Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fixed penalty of
fifty dollars ($50.00), exclusive of costs and fees imposed by the court as a
matter of law, and shall not include any period of incarceration. (Ord. 1188,
11-9-2004)
CHAPTER 5
CURFEW
SECTION:
10-5-1: Findings And Purpose
10-5-2: Definitions
10-5-3: Curfew For Juveniles
10-5-4: Exceptions
10-5-5: Parental Responsibility
10-5-6: Enforcement Procedures
10-5-7: Penalties
10-5-8: Construction
10-5-9: Continuing Evaluation
10-5-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
The City Council of the City of Burley finds:
   (A)   There has been a significant breakdown in the supervision normally
provided by certain parents and guardians for juveniles under eighteen (18)
years of age resulting in juveniles being involved in a wide range or
unacceptable behavior including vandalism, noisy and rowdy behavior, burglary,
breaking and entering, public drinking and littering and harassment of
residents.
   (B)   The City Council further finds that the offensive activities of the
juveniles are not easily controlled by the existing laws and ordinances because
the activities are easily concealed whenever police officers are present and
that the establishment of reasonable curfew regulations will enable the
community to better control the free and unobstructed access to the streets and
public places by the majority of residents and will enable the police to act
reasonably and fairly to prevent the violation of laws and ordinances of
juveniles.
   (C)   The City Council further finds and has determined that a curfew meets
a very real local need and that curfew ordinances previously in this community
and in other communities have been a significant factor in minimizing juvenile
delinquency. A curfew in Burley is particularly appropriate in view of the
sense of the community that there is a proper time for the cessation of outdoor
activities of juveniles. That sense of the community is reflected in the curfew
hours declared by this Chapter which takes into consideration also the danger
hours for nocturnal crime and for accumulations of juveniles with potential
risks incident to immaturity.
   (D)   The City Council finds that the community is not overcrowded. The
dwellings in the City are generally well designed and contain adequate indoor
living space so as to permit juveniles to healthfully occupy their time.
Commercial recreational facilities are limited and there is little or nothing
for juveniles to do outdoors, but roam the streets, after the curfew hours
which this Chapter declares.
   (E)   Burley is basically a family community. Parental responsibility for
the whereabouts of children is the accepted norm by a substantial majority of
the community. Legal sanctions to enforce such responsibility have had a
demonstrated effectiveness over the years. The City Council has determined that
as parental control increased there is a likelihood that juvenile delinquency
decreases and that there is a need for nocturnal curfew for juveniles in Burley
and that the establishment of a curfew applicable to juveniles will reinforce
the primary authority and responsibility of parents and guardians over
juveniles in their care and custody. (Ord. 1048, 8-3-1992)
10-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this curfew Chapter the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural number include the singular and words in the singular number include
the plural. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
JUVENILE: Any person less than the age of eighteen (18).
PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a juvenile: 1) as a natural or
adoptive parent, 2) as a legal guardian, 3) as a person who stands loco
parentis or 4) as a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of
court.
REMAIN: To stay behind, to tarry and to stay unnecessarily upon the streets,
including the congregating of groups (or of interacting minors) totalling four
(4) or more persons in which any juvenile involved would not be using the
streets for ordinary or serious purposes such as mere passage or going home.
STREET: A way or place, of whatsoever nature, open to the use of the public as
a matter of right for purposes of vehicular travel or in the case of a sidewalk
thereof for pedestrian travel. The term "street" includes the legal right of
way, including, but not limited to the cartway or traffic lanes, the curb, the
sidewalks whether paved or unpaved, and any grass plots or other grounds found
within the legal right of way of a street. The term "street" applies
irrespective of what it be called or formally named, whether alley, avenue,
court, road or otherwise. The term "street" shall also include shopping
centers, parking lots, parks, playgrounds, public buildings and similar areas
that are open to the use of the public.
TIME OF NIGHT: The prevailing standard of time, whether Mountain Standard Time
or Mountain Daylight Savings Time, generally observed at that hour by the
public in the City, prima facie the time then observed in the Law Enforcement
Building dispatch office.
YEARS OF AGE: Continues from one birthday, such as the sixteenth to (but not
including the day of) the next, such as the seventeenth birthday. (Ord. 1048,
8-3-1992)
10-5-3: CURFEW FOR JUVENILES:
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to be
or remain in or upon the streets within the City of Burley at night during the
period ending at five o'clock (5:00) A.M. and beginning at eleven fifty nine
o'clock (11:59) P.M. on Friday and Saturday nights, and at ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. on all other nights. (Ord. 1048, 8-3-1992)
10-5-4: EXCEPTIONS:
In the following exceptional cases a juvenile on a City street during the
nocturnal hours for which Section
10-5-3 is intended to provide the maximum limits of regulation (and a clear
general guide for minors, their parents and their fellow citizens) shall not,
however, be considered in violation of the Curfew Ordinance.
   (A)   When accompanied by a parent or guardian of such juvenile.
   (B)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of such minor to
take said parent's place in accompanying said minor for a designated period of
time and purpose within a specified area.
   (C)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly. The juvenile shall evidence the bona fides of such exercise
by first delivering to the person designated by the Cassia County Sheriff to
receive such information, at the Law Enforcement Building on 15th Street, a
written communication, signed by the juvenile and countersigned, if
practicable, by a parent of the juvenile with their home address and telephone
number, specifying when, where and in what manner the juvenile will be on the
streets at night (during hours when the Curfew Ordinance is otherwise
applicable to said minor) in the exercise of a First Amendment right specified
in such communication.
   (D)   In case of reasonable necessity for a juvenile remaining on the
streets but only after the juvenile's parent has communicated to the Sheriff or
the person designated by the Sheriff to receive such notification the facts
establishing the reasonable necessity relating to specified streets at a
designated time for a described purpose including points of origin and
destination.
   (E)   When the juvenile is on the sidewalk of a place where such juvenile
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor not communicating an
objection to the Sheriff's deputy.
   (F)   When returning home, by a direct route from (and within one hour after
the termination of) school or community sponsored activity, an activity of a
religious or other voluntary association of which prior notice, indicating the
place and probable time of termination, has been given in writing to and duly
filed for immediate reference by, the Sheriff or officer assigned by him on
duty at the Law Enforcement Center.
   (G)   When authorized, by special permit from the Sheriff carried on the
person of the juvenile thus authorized, as follows. When necessary night time
activities of a juvenile may be inadequately provided in subsection H for a
special permit as the circumstances warrant. Upon the findings of necessity for
the use of the streets to the extent warranted by a written application signed
by a juvenile and by a parent of the juvenile if feasible stating: 1) the name,
age and address of the juvenile, 2) the name, address and telephone number of a
parent thereof, 3) the height, weight, sex, color of eyes and hair and other
physical characteristics of the juvenile, 4) the necessity which requires the
juvenile to remain upon the streets during the curfew hours otherwise
applicable, and 5) the street or route and the beginning and ending of the
period of time involved by date and hour; the Sheriff may grant a permit in
writing for the use of the juvenile of streets at such hours as in the opinion
of the Sheriff may reasonably be necessary. In an emergency this may be handled
by telephone or other effective communication, with a corresponding record
being made contemporaneously to the Sheriff or to the person designated by the
Sheriff to act on his behalf in an emergency, at the Law Enforcement Center.
   (H)   When authorization by regulation issued by the Sheriff, in other
similar cases or reasonable necessity, similarly handled but adapted to
necessary nighttime activities of more juveniles than can readily be dealt with
on an individual special permit basis. Normally such regulation by the Sheriff
permitting use of the streets should be issued sufficiently in advance to
permit appropriate publicity through news media and through other agencies such
as schools, and shall define the activity, the scope of the use of the streets
permitted, the period of time involved not to extend more than one hour beyond
the time for termination of the activity, and the reason for finding that the
regulation is reasonably necessary and is consistent with the purposes of this
Curfew Ordinance.
   (I)   When the juvenile carries a certified letter of employment, renewable
each calendar month when the current facts so warrant, dated or re-issued not
more than forty five (45) days previously, signed by the Sheriff and briefly
identifying the juvenile, the addresses of his home and his place of employment
and his hours of employment.
   (J)   When the juvenile is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle. This
contemplates normal travel. It is the intention of this provision to clearly
exempt bona fide interstate movements along major routes through the City and
interstate traveling beginning or ending in the City.
   (K)   Each of the foregoing exceptions and their several limitations such as
provisions for notification, are severable, as hereinafter provided, but here
reemphasized. These exceptions will be considered by the Council as warranted
by future experience illuminated by the view of student government
associations, school personnel, citizens, associations, parents, officers and
persons in authority concerned positively with juveniles as well as with
juvenile delinquency. (Ord. 1048, 8-3-1992)
10-5-5: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be unlawful for a parent having legal custody of a juvenile knowingly
to permit or by inefficient control to allow the juvenile to be or remain upon
any City street under circumstances not constituting an exception to, or
otherwise beyond the scope of, the Curfew Ordinance. The term "knowingly"
includes knowledge which a parent should reasonably be expected to have
concerning the whereabouts of a juvenile in that parent's legal custody. It is
intended to continue to keep neglectful or careless parents up to a reasonable
community standard of parental responsibility through an objective test. It
shall, therefore, be no defense that a parent was completely indifferent to the
activities or conduct or whereabouts of such juvenile. (Ord. 1048, 8-3-1992)
10-5-6: ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES:
   (A)   If a Sheriff's officer reasonably believes that a juvenile is on the
streets in violation of the Curfew Ordinance, the officer shall notify the
juvenile that he or she is in violation of the Ordinance and shall require the
juvenile to provide his or her name, address and telephone number and how to
contact his or her parent or guardian.
   (B)   In determining the age of the juvenile and in the absence of
convincing evidence such as a birth certificate, a Sheriff's officer on the
street shall, in the first instance, use his or her best judgement in
determining age.
   (C)   The normal procedure shall then be to take the juvenile to the Law
Enforcement Center where a parent or guardian shall immediately be notified to
come for the juvenile whereupon they shall be questioned. This is intended to
permit ascertainment, under constitutional safeguards, of relevant facts, and
to centralize responsibility in the person designated there and then on duty
for accurate, effective, fair, impartial and uniform enforcement and recording,
thus making available experienced personnel and access to information and
records.
   (D)   When a parent or guardian, immediately called, has come to take charge
of the juvenile, and the appropriate information has been recorded, the
juvenile shall be released to the custody of such parent. If the parent cannot
be located or fails to take charge of the juvenile, then the juvenile shall
temporarily be entrusted to an adult relative, neighbor or other person who
will on behalf of a parent or guardian assume the responsibility of caring for
the juvenile pending the availability or arrival of a parent or guardian. (Ord.
1048, 8-3-1992)
10-5-7: PENALTIES:
Any juvenile, parent or guardian who shall violate any of the provisions of the
Curfew Ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 1048, 8-3-1992)
10-5-8: CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   Severability is intended throughout and within the provisions of the
Curfew Ordinance. If any provisions, including any exception, part, phrase or
term, or the application thereof to any person or circumstances shall not be
affected thereby and the validity of the Curfew Ordinance in any and all other
respects shall not be affected.
   (B)   The Mayor, after consulting with the City Attorney, is hereby
authorized to give advisory opinions, in writing, which shall be binding and
shall be adhered to by the Sheriff, until the Chapter is amended in such
respect, interpreting terms, phrases, parts or any provisions. Normally such
advisory opinions shall be in response to good faith, signed letters addressed
to the City Mayor or to a member of the City Council, at the City Building,
questioning: 1) as ambiguous, 2) as having a potentially chilling effect on
constitutional rights specifically invoked, or 3) as otherwise invalid, in all
three (3) categories with respect to proposed conduct definitely described.
This administrative remedy must be exhausted prior to presenting to any court a
question in any of the three (3) categories. The City Council does not intend a
result that is absurd, impossible of execution or unreasonable. It is intended
that the Curfew Ordinance be held inapplicable in such cases, if any, where its
application would be unconstitutional. A constitutional construction is
intended to be given. The Council does not intend to violate the Constitution
of the State of Idaho or the Constitution of the United States of America.
(Ord. 1048, 8-3-1992)
10-5-9: CONTINUING EVALUATION:
The City Council will continue its evaluation and updating of the Curfew
Ordinance.
Accordingly, there shall be compiled and informally reported to the City
Council through effective channels all exceptional cases hereunder of
reasonable necessity, the notices of school and other activities, the special
permits and the regulations hereinbefore authorized, and the advisory opinions,
for consideration by the Council in further updating and continuing evaluation
of the Curfew Ordinance. (Ord. 1048, 8-3-1992)
CHAPTER 6
REGISTER OF FELONS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Felons To Register
10-6-2: Identification Records
10-6-3: Resident Registration
10-6-4: Notification Of Address
10-6-5: Records
10-6-6: False Reports
10-6-7: Unlawful Refusal
10-6-1: FELONS TO REGISTER:
Every person who, subsequent to June 1, 1960, has been or hereafter is
convicted of an offense punishable as a felony in the State of Idaho, or who
has been or who is hereafter convicted of any offense in any place other than
the State of Idaho, which offense, if committed in the State of Idaho, would
have been punishable as a felony who comes into the City, from any point
outside of such City, shall immediately, upon his arrival within the boundaries
of the City, proceed to the office of the Chief of Police and such person shall
furnish to said Chief of Police, in a written statement signed by such person,
the true name of such person and each other name or alias by which such person
is or has been known, a full, complete description of himself, the name of each
crime for which such person shall have been convicted, together with the name
of the place where such crime was committed, the name under which he was
convicted, the date of the conviction, the name and location of each prison,
reformatory or other penal institution, if any, in which he shall have been
confined for punishment therefor, together with the intended location or
address of his residence, stopping or living quarters in the City, and each one
thereof with a description of the character of each such place, whether a
hotel, apartment house, dwelling house or otherwise, giving the street number
thereof, if any, or such description of the address or location as will so
identify the same as to make it possible to locate such person; and such person
shall state the length of time for which he expects or intends to reside within
the limits of the City. (Ord. 805, 6-1-1970)
10-6-2: IDENTIFICATION RECORDS:
At the time of furnishing the information provided for in the preceding
Section, said person shall be photographed and fingerprinted by said Chief of
Police, and the said photographs and fingerprints shall be made a part of the
permanent record herein provided for. It is hereby made the duty of the Chief
of Police to obtain from every such person the information, photographs and
fingerprints by this Chapter required. (Ord. 805, 6-1-1970)
10-6-3: RESIDENT REGISTRATION:
Every person residing within the City at the time of the effective date hereof,
who has been convicted within the ten (10) year period prior to the effective
date hereof, in any such court of any such crime, other than a misdemeanor,
shall within forty eight (48) hours from and after the effective date hereof,
report to the said Chief of Police and furnish to him in a written statement,
signed by such person, all of the information required to be furnished under
the provisions of Section
10-6-1 of this Chapter, together with the photographs and fingerprints
hereinbefore provided for. (Ord. 805, 6-1-1970)
10-6-4: NOTIFICATION OF ADDRESS:
In the event that any person specified in Section
10-6-1 or
10-6-2 of this Chapter shall change any such place of residence, stopping place
or living quarters, to any new or different place or places within the City
other than any place last shown in such report to the Chief of Police, he shall
immediately after the making of such change, notify said Chief of Police in a
written and signed statement to said Chief of Police his new address, and each
one thereof. (Ord. 805, 6-1-1970)
10-6-5: RECORDS:
It is hereby made the duty of the said Chief of Police to cause to be made a
permanent record of all information, photographs and fingerprints required by
the provisions of this Chapter to be furnished to or by him; said records,
photographs and fingerprints shall at all reasonable times be open to the
inspection of any peace officer having jurisdiction within the territorial
boundaries of the City; said records, photographs and fingerprints, however,
shall not be open for public inspection and said records, photographs and
fingerprints shall be used only for official law enforcement work by properly
qualified law enforcement officials of the City. (Ord. 805, 6-1-1970)
10-6-6: FALSE REPORTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person required by any provision of this Chapter
to furnish any such report, any false or fictitious address or any address
other than a true address or intended address, or to furnish in making any such
report any false, untrue or misleading information or statement relating to any
information required by any provision of this Chapter to be made or furnished.
(Ord. 805, 6-1-1970)
10-6-7: UNLAWFUL REFUSAL:
It shall be unlawful for any person required by any provision of this Chapter
to furnish any such report or information to fail, neglect or refuse to make
such report or to furnish such information, photographs or fingerprints, or to
fail, neglect or refuse to render or furnish the same within the time
hereinbefore prescribed, or to fail, neglect or refuse to furnish to said Chief
of Police within such time any information, photographs or fingerprints
required to be furnished by any provision of this Chapter, or to furnish any
false, untrue or misleading information or statement relating to any
information required by any provision of this Chapter to be made or furnished.
(Ord. 805, 6-1-1970)
CHAPTER 7
ABANDONED, WRECKED VEHICLES, PROPERTY
SECTION:
10-7-1: Definitions
10-7-2: Accumulation Prohibited
10-7-3: Notice To Abate
10-7-4: Failure To Abate
10-7-5: Exceptions
10-7-6: Nuisance Declared
10-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
HOUSEHOLD GOODS AND EQUIPMENT: All articles usually referred to as household
goods and articles used in housekeeping including, but not limited to, chairs,
tables, davenports, beds, refrigerators, stoves, washers, dryers, furnaces and
appliances.
MACHINERY: All articles used for farm or domestic purposes, machinery or
equipment, and all metal or wooden machinery, motors, equipment, tools or
property.
MISCELLANEOUS PROPERTY: All other property including, but not limited to, rope,
iron, brass, copper, tin, lead, rubber, rags, baggage, bottles, scrap, toys,
bicycles, boats, containers and batteries.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power designed to travel on the ground by wheels, treads, runners or slides and
to transport persons or property or pull machinery; a "motor vehicle" shall
include, but not be limited to, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles,
ATVs, tractors, buggies or wagons.
WRECKED, ABANDONED, DISMANTLED, DAMAGED, DILAPIDATED AND JUNK: (A) Wrecked: The
disordered or broken remains of anything that has been demolished or otherwise
ruined and is in a state of ruin or dilapidation and as particularly applied to
motor vehicles herein called a junk motor vehicle shall be further defined as a
motor vehicle (or part or parts therefrom) which:
      1.   Does not carry a current or valid state registration and/or license
and is not in a garage or other building;
      2.   Cannot be safely operated under its own power; or
      3.   Does not have any one of the following: foot brakes, hand brakes,
headlights, taillights, horn, muffler, rearview mirror, windshield wipers or
adequate fenders.
   (B)   Abandoned: Abandoned is the relinquishment or giving up with the
intent of never again resuming or claiming an interest in the thing. With
regard to motor vehicles, a motor vehicle is deemed abandoned if it does not
carry a current or valid state registration and/or license regardless of its
operability.
   (C) Dismantled: Dismantled is the taking to pieces of the thing.
   (D) Damaged: Damaged is that which has been impaired, injured, hurt and
harmed.
   (E) Dilapidated: Dilapidated is caved, fallen into partial ruin, injured by
bad usage or neglect.
   (F) Junk: Junk shall mean scrapped, wrecked, ruined or dismantled.
The foregoing words in this section shall have such further meaning as may be
defined in a generally accepted dictionary. (Ord. 1279, 7-7-2011)
10-7-2: ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED:
   (A)   No person shall place, allow, discard, maintain or store any
dismantled, wrecked, abandoned, junked, damaged or destroyed household goods or
equipment, motor vehicles, machinery or miscellaneous property upon any public
street, alley, sidewalk or upon private property within the city.
   (B)   No person, whether he be the owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
otherwise of any private property or premises shall place, allow, discard,
maintain, park, store or permit to be stored, placed, allowed, discarded,
maintained, parked or stored upon a property or premises in the city, any
wrecked, dismantled, abandoned, junked, damaged or destroyed household goods
and equipment, motor vehicles, machinery or miscellaneous property as in this
chapter defined.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision it shall be permissible for any
person to keep up to, but no more than, two (2) inoperable, junked or unused
vehicles on his or her property so long as the vehicles are kept behind a six
foot (6') opaque fence or structure which has the effect of blocking the view
of the vehicles from public or private property. (Ord. 1279, 7-7-2011)
10-7-3: NOTICE TO ABATE:
   (A)   Any police officer, the city engineer, superintendent of streets,
building inspector, fire chief or any other person as designated by the mayor
may order any wrecked, dismantled, abandoned, junked, damaged or destroyed
household goods and equipment, motor vehicles, machinery or miscellaneous
property or parts thereof removed within ten (10) days, except if the item
shall constitute a traffic hazard it may be removed immediately to the
impounding yard and notice subsequently given as provided in subsection (B) of
this section. (Ord. 807, 7-20-1970; amd. 1981 Code)
   (B)   Notice of such order shall be placed upon the wrecked, dismantled,
abandoned, junked, damaged or destroyed household goods and equipment, motor
vehicles, machinery or miscellaneous property. Copies of the notice shall be
served upon any adult occupying the real estate upon which the item is located
and upon the owner of the item if known. If no occupant of the real estate or
owner of the item or part thereof can be found, a notice affixed to any
building on the real estate shall constitute notice to the owner or occupant of
the real estate and to the owner of the item or part thereof. If there is no
building on the real estate, said notice may be affixed elsewhere on the real
estate in a conspicuous place. (Ord. 807, 7-20-1970)
10-7-4: FAILURE TO ABATE:
   (A)   If such item is not removed within the time so affixed, the city
official ordering the removal thereof shall cause the item to be removed at the
expense of the owner and placed in an impounding yard where the same shall be
offered for sale to the highest and best bidder at public auction to be held
not later than ten (10) days after one publication of notice of sale to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. The proceeds of
the sale shall be used to pay expenses of taking the item into possession and
for the conduct of the sale and the publication of same. In the event the sale
of the item fails to produce enough revenue to pay the charges, the balance
will be due and payable immediately by the owner of the item.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to fail or
refuse to remove any item or refuse to abate such nuisance when ordered so to
do in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor to interfere with, hinder or
refuse to allow any authorized city officer or employee to enter upon private
or public property to enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 807, 7-20-
1970)
10-7-5: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to any property or premises where items are
enclosed in a building or to any property or premises lawfully situated,
licensed, and permitted to operate as a business where the same is a part of
said business enterprise necessary to the operation of said business on said
property or premises; provided, however, in the case of businesses whose
inventory consists of the items or the items are otherwise excepted hereby, the
property upon which such items are placed shall be enclosed by a fence at least
six feet (6') in height and of such a material that such fence shall prevent
persons outside the premises from seeing the materials stored on the premises
through the fence. (Ord. 1279, 7-7-2011)
10-7-6: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any item or items as defined herein placed, allowed, discarded, maintained or
stored shall constitute a public nuisance. (Ord. 807, 7-20-1970)
CHAPTER 8
WEEDS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Destruction Of Weeds Required
10-8-2: Destruction By City, Charges
10-8-3: Authority To Employ Labor
10-8-4: Penalty
10-8-1: DESTRUCTION OF WEEDS REQUIRED:
   (A)   Every person or entity, either as owner, tenant, lessee or occupant of
any lot, land or premises within the corporate limits of the City shall, at all
times and continuously during each year, destroy, cut down, weed out and
obliterate all noxious weeds, growing or starting to grow, and shall not allow
any area of lawn to become overgrown or weed infested, on any such lot, land or
premises. Said lot, land or premises shall include any publicly maintained
easement or right-of-way located within the lot, land or premises.
   (B)   Every person or entity, either as owner, tenant, lessee or occupant of
any lot, land or premises within the corporate limits of the City shall
maintain, mow and cut any weeds, grass and any other plant growths on the lot,
land or premises to keep the weeds, grass and plant growths to no more than six
inches (6") high.
   (C)   Noxious weeds shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
Buffalobur, Canada Thistle, Diffuse Knapweed, Dyer's Woad, Field Bindweed,
Hoary Cress, Leafy Spurge, Mush Thistle, Perennial Pepperweed, Perennial
Sowthistle, Poison Hemlock, Puncturevine, Rush Skeletonweed, Russian Knapweed,
Scotch Thistle, Spotted Knapweed, Yellow Starthistle, Yellow Toadflax.
   (D)   The terms "weed", "grass" and "plant growth" in this section do not
include vegetation that constitutes an agricultural crop, cultivated vegetable
garden plants, or cultivated decorative landscaping and trees, unless that
vegetation is a fire, health, or traffic hazard.
   (E)   The failure to cut, weed out, destroy, and obliterate weeds, grass and
plant growths as provided for in this chapter, is declared to be a public
nuisance, detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 1359, 4-
16-2019)
10-8-2: DESTRUCTION BY CITY, CHARGES:
In case of failure or neglect of any such owner, tenant, lessee or occupant to
destroy, cut down, destroy and obliterate noxious weeds, or to maintain, mow
and cut any weeds, grasses and plant growths in or on any and all such lots,
lands or premises so owned, leased or occupied by such person in the manner
prescribed by and in accordance with the provisions of section
10-8-1 of this chapter, the City Mayor or Administrator shall cause to be
served on such agent, owner, tenant, lessee and/or occupant a notice,
describing the property with convenient certainty by its legal description or
by the street number of the house, requiring such owner, lessee, tenant and/or
occupant to destroy any noxious weeds and/or cut said weeds, grass, and/or
plant growths within seven (7) days from the service thereof, or that the City
will require the same to be done, and the cost thereof charged as a lien
against said property.
Such notice shall be served upon such owner, lessee, tenant and/or occupant in
person if found upon said premises or within the City, and in case said owner,
agent, and/or occupant cannot be found in person within the City after
reasonable diligence and inquiry, such notice shall be posted in a conspicuous
place upon said premises, and a copy thereof mailed to the last known Post
Office address of such owner, lessee, tenant, or occupant, as shown on the
records of the Cassia County Assessor's Office, by certified mail; and if at
the end of seven (7) days from the giving of such notice, such owner, lessee,
tenant, and/or occupant has failed and neglected to cut and/or destroy such
vegetation, the City Administrator or other officer of the City shall cause the
same to be done and shall file with the Council a statement of the expenditure
occasioned thereby.
In the event that such weeds, noxious weeds, grasses and plant growths are not
so continuously maintained, cut, mowed, destroyed, weeded out, cut down and/or
obliterated within seven (7) days of service or of posting and mailing as
provided above, the Mayor or Administrator may cause through its duly
authorized personnel, such weeds, noxious weeds, grasses and plant growths to
be cut down, weeded out and/or destroyed at the expense of the owner. The costs
and expenses of cutting down, weeding out and obliterating the same shall in
the event of nonpayment for thirty (30) days be assessed against such property,
as general taxes, and collectable as other general State, County and Municipal
taxes as provided by Idaho Code sections 50-317 and 50-1008. Such fees may be
certified by the City Treasurer to the County Treasurer under the provisions of
Idaho Code sections 50-317 and 50-1008. The remedies provided for in this
section shall be in addition to, and not a prerequisite for, all other remedies
available to the City. (Ord. 1359, 4-16-2019)
10-8-3: AUTHORITY TO EMPLOY LABOR:
The Mayor and City Council are hereby given the power and authority to employ
such labor or contract for such labor as is necessary to carry out the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1359, 4-16-2019)
10-8-4: PENALTY:
   (A)   In the event any owner, tenant, lessee or occupant of a lot, land or
premises within the limits of the City fails to comply with the requirements of
section
10-8-1 of this chapter, the City shall first serve upon an owner, tenant,
lessee or occupant of said property a notice of violation and opportunity to
correct. Said notice shall be personally served or posted and mailed as
described in section
10-8-2 of this chapter, and shall provide said owner, tenant, lessee or
occupant seven (7) days to correct the violation of this chapter. The City is
not required to provide an owner, tenant, lessee or occupant of said property
in violation of this chapter more than one notice of violation and opportunity
to correct in any calendar year. In the event the violation is not corrected
within said seven (7) day period, the owner, tenant, lessee or occupant upon
which a notice of violation and opportunity to correct has been served shall be
guilty of an infraction and shall be guilty of a separate additional infraction
for each day thereafter that violation continues. In the event that the
violation is not corrected within said seven (7) days and service was made by
posting and mailing, the owner of the property shall be guilty of an infraction
and shall be guilty of a separate infraction for each day thereafter that the
violation continues. The fines for said infractions are as follows:
      1.   The first violation in any calendar year shall result in a fine of
one hundred dollars ($100.00);
      2.   The second violation in any calendar year shall result in a fine of
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00); and
      3.   The third violation and each violation thereafter in any calendar
year shall result in a fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. 1359,
4-16-2019)
CHAPTER 9
NUISANCES
SECTION:
10-9-1: Definitions
10-9-2: Prohibited
10-9-3: Procedures And Penalties
10-9-4: Remedies
10-9-5: Exception
10-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter only, the following terms shall be defined as
follows:
GENERAL NUISANCE: Any nuisance not included in the definition of "special
nuisances", that affects any considerable number of persons and that is further
described in subsection
10-9-2(B) of this chapter.
NUISANCE: Anything which is injurious to health, or is indecent, or is
unreasonably offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of
property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or
property, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any public property; or creates an actual or potential safety,
health, or fire hazard.
NUISANCE MATERIALS: Hazardous, noxious, dangerous, or offensive materials,
including, but not limited to, oil, gasoline, fuel, antifreeze, paint,
pesticides, or herbicides.
RESPONSIBLE PARTY: Any natural person, firm, association, organization,
partnership, business, trust, company, corporation, limited liability company,
joint venture, or club, or its manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer, or
employee, who creates, causes, commits, maintains, permits, or allows a
nuisance condition or any violation of this section.
SPECIAL NUISANCES: Those nuisance conditions that may be abated by the city in
accordance with the provisions of chapters 7 and 8 of this title and that are
addressed in said chapters. (Ord. 1304, 7-1-2014)
10-9-2: PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any responsible party, owner, occupant, user,
or person in charge or control of any property to create, cause, commit,
maintain, or allow the existence of any general nuisance on such property, or
upon any street, sidewalk or public right of way abutting such property
including the area behind curbs, sidewalks, parking areas, and property to the
center of alleys and ditches. Further, it shall be unlawful for any person to
create, cause, allow, or commit any general nuisance upon any public property,
right of way, or infrastructure, including sidewalks, streets, gutters, or
storm drains.
   (B)   Prohibited general nuisances shall specifically include the following
conditions and/or matter:
      1.   Nuisance materials on the ground, whether leaked, drained, seeped,
dripped, sprayed, or dumped, except that this shall not include the incidental
leakage of nuisance materials from registered vehicles lawfully moving or
parked upon a public right of way; the lawful application of pesticides or
herbicides for purposes of controlling pests or weeds; or activity otherwise
specifically allowed by law or by written permit issued by the city or other
governing authority.
      2.   Stagnant or impure water which causes or creates an offensive,
unhealthy, or unsanitary condition.
      3.   Refuse, vegetative decay or any decaying substance, garbage or filth
of any kind which is exposed to the elements and which causes or creates an
offensive, unhealthy, or unsanitary condition.
      4.   Discarded matter which has no substantial market value, is exposed
to the elements, and is not enclosed in any structure or otherwise concealed
from public view, including, but not limited to: rubble, litter, asphalt,
concrete, plaster, tile, cardboard, paper, scrap wood, scrap metal, tires,
broken glass, and/or other dilapidated or deteriorating personal property.
      5.   The accumulation of and/or failure to lawfully dispose of solid
waste on any commercial or residential premises.
      6.   Any building or structure that is so dilapidated or is in such
condition as to menace the public health or the safety of persons or property
on account of increased fire hazard or otherwise.
      7.   Any condition of property that creates or emits an offensive or
noxious odor that is offensive to the senses of owners or users of other
property, or that creates an unhealthy or unsanitary condition due to noise,
light, air, or other pollution. (Ord. 1304, 7-1-2014)
10-9-3: PROCEDURES AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Special Nuisances:
      1.   Procedures, Provisions And Penalties: The procedures, provisions and
penalties set forth in chapters 7 and 8 of this title shall apply to "special
nuisances", as that term is defined in this chapter. Any action taken or
penalties imposed described herein shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the person or responsible
party.
      2.   Civil Penalties: In addition to any other penalties applicable to
special nuisances described or referred to in this section, the city may also
take civil action to obtain an order enjoining the action causing the nuisance,
mandating the abatement of such abatable nuisance and requiring ongoing
maintenance of such property free from nuisance, and/or to recover any damages
and all costs of abatement, enforcement, litigation, and/or prosecution
including, but not limited to, attorney fees and court costs. Any civil action
or civil penalties described herein shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the person or responsible
party.
      3.   Summary Abatement: Nothing contained herein shall prevent a code
enforcement officer, peace officer, or fire marshal from requiring,
undertaking, or causing summary abatement of a special nuisance where such
condition presents an imminent or ongoing threat to or impairment of human
health or safety.
   (B)   General Nuisances:
      1.   Applicability: The procedures set forth in this subsection (B) shall
apply to "general nuisances", as that term is defined in this section.
      2.   Criminal Penalties: Any person or responsible party who causes,
creates, commits, maintains, permits, or allows the existence of any general
nuisance in violation of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for any one
offense, or by imprisonment in jail for a period of not more than six (6)
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Following the service of a
criminal complaint or uniform citation for a violation of this chapter, each
and every day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense. Peace officers and code enforcement officers shall have the
authority to issue uniform citations to violators of this section. Issuance of
notice of violation and order to abate shall not be a mandatory prerequisite to
issuance of a criminal complaint or uniform citation under this section.
      3.   Civil Penalties: In addition to any other penalties applicable to
general nuisances described or referred to in this section, the city may also
take civil action to obtain an order enjoining the action causing the nuisance,
mandating the abatement of such general nuisance and requiring ongoing
maintenance of such property free from nuisance, and/or to recover any damages
and all costs of abatement, enforcement, litigation, and/or prosecution
including, but not limited to, attorney fees and court costs. Any civil action
or civil penalties described herein shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the person or responsible
party.
      4.   Summary Abatement: Nothing contained herein shall prevent a code
enforcement officer, peace officer, or fire marshal from requiring,
undertaking, or causing summary abatement of a general nuisance condition where
such condition presents an imminent or ongoing threat to or impairment of human
health or safety. (Ord. 1304, 7-1-2014)
10-9-4: REMEDIES:
The remedies provided for or referred to in this chapter are not exclusive. The
city reserves the right to take any, all, or any combination of these actions,
as well as any action authorized by state or federal law or regulation, against
a person or responsible party who has committed a violation of any provision of
this chapter. Further, the city is empowered to take more than one enforcement
action against any person or responsible party. These actions may be taken
concurrently. (Ord. 1304, 7-1-2014)
10-9-5: EXCEPTION:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, this chapter shall not be
interpreted or construed as declaring any agricultural operation, agricultural
facility or expansion thereof that is operated in accordance with generally
recognized agricultural practices as defined in Idaho Code section 22-4502 or
that is under the circumstances described in Idaho Code section 22-4503 to be a
nuisance. For the purposes of this chapter only, such agricultural operations,
agricultural facilities and expansions are not included as declared nuisances
in this chapter. (Ord. 1304, 7-1-2014)
TITLE 11
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Adoption Of Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws
11-1-2: Restrictions Set By City
11-1-3: Speed Limits
11-1-4: Driving Through Funeral Procession Prohibited
11-1-5: Miscellaneous Parking Restrictions
11-1-6: Improper Backing Of Vehicles
11-1-7: Barricading Streets
11-1-8: Rubbish On Streets Or Alleys
11-1-9: Interference With Official Traffic Control Devices Or Railroad Signs Or
Signals
11-1-10: One-Way Alleys Established
11-1-11: Exceptions
11-1-12: Towing And Storage Of Impounded Motor Vehicles
11-1-13: Posttowing Hearing
11-1-14: Parking And Traffic Restrictions For Special Events
11-1-1: ADOPTION OF IDAHO MOTOR VEHICLE LAWS:
It is hereby declared to be the intent of the Governing Body of the City to aid
and assist by whatever means possible for the utmost consistency in traffic
regulation among and between agencies of Idaho having such jurisdiction. Toward
that end, adoption of the Idaho motor vehicle laws by cities of Idaho is a
necessary means of assuring maximum uniformity within the State.
There is hereby adopted for the purposes of establishing rules and regulations
for the use of all streets and public thoroughfares of the City that certain
Code more particularly Idaho Code, title 49, be and the same is hereby adopted
and incorporated as an ordinance of the City as fully as though set forth at
length herein.
Three (3) copies of title 49, together with the Idaho Code current supplement,
duly certified by the City Clerk, shall be kept on file in the Office of the
City Clerk for use and examination of and by the public. (Ord. 815, 1-18-1971)
11-1-2: RESTRICTIONS SET BY CITY:
The City Council is hereby authorized to designate such through streets, stop
streets, one-way streets, safety zones, places where parking is prohibited and
no U-turn intersections, in and upon the streets of the City as shall be deemed
necessary for the regulation and control of traffic, and shall cause
appropriate signs, signals or other traffic devices to be placed and maintained
upon such streets to give notice thereof, such to be done by duly adopting
resolutions at a regular meeting of the Council and marked upon a map to be
kept at the Office of the City Clerk for inspection by the public. (Ord. 676,
12-19-1960)
11-1-3: SPEED LIMITS:
   (A)   It is hereby determined upon the basis of an engineering and traffic
investigation that the speed permitted by State law upon all streets in the
City, except Overland Avenue and Main Street, is greater than is reasonable or
safe under the conditions found to exist upon such streets and it is hereby
declared that the prima facie speed limit shall be twenty five (25) miles per
hour on all streets in the City, except Main Street, Overland Avenue and Bedke
Boulevard. (Ord. 1040, 8-19-1991)
   (B)   It is hereby determined upon the basis of an engineering and traffic
investigation that the speed permitted by State law is less and/or greater than
is reasonable and safe under the conditions found to exist upon Overland Avenue
and Main Street in the City, it is hereby declared that the prima facie speed
on Overland Avenue and Main Street shall be:
      1.   Overland Avenue (south to north):
         a. South City limits to 24th Street
          35 miles per hour
         b. 24th Street to 14th Street
          35 miles per hour
         c. 14th Street to Railroad Avenue
          25 miles per hour
         d. Railroad Avenue to 5th Street
          35 miles per hour
         e. 5th Street to north City limits
          35 miles per hour
(Ord. 1148, 11-20-2000)
      2.   Main Street (east to west):
         a. East City limits to Albion Avenue
          35 miles per hour
         b. Albion Avenue to Oakley Avenue
            25 miles per hour
         c. Oak   ley Avenue to west City limits
            35 miles per hour
(Ord. 841, 12-31-1972)
   (C)   It is determined upon the basis of an engineering and traffic
investigation that the speed permitted by State law is less than and/or greater
than is reasonable and safe under the conditions found to exist upon Bedke
Boulevard and therefore it is declared that the prima facie speed limit on
Bedke Boulevard should be:
      1.   Traveling east to west:
         a. From the center of the intersection of 5th Street and Oakley Avenue
to a point one hundred ten feet (110') west of the center of the intersection
of 5th Street and Conant Avenue:
25 miles per hour
         b. From a point one hundred ten feet (110') west of the center of the
intersection of 5th Street and Conant Avenue to a point six hundred seventy
five feet (675') west of the center of the intersection of 5th Street and
Conant Avenue:
35 miles per hour
         c. From a point six hundred seventy five feet (675') west of the
center of the intersection of 5th Street and Conant Avenue to the north
boundary of U.S. Highway 30:
45 miles per hour
      2.   Traveling west to east:
         a. From the north right-of-way of U.S. Highway 30 to a point eight
hundred ten feet (810') west of the center of the intersection of 5th Street
and Conant Avenue:
45 miles per hour
         b. From a point eight hundred ten feet (810') west of the center of
the intersection of 5th Street and Conant Avenue to a point that is one hundred
ninety feet (190') west of the center of the intersection of 5th Street and
Conant Avenue:
35 miles per hour (Ord. 1040, 8-19-1991)
         c. From a point seven hundred feet (700') west of the center of the
intersection of 5th Street and Conant Avenue to the west boundary of Overland
Avenue:
35 miles per hour (Ord. 1061, 7-18-1994)
   (D)   The speed limit on Pomerelle Avenue between 16th Street and East Main
Street in the City shall be thirty five (35) miles per hour. (Ord. 1114, 12-21-
1998)
   (E)   The speed limit on 27th Street from its intersection with Park Avenue
to the west Burley City limits is hereby set at thirty five (35) miles per
hour. (Ord. 1253, 1-6-2009)
   (F)   The speed limit in all school zones shall be twenty (20) miles per
hour unless otherwise indicated by signs posted at the school zone areas. (Ord.
1338, 8-30-2017)
   (G)   The speed limit on Washington Avenue from Highway 30 south to the
Burley City limits is hereby set at thirty five (35) miles per hour. (Ord.
1266, 11-17-2009)
11-1-4: DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL PROCESSION PROHIBITED:
No driver shall drive a vehicle between vehicles comprising a funeral, parade
or other authorized procession while such vehicles are in motion. (Ord. 676,
12-19-1960)
11-1-5: MISCELLANEOUS PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   Parking In Alley: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in any
alley or in the entrance to any alley, except for the expeditious and actual
loading or unloading of passengers, materials, goods or merchandise, but in no
event to exceed fifteen (15) minutes. (Ord. 1138, 2-7-2000)
   (B)   Traveling/Parking On Sidewalk; Parking In Areas Between Road And
Sidewalk:
      1.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle in a manner as to travel
upon or over any sidewalk, provided that vehicles may cross sidewalks at
authorized curb cuts (including driveways) and at alleys.
      2.   No person shall park a motor vehicle on, across, or over any
sidewalk in any manner that blocks a sidewalk or otherwise prevents pedestrian
travel on a sidewalk unless said portion of sidewalk is located in an
authorized approach or driveway and/or where authorized curb cuts have been
made.
      3.   No person shall park a motor vehicle upon or travel by motor vehicle
over any area between the curb and any sidewalk. (Ord. 1278, 6-21-2011)
   (C)   Running Motors In Parked Cars; Set Brakes: No person having control or
charge of a vehicle shall allow such vehicle to stand on any street or highway
unattended without stopping the motor of said vehicle and effectively setting
the brakes thereon.
   (D)   Parking Vehicles With Offensive Odor Loads: It shall be unlawful to
park any vehicle on the City streets when such vehicle is loaded with any
material that is offensive to human smell.
   (E)   Leaving Vehicles On Streets: No vehicle, trailer, boat, tractor,
motorcycle, mobile home, camper, motor home, bus or similar type vehicle shall
remain continuously parked or left on any street of the City for more than
twenty four (24) hours at any time and in the event of such parking for more
than forty eight (48) hours, the Police Department shall have the authority to
impound said vehicle, trailer, boat, tractor, motorcycle, mobile home, camper,
motor home, bus or similar type vehicle and remove the same; provided, however,
that the Police Department gives written notice of its intention so to do to
the purported owner at least twenty four (24) hours prior to the time the
vehicle, trailer, boat, tractor, motorcycle, mobile home, camper, motor home,
bus or similar type vehicle is so removed. (Ord. 1138, 2-7-2000)
   (F)   Truck, Trailer, Truck-Tractor And Semitrailer Parking Restrictions: It
shall be unlawful to park any of the following trucks, trailers, truck-
tractors, or semitrailers or combination thereof on any street or alley in the
City.
      1.   Two (2) axle single unit trucks with classification greater than one
and one-half (11/2) tons.
      2.   Three (3) axle single unit trucks.
      3.   Two (2) axle truck-tractor with one (1) or two (2) axle semitrailer.
      4.   Three (3) axle truck-tractor with two (2) axle semitrailer.
      5.   Semitrailer or trailer with two (2) or more axles.
The registered owner of the truck, truck-tractor, trailer or semitrailer shall
be presumed to be the owner at the time the offense is committed and subject to
the penalty thereof, except where the use thereof was secured without the
consent of the owner. The meaning of the words "truck", "trailer", "truck-
tractor" and "semitrailer" are as defined in Idaho Code 49-121. (Ord. 1235, 6-
17-2008)
   (G)   Stopping, Standing Or Parking Prohibited: No person shall stop, stand
or park a vehicle, in the City of Burley, on any public street, right-of-way,
or public parking lot as follows:
      1.   On the traffic side of a vehicle stopped or parked at the edge of a
curb, so as to be double parked;
      2.   In a crosswalk;
      3.   So as to block the front of a public or private driveway;
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant;
      5.   In a designated fire lane;
      6.   Within thirty feet (30') of a stop sign;
      7.   So as to obstruct traffic in a designated lane of travel;
      8.   Across the designated lines of any parking stall so marked;
      9.   Against the authorized movement of traffic, so as to be parked in
the wrong direction.
   (H)   Owner Responsibility: The owner of any motor vehicle parked in
violation of subsections (A), (B), (C), and (G) of this section shall be
subject to the owner responsibility provisions of section
11-2-4 of this title.
   (I)   Notification Of Violation: Violations of subsections (A), (B), (C),
and (G) of this section will be established by placing a written notification
on the windshield of the offending vehicle. The notification will require the
driver or owner of the vehicle to appear at the Burley city clerk's office on
or before a date set forth on the notice. The owner or operator may appear by
mail or in person. At the time of appearance the owner or operator may admit
the violation and pay a fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00), to the city of
Burley, as part of the administrative collection of parking violation
penalties, or may deny the violation.
      1.   If the owner or operator fails to appear, the owner of the motor
vehicle, and the operator if identified, shall be sent a written notice
requiring appearance within a period of ten (10) days. Thereafter, any owner,
or operator if identified, failing to report, or denying the violation, shall
be charged with an infraction.
      2.   If an infraction is charged, any owner or operator who shall violate
the terms of subsections (A), (B), (C), and (G) of this section, shall be
guilty of an infraction and shall be punishable by a fine of fifty dollars
($50.00) excluding court costs and fees. All other violations of this section
shall constitute a general misdemeanor. (Ord. 1138, 2-7-2000)
11-1-6: IMPROPER BACKING OF VEHICLES:
The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same around corners or up a public
street of more than three (3) car lengths and such backing is only permitted
when the traffic is clear. (Ord. 676, 12-19-1960)
11-1-7: BARRICADING STREETS:
Whenever a street is in a dangerous condition, or is being repaired, or is
hazardous for the travel of vehicles upon such street, the chief of police
shall have authority to prohibit vehicles and/or pedestrians from crossing or
traveling upon such street, and it shall be unlawful for any person to refuse
to comply with any order of a police officer, sign, signal or direction given
in compliance with this section. (Ord. 676, 12-19-1960)
11-1-8: RUBBISH ON STREETS OR ALLEYS:
No person shall throw, deposit or allow upon any street or alley, any rubbish,
glass, bottles, nails, tacks, wire, cans or any other substance likely to
injure any person, animal or vehicle upon such street or alley. (Ord. 676, 12-
19-1960; amd. 1981 Code)
11-1-9: INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR
SIGNALS:
No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any
part thereof. (Ord. 408; amd. Ord. 515, 9-27-1951)
11-1-10: ONE-WAY ALLEYS ESTABLISHED:
Certain alleys hereinafter designated within the city limits shall be one-way
alleys as follows:
   (A)   All traffic shall proceed only in the east direction in the alley
between Main Street and 13th Street from Conant Avenue to Hansen Avenue.
   (B)   All traffic shall proceed only in the west direction in the alley
between Main Street and 11th Street from Hansen Avenue to Conant Avenue.
   (C)   All traffic shall proceed only in the south direction in the alley
between Overland Avenue and Oakley Avenue between 11th Street and 15th Street
and in the alley between Albion Avenue and Hansen Avenue from 11th Street to
14th Street.
   (D)   All traffic shall proceed only in the north direction in the alley
between Overland Avenue and Albion Avenue from 14th Street to 11th Street and
in the alley between Oakley Avenue and Miller Avenue from 14th Street to 11th
Street. (Ord. 613, 9-16-1957)
11-1-11: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Vehicles operated by members of the police or fire departments or
ambulances when operated in response to an emergency call or proceeding to the
scene of a fire or when parked pursuant to such a call or at the scene of a
fire.
   (B)   Vehicles operated by employees of the city of Burley in performing
city duties.
   (C)   Vehicles while used in the course of construction or maintenance of
utilities or buildings while construction or maintenance is actually taking
place if not interfering with other traffic or public safety.
   (D)   Delivery vehicles while actually in the course of making deliveries if
not interfering with other traffic or public safety.
   (E)   Moving vans and trailers while making a delivery provided it not be
parked on a city street for longer than seventy two (72) hours and it does not
interfere with other traffic or public safety. (Ord. 1236, 6-17-2008)
11-1-12: TOWING AND STORAGE OF IMPOUNDED MOTOR VEHICLES 1
:
   (A) Lien Imposed: Towing and storage liens on impounded motor vehicles,
costs and expenses of taking and keeping, including the towing and storage of
any motor vehicle which is impounded or taken into custody and control by the
police department under the authority of any law in the state of Idaho or
ordinance of the city, shall be assessed by the police department against such
motor vehicle and shall constitute a lien in favor of the city or its agent and
against such vehicle. (Ord. 829, 1-17-1972; amd. 1981 Code)
   (B) Auto Storage: The city council may by resolution authorize the chief of
police to enter into an agreement with an auto storage company for the towing
and storage of impounded vehicles taken into custody by the police department
as herein provided.
   (C) Payment Of Lien: Any person claiming possession of such motor vehicle
shall pay to the city or its duly authorized depository all costs, including
storage assessed against such vehicle prior to the time of receiving possession
of the same. (Ord. 829, 1-17-1972)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10, chapter 7 of this code.
11-1-13: POSTTOWING HEARING:
   (A) Whenever an authorized officer directs the towing or storage of a
vehicle under the provisions of this code or any ordinance of the city of
Burley, except vehicles impounded for investigation pursuant to section 49-
1803, Idaho Code, the agency directing or authorizing towing or storage shall
provide the vehicle's registered and legal owners of record, or their agents,
with the opportunity for a poststorage hearing to determine the validity of the
storage.
   (B) A notice of the storage shall be sent by certified mail to the
registered and legal owners within forty eight (48) hours, excluding the
weekends and holidays, and shall include the following information:
      1. The name, address, and telephone number of the agency providing the
notice;
      2. The location of the place of storage and description of the vehicle
which shall include, if available, the name or make, identification number, the
license plate number, and the mileage;
      3. The authority and purpose for the removal of the vehicle; and
      4. In order to receive a poststorage hearing, the owners, or their
agents, must request the hearing in writing within ten (10) days of the date of
the notice. Any such hearing shall be conducted within forty eight (48) hours
of the request, excluding weekends and holidays. The public agency may
authorize its own officer or employee to conduct the hearing, so long as the
hearing officer is not the same person who directed the storage of the vehicle.
   (C) Failure of either the registered or legal owner, or his agent, to
request or to attend a scheduled hearing shall satisfy the posttowing hearing
requirement as to that person.
   (D) The provisions of this section shall not apply to vehicles removed from
private property pursuant to section 49-1806(1), Idaho Code.
   (E) The agency employing the person who directed the storage shall be
responsible for the costs incurred for towing and storage if it is determined
in the hearing that probable cause for the storage cannot be established. (Ord.
1302, 5-19-2014)
11-1-14: PARKING AND TRAFFIC RESTRICTIONS FOR SPECIAL EVENTS:
   (A) The City Council finds and declares that during the Cassia County Fair,
parades, dance festivals, boat races, concerts, athletic events, celebrations,
and other events attended by more than fifty (50) people within the City, that
regulation of traffic flow and direction, and regulation and restriction of
vehicular parking must be established and enforced to ensure the safety of
those attending the events and citizens and visitors to the City of Burley. The
Council further finds and declares that emergency response agencies and
personnel, and individuals responsible for the safe and orderly management of
these events must have adequate access to property where these events take
place. Therefore, the City Engineer shall have the authority to regulate the
flow and direction of traffic and to regulate and restrict parking in the City
for such events. Said authority shall include, but not be limited to:
      1. Establishing one-way roads and closed roads for the event(s);
      2. Designating parking spaces along any public street, alley, right-of-
way or parking lot to be used only by Fire Departments, law enforcement
agencies, emergency response vehicles, or any other person or entity designated
by the City Engineer for the purpose of safe and orderly management of the
above-described events; and
      3. To post signs, paint surfaces or otherwise give notice of said
regulations and restrictions.
   (B) It shall be unlawful for any person (other than those for whom the
parking space is reserved) to park any vehicle on, or own any vehicle found to
be parked on or to otherwise obstruct with such person's property, or own any
property found to be obstructing any space reserved for parking of vehicles of
the Fire Department, any law enforcement agency of the State of Idaho or
political subdivision of the State of Idaho, ambulance, or any other person as
designated by the City Engineer as described above. The notification, penalty
and towing provisions set forth in section
11-2-5 of this title for violations of sections
11-2-2 and
11-2-3 of this title shall also apply to all violations of any parking
regulation or restriction described or set forth in this section.
   (C) It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with any
traffic regulation or restriction established by the City Engineer that is
marked or posted as described in this section. Any operator of a vehicle in
violation of this section, other than violations of parking regulations, shall
be guilty of an infraction and shall be punished by a fine of seventy dollars
($70.00) excluding court costs and fees. (Ord. 1334, 7-18-2017)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING ZONES
SECTION:
11-2-1: Parking Zones Established
11-2-2: Night Parking Prohibited On Certain Streets
11-2-3: Limited Time Parking Zones
11-2-4: Owner Responsibility
11-2-5: Notification And Penalties
11-2-6: Regulation Of Parking
11-2-7: Special Parking Permits
11-2-1: PARKING ZONES ESTABLISHED:
The city council has heretofore established, and shall hereafter establish,
from time to time as it deems proper and necessary for the control of traffic,
parking zones and loading zones on the streets of the city. The establishment
of and all changes in such zones shall be only as duly ordered by the city
council and entered in the official minutes of the council meetings. (Ord. 902,
11-15-1976, eff. 2-1-1977)
11-2-2: NIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS:
The parking, standing or placing of motor vehicles on the following streets is
prohibited between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. Mountain time:
Main Street between Highland Avenue and Park Avenue
Overland Avenue between 8th Street and 27th Street
No person shall park, stand, place or allow any vehicle owned or registered in
her or his name to be parked or placed in violation of this section. (Ord.
1302, 5-19-2014)
11-2-3: LIMITED TIME PARKING ZONES:
The parking, standing or placement of any motor vehicle at the same location on
any of the following streets for more than three (3) hours during any four (4)
consecutive hour period is prohibited:
Main Street between Highland Avenue and Park Avenue
Overland Avenue between 8th Street and 27th Street
For the purposes of this section, the term "same location" shall include
anywhere within three hundred feet (300') from the exact place where the motor
vehicle is parked or placed.
No person shall park, stand, place or allow any vehicle owned or registered in
her or his name to be parked or placed in violation of this section. (Ord.
1302, 5-19-2014)
11-2-4: OWNER RESPONSIBILITY:
Every owner of a motor vehicle is liable and responsible for the operation of
such motor vehicle by any person using or operating the same with the
permission, express or implied, of such owner, and the violation of this
chapter of such person shall be imputed to the owner for the purpose of
penalties for unlawful parking. (Ord. 902, 11-15-1976, eff. 2-1-1977)
11-2-5: NOTIFICATION AND PENALTIES:
Violations of sections
11-2-2 and
11-2-3 of this chapter will be established by placing a written notification on
the windshield of the offending vehicle. A separate violation occurs each day
that the vehicle is found to be in violation of section
11-2-2 or
11-2-3 of this chapter. The notification will require the driver or owner of
the vehicle to appear at the Burley city clerk's office on or before a date set
forth on the notice. The owner or operator may appear by mail or in person. At
the time of appearance the owner or operator may admit the violation and pay a
fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00), to the city of Burley, as part of the
administrative collection of parking violation penalties, or may deny the
violation. If the owner or operator denies the violation the violation shall be
charged as an infraction.
   (A)   If the owner or operator fails to appear, the owner of the motor
vehicle, and the operator if identified, shall be sent a written notice
requiring appearance within a period of ten (10) days. Thereafter, any owner,
or operator if identified, failing to report, or denying the violation, shall
be charged with an infraction.
   (B)   If an infraction is charged, any owner or operator who is found to
have violated the terms of section
11-2-2 or
11-2-3 of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction and shall be punished
by a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) excluding court costs and fees.
   (C)   Any vehicle illegally parked on the streets designated in section
11-2-2 or
11-2-3 of this chapter during the times prohibited may be removed by the police
department or sheriff's department and impounded with the costs thereof
assessed against the owner and/or operator of the motor vehicle if any of the
following conditions exist:
      1.   The illegally parked vehicle is impeding traffic or threatening
public safety, or
      2.   The registered owner of the vehicle has accumulated delinquent,
unpaid, or otherwise unsettled and uncontested parking fines which have
remained unpaid for a period of thirty (30) days totaling at least two hundred
dollars ($200.00), or four (4) or more delinquent, unpaid or otherwise
unsettled and uncontested parking tickets or written notifications.
This removal and impoundment may take place in addition to any penalties
provided above. (Ord. 1302, 5-19-2014)
11-2-6: REGULATION OF PARKING:
   (A)   The city engineer may regulate parking in the city and in so
regulating may direct that any public street, right of way or public parking
lot in the city be marked by painting on the surface, curb, or by posting of
signs, to designate parking spaces, no parking areas, direction of parking, or
restrictions on parking.
   (B)   The city engineer shall mark parking zones established by the city
council under the provisions of section
11-2-1 of this chapter by painting on the surface, curb, or by posting of
signs.
   (C)   The city engineer may direct that the markings on the surface, curbs
or the posted signs comply with the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices"
published by the U.S. department of transportation, federal highway
administration, or by such other markings or signs the city engineer determines
to be appropriate.
   (D)   There shall be a presumption that street markings, curb markings or
signs designating parking regulations within the city have been approved by the
city engineer, and comply with this section.
   (E)   All vehicles shall be parked at a place or in a manner consistent with
the markings or signs placed under the provisions of this section.
   (F)   Only licensed vehicles may be parked in any marked parking area.
   (G)   No motor vehicle-trailer combination shall be parked in a marked
parking area except in a parallel parking area allowing for the motor vehicle
and trailer to occupy two (2) contiguous marked spaces.
   (H)   The owner of any motor vehicle parked in violation of this section
shall be subject to the owner responsibility provisions of section
11-2-4 of this chapter.
   (I)   Violations will be established by placing a written notification on
the windshield of the offending vehicle. The notification will require the
driver or owner of the vehicle to appear at the city clerk's office on or
before a date set forth on the notice. The owner or operator may appear by mail
or in person. At the time of appearance, the owner or operator may admit the
violation and pay a fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00) or may deny the
violation.
   (J)   If the owner or operator fails to appear, the owner of the motor
vehicle, and the operator if identified, shall be sent a written notice
requiring appearance within a period of ten (10) days. Thereafter, any person
failing to report, or denying the violation, shall be charged with a
misdemeanor subject to the penalties provided by Idaho law.
   (K)   Any police officer having observed a violation of this section who
reasonably concludes that the violation poses a danger to persons or property,
or significantly interferes with persons lawfully parking in a marked area, may
impound the vehicle by having it towed to a place of safekeeping. The lawful
owner of the vehicle may recover possession by paying all costs of towing and
storage and showing proof of ownership and by reporting as required. (Ord.
1118, 3-1-1999)
11-2-7: SPECIAL PARKING PERMITS:
   (A)   Request For Permit: Owners and lessees of buildings being used for
business purposes located on the streets described in sections
11-2-2 and
11-2-3 of this chapter, their employees and residents of the streets listed or
described above may request a special parking permit which will allow them to
park their business or personal vehicles overnight and without the restrictions
set forth in sections
11-2-2 and
11-2-3 of this chapter so long as their vehicles are parked within three
hundred feet (300') of their residence or business. The permits shall:
      1.   Be issued by the city clerk's office;
      2.   Be valid for a period of one year, but subject to revocation by the
city clerk for violations of any provisions herein or through sale of the
vehicle;
      3.   Cost an amount established by resolution of the city council;
      4.   Be owner and vehicle specific, and nontransferable;
      5.   Be displayed on the driver's side of the rear window;
Provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed to allow the vehicle
to remain on the street in violation of any other law, ordinance or regulation,
or when the owner has otherwise been requested to move the vehicle by proper
authority, whether for street cleaning, snowplowing or for emergency reasons.
   (B)   Application And Issuance: Owners and lessees of buildings being used
for business purposes located on the streets described in sections
11-2-2 and
11-2-3 of this chapter, their employees and residents of the streets listed or
described above may apply for this special parking permit by presenting proof
of identification, ownership and control of real property located along one of
the listed streets, employment by a business located along one of the listed
streets if applicable, and vehicle registration to the city clerk's office.
Upon approval of the city clerk's office and payment of the applicable fee (if
any), the permit shall be issued. (Ord. 1302, 5-19-2014)
