CITY CODE
of
CHALLIS, IDAHO
1988
Code current through:
Ord. 522, passed 6-10-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Streett * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Challis, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 522, passed June 10, 2025. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 445
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
   THE CITY CODE OF CHALLIS, IDAHO
BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Challis, Idaho, an
Idaho Municipal Corporation:
Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the City Code
of the City of Challis, Idaho, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., containing
the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body, shall be
accepted in all courts without question as the Official Code and Law of the
City as enacted by the Mayor and City Council.
Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification, the
loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the Official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, three (3) copies of which
shall be maintained in the office of the City Clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said Official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the Official City Code.
Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change
or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or to
insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
Any person, firm or corporation violating this Section shall be punished as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of the City Code of Challis, Idaho.
Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are, to
the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
Section 6: This Ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance with
law, as printed and published in book form by order of the Mayor and City
Council.
   INTRODUCED:   July 14, 1988
   PASSED:   August 9, 1988
   APPROVED:   Ronald W. Gassman
         Mayor
ATTEST:
Betty J. Horn
City Clerk-Treasurer
PUBLISHED:      July 14, 1988
         August 11, 1988
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL MUNICIPAL CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the City Council, this City Code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official City Code of the City of Challis. This
City Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the CHALLIS CITY CODE, and
it is hereby published by authority of the Council and shall be kept up to date
as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this City Code by title in any legal documents.
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Code.
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the City Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this City Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the City Code.
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer. Any person having in his custody an official copy of the City Code
shall make every effort to maintain said Code in an up to date and efficient
manner. He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages
when such are delivered to him or made available to him through the office of
the City Clerk-Treasurer. Said Code books, while in actual possession of
officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the
City and shall be returned to the office of the Clerk-Treasurer when directed
so to do by order of the City Council. (1988 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-5: Change from Village to City
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this City
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this City Code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
City; and all special ordinances. (1988 Code)
Ordinances under any of the above subheadings are exempt from repeal and are to
be removed from the "active" and placed on the "inactive" file or the
"administrative" section of the Ordinance Resolution Register, whenever
appropriate. (Ord. 435, 9-14-82)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the City Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case this City Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding. So far as practicable, if
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the City herein repealed
and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code shall be
deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
City under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this City Code. (1988 Code)
The repeal of all ordinances as provided herein shall not affect any right
which has accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or
proceedings commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed, nor the
tenure of office of any person holding office at the time, when such ordinance
takes effect, nor shall the repeal of any ordinance thereby have the effect of
reviving any ordinance or resolution therefor repealed or superseded. (Ord.
435, 9-14-82)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this City Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1988 Code)
1-2-5: CHANGE FROM VILLAGE TO CITY:
All bylaw ordinances and resolutions lawfully passed and in force in the City
of Challis, Idaho, under its former organization as the Village of Challis,
Idaho, shall remain in full force and effect until altered or repealed by Mayor
and Council of the City.
The passage of House Bill No. 3, as amended by the 39th Session of the
Legislature of the State of Idaho, which took effect April 12, 1967, shall not
impair or affect any act done, offense committed or right accruing, accrued or
acquired, or liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred prior to the
effective date of such Legislative act, but the same may be enjoined, asserted,
enforced, prosecuted or inflicted as fully and to the same extent as if such
act had not been passed. (Ord. 300, 8-8-67, eff. 8-8-67)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this City Code importing the plural number
is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any
single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this City Code by words importing the singular number
only, or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females
as well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
City Code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been changed
in the content of this City Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
CITY: The City of Challis, County of Custer, State of Idaho.
CODE: The Municipal Code of Challis, Idaho, and amendments thereto.
COUNTY: The County of Custer, State of Idaho.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Challis".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: When a crime punishable in the State prison is also punishable by
fine or imprisonment in a county jail, in the discretion of the Court, it shall
be deemed a misdemeanor for all purposes after a judgment imposing a punishment
other than imprisonment in the State prison.
Whenever the words "misdemeanor", "petty misdemeanor" or "violation" are used
in this Code, these terms or any of them shall be construed to mean misdemeanor
and shall be punished as such, unless otherwise provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the City; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Challis".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
STATE: The State of Idaho.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places, sidewalks and bridges.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this Code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who
purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in
the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the City Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted. (1988 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any violation of a Code section hereof that does not otherwise provide a
penalty shall be punishable by an infraction penalty of one hundred dollars
($100.00). Failure to pay such infraction penalty shall constitute a
misdemeanor, which is punishable by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00). (Ord. 330A, 3-15-2017)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section
unless otherwise indicated. Any person convicted of a violation of any section
of this Code where a duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any
action which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be
unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or
such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this Code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this Code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one (1) recovery shall be had against
the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a
license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission of any required act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this Code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (1988 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1988
Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election, Term Of Office, Vacancies
1-5-2: Meetings Of The Council
1-5-3: Salaries
1-5-4: Mayor
1-5-5: Duties Of Council Members
1-5-6: Passage And Veto Of Ordinances
1-5-1: ELECTION, TERM OF OFFICE, VACANCIES:
   A.   Qualification, Terms, Installation 1 : Any person shall be eligible to
hold office of Councilperson of the City who is at the time of election, and
remains a qualified elector under the Constitution and laws of the State of
Idaho. Each Councilperson elected at a general City election, except as
otherwise specifically provided, shall hold office for a term of four (4)
years, and until his/her successor is elected and qualified. Councilpersons
elected at each general City election shall be installed at the first meeting
in January following election. The manner of conducting that meeting shall be
as herein set forth and not otherwise: The incumbents shall meet and conduct
such business as may be necessary to conclude the fiscal matters of the
preceding year; the newly elected shall then subscribe to the oath of office,
be presented certificates of election, assume the duties of their position, and
conduct such business as may be necessary, one (1) item of which shall be the
election of a member as President of the Council.
   B.   Vacancies, Appointment 2 : A vacancy on the Council shall be filled by
appointment made by the Mayor, with the consent of the Council, which appointee
shall serve only until the next general City election, at which such vacancy
shall be filled for the balance of the original term. (1988 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §50-702.
2 2. IC §50-704.
1-5-2: MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL:
   A.   Time and Place: The time and place of the Council meeting shall be held
in City Hall, on the second Tuesday of each month at seven o'clock (7 :00) PM
of said day. If the second Tuesday of the month is a holiday, the meeting shall
be held the day after, at the same hour.
   B.   Open Meetings: All meetings of the city council shall be open to the
public, as provided for in Section 67-2342 et seq., Idaho Code (1988 Code).
(Ord., 5-9-2017; amd. Ord., 11-11-2021)
1-5-3: SALARIES:
   A.   The Mayor shall receive an annual salary in the sum of nine thousand
dollars ($9,000.00); and
   B.   Each member of the Council shall receive an annual salary in the sum of
three thousand six hundred dollars ($3,600.00). (Ord. 469, 7-22-2013; amd.
Ord., 8-8-2023)
1-5-4: MAYOR:
   A.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Generally: The Mayor shall devote so much of his/her time to the
duties of his/her office as an efficient and faithful discharge thereof may
require, and shall:
         a.   From time to time, give the Council such information and
recommend such measures as she/he may deem beneficial to the City.
         b.   Examine the grounds of all complaints against any of the officers
of the City to determine existence of a violation or neglect of duty and report
the evidence thereof, if deemed sufficient for the removal of said officer, to
the Council.
         c.   Require that every officer, on the expiration of his/her term of
office or resignation or removal from the same, deliver to his/her successor
all monies, books, papers, maps, plats, furniture, fixtures, apparatus,
machinery, tools and instruments and appurtenances belonging to such office.
         d.   Perform all other duties imposed by the laws of the State of
Idaho.
      2.   Sign Contracts, Borrow Money: The Mayor is authorized and empowered
to sign his/her name officially for and on behalf of the City on all contracts
including deeds, bonds, bills, notes, obligations and other agreements,
documents and papers to which the City is a party, and to require that the
conditions in the said instruments are faithfully performed, and to borrow
money on the credit of the City when authorized by the Council.
      3.   Accounts And Reports Of Officers: The Mayor shall have the power,
when she/he deems it necessary, to require any officer of the City to exhibit
his/her accounts or other papers and to make reports to the Council in writing,
touching any subject or matter she/he may require pertaining to his/her office.
      4.   May Require Aid: The Mayor is hereby authorized to call on every
male inhabitant in the City over eighteen (18) years of age and under the age
of fifty (50) years, to aid in enforcing the laws.
      5.   Additional Powers: The Mayor shall have all other powers granted by
the laws of the State of Idaho.
   B.   Police Powers, Jurisdiction 1 : The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction
as may be vested in him/her by ordinance over all places within five (5) miles
of the corporate limits of the City, for the enforcement of any health or
quarantine ordinance and regulation thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all
matters vested in him/her by ordinance, except taxation, within one (1) mile of
the corporate limits of the City and over such properties as may be owned by
the City without the corporate limits.
   C.   Term Of Office: The term of the Mayor of the City shall be four (4)
years. (1988 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §50-606.
1-5-5: DUTIES OF COUNCIL MEMBERS:
The members of the City Council, the legislative and policy making branch of
the government of the City, shall devote so much of their time to the duties of
their office as an efficient and faithful discharge thereof may require. They
shall attend all meetings of the Council unless lawfully excused therefrom, and
perform all duties by the nature of their office they should reasonably
perform, such as the passing of ordinances, resolutions and the overseeing of
improvements and work done for the City according to the character of
committees upon which they may severally be appointed. (1988 Code)
1-5-6: PASSAGE AND VETO OF ORDINANCES:
The Mayor shall have power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by the City
Council; provided, that any ordinance vetoed by the Mayor may be passed over
his/her veto by a vote of one-half (1/2) plus one (1) of the members of the
Council elected, notwithstanding the veto, and should the Mayor neglect or
refuse to sign any ordinances and return the same with his/her objection, in
writing, at the next regular meeting of the Council, the same shall become a
law without his signature. (1988 Code)
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: City Clerk-Treasurer
1-6-2: City Attorney
1-6-3: City Works Superintendent
1-6-1: CITY CLERK-TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment: The Clerk-Treasurer shall be appointed by the Mayor,
subject to Council approval.
   B.   Duties: The Clerk-Treasurer shall:
      1.   In all cases where duty is not expressly charged to any other
department or office, have supervision, control and responsibility of all
records of the City.
      2.   Be responsible for the recording, filing, indexing and safekeeping
of all the proceedings of the City and shall have published all proceedings,
legal notices, ordinances and resolutions that are required by the City or
State statutes.
      3.   Keep complete records of all ordinances.
      4.   Maintain all election records used in connection with elections.
      5.   Notify the appointing authority of the impending expiration of his
or her term of office of any member of the Council at least thirty (30) days
before expiration of term.
      6.   Be custodian of the official seal of the City.
      7.   Furnish to any member of the City Council a certified copy of any
record or document in his or her custody and may furnish such a copy to any
other person upon payment of a fee to be determined by the City Council.
      8.   Make and take care of all collections normally taken care of by the
Clerk-Treasurer.
      9.   Issue all licenses in accordance with City or State Code. A record
of all licenses, including the name of the person issued, amount of fee, and
purpose of license shall be kept by the Clerk-Treasurer.
      10.   Keep a complete record of all outstanding bonds of the City and
report such record regularly to the City Council.
      11.   Countersign all warrants and keep a "warrant register and abstract
of expenditures", showing the number and amount of warrants issued and the
person to whom issued, the date redeemed, the interest paid and the several
funds against which each of said warrants is drawn.
1-6-2: CITY ATTORNEY:
   A.   Appointment: The Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to
Council approval.
   B.   Duties: The Attorney shall:
      1.   Prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at law or equity to
which the City may be a party, or in which it may be interested, or which may
be brought against, or by, any officer of the City on behalf of the City, or in
the capacity of such person as an officer of the City.
      2.   See to the full enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or
entered in favor of the City and all similar interlocutory orders.
      3.   Be the legal advisor of the City and shall render advice on all
legal questions affecting the City, whenever requested to do so by any City
official. Upon request of the Mayor or Council, he shall reduce any opinion in
writing.
      4.   See to the completion of all special assessment proceedings and
condemnation proceedings.
      5.   Draft or supervise the phraseology of any contract, lease or other
documents or instruments to which the City may be a party, and upon request of
the Council to draft ordinances covering subjects within the power of the City.
1-6-3: CITY WORKS SUPERINTENDENT:
   A.   Appointment: The Mayor may appoint the City Works Superintendent with
the approval of the City Council.
   B.   Duties: The Superintendent shall have charge of all City works as
follows:
      1.   He shall supervise and maintain the grading, surfacing, repairs and
maintenance of all streets and alleys.
      2.   He shall supervise and maintain the installation and maintenance of
all sewer lines in the City except installation which is accomplished by
contract.
      3.   He shall supervise and maintain the installation and maintenance of
all water mains, waterhouse and water services, except where same is
accomplished by contract.
      4.   He shall have charge of repair or supervise repairs of all city work
equipment.
      5.   He may employ, with the consent of the mayor and the council, such
help as needed to carry on the work of the city; such help to be directly under
his supervision.
      6.   The superintendent shall be responsible for the accomplishments of
such work of the city which the mayor from time to time assigns to him.
      7.   The superintendent shall present to the council at its regular
meeting each month a written report of city work accomplished the preceding
month and also, as far as can be foreseen, city work planned for the current
month. (Res., 12-12-1972)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL FINANCES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Official Depository
1-7-2: Capital Improvements Fund
1-7-3: Claims
1-7-1: OFFICIAL DEPOSITORY:
The city council shall have the authority, acting through resolution, to select
the official depository institution or institutions for funds of the city. The
clerk-treasurer is hereby ordered, required and directed to keep monies
belonging to or in the depository institutions selected by the city council per
resolution, which may change from time to time; provided, however, that when so
authorized by the mayor and council, city funds, by the clerk-treasurer, may be
invested in securities authorized by law. (Ord. 302B, 11-18-2014)
1-7-2: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS FUND:
There is hereby established a capital improvements fund for the city for the
purpose of purchasing vehicles and other equipment for the city. (Ord. 355, 9-
9-1974)
1-7-3: CLAIMS:
   A.   Filing Claims Against City Or Employee: All claims against the city or
an employee of the city for any act or omission of the employee within the
course or scope of his employment shall be presented to and filed with the
clerk-treasurer of the city within one hundred eighty (180) days from the date
the claim arose or reasonably should have been discovered, whichever is later 1
.
   B.   Damage Claims: All claims for damages against the city must be filed
with the clerk-treasurer of the city within sixty (60) days after the time when
such claim for damages shall have occurred; specifying the time, place and
probable cause of said damage. No action shall be maintained against the city
for any claim for damages until the same has been presented to the city
council, and until sixty (60) days shall have elapsed after such presentation.
The payment of any and all damage claims by the city shall be by resolution,
and not otherwise 2 . (1988 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 6-906.
2 2. IC § 50-219.
CHAPTER 8
MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: State Laws To Govern
1-8-2: Voter Registration
1-8-3: Initiative And Referendum
1-8-3-1: Creation Of Right
1-8-3-2: Petition For Initiative Or Referendum
1-8-3-3: Sufficiency Of Petition; Council Action; Election
1-8-3-4: Election Ballot
1-8-3-5: Conduct Of Election
1-8-3-6: Election Costs
1-8-3-7: Canvass Of Returns
1-8-3-8: Prohibited Acts
1-8-4: Hours Of Polling Place For City Elections
1-8-1: STATE LAWS TO GOVERN:
The city hereby elects to conform its practices for election of qualified
electors to those contained in title 34 Idaho Code. (Res. 125, 2-19-1985)
1-8-2: VOTER REGISTRATION:
All registration shall take place with the clerk of Custer County who shall
provide the city clerk-treasurer with a copy of each such registration.
Each such registration form shall contain sufficient information to indicate
that the said voter is qualified to vote in municipal elections. (Res. 125, 2-
19-1985)
1-8-3: INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM:
1-8-3-1: CREATION OF RIGHT:
The people of the city of Challis, Idaho, (the "city") shall have the right to
enact ordinances through the initiative process, and to repeal ordinances
through the referendum process, according to the procedures set forth herein.
(Ord. 380, 7-12-1977)
1-8-3-2: PETITION FOR INITIATIVE OR REFERENDUM:
   A.   Number Of Petitioners Required: To enact an ordinance by initiative or
to repeal an ordinance by referendum, there shall be attached or appended to
the petition the signatures of the legal voters of the city equal to at least
twenty percent (20%) of the total number of voters registered to vote at the
last general election in the city.
   B.   Form Of Petitions:
      1.   Initiative Petition: The initiative petition shall be in
substantially the following form:
Initiative Petition to the Mayor and Council of the City of Challis, Idaho: We,
the undersigned citizens and legal voters of the City of Challis, Idaho,
respectfully demand that the following proposed ordinance, to-wit: (setting out
full text of measure proposed) shall be submitted to the legal voters of the
City of Challis, Idaho, for their approval or rejection at an election to be
called in accordance with Idaho Code Section 50-501(3), and each for himself
says: I have personally signed this petition; I am a legal voter of the City of
Challis, Idaho; my residence and post office are correctly written after my
name.
Name                
Street Number                
Post Office                
(Here follow numbered lines for signature)
      2.   Referendum Petition: The petition for referendum on any ordinance
passed by the city council shall be in substantially the same form with
appropriate title and changes, setting out in full the text of the ordinance to
be referred to the people for their approval or rejection.
   C.   Time For Filing Petitions: Referendum petitions with the requisite
number of signatures attached shall be filed with the city clerk-treasurer not
less than sixty (60) days following the final adoption of the ordinance to be
subject to referendum.
   D.   Printing Of Petition; Time Limits For Perfecting Petition:
      1.   Before or at the time of beginning to circulate any petition for
initiative or referendum, the person under whose authority the petition is to
be circulated, shall send or deliver to the city clerk-treasurer a copy of such
petition duly signed by at least twenty (20) electors eligible to sign such
petition. The clerk-treasurer shall immediately examine the petition and
specify the form and kind and size of paper on which the petition shall be
printed and circulated for further signatures. All petitions and sheets for
signatures shall be printed on a good quality bond or ledger paper, on pages
eight and one-half inches (81/2") in width by thirteen inches (13") in length,
with a margin of one and three-fourths inches (13/4") at the top for binding,
and the sheets for signatures shall have numbered lines thereon from one to
twenty (1–20) for signatures. The petition shall be prepared in sections, with
each section numbered consecutively. Each section of a petition must have a
printed copy of the petition as the first page, and each section shall have
attached to it not more than ten (10) sheets for signatures.
      2.   The city clerk-treasurer shall indicate in writing on the petition
that he has approved it as to form. The clerk-treasurer shall inform the person
under whose authority the petition is to be circulated, in writing, that the
petition must be perfected with the required number of certified signatures
within sixty (60) days following the effective date of adoption of the
ordinances subject to referendum, or, in the case of an initiative, within
sixty (60) days following the date of approval as to form. Any petition that
has not been perfected with the required number of certified signatures within
the sixty (60) days allowed shall be declared null and void ab initio in its
entirety.
   E.   Verification Of Signatures: Each and every signature sheet of each
petition containing signatures shall be verified on the face thereof in
substantially the following form by the person who circulated said sheet of the
petition, by his or her affidavit thereon, as a part thereof:
State of Idaho   )
         ) ss.
County of Custer   )
I,    , swear, under penalty of perjury, that every person who signed this
sheet of the foregoing petition signed his or her name thereto in my presence.
I believe that each has stated his or her name and the accompanying required
information on the signature sheet correctly, and that the person was eligible
to sign this petition.
Signature
Post Office Address              
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN To before me this          day of                , 19
        .
(notary seal)                   
            Notary Public
            residing at              
            Comm. expires:
   F.   Examination And Certification Of Signatures:
      1.   All petitions with attached signature sheets shall be presented on
the same day to the city clerk-treasurer who shall make a cursory examination
of them to determine whether the petitions apparently contain the necessary
number of signatures.
         a.   If the total number of signatures on the petitions is not
sufficient to satisfy the number required by subsection A of this section, all
petitions with attached signature sheets shall be retained by the city clerk-
treasurer who shall notify in writing the person filing the petition of the
number of signatures needed, and further signatures may be gathered, if within
the time limit of subsections C and D of this section.
         b.   If the cursory examination of the signature sheets reveals:
Erasures on any signatures;
Illegible or undecipherable signatures;
Signatures not properly identified by all of the information required on the
sheet;
Duplicate signatures;
Signatures of persons who have requested in writing to have their names removed
from the petition;
the city clerk-treasurer shall summarily reject such signatures and they shall
not be counted. Each rejected signature shall be drawn through with ink and
initialed by the clerk-treasurer. If the total number of signatures not
rejected is not sufficient to satisfy the number required by subsection A of
this section, all petitions with attached signature sheets shall be retained by
the clerk-treasurer who shall notify in writing the person filing the petition
of the number of signatures needed, and further signatures may be gathered, if
within the time limit of subsections C and D of this section.
      2.   All petitions presented to the city clerk-treasurer found to
apparently contain the necessary number of signatures, after the cursory
examination provided for above, shall be filed with the city clerk-treasurer
and become public records of the city not to be returned. The city clerk-
treasurer shall examine each such signature purported to be that of a
registered elector of the city and compare each such signature with the
registration documents available to the city clerk-treasurer. The city clerk-
treasurer shall summarily reject all signatures which are not the signatures of
a registered elector of the city; and such rejected signatures shall not be
counted. Each rejected signature shall be drawn through with ink and initialed
by the city clerk-treasurer. The clerk-treasurer may take not to exceed ten
(10) days after filing of the petition to complete his examination. He shall
certify each signature found to comply with all of the requirements of this
section
1-8-3 by an appropriate mark following each signature.
The city clerk-treasurer shall total the number of certified signatures, and if
found to total the number of signatures required by subsection A of this
section, shall proceed as provided in section
1-8-3-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 380, 7-12-1977)
1-8-3-3: SUFFICIENCY OF PETITION; COUNCIL ACTION; ELECTION:
   A.   Sufficiency Of Petition:
      1.   In the event that a petition filed with a city clerk-treasurer does
not contain the required number of certified signatures, the clerk-treasurer
shall inform the person under whose authority the petition was circulated that
the petition is defective for lack of certified signatures, and specify the
number of additional signatures required to make the petition valid. The
petition must be perfected within thirty (30) days of the date that the city
clerk-treasurer finds the petition defective for lack of certified signatures
in the case of an initiative, and must be perfected within the sixty (60) day
period following the final adoption of the ordinance subject to referendum in
such case as required by subsection 1-8-3-2C of this chapter. If the petition
is not perfected within such period, the clerk-treasurer shall declare the
petition null and void ab initio in its entirety.
      2.   In the event that a petition filed with the city clerk- treasurer is
found by the clerk-treasurer to contain the required number of certified
signatures, the clerk-treasurer shall promptly, by certified mail, inform the
person under whose authority the petition was circulated, and shall also notify
the city council at its next meeting that the initiative or referendum petition
is in proper form.
   B.   Council Action:
      1.   If the petition is for a referendum, the city council may, within
thirty (30) days from the date of certification of the petition, repeal the
ordinance being referred to the voters. In the event the council repeals the
ordinance, the referendum petition shall be declared null and void.
      2.   If the petition is an initiative petition, the city council may,
within thirty (30) days, pass an ordinance substantially as proposed by the
petition. In the event the council passes such an ordinance, the initiative
petition shall be null and void.
   C.   Election: In the event the city council neither repeals the ordinance
which is the subject of a referendum petition, nor enacts an ordinance which is
the subject of an initiative petition, an election shall be ordered by the city
clerk- treasurer to be conducted citywide. A special election for initiative or
referendum shall be provided not more than ninety (90) days following the
certification of the petition; provided, that in the event a municipal election
will occur within the ninety (90) days, the initiative or referendum shall be
submitted at the time of the municipal election. (Ord. 380, 7-12-1977)
1-8-3-4: ELECTION BALLOT:
The city council shall prepare a ballot for an initiative or referendum
election in one of the following ways:
   A.   If the full text of the ordinance or proposed ordinance to be voted
upon does not exceed fifty (50) words in length, it may be set out in full on
the election ballot.
   B.   If the full text of the ordinance or proposed ordinance to be voted
upon exceeds fifty (50) words in length, and the council votes not to have it
printed at length on the election ballot, it shall prepare a short title and
description of the ordinance or proposed ordinance which shall clearly and
impartially state its purpose and effect, which short title and description
shall be printed on the election ballot. (Ord. 380, 7-12-1977)
1-8-3-5: CONDUCT OF ELECTION:
Initiative or referendum elections, whether special or general, shall be
conducted and the results thereof canvassed and certified in all respects as
near as practicable in like manner as general elections, except as otherwise
provided. (Ord. 380, 7-12-1977)
1-8-3-6: ELECTION COSTS:
Upon the filing of any initiative or referendum petition with the city clerk-
treasurer, petitioners shall post bond with the clerk- treasurer in an amount
sufficient to offset the estimated expense of conducting the election, unless
such election is to be held at the time of a regular general municipal
election. As near as practicable after the election, the total actual expenses
of the election shall be tabulated by the city clerk-treasurer. The petitioners
shall be jointly and severally liable for payment into the city treasury of the
whole amount of the expenses of such election. (Ord. 380, 7-12-1977)
1-8-3-7: CANVASS OF RETURNS:
The mayor and council shall meet within five (5) days after said election to
canvass the votes cast at such election, and the city clerk-treasurer shall
immediately announce the results. Any initiative measure approved by a majority
of the votes cast shall be in full force and effect from the date of such
announcement. Any ordinance which is the subject of a referendum receiving less
than a majority of the votes cast shall be repealed, effective on the date of
such announcement. (Ord. 380, 7-12-1977)
1-8-3-8: PROHIBITED ACTS:
A person is guilty of a misdemeanor who:
   A.   Signs any name other than his own to any initiative or referendum
petition.
   B.   Knowingly signs his name more than once on the same initiative or
referendum petition.
   C.   Knowingly signs his name to any initiative or referendum petition if he
is not a registered city elector.
   D.   Wilfully or knowingly circulates, publishes or exhibits any false
statement or representation concerning the contents, purport or effect of any
initiative or referendum petition for the purpose of obtaining any signature to
any such petition, or for the purpose of persuading any person to sign any such
petition.
   E.   Presents to any officer for filing any initiative or referendum
petition to which is attached, appended or subscribed any signature which the
person so filing such petition knows to be false or fraudulent, or not the
genuine signature of the person purporting to sign such petition, or whose name
is attached, appended or subscribed thereto.
   F.   Circulates or causes to circulate any initiative or referendum
petition, knowing the same to contain false, forged or fictitious names.
   G.   Makes any false affidavit concerning any initiative or referendum
petition or the signatures appended thereto. (Ord. 380, 7-12-1977)
1-8-4: HOURS OF POLLING PLACE FOR CITY ELECTIONS:
The polls for all general and special city elections shall be open from twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon, Mountain Time and remain open until eight o'clock (8:00)
P.M. Mountain Time. (Ord. 482, 10-14-2003)
CHAPTER 9
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Official Newspaper
1-9-2: Ordinances and Resolutions
1-9-1: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The Challis Messenger, printed and published in the City of Challis, is hereby
designated the official newspaper of the City, and such ordinances, notices and
publications as are required by law to be given publication in a newspaper
shall be published in The Challis Messenger. (Ord. 301, 8-8-67, eff. 8-8-67)
1-9-2: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS:
   A.   Disposition of Ordinances and Resolutions:
      1.   Ordinances that are at present covered by more recent City, State or
Federal regulations have been repealed 1 . The ordinance numbers and title
listing are on file with the City Clerk-Treasurer.
      2.   Annual appropriations bill and property tax levies passed previous
to 1982, and public works bonds passed previous to 1962 have been placed on an
"inactive status". Resolutions dated early 1900's dealing with local
improvement district definitions, irrigation controls, Samuelson Day, and other
early 1900's special declarations have also been placed on an "inactive
status".
   B.   Amending Ordinances: Amending ordinances shall be numbered according to
the original ordinance number, followed by a letter signifying the number of
amendments on such ordinance.
   C.   Filing: All ordinances shall be numbered consecutively and filed under
a general subheading and then individual titles. The Register of Ordinances and
Resolutions shall have a numerical and alphabetical index for easy reference.
(Ord. 435, 9-14-82)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  1-2-1 of this Code.
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Commission May Be Created; Appointment; Members
2-1-2: Terms Of Office
2-1-3: Organization And Meetings
2-1-4: Duties And Powers
2-1-5: Compensation
2-1-6: Maps, Plats, Replats And Permits
2-1-7: Ratification Of Acts And Decisions
2-1-8: Standby Status Of Commission
2-1-1: COMMISSION MAY BE CREATED; APPOINTMENT; MEMBERS:
The city council may create and establish a joint planning and zoning
commission for the city consisting of three (3) to twelve (12) members, who
shall be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the city council, without
respect to political affiliation. Not more than one-third (1/3) of said members
may be ex officio members by virtue of public office or position held in the
city. An appointed member of the commission must have resided in the county for
five (5) years prior to his appointment, and must remain a resident of the
county during his service on the commission. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
2-1-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
The initial terms of the first appointed members, to be determined by lot,
shall be two (2) years for one-third (1/3) of the members, four (4) years for
one-third (1/3) of the members and six (6) years for one-third (1/3) of the
members. Thereafter, the term of office for each appointive officer shall be
six (6) years. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
2-1-3: ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS:
The commission shall elect its own chairman and create or fill such other
offices as it may determine necessary, establish advisory committees, appoint
nonvoting ex officio advisors, and one regular meeting shall be held each month
for not less than nine (9) months in each year. Written rules consistent with
the laws of the state of Idaho for the transaction of business shall be
adopted; written record of meetings, resolutions, findings and determinations
shall be kept; all meetings and records shall be open to the public; and a
majority of the appointive members shall constitute a quorum at any meeting.
(Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
2-1-4: DUTIES AND POWERS:
The joint planning and zoning commission shall have those duties and powers
over all lands within the jurisdiction of the city provided by law, including,
but not limited to, the duty and power to:
   A.   Recommend and make suggestions to the city council for the adoption of
a long range comprehensive plan 1  for the physical development of the city for
the formation of zoning districts;
   B.   Make suggestions concerning the laying out, widening, extending and
locating of streets, roads and highways for the relief of traffic;
   C.   Make suggestions concerning density of population and development of
land within the jurisdiction of the city;
   D.   Make suggestions concerning the future growth, development and
beautification of the city in respect to its public buildings, streets, parks,
grounds and lands consistent with the future growth and development of the city
in order to promote the public health, morals, safety and welfare of the
inhabitants thereof;
   E.   Give suggestions and advice to individuals concerning landscaping or
location of buildings, structures or works to be created, constructed or
altered by and for such individuals;
   F.   Conduct informal meetings and public hearings 2 ; and
   G.   With the approval of the city council, receive and expend funds, goods
and services from federal and state or local governments or agencies or
instrumentalities and hire such employees and advisors as necessary within the
amounts appropriated therefor by the city council. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 1 of this code.
2 2. See section
  9-5-2 of this code for hearing procedures.
2-1-5: COMPENSATION:
Members shall receive such mileage and per diem compensation as may from time
to time be determined by the city council. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
2-1-6: MAPS, PLATS, REPLATS AND PERMITS:
Any and all maps, plats, replats of lands and permits which require the
approval of the city or of an officer or employee shall first be submitted to
the planning and zoning commission, if appointed, for its suggestions and the
commission shall have a reasonable time, to be fixed by the city council,
within which to examine such maps, plats, replats or permits before returning
the same with its suggestions. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
2-1-7: RATIFICATION OF ACTS AND DECISIONS:
All actions, hearings, and decisions heretofore made and taken by the planning
and zoning commission are hereby ratified and approved. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
2-1-8: STANDBY STATUS OF COMMISSION:
All the duties and powers of the planning and zoning commission shall be
carried through the city council and mayor at the regular city council meetings
for the city. The planning and zoning commission may temporarily be placed on
standby until such a time that growth demand cannot be handled at regular city
council meetings. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
CHAPTER 2
AIRPORT COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Commission Created
2-2-2: Membership; Appointment; Term Of Office
2-2-3: Organization And Meetings
2-2-4: Functions
2-2-5: Compensation
2-2-6: Authority To Abolish Commission
2-2-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created and established an airport commission for the city for
the purpose of assisting the city council in the formulation of the long range
development and management plan of the Challis municipal airport 1 , including
as components in said plan recommendations for leasing of airport property for
aeronautical services such as fuel sales and storage, future runway, parking
apron and taxi area expansion, rules, regulations and ordinances for the
management of said airport, and any other matter of relevance to assure the
orderly and efficient management and development of the Challis municipal
airport in the best interest of the citizens of Challis. (Ord. 382-A, 5-11-
1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8 of this code for airport regulations.
2-2-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE:
The commission shall consist of three (3) members, and the term for each member
shall be one year. Initial and replacement members to the commission shall be
made by the mayor, with the advice and approval of the city council, and
commission members may in like manner be removed. The commission members shall
be selected from individuals with actual experience in airport operations with
actual aviation experience and close familiarity with the Challis airport
facility. (Ord. 382B, 4-14-2015)
2-2-3: ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS:
The commission shall elect its own chairman and create or fill such other
offices as it may determine necessary, and one regular meeting shall be held
each month for not less than six (6) months in each year. All meetings of the
commission shall be open to the public, and minutes and records of all
commission meetings, polls, reports and investigations shall be kept and open
to the public. The commission shall make written or oral reports of its
activities to the city council as the council may, from time to time, request.
(Ord. 382-A, 5-11-1993)
2-2-4: FUNCTIONS:
The commission shall function in an advisory capacity to the mayor and city
council and shall have the authority to contact and solicit advice from members
and groups of the Challis community, government officials of the city, county,
state and federal government, and any other persons having commercial or
noncommercial interests in the Challis Municipal Airport; provided, however,
the commission shall not be authorized to enter into any written or verbal
agreement for the payment of services, materials or property, nor shall the
commission be authorized to obligate the city in any manner for payment of
services or materials rendered, or professional or consultant's fees in the
exercise of the commission's functions, without the prior express written
approval of the mayor and city council. (Ord. 382-A, 5-11-1993)
2-2-5: COMPENSATION:
Members of the commission shall serve without compensation, but actual and
necessary expenses may be allowed with prior written approval of the city
council. (Ord. 382-A, 5-11-1993)
2-2-6: AUTHORITY TO ABOLISH COMMISSION:
   A.   The city council may, by resolution duly enacted, abolish or place on
temporary standby status the commission so established hereunder. (Ord. 382-A,
5-11-1993)
   B.   All duties and powers of the airport commission shall be transferred
from the inactive airport commission to the city council and mayor, at regular
city council meetings for the city. (Res. 4.93, 6-8-1993)
CHAPTER 3
PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Commission Created
2-3-2: Membership; Appointment; Terms
2-3-3: Organization And Meetings
2-3-4: Functions And Duties
2-3-5: Compensation
2-3-6: Authority To Abolish Commission
2-3-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created and established a park and recreation commission for
the city for the purpose of assisting the city council in the development of
long and short range growth and management plans for the city park(s). (Ord.
437-A, 5-11-1993)
2-3-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERMS:
The commission shall consist of seven (7) members appointed by the mayor, with
the advice and approval of the city council. The council and mayor in like
manner, may remove commission members. The terms, membership and residency
requirements will be specified in the commission bylaws. (Ord. 437-A, 5-11-
1993)
2-3-3: ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS:
The commission shall elect its own chairman and create or fill such other
offices as it may deem necessary. One regular meeting shall be held each month
for not less than six (6) months in each year. All meetings of the commission
shall be open to the public, and minutes and records of all commission
meetings, polls, reports and investigations shall be kept and open to the
public. The commission shall make written or oral reports of its activities to
the city council as the council may, from time to time, request. (Ord. 437-A,
5-11-1993)
2-3-4: FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES:
The commission shall function in an advisory capacity to the mayor and city
council and shall have the authority to contact and solicit advice from members
and groups of the community, government officials of the city, county, state
and federal government, and any other persons having commercial or
noncommercial interests in the city park(s). The commission, however, shall not
be authorized to enter into any written or verbal agreement for the payment of
services, materials, properties or use, nor shall the commission be authorized
to obligate the city in any manner for the payment of materials or services
rendered, or professional or consultant fees in the exercise of the
commission's functions, without the prior express written approval of the mayor
and city council.
The commission's duties include, but are not limited to:
   A.   Providing plan recommendations for the leasing, renting or free use of
the city park(s) for recreational and/or other approved activities (e.g.,
entertainment);
   B.   The coordination of such activities to prevent overlapping use of the
grounds;
   C.   Granting of permits for special uses;
   D.   Future needs and expansion;
   E.   Rules, regulations and ordinances for the management, maintenance,
beautification and use of the park(s);
   F.   Allowed conduct of park users; and
   G.   Any other matter of relevance to assure the orderly and efficient
management, development and maintenance of the city park(s) in the best
interest of the citizens of Challis and Custer County, Idaho. (Ord. 437-A, 5-
11-1993)
2-3-5: COMPENSATION:
Members of the commission shall serve without compensation, but actual and
necessary expenses may be allowed with prior written approval of the city
council. (Ord. 437-A, 5-11-1993)
2-3-6: AUTHORITY TO ABOLISH COMMISSION:
   A.   The city council may, by resolution duly enacted, abolish or place on
temporary standby status the commission so established hereunder. (Ord. 437-A,
5-11-1993)
   B.   All duties and powers of the park and recreation commission shall be
transferred from the inactive park and recreation commission to the city
council and mayor, at regular city council meetings for the city. (Res. 5.93,
6-8-1993)
CHAPTER 4
GOLF COURSE COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-4-1: Commission Created
2-4-2: Membership; Appointment; Term Of Office
2-4-3: Duties And Powers
2-4-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
The City hereby creates the Challis Municipal Golf Course Commission, which
shall have the powers and duties set forth herein, for the purpose of advising
the City Council on the operation of the Challis Municipal Golf Course and
helping to plan, support, enhance and develop the Course for the betterment of
the community. (Ord. 454, 3-12-1996)
2-4-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE:
The Golf Course Commission shall be comprised of three (3) voting members
appointed by the Mayor, subject to the consent and approval of the City
Council. Members may be removed by a majority vote of the City Council without
cause. Members shall serve for a period of four (4) years, however initial
appointments shall be four (4) years for one member, three (3) years for one
member and two (2) years for one member. The Manager of the Golf Course and one
Councilmember shall be appointed as an ex officio member of the Commission who
shall not vote. (Ord. 454, 3-12-1996)
2-4-3: DUTIES AND POWERS:
The Commission will have broad duties and powers with respect to carrying out
the purposes set forth herein. The primary duty of the Commission is to advise
the Mayor and City Council in the management and operation of the Course. The
Commission, either alone or in cooperation with other organizations, may
sponsor Course-related projects, events, and educational programs. The
Commission with the full knowledge and approval of the City Council shall have
the power to seek grants and donations in support of projects which will aid
the course. Donations received on behalf of the Course shall be designated for
Golf Course projects. The Commission may not obligate the City or incur
liability for the City above or beyond any budget the City Council may
establish for the Commission without the permission of the City Council. (Ord.
454, 3-12-1996)
CHAPTER 5
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-5-1: Purpose
2-5-2: Established; Membership
2-5-3: Organization And Administration
2-5-4: Powers, Duties And Responsibilities
2-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the educational, cultural, economic
and general welfare of the public of the city of Challis through the
identification, evaluation, designation, and protection of buildings, sites,
areas, structures, and objects which reflect significant elements of the city's
historic, architectural, archaeological, and cultural heritage. (Ord. 492, 1-9-
2007)
2-5-2: ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   There is hereby created a historic preservation commission which shall
consist of five (5) members who shall be appointed by the mayor and ratified by
the city council.
   B.   All appointments shall be made for three (3) year terms. Commission
members may be reappointed to serve additional terms. Vacancies shall be filled
in the same manner as original appointments and the appointee shall serve for
the remainder of the unexpired term. (Ord. 492, 1-9-2007)
2-5-3: ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The commission shall have the power to make whatever rules are
necessary for the execution of its duties as set forth in this chapter. Rules
of procedure and bylaws adopted by the commission shall be available for public
inspection.
   B.   The commission shall elect a chairman from among the commission
members. The chairman shall preside at meetings of the commission.
   C.   The commission may recommend to the city council the services of
technical experts or other persons, to assist the commission in its functions.
(Ord. 492, 1-9-2007)
2-5-4: POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The commission shall be advisory to the council and shall be authorized to:
   A.   Conduct a survey of local historic properties.
   B.   Recommend methods and procedures necessary to preserve, restore,
maintain and operate historic properties under the ownership or control of the
city.
   C.   Draft and submit to the council for approval, contracts with the state
or federal government, or any agency of either, or with any other organization.
   D.   Cooperate with the federal, state, and local governments in the
pursuance of the objectives of historic preservation.
   E.   Promote and conduct educational and interpretive programs on historic
preservation and historic properties in the city.
   F.   Enter private property, buildings, or structures in the performance of
its official duties, but only with the express consent of the owner or occupant
thereof.
   G.   Review nominations of properties, within the city's jurisdiction, to
the National Register of Historic Places and provide comments to the state
historic preservation office.
   H.   Nominate properties within the city's jurisdiction to the National
Register of Historic Places. (Ord. 492, 1-9-2007)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Required
3-1-2: Application for License
3-1-3: Qualifications of Applicant; Investigation
3-1-4: License Fees
3-1-5: Issuance of License
3-1-6: Transcribable Records
3-1-7: Compliance with State Laws
3-1-8: Revocation of License
3-1-9: Violation and Penalty
3-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person may sell liquor by the drink, beer, wine or wine by the drink within
the City limits of the City without first procuring a license from the City and
paying the fees established in this Chapter. (Ord. 425, 11-24-81)
3-1-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring to sell liquor by the drink, beer, wine or wine by the
drink within the City limits of the City shall first obtain a valid license for
such sale from the Commissioners of Custer County, Idaho, and then shall make
an application in writing, signed and sworn to by the applicant upon
application forms furnished by the City Clerk-Treasurer. Such application shall
be filed by the Clerk-Treasurer and presented to the Mayor and Council at the
next meeting of the Council for its approval, rejection or further
consideration. The City Council shall grant or deny the application within
thirty (30) days of the time it is filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer. (Ord.
425, 11-24-81; Ord. 425B, 12-13-83)
3-1-3: QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT; INVESTIGATION:
   A.   Qualifications: The applicant for a license shall possess all of the
qualifications necessary to obtain a license from the Director of the Idaho
Department of Law Enforcement, as prescribed by the laws of the State, and
maintain such qualifications throughout the period for which such license is
issued. The possession of licenses regularly issued by the Department of Law
Enforcement and the County shall be evidence of the applicant's qualifications
to receive a license hereunder. (Ord. 425, 11-24-81)
   B.   Investigation of Applicant: No license shall be granted hereunder until
there has been an investigation by the City's agent of all applicants
hereunder. After investigation, the applications will be forwarded to the City
Council with a recommendation from the City's agent. If the City's agent
recommended that an application be denied he shall state in writing: (Ord.
425B, 12-13-83; 1988 Code)
      1.   The statutes or ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
      2.   The reason for the denial; and
      3.   The action, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof. (Ord. 425B, 12-13-83)
3-1-4: LICENSE FEES:
The following fees are imposed and must be tendered with any application for a
license to sell liquor by the drink, beer, wine or wine by the drink within the
incorporated limits of the City:
Retail sale of beer for consumption on premises: $200.00 per year
Retail sale of bottled or canned beer, none of which is consumed on premises:
$50.00 per year
Retail sale of wine, none of which is consumed on the premises: $50.00 per year
Retail sale of wine, and wine by the drink for premises which do not hold
licenses for retail sale of liquor by the drink: $200.00 per year
Liquor by the drink: $225.00 per year to be reviewed annually
Provided further, any person desiring to sell alcoholic beverages from more
than one of the above listed categories must obtain a license for each category
desired and pay the required fee for each category. (Ord. 425C, 1-13-87; 1988
Code)
All licenses shall be granted by the Mayor and Council for a period of one year
beginning January 1 and ending December 31. A full year's license fee shall be
collected after January 1. (Ord. 425B, 12-13-83)
3-1-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon filing the application for a license and production of evidence as
required by Section
3-1-3 of this Chapter as to the qualifications of the applicant and by the
payment of the required fee, the Clerk-Treasurer shall, upon approval of the
Council, issue to the applicant a license to sell the designated alcoholic
beverage within the Municipality for such calendar year or the remainder
thereof. (Ord. 425, 11-24-81)
3-1-6: TRANSCRIBABLE RECORDS:
In all cases where the City Council is considering applications for licenses,
transfers or renewals thereof, a transcribable, verbatim record of the
proceeding shall be made. If the applicant for a license, transfer or renewal
is denied, a transcribable, verbatim record of the proceedings shall be kept
for a period of not less than six (6) months after a final decision on the
matter. Upon written request and within the time period provided for retention
of the record, any person may have the record transcribed at his expense. The
City Council shall also provide for the keeping of the minutes of the
proceedings. Minutes shall be retained indefinitely or as otherwise provided by
law. (Ord. 425B, 12-13-83)
3-1-7: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAWS:
All persons within the City limits of Challis engaged in the sale of liquor by
the drink, beer, wine or wine by the drink must obey all laws established by
the State of Idaho regulating the sale of alcoholic beverages 1 . The City's
agent is authorized to inspect premises licensed under this Chapter to insure
compliance with State law and this Chapter.
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. title 23.
3-1-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The right shall be and remain at all times vested in the Mayor and Council, and
the Mayor and Council may, as hereinafter provided, revoke or cancel any
license for fraud or misrepresentation in its procurement, or for a violation
of any of the provisions of this Chapter, or for any conduct or act of the
licensee or his employees or any conduct or act permitted by him or them on the
premises where such business is conducted, or in connection therewith or
adjacent thereto, tending to render such business or such premises where the
same is conducted as a public nuisance or a menace to the health, peace, safety
or general welfare of the City; provided, that the revocation or suspension of
the State license by the Director of Law Enforcement shall be deemed prima
facie evidence for revocation or suspension of the license issued herein. (Ord.
425, 11-24-81)
Prior to any revocation or suspension, the licensee shall be afforded a hearing
according to section 23-1016, Idaho Code. Whenever the Mayor and City Council
denies an application, they shall specify in writing:
   A.   The statutes, ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
   B.   The reason for the denial; and
   C.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof. (Ord. 425B, 12-13-83)
3-1-9: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this Chapter or fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions hereof shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than three
hundred dollars ($300.00) or sentenced to not more than six (6) months in the
County jail, or both such fine and imprisonment. A violation of any of the
provisions of this Chapter by any agent, employee, servant or other person in
any way acting in behalf of the licensee shall be presumed to be a violation by
the licensee. (Ord. 425, 11-24-81)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
SECTION:
4-1-1: International Fire Code And Standards Adopted
4-1-1: INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE AND STANDARDS ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of prescribing regulations
governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion,
that certain code and standards known as the international fire code, including
all appendix chapters, and the international fire code standards published by
the International Code Council, being particularly the 2000 editions, or later
editions and supplements adopted by the state of Idaho thereof and the whole
thereof. One copy has been and is now filed in the office of the city clerk-
treasurer and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set
out at length herein; and from the effective date hereof, the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the city. (Ord. 486, 3-9-
2004)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND REFUSE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Unlawful Garbage Deposits
4-2-3: Violations Declared A Nuisance; Abatement
4-2-4: Penalties
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
GARBAGE: All debris, paper, litter, glass, metal, animal and vegetable remains
and waste, wire, cans, bottles, boxes, boards and other lumber, trash or other
waste substances.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, association or other entity.
(Ord. 385, 12-13-1977; amd. 1988 Code)
4-2-2: UNLAWFUL GARBAGE DEPOSITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully or negligently throw, place,
dump or deposit any garbage as herein defined at the designated sanitary
landfill or dump, or any other property belonging to the city, at any place or
location thereon not specifically authorized by the city, its agents or
representatives. (Ord. 385, 12-13-1977; amd. 1988 Code)
4-2-3: VIOLATIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE; ABATEMENT:
Violations of this chapter are hereby declared to be nuisances and the person
creating or allowing the same shall, upon notification from the city, promptly
clean up, remove and properly dispose of any garbage deposited, placed or
dumped in places not authorized by the city. The city or its authorized agent
may prevent, remove, clean up and otherwise summarily abate the nuisance
without judicial process at the expense of the person creating or allowing the
same, the cost of which shall be immediately paid to the city upon demand; and
the city may bring any appropriate civil action, including abatement,
injunction and/or damages, in which the city shall be entitled to all costs
including attorney fees in the prosecution of such action. (Ord. 385, 12-13-
1977; amd. 1988 Code)
4-2-4: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to the penalties therefor, as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 385, 12-13-1977; amd. 1988 Code)
ARTICLE A. GARBAGE COLLECTION FRANCHISE
SECTION:
4-2A-1: Grant Of Franchise
4-2A-2: Term And Renewal
4-2A-3: Specific Conditions
4-2A-4: Indemnity
4-2A-5: Comprehensive Liability Insurance
4-2A-6: Assignment Of Franchise
4-2A-7: Forfeitures
4-2A-8: Police Power
4-2A-9: Extension Of City Limits
4-2A-1: GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
The City of Challis (herein referred to as "City") hereby grants to Blue
Mountain, Inc., an Idaho corporation, dba Blue Mountain Refuse (hereafter
referred to as "grantee") an exclusive franchise to collect and haul for hire
over the streets and alleys of the City, all garbage collected from public and
private customers located within the corporate limits of the City. This
exclusive franchise will not require mandatory garbage service by the citizens
of the City of Challis. "Garbage" as used herein will be interpreted to mean
and include all waste, animal and vegetable matter, rubbish, trash, debris,
ashes, tin cans, and other waste materials of any kind which are ordinarily and
customarily hauled away and dumped. (Ord. 471A, 3-13-2012; amd. Ord., 7-14-
2022)
4-2A-2: TERM AND RENEWAL:
The term of the franchise is to be ten (10) years. This franchise shall become
effective on July 1, 2022 to June 30, 2032. This franchise shall become
effective on such date only if grantee files a written acceptance of the
franchise with the City Clerk within thirty (30) days after the date this
article becomes effective. The term of the franchise may be extended by the
City following compliance with the provisions of Idaho Code 50-329. At the time
of renewal or at the time a new franchise is considered and so long as grantee
is not in default of this article, grantee will be given the first option of
renewal or of a new franchise upon terms identical to those offered by the City
to any third party. (Ord. 471A, 3-13-2012; amd. Ord., 7-14-2022)
4-2A-3: SPECIFIC CONDITIONS:
   A.   Garbage Trucks: All trucks used by grantee for the collection and
hauling of garbage shall be maintained in safe operating condition at all
times. Each truck shall be equipped with an enclosed body that incorporates a
hydraulically operated device for compacting collected garbage. Grantee shall
also maintain at all times at least two (2) garbage trucks with a minimum
capacity of twenty (20) cubic yards. Grantee's garbage trucks shall meet all
Idaho Public Utilities Commission standards now in force or as may be adopted
hereafter. Grantee may provide, for a fee, commercial carts or garbage
containers for any person or organization requesting such containers. Grantee
shall provide service to each customer once per month or upon request, provided
that the customer is current on fees charged by grantee.
   B.   Fees: The City shall have the authority to approve all changes in rates
to the City residences and businesses during the term of this franchise,
provided such fees shall not be arbitrary, unreasonable or discriminatory.
Grantee agrees to appear before the City annually for a review of the grantee's
performance and grantee further agrees to notify the City of proposed rate
changes or modifications in service and be available to meet with the City
prior to the effective date of such change or modification. Rate changes shall
not become effective until approved by the City.
   C.   Franchise Fee: Grantee shall remit to the City a franchise fee in the
amount of two and one-half percent (2.5%) of the gross monthly billings sent to
customers located within the City limits, irrespective of whether such billings
are in fact collected. Such franchise fee shall be paid to the City Clerk/
Treasurer on or before the tenth day of each calendar quarter during the term
hereof. The grantee shall, during regular business hours, allow the City access
to grantee's books and records as necessary to monitor compliance with the
terms thereof. The grantee shall also allow the City to audit the records of
the grantee to ensure compliance with this section.
   D.   Compliance With Laws And Regulations: Grantee shall comply with all
ordinances and regulations, as now adopted or as may be hereafter adopted by
the City, pertaining to the collection, hauling and disposal of garbage within
the corporate limits of the City or regulating the use of the streets therefor.
Grantee shall also comply with the County, State and Federal laws, rules and
regulations as shall be applicable to the City of Challis. (Ord. 471A, 3-13-
2012; amd. Ord., 7-14-2022)
4-2A-4: INDEMNITY:
Grantee shall indemnify and defend the City, its boards, commissions, officers,
agents, and employees and any and all other public agencies and their members,
officers, agents and employees, against any and all liabilities for injury to
or death of any person or any damage to any property caused by grantee, its
officers, agents or employees in the construction, operation , or maintenance
of its property, or arising out of the exercise of any right or privilege under
the franchise. (Ord. 471A, 3-13-2012; amd. Ord., 7-14-2022)
4-2A-5: COMPREHENSIVE LIABILITY INSURANCE:
At all times during the term of the franchise grantee will, at its own expense,
maintain in force general comprehensive liability insurance with an insurance
company approved by the City, the policy or policies to be in form satisfactory
to the City. The coverage represented by such policy or policies shall be for
the protection of the City, members of its boards and commissions, and its
officers, agents and employees against liability for loss or damage for bodily
injury, death, and property damage occasioned by the activities of grantee
under the franchise. Minimum liability limits under the policy or policies are
to be five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for personal injury or death
of any one (1) person and five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for
personal injury or death of two (2) or more persons in any one (1) occurrence,
and five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for damage to property
resulting from any one (1) occurrence. Additional public agencies and their
personnel shall be added as insurers, subject to the same terms and conditions,
at the request of the City. Such policy shall include a provision that requires
a written notice of any cancellation or reduction in coverage of the policies
to be delivered to the City thirty (30) days in advance of the effective date
thereof. If any such insurance is provided by a policy that also covers grantee
or any entity or person other than those named above. then such policy shall
contain the standard cross-liability endorsement.
Within thirty (30) days after grantee's acceptance of this franchise, grantee
shall provide the City a certificate of insurance evidencing such insurance
coverage. (Ord. 471A, 3-13-2012; amd. Ord., 7-14-2022)
4-2A-6: ASSIGNMENT OF FRANCHISE:
Grantee shall not assign the franchise or otherwise transfer it in any manner
whatsoever, or sell, lease, license, or permit others to use or transfer in any
manner whatsoever any interest in all or any part of its facilities that are
installed or operated hereunder, except on prior written approval by the City,
which approval will not be unreasonably denied. (Ord. 471A, 3-13-2012; amd.
Ord., 7-14-2022)
4-2A-7: FORFEITURES:
The franchise may be forfeited , at the option of the City, upon failure or
refusal by grantee to observe the terms and conditions set forth herein.
Forfeiture may be exercised by written notice to grantee of failure to observe
the terms and conditions hereof, followed by grantee's refusal to eliminate or
correct such failure of violation within thirty (30) days. In the event of any
failure or violation, the City may sue in its own name in the manner provided
by law for the forfeiture of the franchise without the necessity of resorting
to procedure in quo warranto, and the exercise of such render of forfeiture
shall not preclude exercise of any other right or remedy given to the City by
law, whether exercised concurrently or subsequently. (Ord. 471A, 3-13-2012;
amd. Ord., 7-14-2022)
4-2A-8: POLICE POWER:
This passage of this article is necessary for the protection of the public
welfare and property of the City of Challis. Grantee shall not be required to
post any security of performance under the terms of this franchise. (Ord. 471A,
3-13-2012; amd. Ord., 7-14-2022)
4-2A-9: EXTENSION OF CITY LIMITS:
Upon the annexation of any territory by the City of Challis, Idaho, all rights,
privileges and the franchise hereby granted shall extend to the territory so
annexed, and all facilities owned, maintained or operated by said grantee,
located within the territory so annexed upon any of the streets, alleys,
avenues, or other public places situated in such annexed territory, shall
thereafter be subject to all the terms here (Ord. 471A, 3-13-2012; amd. Ord.,
7-14-2022)
CHAPTER 3
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-3-1: General Restrictions
4-3-2: Allowed Open Burning
4-3-3: Prohibited Open Burning
4-3-4: Restrictions On Open Burning
4-3-5: Civil Liability For Violation
4-3-6: Exceptions
4-3-7: Penalty
4-3-1: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS:
A person conducting an open burn must first call the Custer County sheriff's
office dispatch to inform dispatch of where the open burn will be, and provide
any other information dispatch requests before beginning the open burn. No
person shall build, ignite, or maintain any outdoor open burn unless that
person complies with this chapter, and with the rules of any other government
agencies that regulate emissions. (Ord. 508, 8-21-2014)
4-3-2: ALLOWED OPEN BURNING:
   A.   Allowed Burning: The city of Challis allows open burning in the
following cases:
      1.   Burning irrigation ditches to keep them clear of plant and weed
growth;
      2.   To control or alleviate fire hazards or weeds when no alternative
control method exists;
      3.   To train organized firefighting personnel;
      4.   To dispose of tree remnants and dry vegetation where no other
practical, alternative method of disposal is available such as removal and
transportation of said vegetation to the county landfill or other approved
sites. (Ord. 508, 8-21-2014)
4-3-3: PROHIBITED OPEN BURNING:
   A.   Prohibited Burning: The city of Challis does not allow any person to
burn materials that emit toxic contaminants or large volumes of smoke,
particulates or odors, including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Commercial waste;
      2.   Motor vehicles and parts thereof;
      3.   Drywall, sheetrock, floor underlayment, insulated wire, or
insulation;
      4.   Chemicals;
      5.   Dead animals or parts thereof;
      6.   Any materials resulting from a salvage operation;
      7.   Tires or other rubber materials or products;
      8.   Plastics, asphalt or composition roofing or any other asphalt
material or product;
      9.   Tar, tarpaper, waste or petroleum products;
      10.   Paints;
      11.   Lumber or timbers treated with preservatives;
      12.   Pathogenic or hazardous wastes; or
      13.   Any burning that this chapter would otherwise allow, but that is
determined to be a nuisance, a hazard or a source of air pollution. (Ord. 508,
8-21-2014)
4-3-4: RESTRICTIONS ON OPEN BURNING:
   A.   Restrictions On Open Burning: The following restrictions on open
burning are applicable within the city of Challis:
      1.   Open burning shall not be conducted within fifty feet (50') of any
structure or combustible material. A competent person eighteen (18) years of
age or older shall constantly attend any open burn until the open burn is
completely extinguished. This person must have sufficient tools and equipment
on hand to extinguish the fire. Such equipment may include, but is not limited
to: hoses connected to a functional water supply; shovels; fire extinguishers
or other fire extinguishing equipment suitable to maintain control of the open
burn.
      2.   No person shall kindle a fire upon the premises of another without
the permission of the property owner or the owner's agent.
      3.   The mayor, on the advice of the city fire marshal, shall have the
authority to rescind open burning, immediately, if it is determined that
atmospheric, weather or hazardous conditions or local circumstances constitute
a threat to public safety or property.
      4.   The person responsible for an open burn shall extinguish the open
burn completely before leaving the open burn for any reason whatsoever, or upon
the order of the fire marshal, fire chief, fire officer, or a law enforcement
officer. An order to extinguish an open burn may be based on any of the
following reasons:
         a.   Conducting an open burn in violation of this chapter;
         b.   Insufficient or unsuitable personnel present to control the open
burn;
         c.   A change from favorable to unfavorable weather or burning
conditions;
         d.   Conducting an open burn that is determined to be dangerous or a
nuisance. (Ord. 508, 8-21-2014)
4-3-5: CIVIL LIABILITY FOR VIOLATION:
In the event a violation of this chapter occurs, the city council may hold the
person responsible for an open burn liable for any costs that the fire
department reasonably incurs as a result of responding to any open burn. The
costs may be based on the Idaho department of state lands' emergency equipment
rate book. (Ord. 508, 8-21-2014)
4-3-6: EXCEPTIONS:
Recreational fires, cooking fires or warming fires, when conducted in
compliance with other portions of this chapter, do not require advance notice
to the Custer County sheriff's office dispatch before they are lit. However,
they must comply with the following restrictions:
   A.   They shall not be ignited within twenty five feet (25') of a structure
or combustible material unless the fires are contained in a barbecue or
barbecue pit. Persons igniting these fires shall remove materials that could
cause a fire to spread to within twenty five feet (25') of a structure before
lighting these fires.
   B.   A responsible person, who knows how to safely contain a recreational,
cooking or warming fire, must be present at the fire at all times until the
fire is extinguished.
   C.   Burn barrels are prohibited. (Ord. 508, 8-21-2014)
4-3-7: PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 508, 8-21-2014)
CHAPTER 4
ABANDONED BUILDINGS AND PERSONALTY
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Abandonment Prohibited
4-4-3: Securance And Removal Procedures
4-4-4: Public Sale Of Removed Items
4-4-5: Violation And Penalty
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The words and terms herein provided are defined as follows:
ABANDONED AND OPEN BUILDING: Any commercial or residential structure, and all
outbuildings and garages used in connection therewith, within the city, which
because of the dilapidated condition of windows, doors, walls or roof, is open
to entrance by persons or animals, and which, because of such condition,
creates a condition tending to reduce the value of property, to promote blight
and deterioration, to invite plundering, to create fire hazards, to constitute
attractive nuisances creating a hazard to health and safety of minors, to
create a harborage for rodents and insects, and to be injurious to the health,
safety and general welfare.
ABANDONED, WRECKED AND JUNKED: With reference to vehicles, an unsightly motor
vehicle which meets any one of the following qualifications:
   A.   It does not carry a current valid state registration and license plate;
   B.   It cannot be safely operated under its own power.
MACHINERY: All articles of industrial, farm or domestic machinery or equipment,
and any and all metal or wooden machinery, motors, equipment and tools.
MAJOR HOUSEHOLD FURNISHINGS AND APPLIANCES: All articles usually referred to as
major household furnishings and appliances used in housekeeping including, but
not limited to, chairs, tables, davenports, beds, refrigerators, stoves,
washers, driers, furnaces, and grease, oil and paint containers of five (5)
gallon or over capacity.
MOTOR VEHICLES: Any vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power designed to travel on the ground by wheels, treads, runners or slides and
to transport persons or property or pull machinery including, but not limited
to, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles and tractors.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation or partnership.
4-4-2: ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED:
   A.   Public Property: It is unlawful for any person to place, allow,
discard, maintain, park or store any abandoned, wrecked or junked vehicle,
major household furnishing or appliance or machinery, or parts thereof, as
herein defined, upon any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public
property within the City.
   B.   Private Property: It is unlawful for any person, whether he be owner,
tenant, occupant or lessee of any private property or premises, to maintain or
allow any abandoned and open building for a period of time exceeding sixty (60)
days, or to place, allow, discard, maintain, park, store or permit to be
placed, allowed, discarded, maintained, parked or stored upon said property or
premises for a period of time exceeding thirty (30) days any abandoned, wrecked
or junked vehicles, major household furnishing or appliance or machinery, or
parts thereof, as herein defined; provided, however, that the provisions of
this subsection shall not apply to any property or premises where said vehicle,
furnishing, appliance or machinery, or parts thereof, are housed within a
building or fence so as to not be visible from the street or other public or
private property, or stored or parked in a lawful manner in connection with or
incidental to a business or commercial enterprise which is the primary or
principal use of said property or premises.
4-4-3: SECURANCE AND REMOVAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Authority: The City or its representative may order any such building
secured against entry by person or animals within thirty (30) days, and may
order any such abandoned, wrecked or junked vehicle, major household furnishing
or appliance or machinery, or parts thereof, removed within thirty (30) days.
   B.   Notice: Notice of such order shall be placed upon the building,
vehicle, furnishing, appliance, machinery, or part thereof, and a copy of such
notice shall be served upon any adult person occupying the premises on which
such item is located, if any, and upon the record owner of the building or
item, if known. If there is no occupant or owner, a notice affixed to the
building or upon any other prominent object upon the premises shall constitute
notice to such owner or occupant of the premises and the owner of such building
or item involved; provided, that if such owner or occupant is only temporarily
absent, such notice shall be by certified mail.
   C.   Securance or Removal by City; Costs: Violations of this Chapter are
hereby declared to be a nuisance and if securance or removal is not
accomplished within the time and in the manner prescribed by the order or
notice, the City or its authorized agent may prevent, removal and summarily
abate the nuisance without judicial process at the expense of the parties
creating or maintaining the same and to levy a special assessment as provided
in Idaho Code 50-1008 on the land or premises whereon the nuisance is situated
to defray the cost or to reimburse the City for the cost of abating the same;
or the City may bring any appropriate civil action, including abatement,
injunction and/or damages, in which event the City shall be entitled to all
costs including attorney's fees in the prosecuting of such action. (Ord. 376,
1-11-77)
4-4-4: PUBLIC SALE OF REMOVED ITEMS 1 :
Any personal property which may have come into possession or custody of the
City by reason of the same having been abandoned or impounded, or otherwise
left with the City's agent, or if originally taken into custody under legal
process, such property being lawfully released or discharged from the
attachment or other process under which it was taken into custody and which
remains unclaimed or unredeemed by the owner or one entitled to possession
thereof for more than six (6) months from the date of such abandonment,
impoundment, leaving, or release from attachment or other process under which
the same was originally taken into custody, as the case may be, shall be
subject to sale by the City's agent at public auction for cash on not less than
five (5) nor more than ten (10) days' notice. The conduct and notice of such
sale shall be given and had in conformity with sales on execution; provided,
however, that prior to public auction, bicycles need only be unclaimed or
unredeemed by the owner or one entitled to possession for more than ninety (90)
days and personal property with a fair market value of less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) need only be unclaimed or unredeemed by the owner or one
entitled to possession for more than thirty (30) days. Further provided, that
whenever the City's agent has knowledge of the name and address of the owner or
one entitled to possession, a copy of such notice of sale shall be mailed to
such owner or one entitled to possession, with postage prepaid, at least five
(5) days prior to such sale; as many items of personal property may be noticed
for sale and sold at the same sale as the City's agent may deem advisable, and
said property may be sold singly or in lots or as a whole as the City's agent
may determine. Upon payment of the amount bid, the City's agent shall give a
bill of sale to the highest bidder upon payment of the bid price. (1988 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §55-403.
4-4-5: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
In addition to the foregoing, any person violating the provisions of this
Chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to such penalties as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 376, 1-11-77)
CHAPTER 5
WEED CONTROL
SECTION:
4-5-1: Nuisance Declared
4-5-2: Duty To Remove
4-5-3: Failure To Remove
4-5-4: Penalty
4-5-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
All areas shall be kept free from dry vegetation, weeds, bushes and tall grass
which present a visual blight upon the area, which may harbor insect or rodent
infestations, or otherwise threaten the health and safety or the welfare of
adjacent property owners/occupants or the community as a whole. The premises
shall be free from visual blight, potential fire hazards and branches. (Ord.
485A, 8-21-2014)
4-5-2: DUTY TO REMOVE:
The owner, tenant or occupant of private property within the corporate limits
of the city of Challis shall cut and remove the weeds, grass, rubbish, visual
blight, potential fire hazards and branches upon and from such private property
to the center of any street or alley along or in front of such property,
including the parking within the curbing abutting such property within ten (10)
days after written notice so to do given by the Challis city clerk. (Ord. 485A,
8-21-2014)
4-5-3: FAILURE TO REMOVE:
In the event of the failure of any such owner, tenant or occupant to cut and
remove the weeds, grass, rubbish, visual blight, potential fire hazards and
branches within the ten (10) day period, then the city may cut and remove such
weeds, grass, rubbish, visual blight, potential fire hazards and branches and
assess the cost thereof against the private property as cleaned or cleared,
such assessment to be certified by the Challis city clerk to the county
assessor or other proper county official having charge of the making up of the
assessment roll, and such assessment shall be placed on the assessment roll and
collected in the same manner as other municipal taxes are collected. (Ord.
485A, 8-21-2014)
4-5-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating sections
4-5-1,
4-5-2 and
4-5-3 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 485A, 8-21-2014)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FAIR HOUSING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Purpose
5-1-2: Definitions
5-1-3: Unlawful Practices
5-1-4: Exemptions from Provisions
5-1-5: Violation and Penalty
5-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to establish fair housing practices and to avoid
discrimination and segregation in housing on the basis of race, color,
religion, national origin or sex.
5-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms used in this Chapter shall have the following meanings:
HOUSING ACCOMMODATION: Includes any improved or unimproved real property, or
part thereof, which is used or occupied as the home or residence of one or more
individuals.
NATIONAL ORIGIN: Includes the national origin of an ancestor.
PERSON: Includes an individual, association, corporation, legal representative,
mutual company, partnership and any other legal or commercial entity.
REAL ESTATE BROKER or SALESMAN: A person, whether licensed or not, who, for or
with the expectation of receiving a consideration, lists, sells, purchases,
exchanges, rents or leases real property, or who negotiates or attempts to
negotiate any of these activities, or who holds himself out as engaged in these
activities, or who negotiates or attempts to negotiate a loan secured or to be
secured by mortgage or other encumbrance upon real property, or who is engaged
in the business of listing real property in a publication, or a person employed
by or acting on behalf of any of these.
REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION: Includes the sale, exchange, rental or lease of real
property.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes buildings, structures, real estate, lands, tenements,
leaseholds, real estate cooperatives, condominiums or any interest therein.
SEX: Refers to gender, male or female.
5-1-3: UNLAWFUL PRACTICES:
It shall be unlawful within the City:
   A.   For an owner, lessor or any other person engaging in a real estate
transaction, or for a real estate broker or salesman, on the basis of race,
color, religion, national origin or sex:
      1.   To refuse to engage in a real estate transaction with a person;
      2.   To discriminate against a person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of a real estate transaction or in the furnishing of facilities or
services in connection therewith;
      3.   To refuse to receive or to fail to transmit a bona fide offer to
engage in a real estate transaction from a person;
      4.   To refuse to negotiate a real estate transaction with a person;
      5.   To represent to a person that real property is not available for
inspection, sale, rental or lease when in fact it is so available, or to fail
to bring a property listing to his attention, or to refuse to permit him to
inspect real property;
      6.   To print, circulate, post or mail or cause to be so published a
statement, advertisement or sign, or to use a form of application for a real
estate transaction, or to make a record or inquiry in connection with a
prospective real estate transaction, which indicates, directly or indirectly,
an intent to make a limitation, specification or discrimination with respect
thereto; or
      7.   To offer, solicit, accept, use or retain a listing of real property
with the understanding that a person may be discriminated against in a real
estate transaction or in the furnishing of facilities or services in connection
therewith.
   B.   For a person to whom application is made for financial assistance in
connection with a real estate transaction or for the construction,
rehabilitation, repair, maintenance or improvement of real property, or a
representative of such person, on the basis of race, color, religion, national
origin or sex:
      1.   To discriminate against the applicant;
      2.   To use a form of application for financial assistance or to make or
keep a record or inquiry in connection with applications for financial
assistance which indicates directly or indirectly, an intent to make a
limitation, specification, or discrimination.
   C.   For a person for the purpose of inducing a real estate transaction from
which he may benefit financially, on the basis of race, color, religion,
national origin or sex:
      1.   To represent that a change has occurred or will or may occur in the
composition of the owners or occupants in the block, neighborhood or area in
which the real property is located; or
      2.   To represent that this change will or may result in the lowering of
property values, an increase in criminal or antisocial behavior, or a decline
in the quality of schools in the block, neighborhood or area in which the real
property is located.
   D.   To insert in a written instrument relating to real property a provision
which purports to forbid or restrict the conveyance, encumbrance, occupancy or
lease thereof on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin or sex.
(Ord. 399, 2-5-1980)
5-1-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
   A.   This chapter shall not apply to:
      1.   The rental of housing accommodation in a building which contains
housing accommodations for not more than two (2) families living independently
of each other if the lessor or a member of his family resides in one of the
housing accommodations; or
      2.   The rental of a room or rooms in a housing accommodation by an
individual if he or a member of his family resides therein.
   B.   This chapter shall not apply and it shall not be an unlawful
discriminatory practice for a bona fide fraternal, religious, charitable or
educational organization to give preference to members of the same organization
in a real property transaction. (Ord. 399, 2-5-1980)
5-1-5: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to penalties as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 399, 2-5-1980; amd. 1988 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2-1: Animals Running At Large Prohibited
5-2-2: Care And Control Of Animals
5-2-3: Violation And Penalty
5-2-1: ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
No person who possesses or harbors any animal may permit said animal to be at
large within the corporate limits of the city. The first violation shall result
in a written warning. The second violation shall result in a penalty as
provided herein. This chapter shall apply to all animals except cats. Animals
shall include, but is not limited to, dogs, horses, cows or other livestock.
(Ord. 352D, 2-10-2015)
5-2-2: CARE AND CONTROL OF ANIMALS:
No person may possess or harbor any animal within the corporate limits of the
city unless such animal is under the immediate care and control of a competent
and responsible person. This chapter shall apply to all animals except cats.
Animals shall include, but is not limited to, dogs, horses, cows or other
livestock. (Ord. 352D, 2-10-2015)
5-2-3: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
The violation of any provision of this chapter shall be an infraction
punishable by a penalty of three hundred dollars ($300.00) as provided in
section 18-113A, Idaho Code. (Ord. 352D, 2-10-2015)
ARTICLE A. DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Definitions
5-2A-2: Dog Licensing Provisions
5-2A-3: Restraint Of Dogs
5-2A-4: Impoundment And Redemption Procedures
5-2A-5: Dogs On School Property
5-2A-6: Rabies Control
5-2A-7: Dog Wastes
5-2A-8: Prohibitions
5-2A-9: Rules And Regulations
5-2A-10: Violations And Penalties
5-2A-11: Fee And Fine Schedule
5-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, unless the context otherwise indicates, the following
words or terms shall have the meanings indicated:
ANIMAL: A dog or cat.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: A person duly authorized and appointed by the city
council to enforce the provisions of this article.
CITY: The city of Challis, Idaho, a municipal corporation of Idaho.
DOG: Includes both male and female, and whether kept for pleasure, utility or
commercial purposes.
KENNEL: An establishment wherein any person engages in the business of
boarding, breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee or selling
dogs. The harboring of more than two (2) dogs over the age of three (3) months
shall be presumed to be operating a kennel for the purposes of this article.
OWNER: Any person, partnership or corporation owning, keeping or harboring one
or more dogs. A dog shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed or sheltered
for three (3) consecutive days or more.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: Any dog or dogs which:
   A.   Molest passersby or passing vehicles;
   B.   Attack persons or other animals;
   C.   Are repeatedly unrestrained;
   D.   Damage private or public property;
   E.   Bark, whine or howl in an excessive, continuous or untimely fashion.
RESTRAINED: Any dog secured by a leash or lead, or under the control of a
responsible person and obedient to that person's commands, or within the real
property limits of its owner. (Ord. 352C, 6-10-2008)
5-2A-2: DOG LICENSING PROVISIONS:
   A.   License Required: Any person owning, keeping, harboring or having
custody of any dog over three (3) months of age within the corporate limits of
the city must obtain a license as herein provided.
   B.   Application For License: Application for license shall be made to the
city clerk-treasurer which application shall include name and address of
applicant, description of the dog and the appropriate address.
Application for a license must be made within thirty (30) days after obtaining
a dog over three (3) months; except, that this requirement will not apply to a
nonresident keeping a dog within the city for no longer than sixty (60) days.
If the applicant has withheld or falsified any information on the application,
the city may refuse to issue a license.
   C.   Issuance Of License: An annual license shall be issued after payment of
the applicable fee set by section
5-2A-11 of this article. License fees shall not be required for seeing eye dogs
or governmental police dogs.
   D.   Term Of License: If not revoked, licenses for the keeping of dogs shall
be for a period of one year. The licensing period shall begin January 1 of each
year and shall run for one year. Application for license may be made sixty (60)
days prior to, and up to thirty (30) days after January 1 of each year. The
license shall be valid for the year indicated on the dog tag and the remainder
of the year in which it was purchased, if applied for prior to January 1 as
provided herein.
Persons who fail to obtain a license as required within the time period
specified herein shall be deemed in violation of this article and subject to
the penalties in subsection 5-2A-11D of this article.
   E.   Tags And Collars: Upon acceptance of the license application and fee,
the city clerk-treasurer shall issue a durable tag or identification collar,
stamped with an identifying number and the year of issuance. Tags should be
designed so that they may be conveniently fastened or riveted to the animal's
collar or harness. Dogs must wear identification tags at all times.
The city shall maintain a record of the identifying numbers of all tags issued
and shall make this record available to the public.
   F.   Duplicate License: A duplicate license may be obtained upon payment of
a replacement fee set by resolution.
   G.   Use Of License: No person may use any license for any dog other than
the dog for which it was issued.
   H.   Revocation Of License: The city may revoke any license issued under
this section if the person holding the license refuses or fails to comply with
this article, the regulations promulgated by the city or any law governing the
protection and keeping of animals.
It shall be a condition of the issuance of any license that the city shall be
permitted to inspect all animals and the premises where animals are kept at any
time and shall, if permission for such inspection is refused, revoke the
license of the refusing owner.
Any person whose license is revoked shall, within ten (10) days thereafter,
humanely dispose of all dogs owned, kept or harbored by such person and no part
of the license fee shall be refunded. (Ord. 352C, 6-10-2008)
5-2A-3: RESTRAINT OF DOGS:
   A.   All dogs shall be kept under restraint.
   B.   No owner shall fail to exercise proper care and control of his dogs to
prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
   C.   Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a building or secure
enclosure in such a manner that such female dog cannot come into contact with
another dog except for planned breeding. (Ord. 352C, 6-10-2008)
5-2A-4: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Impoundment: Unrestrained dogs and dogs constituting a public nuisance
shall be taken by the animal control officer and impounded in an animal shelter
and there confined in a humane manner. Impounded dogs shall be kept for not
less than five (5) working days.
   B.   Notification Of Owner; Hearing: If by a license tag or other means, the
owner of an impounded dog can be identified, the animal control officer shall
immediately, upon impoundment, notify the owner by telephone or mail. If the
owner cannot be identified or notified, notice shall be posted for five (5)
days at the front door of the Challis city hall describing the dog and time and
place of taking.
The notice to owner as set forth herein shall inform the owner that if, within
five (5) working days after notification or posting of notice, the owner does
not either reclaim the dog or request a hearing whereat he can show cause to
the city why the dog or dogs should not be destroyed or disposed of by the
city, the dog shall be disposed of as provided in subsection D of this section.
The request for a hearing by the owner shall be in writing, addressed to the
city clerk-treasurer, and shall contain a brief statement of the reasons why
the dog or owner is not in violation of this article. Upon receipt of the
written request, the city clerk-treasurer shall forthwith set a time and place
for hearing and shall appoint a member of the city council to hear and decide
the matter.
   C.   Redemption Of Impounded Animals: An owner reclaiming an impounded
animal shall pay a fee set by section
5-2A-11 of this article, and shall show proof of licensing to place of
impoundment. All board fees shall be set by resolution for animals held for
rabies quarantine or at the owner's request. Impoundment fees shall apply
unless, following the hearing provided for herein, such dog is found not to be
in violation of this article.
   D.   Disposition Of Unclaimed Animals: An animal not reclaimed by its owner
within five (5) working days after notification or posting of notice shall
become the property of the city and shall be placed for adoption in a suitable
home or humanely destroyed.
   E.   Suffering Animals: In the event that the animal control officer finds
an animal to be suffering, the officer shall have the right forthwith to remove
or cause to have removed any such animal to a safe place for care at the
owner's expense or to euthanize it when necessary to prevent further suffering.
Return to the owner may be withheld until the owner shall have made full
payment for all expenses so incurred.
   F.   Liability Of Owner For Costs: Disposal of an animal by any method
specified herein does not relieve the owner of liability for violations and/or
accrued charges. (Ord. 352C, 6-10-2008)
5-2A-5: DOGS ON SCHOOL PROPERTY:
   A.   Description Of Prohibited Premises: No dogs, whether licensed or not,
shall be permitted at any time upon premises within the corporate limits of the
city used for school purposes.
   B.   Reclamation: Any owner of a dog wishing to reclaim such dog after
impounding shall pay at the time of reclaiming such dog the sum as provided for
in subsection 5-2A-11B of this article.
   C.   Destruction Of Unclaimed Dogs: Any licensed dog impounded a second time
and any unlicensed dog impounded at any time on the premises used for school
purposes above described shall be destroyed immediately by the animal control
officer. (Ord. 352C, 6-10-2008)
5-2A-6: RABIES CONTROL:
It is hereby made the duty of an owner of a dog showing symptoms of rabies, or
if an unvaccinated dog which has bitten any person causing an abrasion of the
skin, to surrender the dog for confinement at the city animal shelter or to a
licensed veterinarian for a minimum of ten (10) days. If such dog shall be
determined free of rabies, the same shall be returned to the owner upon payment
of the regular fee for keeping dogs impounded pursuant to section
5-2A-11 of this article. If such fee is not paid, the dog shall be subject to
disposal as provided in subsection 5-2A-4D of this article. At the discretion
of either the sheriff, the animal control officer or the health department, the
quarantine of a dog may be upon the premises of the owner or the person in
charge of such dog if the dog is securely confined, kept from contact with
other animals and the public, and is submitted to a veterinarian for
examination at the owner's expense to determine whether or not the dog is
rabid. (Ord. 352C, 6-10-2008)
5-2A-7: DOG WASTES:
The owner of every dog shall be responsible for the removal of any excreta
deposited by his dog(s) on public walks, recreation areas or private property
not belonging to the dog owner. (Ord. 352C, 6-10-2008)
5-2A-8: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Interference: No person shall interfere with, hinder or molest any
agent of the city in the performance of any duty as herein provided.
   B.   Kennels: No person shall operate a kennel within the corporate limits
of the city.
   C.   Presumption Of Kennel Operation: Harboring of more than two (2) dogs
over the age of three (3) months shall be presumed to be operating a kennel.
(Ord. 352C, 6-10-2008)
5-2A-9: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city may promulgate regulations for the humane care of all animals and for
compliance with the provisions of this article and other applicable laws. The
city may amend such regulations from time to time as deemed desirable for
public health and welfare and for the protection of animals. (Ord. 352C, 6-10-
2008)
5-2A-10: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a
penalty as provided for in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   In addition to the foregoing criminal penalties, the city may enforce
this article by any appropriate civil remedy, including an action for damages
or injunctive relief. (Ord. 352C, 6-10-2008)
5-2A-11: FEE AND FINE SCHEDULE:
The city adopts the following fee and fine schedule:
A. License Fees:                                                       
                                                                    
   For each unneutered male dog                                     $10.00
   For each unspayed female dog                                     15.00
   For each neutered male dog                                       5.00
   For each spayed female dog                                       5.00
   Replacement license tag                                          3.00
                                                                    
B. Impoundment Fees:                                                   
                                                                    
   Impoundment fee                                                  10.00
   Daily board                                                      5.00
                                                                    
C. Adoption Fees:                                                      
                                                                    
   Dogs                                                             10.00
   Cats                                                             5.00
                                                                    
D. Article Violations:                                                 
                                                                    
   First offense                                                    25.00
   Second offense                                                   50.00
   Third offense, and each thereafter (added to amount of previous  25.00
     fine)
 
(Ord. 352C, 6-10-2008)
ARTICLE B. DANGEROUS DOGS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-2B-1: Definitions
5-2B-2: General Regulations
5-2B-3: Complaints; Hearing
5-2B-1: DEFINITIONS:
DANGEROUS DOG: A. Any dog with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to
attack unprovoked, to cause injury to, or to otherwise endanger the safety of
humans or other domestic animals; or
   B.   Any dog which because of its physical nature, or vicious propensity is
capable of inflicting serious physical harm or death to humans and which would
constitute a danger to human life or property if it were not kept in the manner
required by this article; or
   C.   Any dog which, without provocation, attacks or bites, or has attacked
or bitten, a human being or domestic animal; or
   D.   Any dog owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
dogfighting, or any dog trained for dogfighting.
   E.   "Dangerous dog" as used in this article, shall include "vicious dog" as
defined under Idaho law.
   F.   Exceptions: An animal shall not be deemed dangerous if:
      1.   It bites, attacks or menaces anyone assaulting the owner, or a
trespasser on the property of the owner, or any person or other animal who has
tormented or abused it;
      2.   It is otherwise acting in defense of an attack from a person or
other animal upon the owner or other person;
      3.   The dog is used by the police department or law enforcement agency.
VICIOUS ANIMAL:
   A.   Any individual animal that, when unprovoked, inflicts bites and attacks
a human being or other animal either on public or private property.
   B.   Any individual animal with a propensity, tendency, or disposition to
attack without provocation, to cause injury or to otherwise do any act that
might endanger the safety of human beings, domestic animals or any property of
another, including, but not limited to, a disposition to mischief or fierceness
which might lead to attack to the foregoing.
   C.   Any individual animal which attacks a human being or domestic animal
without provocation, whether in play, anger or outbreak of untrained nature.
   D.   No animal shall be deemed vicious if it bites, attacks or menaces a
trespasser on the property of its owner, or harms or menaces anyone who has
tormented or abused it, or is a professionally trained animal for law
enforcement or guard duties. (Ord. 488, 1-11-2005)
5-2B-2: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Keeping Of Vicious Animal: For any person to keep or maintain an animal
which has been found to be a vicious animal, such animal must at all times be
kept in an enclosure. The only times that a vicious animal may be allowed out
of the enclosure are if it is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain
veterinary care for the vicious animal or to comply with the order of a court
of competent jurisdiction; provided, that said vicious animal is securely
muzzled and restrained with a chain having a tensile strength of three hundred
(300) pounds and not exceeding three feet (3') in length, and shall be under
the direct control and supervision of the owner or keeper of the vicious
animal.
      1.   Any animal which has been found to be a vicious animal and which is
not confined to an enclosure shall be impounded by the law enforcement
authority having jurisdiction in such area and shall be turned over to a
licensed veterinarian for destruction by lethal injection.
      2.   No owner or keeper of a vicious animal shall sell or give away such
vicious animal.
   B.   Restraints For Dangerous Dogs:
      1.   Secure Enclosure: An outside secure enclosure shall be a minimum of
five feet (5') wide, ten feet (10') long and five feet (5') in height above
grade, and with a horizontal top covering said area, all to be at least 9-gauge
chainlink fencing with necessary steel supporting posts. To prevent escape of
the animal, the floor shall be at least three inches (3") of poured concrete
with the bottom edge of said fencing imbedded in the concrete or extending at
least one foot (1') below grade. The gate must be of the same material as the
fencing, fit closely and be securely locked. The enclosure must contain and
provide protection from the elements for the dog.
      2.   Chain, Cable, Or Other Tether: Any time a dangerous dog is left
unattended on the owner's or harborer's property and is outside a secure
enclosure or the owner's or harborer's home, it must be securely and humanely
restrained by chain, cable and trolley, or other tether of sufficient strength
to prevent escape.
      3.   Perimeter Fence: In addition to the requirements in subsections B1
and B2 of this section, for owners or harborers of dangerous dogs who maintain
their animal out of doors, a portion of their property must be fenced with a
perimeter or area fence. Within this perimeter fence, the dangerous dog must be
humanely confined inside a secure enclosure. The secure enclosure may not share
common fencing with the area or perimeter fence.
      4.   Physical Restraint While Off The Owner's Or Harborer's Property: The
dog shall be muzzled in such a manner as to prevent it from biting or injuring
any person, and kept on a leash no longer than six feet (6') with a person
physically capable of controlling such dog.
   C.   Signs: The owner or harborer of a dangerous dog shall display in a
prominent place on the owner's or harborer's premises a clearly visible warning
sign indicating that there is a dangerous dog on the premises. The sign must be
readable from the public highway or thoroughfare. The owner or harborer shall
also display a sign with a symbol warning children of the presence of a
dangerous dog. Similar signs shall be posted on the dog's kennel, pen, or
enclosed structure.
   D.   Sterilization Or Neutering Of Dangerous Dogs: If a dangerous dog has
been apprehended for being at large two (2) times within a twelve (12) month
period, or five (5) times over the life of the dog, at the expense of the dog
owner or harborer, it shall be required to be sterilized or neutered as a
condition for the dog being released.
   E.   Restrictions And Conditions: The animal control officer for the city of
Challis or other organization providing such service to the city or the city of
Challis police officer is hereby authorized and empowered, independently of any
criminal prosecution or the results thereof, to impound and/or abate any
dangerous dog when that officer has a reasonable articulable reason to believe
that the dangerous animal has attacked or is about to attack a human being or
domestic animal, or when any dangerous animal is running at large. The officer
may use any means of impounding or abating that is reasonably necessary to
ensure the health, safety and welfare of the public including, but not limited
to, the destruction of the dog or by the imposition upon the owner and/or
harborer specific reasonable written restrictions and conditions for the
maintenance of the dog. The restrictions and conditions may include, but are
not limited to:
      1.   The owner or harborer of a dangerous dog, at the owner's or
harborer's expense, must provide proof to the city clerk within ten (10) days
from receipt of the written condition that the owner or harborer has procured
general liability insurance of at least five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) insuring the owner or harborer for any damage or personal injury
which may be caused by his or her dangerous dog. The public liability insurance
shall provide that the city of Challis is an additional named insured and the
city of Challis shall be notified by the insurance company thirty (30) days
prior to a lapse or cancellation of the policy. If at any time the city has
knowledge that the insurance as provided herein is not in effect and the
dangerous dog is observed to be outside of the owner's and/or harborer's
premises, the dog may be picked up and placed in protective custody at a place
designated by the city of Challis at the cost of the owner and/or harborer;
      2.   Requirements as to size, construction and design of enclosure;
      3.   Restricting the dog to locations where access to human beings and
other domestic animals is minimal;
      4.   Requirement as to type and method of restraints and/or muzzling of
the dog;
      5.   Photo identification or permanent marking of the dog for purposes of
identification;
      6.   Requirements to allow inspection of the dog and its enclosure by the
Challis animal control officer or any other law enforcement agency, and to
produce upon demand proof of compliance with all restrictions and conditions
placed upon the owner and/or custodian of the dog.
   F.   Change Of Status: The owner and/or harborer of a dangerous dog shall
notify the Challis police department immediately if the dangerous dog is
unconfined and on the loose, or has attacked a human being or domestic animal.
   G.   Change Of Ownership: If the owner and/or harborer of a dangerous dog
sells, gives away, or otherwise transfers custody of the dangerous dog, the
owner and/or harborer shall, within three (3) days, provide the Challis police
department's animal control officer with the name, address and telephone number
of the new owner. The previous owner and/or harborer shall notify the new owner
of the dog's designation as a dangerous dog and of the requirements and
conditions for keeping a dangerous dog. (Ord. 488, 1-11-2005)
5-2B-3: COMPLAINTS; HEARING:
   A.   Any person reasonably apprehensive over the safety of his person,
family or property because of the threatening, dangerous, or vicious actions of
any dog may make written complaint to the city animal control officer,
providing such information as the animal control officer requires or demands.
The animal control officer, upon finding that there is good cause to create a
threat of injury to persons or property or concluding that the dog meets any of
the definitions of a dangerous dog, may declare such animal dangerous. The
owner, harborer, or keeper of such animal shall immediately be notified in
writing of the declaration. Any owner, harborer, or keeper aggrieved at the
classification of his animal as dangerous may request, in writing, a hearing
before the Challis city council to determine the justification of such
classification or the merit of the complaint. Such request for a hearing shall
be sent to the city clerk and said hearing request must be requested within ten
(10) days of notification of the declaration. If requested, the hearing shall
be held within thirty (30) days.
   B.   It is unlawful for the owner to allow an animal declared dangerous,
after the owner has been notified that the animal has been so classified, to be
kept contrary to the provisions of this article.
   C.   Should any dog attack or bite a person or another animal, after the
owner or harborer of such dog has been notified that the dog has been declared
dangerous, such owner or harborer shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty
for the first such violation shall be a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00),
or imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed six (6) months,
or by both such fine and imprisonment. The penalty for a second or subsequent
violation of this subsection shall be a fine of three hundred dollars
($300.00), or imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed six
(6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Provided, furthermore, that
the sentencing judge shall have the discretion to order the dog euthanized in
lieu of a fine or jail time.
   D.   In determining whether or not an animal is dangerous, the animal
control officer shall be guided by the following:
      1.   Whether or not the said dog has bitten any person or persons at any
time other than the occasion which was most recently reported to him;
      2.   The circumstances surrounding the occasion indicating the dog's
temper or ferocity;
      3.   The dog's general menace to the public; or
      4.   The criteria defining a "dangerous dog" found in section
5-2B-1 of this article.
This subsection shall apply to dogs even though the dog in question has been
vaccinated and licensed as required by this chapter.
   E.   Written notice of the city council's determination shall be provided to
the dog's owner and/or harborer and such classification and/or restriction or
condition shall be final with no further appeal to the city council.
   F.   Costs associated with the processing of any appeal shall be the actual
costs incurred, as approved by the city council, and shall be paid at the time
of filing the appeal or the appeal will not be deemed perfected. (Ord. 488, 1-
11-2005)
CHAPTER 3
WEAPONS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Discharge of Firearms
5-3-1: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or fire any firearm, which
term shall include rifles, shotguns and handguns of any caliber or gauge, or
any air rifle, air pistol, pellet or "BB" gun or pistol, not in necessary
defense of persons or property, within the corporate limits of the City.
Any person violating any provision of this Section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to such penalties as
provided for in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 356, 10-8-74)
CHAPTER 4
CURFEW
SECTION:
5-4-1: Age Limitations, Hours Of Curfew
5-4-2: Parental Responsibility
5-4-3: Penalties
5-4-1: AGE LIMITATIONS, HOURS OF CURFEW:
   A.   From and after the effective date hereof, it shall be unlawful for any
person of the age of seventeen (17) years or younger to loiter, stroll or drive
upon the streets, alleys, avenues, parks or other places within the City after
the hour of twelve o’clock (12:00) midnight and before the hour of five o’clock
(5:00) A.M. unless accompanied by a parent, legal guardian or other adult
person having authority to accompany said person or unless said minor person is
en route directly to or from an authorized activity connected with the public
school, a church, civic organization or place of work.
   B.   Any police officer or other law enforcement officer is hereby
authorized and empowered to take charge of any person seventeen (17) years of
age or younger violating the provisions of this Section, and it shall be the
duty of such officers to take such person into custody and notify immediately
the parent, legal guardian or adult person having the care and custody of such
minor of the violations of the terms of this Section and to inform said person
that the minor will be held in an authorized holding facility or any other
lawful place of detention until called for by such parent, legal guardian or
legal custodian.
   C.   From and after the effective date hereof, it shall be unlawful for any
person of any age to remain overnight upon any city property without written
approval by way of permit issued by the city clerk at least 24 hours before the
expected permitted use of city property.
(Ord. 456, 6-11-1996; amd. Ord. 522, 6-10-2025)
5-4-2: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any parent, legal guardian or other adult
person having legal care and custody of any minor person of the age seventeen
(17) years or younger to refuse, after being notified to do so by the police or
law enforcement officer, to come immediately to the place of custody and take
charge of such minor.
   B.   Any minor person seventeen (17) years or younger, any parent, legal
guardian or other person having legal care and custody of such minor person
violating the provision of this Section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and subject to penalty as provided in this Chapter. (Ord. 456, 6-11-1996)
5-4-3: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any parent, legal guardian or other adult person violating the
provisions of Section
5-4-2 of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall upon
conviction for the first offense be subject to a fine not to exceed one hundred
dollars ($100.00), and upon a second offense or subsequent conviction be
subject to community service not to exceed one hundred sixty (160) hours or a
fine not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00), or both.
   B.   Any person violating the provisions of Section
5-4-1 of this Chapter who is seventeen (17) years or younger shall be subject
to the provisions of the Juvenile Correction Act, Idaho Code title 20, sections
501–547, and shall be detained or otherwise dealt with pursuant to that Act.
(Ord. 456, 6-11-1996)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION:
6-1-1: Intent And Purpose
6-1-2: Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws Adopted
6-1-3: Amendments To Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws Adopted
6-1-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
It is hereby declared to be the intent of the governing body of the City to aid
and assist by whatever means possible for the utmost consistency in traffic
regulation among and between agencies of Idaho having such jurisdiction. Toward
that end, adoption of the Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws by the cities of Idaho is a
necessary means of assuring maximum uniformity within the State. (Ord. 328, 1-
12-1971)
6-1-2: IDAHO MOTOR VEHICLE LAWS ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted for the purposes of establishing rules and regulations
for the use of all streets and public thoroughfares of the City that certain
code, identified as the 1969 revised edition, Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws, more
particularly title 49, Idaho Code, published by the Department of Law
Enforcement, and as the same may hereafter be revised by the Idaho Legislature
or amended by the governing body, and the same is hereby adopted and
incorporated as an ordinance of the City as fully as though set forth at length
herein.
Three (3) copies of the Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws, together with any revisions
or amendments, duly certified by the City Clerk-Treasurer, shall be kept on
file in his office for use and examination of and by the public. (Ord. 328, 1-
12-1971)
6-1-3: AMENDMENTS TO IDAHO MOTOR VEHICLE LAWS ADOPTED:
   A.   Certain Vehicles Restricted:
      1.   Load Restrictions: When signs are erected by authority of the City
Council giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate
any vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified.
      2.   Use Restrictions:
         a.   The City Officer is hereby authorized to determine and designate
those heavily-traveled streets upon which shall be prohibited the use of the
roadway by motor-driven cycles, bicycles, horse-drawn vehicles or other
nonmotorized traffic and shall erect appropriate signs giving notice thereof.
         b.   When signs are so erected giving notice thereof, it shall be
unlawful for any person to disobey the restrictions stated on such signs.
   B.   Speed Limits: Every person operating a motor vehicle on the public
streets or alleys of the City shall drive the same in a careful and prudent
manner, and, unless otherwise posted, the speed of said vehicle shall not
exceed twenty (20) miles per hour in general; and, along school grounds, shall
not exceed fifteen (15) miles per hour; and, in a public park area, shall not
exceed fifteen (15) miles per hour; and, in no case, at a rate of speed that
will endanger the property of another for the life and limb of a person.
   C.   Funeral And Other Processions:
      1.   Driving Through Funeral Or Other Procession: It shall be unlawful
for a driver of a vehicle to drive between vehicles comprising a funeral or
other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are
conspicuously designated.
      2.   Drivers In A Procession: Each driver in a funeral or other
procession shall drive as near to the right-hand edge of the roadway as
practical and shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practical and safe.
      3.   Funeral Processions To Be Identified: A funeral composed of a
procession of vehicles shall be identified by display of lights or other
identifying insignia or by such other method designated by the City Officer.
   D.   Prohibited And Restricted Acts:
      1.   Following Fire Apparatus Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
driver of any vehicle, other than one on official business, to follow any fire
apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than five hundred feet
(500'), or drive or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has
stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
      2.   Crossing Fire Hose: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or
permit any vehicle to be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire
Department when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any
fire or alarm of fire without the consent of the Fire Department official in
command.
      3.   Vehicles On Sidewalks: It shall be unlawful for the driver of a
vehicle to drive within any sidewalk area except at a permanent or temporary
driveway. No vehicle shall be parked within any sidewalk area.
      4.   Limitations On Backing: It shall be unlawful for any driver of a
vehicle to back the same unless such movement can be made with reasonable
safety and without interfering with other traffic.
      5.   Riding On Motorcycles: A person operating a motorcycle shall ride
only upon a permanent and regular seat attached thereto, and such operator
shall not carry any other person nor shall any other person ride on a
motorcycle unless such motorcycle is designed to carry more than one person.
      6.   Clinging To Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person riding
upon a bicycle, coaster, roller skates, roller blades, skateboard, sled, or toy
vehicle to attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      7.   Use Of Privately-Owned Property To Avoid Signs: It shall be unlawful
for any person to use privately-owned property for the purpose of avoiding
compliance with the traffic signs and signals within the City limits.
Nothing in this subsection, however, shall be construed to prevent or prohibit
the lawful use of said premises.
   E.   Penalty: Any violation of any of the provisions of the Idaho Motor
Vehicle Laws (Ordinance 328, 1-12-1971) and this Section shall be subject to
penalty as provided for in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 458, 12-10-1996)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definition Of Parallel Parking
6-2-2: Manner Of Parking
6-2-3: Restricted Parking Areas
6-2-4: Parking For Loading Or Unloading
6-2-5: Violation And Penalty
6-2-1: DEFINITION OF PARALLEL PARKING:
"Parallel parking", for the purpose of this chapter, shall be defined as the
parking or placing of a vehicle next to and as near as possible or practical to
the curb or edge of the street and in any event so that the tires or wheels of
said vehicle on the curb or edge side are within twenty four inches (24") of
the curb or street edge. It shall further be defined as the parking of a
vehicle on the extreme right hand side of a street or roadway in the direction
of traffic with the right side of the vehicle being parked to the street edge
or curb. (Ord. 342B, 8-21-2014)
6-2-2: MANNER OF PARKING:
All parking within the city limits upon streets or roadways shall be parallel
and in the manner and method described in section
6-2-1 of this chapter. Parking with the left side of a vehicle on the curb or
road edge side shall not be permitted. (Ord. 342B, 8-21-2014)
6-2-3: RESTRICTED PARKING AREAS:
   A.   Parking Causing Obstructions: No person shall park any vehicle upon any
street or alley in such a manner as to obstruct any street, alley, public way,
path, sidewalk, or crosswalk, or to partially obstruct the same.
   B.   Parking In Front Of Driveways:
      1.   No person shall park any vehicle in such a manner as to prevent the
free passage of vehicles through a private driveway or garage driveway.
      2.   No person shall park any vehicle so as to obstruct the entrance to
any fire department or ambulance shed.
   C.   Parking Near Fire Hydrants: No person shall park or permit a vehicle to
stand, whether attended or unattended, within fifteen feet (15') in either
direction of a fire hydrant.
   D.   Double Parking: No person shall park or permit a vehicle to be double
parked on any street whether such vehicle is attended or unattended.
   E.   Parking Near Main Street: Parking by any vehicle approaching Main
Street from a side street whether from the north or south shall be restricted
within twenty feet (20') of Main Street.
   F.   Parking On Main Street: Parking by any vehicle on Main Street is
restricted within twenty feet (20') of the curb as measured from the corner of
the curb.
   G.   Additional Parking Restrictions: The city council may, by resolution,
from time to time designate restricted parking in areas on any city street as
it deems fit. (Ord. 342B, 8-21-2014)
6-2-4: PARKING FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING:
Commercial trucks, buses and other vehicles of a commercial nature for the
purpose of loading or unloading may park with the back or side of the vehicle
next to the curb on any streets of the city; provided, that any such commercial
vehicles shall not be parked as to unreasonably obstruct the public ways or
remain parked in the manner herein provided for as an unreasonable period of
time. In any event should a commercial truck or bus interfere with or obstruct
all lanes of traffic upon a street, the same must be moved within one hour of
when parked. (Ord. 342B, 8-21-2014)
6-2-5: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any violation hereof shall constitute an offense, punishable by a penalty of
twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 342B, 8-21-2014)
CHAPTER 3
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Operators To Be Licensed
6-3-3: Equipment
6-3-4: Operation Of Snowmobiles
6-3-5: Penalties
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The term "snowmobile or snow machine" shall mean every self-propelled device or
machine which operates upon skids, skis, tracks, endless belts or any
combination thereof, and in or upon or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon snow or snow covered surface areas, and
expressly includes those devices commonly referred to as snowmobiles. (Ord.
327, 1-12-1971)
6-3-2: OPERATORS TO BE LICENSED:
Any person who does not have a license to operate motor vehicles (automobiles
or trucks) as the same are generally defined or referred to under the statutes
and ordinances of the state of Idaho 1  shall not be permitted to drive or
operate a snowmobile in the city; and further, no owner of a snowmobile shall
knowingly or wilfully allow or encourage the operation or driving of a
snowmobile by an unlicensed driver within the city. (Ord. 327, 1-12-1971)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 49-578.
6-3-3: EQUIPMENT:
No snowmobile shall be operated in the city unless equipped with the following:
   A.   Lights:
      1.   At least one headlamp sufficient to render persons or vehicles
clearly visible at a distance of two hundred feet (200') or more.
      2.   A taillight or taillamp which shall emit a red light plainly visible
at a distance to the rear of at least two hundred fifty feet (250').
   B.   Brake: At least one brake to be operated by hand or foot.
   C.   Muffler: A muffler in good working order which shall be sufficient to
prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke; bypasses, cutouts or
similar devices are hereby declared unlawful.
   D.   Fluorescent Flag: In the event that banks of snow build to a point
where the height of the snowmobile is not sufficient to make it clearly visible
when approaching an intersection, the operator must display a red or orange
fluorescent flag at least one square foot in size at a minimum of five feet
(5') above the ground upon a mast or antenna attached to the snowmobile for
that purpose. (Ord. 327, 1-12-1971)
6-3-4: OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES:
   A.   General Provisions: Snowmobiles shall be operated at speeds consistent
with other vehicular traffic upon the avenues and thoroughfares where permitted
to operate and shall observe the same traffic regulations, signs and
precautions as all other vehicular traffic. Sleds, toboggans or other devices
which may be towed behind the snowmobile are permitted only when attached by a
solid and rigid drawbar or towbar. Operators of snow machines and snowmobiles
shall observe the same rules of operation as operators of other vehicular
machines or automobiles, including, but not limited to, statutes in regard to
reckless driving, driving while intoxicated, inattentive driving and the basic
speed statutes 1 .
   B.   Hours Of Operation: Snowmobiles may be operated on the streets of the
city between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   C.   Prohibited Areas Of Operations:
      1.   Main Street: Snowmobiles shall not at any time be operated upon Main
Street of the city from its intersection with U.S. Highway 93 to the city
limits on the Garden Creek Road to the west; provided, however, that
snowmobiles may, after taking proper precautions of stopping at stop signs or
other vehicular restriction, cross Main Street at any intersections where other
vehicular traffic is permitted to cross.
      2.   Sidewalks: It is specifically declared unlawful to operate any
snowmobile upon a city sidewalk or to park the same upon a city sidewalk. (Ord.
327, 1-12-1971)
 
Notes
1 1. IC title 49; § 18-8004.
6-3-5: PENALTIES:
Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished by a
penalty as provided for in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 327, 1-12-1971; amd. 1988 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definition
6-4-2: Operators To Be Licensed And Insured
6-4-3: Equipment
6-4-4: Operation Of ATVs
6-4-5: Penalties
6-4-1: DEFINITION:
The term "all-terrain vehicle (ATV)" shall mean every self- propelled device or
machine as defined by Idaho statute. (Ord. 496A, 6-10-2008)
6-4-2: OPERATORS TO BE LICENSED AND INSURED:
Any person who does not have a license to operate a motor vehicle as the same
are generally defined or referred to under the statutes and ordinances of the
state of Idaho shall not be permitted to drive or operate an ATV in the city;
and further, no owner of an ATV shall knowingly or wilfully allow or encourage
the operation or driving of an ATV by an unlicensed driver within the city.
Every operator and owner of an ATV to be operated in the city shall have
effective valid liability insurance with at least the policy limits required by
Idaho statute for operation of motor vehicles. (Ord. 496A, 6-10-2008)
6-4-3: EQUIPMENT:
No ATV shall be operated in the city unless equipped with the minimum equipment
required by Idaho statute for operation of an ATV. (Ord. 496A, 6-10-2008)
6-4-4: OPERATION OF ATVs:
   A.   General Provisions: ATVs shall be operated at speeds consistent with
other vehicular traffic upon the avenues and thoroughfares where permitted to
operate and shall observe the same traffic regulations, signs and precautions
as all other vehicular traffic. Devices which may be towed behind the ATV are
permitted only when attached by a solid and rigid drawbar or towbar. Operators
of ATVs shall observe the same rules of operation and obey the motor vehicle
traffic laws as operators of other vehicular machines or automobiles,
including, but not limited to, traffic control devices, reckless driving,
driving while intoxicated, inattentive driving and the basic rule speed
statutes.
   B.   Hours Of Operation: ATVs may be operated on the streets of the city
only between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M.
   C.   Prohibited Areas Of Operation:
      1.   The city council shall, by resolution, designate streets and areas
in which ATVs shall not be operated at any time.
      2.   Sidewalks: It is specifically declared unlawful to operate any ATV
upon a city sidewalk, except for snow removal, or city park, or to park the
same upon a city sidewalk or city park.
      3.   The city council may, by resolution, restrict ATV use to specified
streets and areas in the city.
   D.   Helmet Use: Every operator or passenger under the age of eighteen (18)
years shall wear an approved DOT safety helmet.
   E.   Passengers: No ATV shall be operated with a passenger unless the ATV is
approved by the ATV manufacturer for use with passengers. (Ord. 496A, 6-10-
2008)
6-4-5: PENALTIES:
Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished by a fine
or imprisonment as provided for in section
1-4-1 of this code, in addition to any other fine or imprisonment which may be
imposed by law. (Ord. 496A, 6-10-2008)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC WORKS INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION
SECTION:
7-1-1: Specifications Adopted
7-1-2: Amendments To Specifications
7-1-3: Application Of Provisions
7-1-1: SPECIFICATIONS ADOPTED:
The 2000 standard specifications, and any updates thereto, of the city of Idaho
Falls, Idaho, public works division, are hereby adopted by the city for the
installation and connection of public works within the city and within the area
of city impact of the city 1  including, but not limited to, street
construction, ready mix concrete and concrete installation, water line
construction, sanitary sewer and storm sewer construction, and trench
excavation and backfill. A copy of said standard specifications shall be on
file with the city clerk-treasurer, Challis city hall, Challis, Idaho, and
available for inspection during city hall business hours. (Ord. 487, 3-15-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 2 of this code.
7-1-2: AMENDMENTS TO SPECIFICATIONS:
The city council may, from time to time, amend, repeal or augment the standard
specifications, or any part thereof, by resolution. (Ord. 417, 4-14-1981)
7-1-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
All public works for which standard specifications of the city apply, hereafter
constructed, installed or connected, within the city or the area of city impact
of the city, shall conform to said standard specifications. (Ord. 417, 4-14-
1981)
CHAPTER 2
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Dedication Of Streets And Alleys; Plat Of City
7-2-2: Obstructing Alleys
7-2-3: Street Names And House Numbers
7-2-1: DEDICATION OF STREETS AND ALLEYS; PLAT OF CITY:
The city council hereby dedicates to the public for its use and benefit all the
following described streets, avenues and alleys situated in the city, which
property is described as follows:
1st Street, fifty nine feet (59') in width; 2nd Street, sixty feet (60') in
width; 3rd Street, fifty nine and seven-tenths feet (59.7') in width; 4th
Street, fifty six and four-tenths feet (56.4') in width; 5th Street, fifty five
and four-tenths feet (55.4') in width; 6th Street, sixty feet (60') in width;
7th Street, fifty four feet (54') in width; 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th and 13th
Streets, each sixty feet (60') in width; and Bluf Avenue, North Avenue, Main
Avenue, South Avenue and Border Avenue, each eighty feet (80') in width;
Pleasant Avenue seventy six feet (76') in width; Valley Avenue seventy five
feet (75') in width; Butte Avenue seventy eight feet (78') in width; and alleys
in blocks 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30,
31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50,
51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70,
71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82 each twenty feet (20') in width;
and alleys in blocks 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 22 each seventeen
feet (17') in width as shown by the records and plat of the townsite of
Challis, Custer County, State of Idaho now on file in the recorder's office of
Custer County, State of Idaho.
The original plat of the townsite of Challis, Custer County, state of Idaho,
now the city of Challis, was made by Richard H. Browne in the year 1881 and a
copy now on file in the recorder's office of Custer County, state of Idaho, was
made by A.C. Bomar which plat was filed in said recorder's office at eleven
forty five o'clock (11:45) A.M., January 9, 1896, embracing: the west half of
the northwest quarter of Section thirty three (33) and the east half of the
northeast quarter of Section thirty two (32) Township fourteen (14) North range
nineteen (19) east.
Said plat of the townsite of Challis, Idaho, as above described, is hereby
accepted and adopted by the city council as the plat of the city, together with
plats filed in the recorder's office of Custer County, Idaho, December 26,
1908. Said plats were drawn and made by Valentine Mailzer, and being the West
and North Side additions to the original plat of the Townsite of Challis,
Idaho, as above described, now the City of Challis, Idaho, said plats of the
North and West side additions embrace the following described lots, pieces and
parcels of land: West half of the Northeast quarter of section thirty two (32),
Township fourteen (14) Range Nineteen (19) east; Southeast quarter of the
Southeast quarter of Section twenty nine (29); Southwest quarter of the
Southwest quarter of Section twenty eight (28), Township fourteen (14) north
range nineteen (19) east as appears from the plats of the City now on file in
the Recorder's office of the County of Custer, State of Idaho. (Ord. 24, 12-26-
08)
7-2-2: OBSTRUCTING ALLEYS:
   A.   Alley Obstructions Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, cause or allow any structure, debris, vehicles, machinery, junk, garbage
containers, wood or wood piles, or any other structure or object within any
platted alley within the City, or to otherwise obstruct or interfere with the
free use by the public of any platted alley within the City.
   B.   Nuisance Declared; Abatement: Violations of this Section are declared
to be a nuisance and the City Council or its agent, after five (5) days'
written notice to remove any structure, object or other obstruction from any
platted alley within the City, may prevent, remove and summarily abate the same
without judicial process and without further notice at the expense of the party
creating or allowing or maintaining the same, and levy a special assessment and
collect the same as provided in Idaho Code 50-1008 on the land or premises
adjacent to such alley of such party to defray the cost or to reimburse the
City for the cost of abating the same; or the City may bring any appropriate
civil action, including abatement, injunction and/or damages, in which event
the City shall be entitled to all costs including attorney's fees in the
prosecution of such action.
   C.   Violation and Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this
Section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to the penalties therefor as provided for in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 401, 3-11-80)
7-2-3: STREET NAMES AND HOUSE NUMBERS:
   A.   House Numbering System: First Street and Main Avenue shall be
designated as the major vertical and horizontal axes, respectively; with street
numbering commencing with one hundred (100) for buildings on the north and west
sides of the streets, and one hundred one (101) for structures on the east and
south sides of the streets, progressing accordingly with each block change.
Buildings on the north and west sides of the streets shall be given even
numbers and buildings on the east and south side be given odd numbers.
   B.   Directional Designation: Buildings facing an east-west street, on the
east half of the vertical axis (First Street), shall have an "East"
designation; on the west half a "West" designation. And accordingly, buildings
on the north half of the horizontal axis (Main Avenue) facing a north-south
street shall have a "North" designation, and buildings on the south side of the
axis shall have a "South" designation.
   C.   T-Intersections: At T-intersections, the block number changes according
to the corresponding block on the other side of the street.
   D.   Curving Streets: Street numbering and directional location of curving
streets shall continue to follow designations off Main Street (i.e., check 11th
Street numbering system).
   E.   Block Designations: Where there are currently no existing side streets
to designate block endings and where houses are present, new blocks will be
designated every two hundred fifty feet (250').
   F.   Noncontinuous Roads: At deadend, circular or other noncontinuous roads,
buildings will be numbered with directional and odd-even numbering changing at
the axis of symmetry crossing the road entrance.
   G.   Street Map: For illustrative purposes, a street map of Challis,
corresponding with the aforementioned numbering system, is attached to
Resolution No. 54 and herein referenced as "Exhibit A". (Res. 54, 7-27-82)
CHAPTER 3
CATV FRANCHISE
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Grant of Authority
7-3-3: System Construction and Extension
7-3-4: Construction and Maintenance Requirements
7-3-5: Operational Standards and Safety Requirements
7-3-6: Preferential or Discriminatory Practices Prohibited
7-3-7: Liability Insurance
7-3-8: Maintenance Requirements
7-3-9: Records and Reports
7-3-10: Compliance With Applicable Laws and Ordinances
7-3-11: Compensation to the City
7-3-12: Rates
7-3-13: Forfeiture of Franchise
7-3-14: New Developments
7-3-15: Violations
7-3-16: Translator TV Signals
7-3-17: Construction Bond
7-3-18: Miscellaneous
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following terms, phrases and words shall
have the following meanings given herein whenever used in this franchise:
CITY: The City of Challis, Idaho.
COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEM: Hereinafter referred to as "CATV system"
or "system", means a system of coaxial cables or other electrical conductors
and equipment used or to be used primarily to receive television or radio
signals directly or indirectly and transmit them to subscribers for a fee.
COUNCIL: The City Council of the City.
FRANCHISE AREA: That area within the corporate limits of the City.
GRANTEE: Stephen L. Cutler, or his heirs, successors or assigns, in accordance
with the provisions of this franchise.
STREET: The surface of and the space above and below any public street, right
of way, road, highway, bridge, lane, path, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway,
drive or communications or utility easement now or hereafter existing as such
within the franchise area and which are dedicated to the City.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person or entity receiving basic CATV service from the Grantee.
7-3-2: GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
Whereas the City has approved the legal, character, financial, technical and
other qualifications of the Grantee and the adequacy and feasibility of the
Grantee's construction arrangements as part of a full public proceeding, there
is hereby granted to Grantee, and his heirs, successors and assigns, for a
period of twenty (20) years from and after the effective date hereof, the
nonexclusive right and privilege to construct, erect, operate, repair, replace,
reconstruct and maintain in, upon, along, across, above, under and over the
streets, alleys, public ways and public places now or hereafter laid out or
dedicated, and all extensions thereof and additions thereto, in Challis, Idaho,
poles, wires, coaxial and other cables, underground conduits, vaults, ducts,
amplifiers, appliances, attachments, and such other conductors and fixtures as
are necessary or proper for the maintenance and operation in the City of a CATV
system; to provide, use and operate similar properties rented or leased from
other persons, firms or corporations for such purposes, including, but not
limited to, any public utility or other grantee franchised or permitted to do
business in the City; and to engage in the business of the distribution and
sale of electrical or radiant energy for television and radio reception within
the City limits as they now are and as they may become. The right herein
granted shall not be exclusive. This franchise may be renewed for an additional
ten (10) year period following full public proceedings and hearings.
7-3-3: SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION AND EXTENSION:
   A.   Within one year of the receipt of the final orders granting all
necessary permits and authorizations which are required in the conduct of its
business, including, but not limited to, any utility joint use attachment
agreements, microwave carrier licenses, a certificate of compliance as issued
by the Federal Communications Commission, and any other permits, licenses and
authorizations to be granted by duly constituted regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the operation of cable transmission systems, or their
associated microwave transmission facilities, the Grantee shall have an
operable headend completed, and shall have extended energized trunk cable to at
least seventy five percent (75%) of the franchised area. Thereafter, the
Grantee shall extend energized trunk cable to at least fifteen percent (15%) of
the franchise area within the following year until not less than ninety percent
(90%) of the homes in the franchise area are accessible to energized trunk
cable, subject to line extension limitations hereafter set forth.
   B.   Grantee, whenever he shall receive a request for service from at least
ten (10) subscribers within one thousand three hundred twenty (1,320) cable
feet of its trunk cable, shall extend his system to such subscribers at no cost
to the subscribers for system extension other than the usual connection fees
for all subscribers; provided, that such extension is technically and
physically feasible. The one thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320') shall
be measured in extension length of Grantee's cable required for service located
within the public way or easement and shall not include length of necessary
service drop to the subscriber's home or premises.
   C.   No person in the Grantee's service area shall be arbitrarily refused
service. However, in recognition of the capital costs involved, for unusual
circumstances, such as requirement for underground cable of more than one
hundred fifty feet (150') of distance from distribution cable to connection of
service to subscribers, or a density of less than four (4) homes per three
hundred feet (300') of cable system, in order to prevent inequitable burdens on
potential cable subscribers in more densely populated areas, service may be
made available on the basis of cost of materials, labor and easements.
   D.   In the event additional adjacent territory is incorporated within the
City's limits, by annexation or otherwise, Grantee's rights and duties under
this Chapter shall be deemed to include such additional territory.
   E.   If a subscriber outside the service area described in this Section
7-3-3 desires to install trunk cable and materials to enable him to receive
cable transmission from the Grantee, he may do so at his own proper cost and
expense; provided, that all materials and installation services meet Grantee's
current specifications for similar installations. Upon completion of such
installation according to such specifications and approval of the installation
by the Grantee, the Grantee will assume ownership of the trunk cable and
materials and accept responsibility for the future maintenance and repair of
such trunk cable and materials. Grantee will thereupon provide cable
transmission services to such subscribed in accordance with the remaining terms
and provisions of this franchise.
7-3-4: CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Grantee shall construct and maintain its CATV system at all times in
compliance with all rules, regulations, codes and ordinances in any way
applicable to its construction and maintenance program. The CATV system shall
be constructed and operated in compliance with all City, County and State
zoning and land use plans, ordinances and laws, now or hereafter enacted, and
all City, County, State and national construction and electrical codes now or
hereafter enacted, and any amendments thereto, and shall be kept current with
new codes and amendments thereto. Grantee shall construct, maintain and operate
its CATV system so as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the general
public and adjacent property owners. All excavations shall be properly guarded
and protected and shall be replaced and the surface restored in good condition
promptly after the completion of the work. Grantee shall comply with all
excavation ordinance requirements of the City 1 . The Grantee shall at all
times employ ordinary care and shall install and maintain and use commonly
accepted methods and devices for preventing failures and accidents which are
likely to cause damage, injuries or nuisances to the public.
   B.   No poles or other fixtures shall be placed where the same will
interfere with any gas lamps, telephone poles, electric light poles, water
hydrants, water mains or sewer mains, gas lines, or with the usual travel on
any public ways; provided, however, that the City shall furnish Grantee with
information showing the location of underground utilities; and provided
further, that underground conduits, cables and other facilities shall be
located and constructed in such a manner as to not interfere with the
facilities of the City or any public utility operating by virtue of any prior
ordinance adopted by the City or otherwise. The City shall be furnished with
complete drawings of any construction pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter. The Grantee, in the construction and operation of the system, shall
perform his work in such a manner as to give the least inconvenience to the
inhabitants of the City and the public generally, and shall repair at the
Grantee's expense all pavement, sidewalks and curbing disturbed or damaged by
Grantee in its construction or maintenance operations.
The City shall have the right to inspect all construction or installation work
performed subject to the provisions of this Chapter as it shall find necessary
to insure compliance with the terms of this franchise.
Any franchise granted under this Chapter shall not relieve the Grantee of the
obligation of placing underground those facilities placed within the confines
of newly developed subdivisions or in those areas presently served by
underground facilities, subject to the right of Grantee to make additional
charges for such services as provided in Section
7-3-3 of this Chapter. Grantee shall abide by subdivision requirements as well
as City requirements in regard to the installation of such service facilities,
and shall not install underground lines on City streets or property except with
the prior approval of the Council.
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 1 of this Title.
7-3-5: OPERATIONAL STANDARDS AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
The Grantee shall operate and maintain its CATV system in full compliance with
the standards set forth by the Federal Communications System. Any modification
resulting from amendment of section 76.31, "Franchise Standards", of the Rules
and Regulations of the Federal Communications Commission shall be incorporated
into this franchise as of the date such modifications become obligatory under
FCC regulations, or in the event no obligatory date is established, within one
year of adoption or at the time of franchise renewal, whichever occurs first.
The Grantee shall at all times install and maintain in use commonly accepted
methods and devices for preventing failures and accidents which are likely to
cause damage, injury damage, injury or nuisances to the public.
All structures, cables, poles and equipment installed in the franchise area,
wherever situate or located, shall at all times be kept and maintained in a
safe, suitable condition and in good order and repair.
7-3-6: PREFERENTIAL OR DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED:
The Grantee shall not as to rates, charges, service facilities, rules,
regulations or in any other respect make or grant any preference or advantage
to any person nor subject any person to any prejudice or disadvantage;
provided, that nothing in this franchise shall be deemed to prohibit the
establishment of a graduated scale of charges and classified rate schedules to
which any customer coming within such classification would be entitled; and
provided further, that connection and service charges may be waived or modified
during promotional campaigns of grantee.
7-3-7: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
It is expressly understood and agreed by and between the Grantee and the City
that the Grantee shall hold the City harmless from all loss sustained by the
City on account of suit, judgment or execution, claim or demand whatsoever
resulting from negligence on the part of the Grantee in the construction,
operation or maintenance of its system in the City or which the City might
legally be required to pay as the result of any action on the part of the
Grantee arising out of the installation, operation or maintenance of the CATV
system authorized herein, whether or not any act or omission complained of is
authorized, allowed or prohibited. The City shall notify the Grantee's
representatives in the City within thirty (30) days after the presentation of
any claim or demand, either by suit or otherwise made against the City on
account of any negligence or conduct as aforesaid on the part of the Grantee.
Said hold harmless agreement shall extend to and include all out- of-pocket
expenses and attorney's fees and costs incurred by the City in defending or
resisting any such action.
The Grantee shall maintain, and by its acceptance of this franchise,
specifically agrees that it will maintain throughout the term of this
franchise, liability insurance insuring both the City and the Grantee with
regard to all damages mentioned in the paragraph above in the minimum amount
of:
$100,000.00 for property damage in any one accident
$100,000.00 for personal injury to any one person
$300,000.00 for personal injury in any one occurrence
All such policies shall be kept in full force at all times during the term of
this franchise; provided, however, that no insurer shall cancel such policies
without giving notice thereof to the Grantee and the City, through the Mayor of
the City, in accordance with the laws of the State of Idaho and the terms of
said policy; and provided further, that the Grantee may at any time substitute
the policies of another qualified insurance company of equal coverage for the
policy then on file with the City.
The City may require additional insurance coverage if reasonably required in
the judgment of the City.
The insurance policy obtained by the Grantee in compliance with this Section
must be approved by the City Council and a facsimile of such insurance policies
and bond, or other adequate proof, along with written evidence of payment of
required premiums, shall be filed and maintained with the City Clerk-Treasurer
during the term of this franchise.
7-3-8: MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The Grantee shall have the authority to trim trees upon and overhanging
streets, alleys, sidewalks and public places of the City so as to prevent the
branches of such trees from coming into contact with the wires and cables of
the Grantee; provided, however, upon failure of Grantee to trim the trees, such
trimming may be done by the City, or under its supervision and direction, at
the expense of the Grantee.
   B.   The Grantee shall, upon request of any person holding a building moving
permit issued by the City, temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the
moving of the buildings covered by such a permit. The expense of such temporary
removal, raising or lowering of wires, shall be paid by the person requesting
the same, and the Grantee shall have the authority to require such payment in
advance. The Grantee shall be given not less than forty eight (48) hours'
advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
   C.   In the event that any time during the period of the operation of the
system the City shall lawfully elect to alter or change the grade of any
street, alley or other public way, the Grantee, upon reasonable notice by the
City, shall remove, re-lay and relocate its poles, wires, cables, underground
conduits, manholes and other fixtures at its own expense.
   D.   The City shall have the right to require the Grantee, at Grantee's
expense, to protect, support, temporarily disconnect, relocate or remove from
the public way any property of the Grantee by reason of traffic conditions,
public safety, street or freeway construction or vacation, installation of
sewers, drains, water pipes, power or communication lines, tracks or other
types of structures, or improvements by governmental agencies or any other
structures of public improvement; provided, however, that the Grantee shall in
all such cases have the rights and obligations of abandonment of property of
the Grantee, subject to City ordinances.
   E.   The City shall have the right to require removal, at Grantee's expense,
of any part of the Grantee's system that has been placed in the public's way
for any of the following causes:
      1.   That such property has been installed without complying with the
conditions of the franchise or this Chapter;
      2.   That such property has not been used for service for a continuous
period of twelve (12) months;
      3.   That the franchise has been terminated, cancelled or has expired.
   F.   In the event of removal of any plant structure, works, pipes, mains,
conduits, cables, poles or wires for any reason, the City requires that the
Grantee, at its own expense, shall refill any excavation that may be made and
shall leave the public way in as good condition as that prevailing prior to
said removal of equipment or appurtenances. The City may permit certain
properties of the Grantee otherwise required to be removed to be abandoned in
place. In such case, abandonment shall be accomplished in such manner as the
Council may prescribe and the Grantee shall submit to the City an instrument,
satisfactory to the City Attorney, transferring the ownership of such property
to the City.
   G.   In the event of any emergency or disaster, the Grantee shall, upon the
request of the City Council, make available its facilities to the City for
emergency use during any emergency or disaster.
   H.   The City shall have the right to make additional use, for any public or
Municipal purpose, of any poles or conduit controlled or maintained exclusively
by or for Grantee in any street; provided, such use by City does not interfere
with the use by Grantee. The City shall indemnify and hold harmless Grantee
against and from any and all claims, demands, causes of action, actions, suits,
proceedings, damages, costs or liabilities of every kind and nature whatsoever
arising out of any negligent use by the City of the Grantee's poles or
conduits.
   I.   The Grantee shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly,
interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible. Such
interruptions, insofar as possible, shall be preceded by notice and shall occur
during periods of minimum use of the system. (Ord. 416, 3-24-81)
   J.   Grantee shall maintain a toll-free telephone number, and this number
will be listed and be so operated that complaints and requests for repairs,
adjustments, or additional service be received during all business hours.
   K.   Grantee will make available 6 MHz of bandwidth, defined as a single
channel, for the purpose of nonprofit community informational use; and that
grantee retains editorial license over content displayed on said channel; and
that if no local group is interested or available to administer said channel
that grantee is under no obligation to administer said channel. If said channel
space remains vacated or unused for a period of twelve (12) months or more the
grantor and the grantee may mutually agree to use said bandwidth for other
purposes. In consideration by the grantor of allowing the grantee to
discontinue the City office the grantee will provide two (2) additional
channels at no cost to the subscribers. The selection of the content of two (2)
additional channels will be determined by a survey of the subscribers and the
grantor.
   L.   Upon the failure of the Grantee to complete any work required by this
Section, or any other work required by this Franchise Ordinance, or as the
result of the abandonment or termination of the franchise, or by any law or
City ordinances within the time established and to the satisfaction of the
City, the City may cause such work to be done and the Grantee shall pay to the
City the reasonable cost thereof within thirty (30) days after receipt of an
itemized list of the cost. (Ord., 11-12-91)
7-3-9: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
The City shall have access at all reasonable hours to all of the Grantee's
plans, engineering, statistical, customer and service records relating to the
property in the operation of the Grantee, and to all other records required to
be kept under the terms of this franchise. An annual summary report showing
gross revenues received by the Grantee from its operations in the City during
the preceding fiscal year, and such other information as the City shall request
with respect to properties and expenses related to the Grantee's services
within the City shall be submitted to the City Clerk-Treasurer on or before
January 31 following the calendar year for which such report is covered. At the
end of June and December of each year a map shall be filed with the City
showing the areas of the City presently being served by the Grantee, the
location of lines, and such other information as shall be required by the City.
7-3-10: COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS AND ORDINANCES:
The Grantee shall at all times during the life of this franchise be subject to
all lawful exercise of the police power of the City. The Grantee shall, at all
times during the term of this franchise, be subject to all laws, ordinances and
regulations duly adopted by any Federal, State or Municipal agency having
lawful jurisdiction over the business conducted by the Grantee. Nothing in this
Chapter shall be construed, however, as granting or giving to the City any
power to regulate the business or affairs of the Grantee, except as expressly
otherwise stated herein, as a common carrier, public utility or otherwise; it
being the intention of the Mayor and City Council of the City and of the
Grantee, that the City does not purport to exercise any regulatory functions
upon the business or activities of the Grantee other than such powers and
authorities as have heretofore been conferred upon the City by law.
7-3-11: COMPENSATION TO THE CITY:
As a consideration for this franchise, the Grantee agrees to pay the following
sums to the Clerk-Treasurer of the City:
   A.   No compensation or payment shall be required for the calendar year
ending December 31, 1980.
   B.   A sum equal to three percent (3%) of the gross service receipts
received by the Grantee in the calendar year 1981, and all subsequent years.
Checks for all such payments shall be made payable to the City Clerk-Treasurer,
and shall be submitted to the City Clerk-Treasurer on or before March 1 of each
year for the previous calendar year or portion thereof. Each payment shall be
accompanied by a statement, in duplicate, verified by the Grantee or by a
general officer or other duly authorized representative of the Grantee, showing
in such form and detail as the City auditor may require from time to time the
facts material to a determination of the amounts due. The auditor of the City
shall determine the accuracy of the payment computation and if he finds any
errors, he shall report the same to the Grantee for correction. The records of
the Grantee reflecting the information relevant in determining revenues
described in this paragraph shall be available for inspection by the City
Council or its duly authorized representative at all reasonable hours and upon
reasonable notice. The payments described in this Section shall be in lieu of
any and all other franchise, occupation, privilege, license, wire, instrument,
excise, revenue or any other tax, except ad valorem property taxes and special
improvement assessments lawfully levied by the County or other subdivision of
the State of Idaho, pursuant to law, and except for any pole rentals, which
pole rentals shall be determined and covered by a separate pole-use agreement.
The term "gross service receipts" shall mean any and all compensation and other
consideration received directly by the Grantee from subscribers in payment for
regularly furnished basic CATV service. The term shall not include any taxes on
services furnished by the Grantee imposed directly on any subscriber or user by
any City, State or other governmental unit and collected by the Grantee for
such governmental unit.
The compensation rates prescribed in this Section shall be subject to review
and renegotiation by the Grantee and the City at intervals of five (5) years,
commencing on the effective date of this franchise. At the expiration of each
five (5) year period, the City and the Grantee shall meet and in good faith
renegotiate the compensation payable to the City on the basis of the customary
rates then in effect in the industry and the economic conditions then
prevailing in the City. (Ord. 416, 3-24-81)
7-3-12: RATES:
The rates and charges for television and radio signals distributed by the
Grantee shall be fair and reasonable. Grantee shall file a schedule of its
rates with the City Clerk-Treasurer and shall make no adjustments or changes in
rates without first affording notice to subscribers by publication for two (2)
consecutive weeks in a newspaper published and distributed within the City. All
costs and expenses in connection with such hearing and the publication of
notice shall be paid by the Grantee.
The initial rates charged by the Grantee shall be no more than regulated in
accordance to the Cable Act of 1984 and stipulated as to Federal law. (Ord.,
11-12-91)
7-3-13: FORFEITURE OF FRANCHISE:
This franchise may be terminated and cancelled at any time for failure of the
Grantee to comply with the terms and conditions hereof. Such termination and
cancellation shall be by ordinance duly adopted after sixty (60) days' notice
to the Grantee by certified mail of such intent to terminate and cancel and
after public hearing at which the Grantee has been given an opportunity to be
heard before the City Council. In the event of cancellation or termination, the
Grantee shall, at its own expense, forthwith remove all of its construction
equipment from, in, upon, along, across, above, over and under the streets,
alleys, highways, public ways and public places at and within the City, and
restore the said streets, alleys, highways, public ways and public places in a
good condition acceptable to the City, reasonable wear and tear excepted.
7-3-14: NEW DEVELOPMENTS:
It shall be the policy of the City liberally to amend this franchise, upon
application of the Grantee, when necessary to enable the Grantee to take
advantage of any developments in the field of transmission of television and
radio signals which afford it an opportunity more effectively, efficiently or
economically to serve its customers.
7-3-15: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   From and after the effective date of this Chapter, it shall be unlawful
for any person to construct, install or maintain within any public street in
the City or within any other public property of the City, or within any
privately-owned area within the City which has not yet become a public street,
but is designated as a proposed public street on any tentative subdivision map
approved by the City, any equipment or facilities for distributing any
television signals or radio signals through a CATV system, unless a franchise
authorizing such use of such street or property or area has first been
obtained, and unless such franchise is in full force and effect.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully make any unauthorized
connection, whether physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively or
otherwise, with any part of the franchised CATV system within the City for the
purpose of enabling himself or others to receive any television signal, radio
signal, picture, program, or sound, without payment to the operator of such
system.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person, without consent of the owner, to
wilfully tamper with, remove or injure any cables, wires or equipment used for
distribution of television signals, radio signals, pictures, programs or sound.
   D.   Any person violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions of
this Section of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to
penalties as prescribed by law.
7-3-16: TRANSLATOR TV SIGNALS:
The Grantee agrees that it will carry the signals of the TV translator system
known as the Challis TV Group, or its successor organization.
7-3-17: CONSTRUCTION BOND:
The Grantee shall maintain throughout the term of the construction of the CATV
system herein described a faithful performance bond running to the City with at
least two (2) good and sufficient sureties approved by the City or, in lieu
thereof, a bond issued by a surety company authorized to do business in Idaho,
in the penal sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), conditioned that the
Grantee shall well and truly observe, fulfill and perform each term and
condition of this franchise with respect to the construction of the CATV
system, and that in case of breach of any condition of the bond, the amount
thereof shall be recoverable from the principal and surety or sureties thereof
by the City for all damages resulting proximately from the failure of the
Grantee to well and faithfully observe and perform the provisions of this
franchise with respect to the construction of the CATV system. The bond
obtained by the Grantee in compliance with this Section must be approved by the
City Council and a facsimile of such bond or other adequate proof shall be
filed and maintained with the City Clerk-Treasurer during the system
construction period.
7-3-18: MISCELLANEOUS:
   A.   Any franchise granted hereunder shall be a privilege to be held in
trust by the original Grantee. Said franchise cannot in any event be sold,
transferred, leased, assigned or disposed of in whole or in part, either by
force or voluntary sale, merger, consolidation or any other means without the
prior consent of the City expressed by Council resolution, and then only such
conditions as the Council may establish; provided, however, that the Council
shall not unreasonably withhold its consent or impose any unreasonable
conditions. Neither this subsection nor any other provisions of this franchise
shall preclude the mortgaging, hypothecating, or the assignment of certain
rights in the CATV system or the pledge of ownership interests by the Grantee
for the purposes of financing.
   B.   Time shall be of the essence of any franchise granted hereunder. The
Grantee shall not be relieved of its obligations to comply promptly with the
provisions of this Chapter, or by any failure of the City to enforce prompt
compliance.
   C.   Any privilege in the public way granted by a franchise issued under
this Chapter shall be subordinate to any prior lawful occupancy of said public
way.
   D.   No privilege or exemption except those specifically conferred by any
franchise granted under this Chapter shall be given or implied.
   E.   The Grantee agrees not to oppose intervention by the City in any suit
or proceeding to which the Grantee is a party.
   F.   The Grantee shall prohibit its officers, agents and employees from
attempting to direct the subscribers to deal with any particular firm or person
in regard to sale, service, rental, or leasing of television receivers, radio
receivers or television or radio receiver parts or accessories.
   G.   When not otherwise prescribed herein, all matters required to be filed
with the City shall be filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   H.   The Grantee shall provide, without charge, one outlet to each
governmental office building, fire station, police station, and public and
nonprofit private school building that is passed by its cable. The distribution
of the cable facilities inside such buildings and the extent thereof shall be
the option, duty and expense of the building owner.
   I.   The Grantee shall assume the cost of publication of this franchise and
the ordinance implementing the franchise if passed by the City, as required by
law. A bill for publication costs shall be presented to the Grantee by the City
Clerk-Treasurer upon the Grantee's filing of acceptance and shall be paid at
that time. (Ord. 416, 3-24-81)
CHAPTER 4
WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
7-4A-1: Use Of The Public Water System; Exemptions
7-4A-2: Construction, Maintenance And Repair Regulations
7-4A-3: Meters
7-4A-4: Conservation Measures
7-4A-5: Rates And Charges
7-4A-6: Cross Connections
7-4A-6-1: Purpose
7-4A-6-2: Definitions
7-4A-6-3: Cross Connections Prohibited
7-4A-6-4: Cross Connection Control Devices
7-4A-6-5: Cross Connection Inspection
7-4A-6-6: Nonliability Of City
7-4A-6-7: Enforcement And Penalties
7-4A-1: USE OF THE PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Required Use of the Public System:
      1.   Existing Property: All persons owning or controlling dwellings or
property within the City limits of Challis shall use and purchase all of its or
their water for irrigation and domestic needs from the City.
      2.   New Developments: All persons constructing dwellings, establishing
lawns or yards or developing water needs of any nature from this date on shall
purchase and use the City water and promote the City water system.
   B.   Exemptions: Persons, as of the effective date hereof, using water from
a private source, spring, or well shall be exempt herefrom; providing, however,
that upon application for City water, such exempt party must thereupon pay a
minimum billing of one year for all his or their water needs plus any
connection fee properly set by the City. Any charges so made are to be applied
to the following water billing until full credit is given. Further, all parties
establishing a private use or source from and after the effective date hereof
shall be liable for charges by this City in the same manner as if they made
full use of the City system and water; and providing further that,
notwithstanding any of the above provisions, all persons not making full use of
the City water system shall pay a monthly charge of twenty percent (20%) of the
normal City billing for their facilities, for the privilege and benefit to them
of having City water available for emergency needs and for fire protection.
(Ord. 340, 7-11-72)
7-4A-2: CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this Section, the following mean:
    MAIN LINE: Pipes which are installed for the transmission of water from the
City water storage facilities to two (2) or more service line connections of
two (2) or more water consumers, or to an entire street or neighborhood, and to
which service lines are connected.
   SERVICE LINES: Pipes which are connected to the main line for distribution
of water to a consumer's premises.
   THE CITY: The City of Challis.
   B.   Responsibility for Construction, Maintenance and Repair:
      1.   The City shall be responsible for the trenching and laying,
installation and connection of main lines and service lines on public
properties within the City. All connections of service lines to the main line
shall be performed by the City, the cost of which shall be included in the
hookup fee paid by the consumer to the City. All changes in connections to the
main line requested by the consumer shall also be performed by the City, the
costs of materials and City labor also to be paid by the consumer to the City.
The City shall also be responsible for the maintenance and repair of all lines
on public properties within the City. This includes, but is not limited to,
clearance of obstruction, thawing and repair of breaks or connections to the
main.
      2.   Individual water consumers shall be responsible for the trenching
and laying, installation, maintenance and repair of service lines within their
properties. All work performed by the water consumer shall conform to all City
requirements, rules and regulations and any applicable Building and Plumbing
Codes.
7-4A-3: METERS:
The City shall be responsible for the installation, connection and general
repair and maintenance of water meters and related appurtenances, with the
exception of all expenses and labor costs incurred in connection with work
requested by water consumer where malfunction or break was not discovered in
the meter, meter pit or service and main lines on public properties. All labor
costs and expenses incurred for the individual requests, as described above,
shall be paid by the consumer to the City. All changes and repairs to water
meters and related appurtenances shall be performed by the City. (Ord. 438, 6-
28-83)
7-4A-4: CONSERVATION MEASURES:
   A.   Authority To Establish Rules And Regulations: The city council is
empowered to adopt such regulations relating to days and hours of use of the
city water system for sprinkler and other irrigation in the city as it may deem
required for each year, and to change such regulations by resolution. Such
regulations shall be posted at the city hall and given such other publicity as
the city council shall deem necessary. (Ord. 386, 6-13-1978)
   B.   Water Restrictions: The city council shall have the authority to enact
a resolution prohibiting watering from the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M.
until five o'clock (5:00) P.M. Such restriction applies to all outside watering
at residences, businesses, institutions and public areas that have grass,
trees, plants, or other vegetation. Newly seeded or sodded lawns are exempt
from this watering restriction for up to thirty (30) days or until the
vegetation is established (for example, once mowing begins), whichever comes
first.
Wasting water is prohibited at any time during the year. Specifically
prohibited is using water for irrigation in such a way that it flows, sprays,
or is otherwise excessively discharged upon any street, sidewalk or alley.
The city council may impose additional rationing provisions by resolution
should the city's water capacities approach dangerously low levels. Should
water rationing become necessary the city will inform residents through posting
at city hall, public announcements, mailings, and/or other means. Violations of
additional rationing shall be subject to the same enforcement measures as this
section.
A first offense of any provision of this section shall constitute an infraction
and violators shall be subject to a forfeiture of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
A second offense of any provision of this section shall constitute an
infraction and violators shall be subject to a forfeiture of fifty dollars
($50.00). Any subsequent offense within a one year period shall constitute a
misdemeanor and violators may be punished by a fine not exceeding three hundred
dollars ($300.00) or jail not exceeding one hundred eighty (180) days, or both.
(Ord. 481, 8-12-2003)
   C.   Prohibitions: It shall be unlawful for any person to use water for
irrigation from the city water system at any hours or days, except as permitted
by regulations of the city council. It shall be unlawful, at any time, to
irrigate with such water with an open hose. (Ord. 386, 6-13-1978; amd. 1988
Code)
7-4A-5: RATES AND CHARGES:
Rates and charges for water service and connection fees of the municipal water
system shall be established, amended and revised from time to time by
resolution of the city council, and shall become effective upon passage of such
resolution 1 . (Ord. 410, 11-11-1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See article C of this chapter.
7-4A-6: CROSS CONNECTIONS:
7-4A-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this section
7-4A-6 is to protect the public health of water consumers of the city by the
control of actual and/or potential cross connections. (Ord. 441, 4-9-1985)
7-4A-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this section
7-4A-6, the following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them
as follows:
BACKFLOW: The flow other than the intended direction of flow of any foreign
liquids, gases or substances into the distribution system of the city water
supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device to counteract back pressure or prevent
back siphonage.
CITY: The city of Challis and its designated representatives.
CONTAMINATION: The entry into or presence in a city water supply of any
substance which may be deleterious to health and/or quality of the water.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical arrangement whereby the city water supply is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water supply system, sewer,
drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture or other device which
contains or may contain contaminated water, sewage or other waste or liquids of
unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of imparting contamination to
the city water supply as a result of backflow. (Ord. 441, 4-9-1985)
7-4A-6-3: CROSS CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED:
The installation or maintenance of a cross connection which will endanger the
water quality of the potable water supply of the city shall be unlawful and is
prohibited. Any such cross connection now existing or hereafter installed is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance and the same shall be abated. The
control or elimination of cross connections shall be in accordance with this
section, Idaho Code, and all standards, rules and regulations of the state of
Idaho, the Idaho department of health and welfare and any other federal, state,
county or city authority or agency thereof, together with the latest edition of
appropriate manuals of standard practice pertaining to cross connection control
enacted by the city and any applicable county, state and federal authorities
and agencies. The city shall have the authority to establish requirements more
stringent than state regulations if it deems that the conditions so dictate.
(Ord. 441, 4-9-1985)
7-4A-6-4: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Installation Permit: If cross connection control devices are found to
be necessary, the owner of the property served must apply to the city for a
specific installation permit.
   B.   Backflow Prevention Devices:
      1.   Backflow Prevention Devices Required: No water service connection to
any premises, excepting residential premises unless hazardous or deleterious
activities as set forth herein are conducted therein, shall be installed or
continued in the city unless the water supply is protected by backflow
prevention devices as may be required by this section, Idaho Code, and all
standards, rules and regulations of the state of Idaho, the Idaho department of
health and welfare and any other federal, state, county or city authority or
agency thereof.
Backflow prevention devices shall be installed in connection with water service
connections or within any premises, excepting residential premises unless
hazardous or deleterious activities as set forth herein are conducted therein,
where, in the judgment of the City, the nature and extent of the activities, or
the materials stored on the premises, would present an immediate and dangerous
hazard to health and/or be deleterious to the quality of the water should a
cross- connection occur, even though such cross-connection does not exist at
the time the backflow prevention devices shall be installed under circumstances
including but not limited to the following:
         a.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of
the auxiliary supply is in compliance with Idaho Code, and all standards, rules
and regulations of the State of Idaho, the Idaho Department of Health and
Welfare and any other Federal, State, County or City authority or agency
thereof and is acceptable to the City.
         b.   Premises having internal cross-connections that are not
correctable, or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impracticable to
ascertain whether or not cross-connections exist.
         c.   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to ensure that cross-connections do not exist.
         d.   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established.
         e.   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as
to permit entry into the City water supply, or where a cross-connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters.
         f.   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are
handled in such a way that if back siphonage should occur, a serious health
hazard might result.
         g.   The following types of facilities will fall into one of the above
categories where a backflow prevention device is required to protect the City
water supply. A backflow prevention device shall be installed at these
facilities unless the City and applicable State, County and Federal authorities
and agencies determine that no hazard exists:
   Car washes.
    Chemical plants using a water process.
    Darkrooms and photo processing.
    Dry cleaners.
    Food or beverage processing plants.
    Hospitals, mortuaries and clinics.
    Laboratories, including school laboratories.
    Metal plating industries.
    Petroleum processing or storage plants.
    Sewage treatment plants.
    Other premises as specified by the City, where backflow prevention devices
are required to protect the City water supply.
      2.   Type of Devices: The type of protective device required shall depend
on the degree of hazard which exists:
         a.   An air-gap separation or a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed where the City water supply may be
contaminated with sewage, industrial waste of a toxic nature, or other
contaminant which could cause a health or system hazard.
         b.   In the case of a substance which may be objectionable but not
hazardous to health, a double check valve assembly, air-prevention device shall
be installed.
Any protective device required by this Section
7-4A-6 shall be approved by the City, applicable State, County and Federal
authorities and agencies.
      3.   Installation Requirements: Backflow prevention devices required by
this Section
7-4A-6 shall be installed at the meter, at the property line of the premises
when meters are not used, or at a location designated by the City. The device
shall be located so as to be readily accessible for maintenance and testing,
and furthermore, where no part of the device will be submerged.
Backflow prevention devices required by this Section shall be installed under
the supervision of, and with the approval of, the City. These devices shall be
furnished and installed by and at the expense of the customer.
      4.   Underground Sprinklers: No underground sprinkling device will be
installed without adequate backflow prevention devices at the point from which
the water for irrigation is taken from the City water supply.
      5.   Inspections, Tests and Maintenance: Backflow prevention devices
installed pursuant to this Section shall be inspected and tested annually, or
more often if necessary. Inspections, tests and maintenance shall be at the
customer's expense, and, if requested by the City, by a State certified tester
paid by the customer. Whenever the devices are found to be defective, they
shall be repaired, overhauled or replaced at the customer's expense.
Inspections, tests, repairs and records thereof shall be accomplished in
accordance with all standards, rules and regulations of this Section, Idaho
Code, and all standards, rules and regulations of the State of Idaho, the Idaho
Department of Health and Welfare and any other Federal, State, County or City
authority or agency thereof and by State certified testers paid for by the
customer.
      6.   Remedies for Violations: Failure of the customer to cooperate in the
installation, maintenance, testing or inspection of backflow prevention devices
required by this Section, Idaho Code, and all standards, rules and regulations
of the State of Idaho, the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare and any other
Federal, State, County or City authority or agency thereof shall be grounds for
the termination of water service to the premises, or, in the alternative, the
installation of an air-gap separation at the customer's expense.
7-4A-6-5: CROSS-CONNECTION INSPECTION:
   A.   No water shall be delivered to any structure, excepting residential
premises unless hazardous or deleterious activities as set forth in subsection
7-4A-6-4B are conducted therein, hereafter built within the City or within
areas served by City water until the same shall have been inspected by the City
for possible cross-connections and been approved as being free of the same.
   B.   Any construction for industrial or other purposes which is classified
as hazardous facilities pursuant to subsection 7-4A-6-4B1g hereof, where it is
reasonable to anticipate cross-connections, or as determined by the City, shall
be protected by the installation of one or more backflow prevention devices at
the point of service from the City water supply or any other location
designated by the City, and applicable County, State and Federal authorities
and agencies.
   C.   Inspections may be made periodically of all buildings, excepting
residential premises unless hazardous or deleterious activities as set forth in
subsection 7-4A-6-4B are conducted therein, structures or improvements of any
nature now receiving water through the City's system, for the purpose of
ascertaining whether cross-connections exist. Such inspections shall be made by
the City or applicable County, State and Federal authorities and agencies.
7-4A-6-6: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
This Section shall not be construed to hold the City responsible for any damage
to persons or property by reason of the inspection or testing herein, or the
failure to inspect or test or by reason of approval of any cross-connections.
7-4A-6-7: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Termination of Water Service: In the event an improper cross-connection
is not corrected within the time limits set by the City or in the event the
City is refused access to any property for the purpose of determining whether
or not cross- connections exist, the City may cease delivery of water to the
property until the deficiency is corrected to the City's satisfaction. In
addition, the City, without waiving any terms of this Section
7-4A-6, may, but shall not be required to, effect the necessary repairs or
installations at the expense of the property owner and refuse delivery of water
to the property until the costs thereof shall have been paid.
   B.   Nuisance Declared; Abatement: Violations of this Section are hereby
declared to be nuisances, and the City, after notice to the customer or
property owner to remove or correct the violation, may prevent, remove and
abate the same at the expense of the party creating or maintaining the same, in
which event the City may levy a special assessment as provided in Idaho Code
50-1008 on the land or premises whereon the nuisance is situated to defray the
cost or to reimburse the City for the cost of abating the same.
   C.   Civil Action: In addition to, or in lieu of the foregoing, the City may
bring any appropriate civil action including abatement, injunction and/or
damages in which event the City shall be entitled to all costs including
attorney's fees in the prosecution of such action.
   D.   Violation and Penalty: In addition to the foregoing, any person
violating the provisions of this Section
7-4A-6 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be subject to the penalties as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 441, 4-9-85)
ARTICLE B. SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
7-4B-1: Definitions
7-4B-2: Use of the Public Sewers Required
7-4B-3: Private Sewage Disposal
7-4B-4: Building Sewers and Connections
7-4B-5: Use Restrictions
7-4B-5-1: Discharge of Effluent
7-4B-5-2: Prohibited Substances
7-4B-5-3: Materials Under Special Review
7-4B-5-4: Interceptors
7-4B-5-5: Preliminary Treatment
7-4B-5-6: Manhole
7-4B-5-7: Measurements, Tests and Analyses
7-4B-5-8: Special Agreements
7-4B-6: Industrial Use Prohibited
7-4B-7: Fees and Charges
7-4B-8: Protection from Damage
7-4B-9: Powers and Authority of Inspectors
7-4B-10: Violations and Penalties
7-4B-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this Article shall be as follows:
BOD (denoting biochemical oxygen demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees (20°) Celsius, expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes,
trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or groundwater.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 centimeters)
in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT and SEWAGE LAGOONS: The treatment facilities located
adjacent to Highway 93 approximately one mile north of the City.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of
sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SHALL; MAY: Shall is mandatory; may is permissive.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration
of any given constituent or in any quantity of flow exceeds five (5) times the
average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal operation
for more than fifteen (15) minutes.
STORM DRAIN (sometimes termed "storm sewer"): A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water. (Ord. 394, 6-12-79)
SUPERINTENDENT: The City Works Superintendent of the City or his authorized
deputy, agent or representative, or such other designee of the City. (Ord. 394,
6-12-79; 1988 Code)
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently.
7-4B-2: USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other waste material.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the City
or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this Article.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City
and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the
City, is hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly to the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this Article within ninety (90) days after
date of official notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within
two hundred feet (200') of the property line.
7-4B-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Use of Private System: Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not
available under the provisions of subsection 7-4B-2D above, the building sewer
shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with the
provisions of this Section.
   B.   Permit Required; Fee: Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the City, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be
paid to the City at the time the application is filed.
   C.   Inspection: A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not
become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within two (2)
working days of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   D.   Construction Specifications: The type, capacities, location and layout
of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of
the Department of Health and Welfare of the State of Idaho. No septic tank or
cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   E.   Connection to Public Sewer: At such time as a public sewer becomes
available to a property served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided
in subsection 7-4B-2D of this Article, a direct connection shall be made to the
public sewer in compliance with this Article and any septic tanks, cesspools
and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled
with suitable material within thirty (30) days.
   F.   Responsibility of Owner: The owner shall operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no
expense to the City.
   G.   Provisions Nonlimiting: No statement contained in this Section shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by
the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare or its authorized agents or
officers.
7-4B-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
Superintendent.
      2.   Classes of Permits: There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer
permits:
For residential and commercial service; and
For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the City. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment
of the Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for
a residential or commercial building sewer permit and one hundred dollars
($100.00) for an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the City at
the time the application is filed.
   B.   Separate Sewers Required: A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building; except where one building stands at the
rear of another or an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
   C.   Use of Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test
by the Superintendent, to meet all requirements of this Article.
   D.   Construction Specifications:
      1.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
City. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
      2.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
   E.   Connection to Public Sewers:
      1.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his representative.
      2.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the City, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
   F.   Excavations: All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the City 1 .
   G.   Surface Runoff: No person shall make connection of roof downspouts,
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff
or groundwater, to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   H.   Liability of Owner: All costs and expenses incident to the installation
and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner
shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 1 of this Title.
7-4B-5: USE RESTRICTIONS:
7-4B-5-1: DISCHARGE OF EFFLUENT:
No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any stormwater, surface
water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any City sanitary sewer.
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers
as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a
natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process water may be discharged on approval of the Superintendent to
a storm sewer.
7-4B-5-2: PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES:
No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   A.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   B.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, including but not
limited to cyanides in excess of two (2) mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged
to the public sewer.
   C.   Any water or wastes having a pH lower than five and five-tenths (5.5)
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works.
   D.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails,
paper, dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage
grinders.
7-4B-5-3: MATERIALS UNDER SPECIAL REVIEW:
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as to quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The substances
prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees (150) Fahrenheit (65C).
      2.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100) mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between thirty two degrees
(32) and one hundred fifty degrees (150) Fahrenheit (0 and 65C).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols, or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary after treatment of the composite
sewage to meet the requirements of the State, Federal or other public agencies
of jurisdiction.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations.
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of nine and five-tenths
(9.5).
      9.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues), or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      10.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed.
   B.   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection A above, and which in the judgment
of the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works,
processes or equipment or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute
a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
Section
7-4B-5-8 hereof.
If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plans and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
7-4B-5-4: INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the
Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except, that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
7-4B-5-5: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT:
Where preliminary treatment of flow- equalizing facilities are provided for any
waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his expense.
7-4B-5-6: MANHOLE:
When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent.
The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense and shall be
maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
7-4B-5-7: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this Article shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a twenty four [24] hour composite of all
outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples
should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses
are obtained from twenty four [24] hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH's
are determined from periodic grab samples.)
7-4B-5-8: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
No statement contained in this Section
7-4B-5 shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the City and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the City for treatment,
subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern. (Ord. 394, 6-12-79)
7-4B-6: INDUSTRIAL USE PROHIBITED:
The City hereby declares that at the date of this Section, no industrial users
(as defined in the Wastewater System User Rate Evaluation) have connection(s)
to the City wastewater collection and transmission system. The City Council
will require any future industrial users to comply with the Environmental
Protection Agency regulations regarding industrial cost recovery for sewage
treatment systems. (Res. 30, 6-12-79)
7-4B-7: FEES AND CHARGES 1 :
   A.   Connection Fees: Sewer connection fees shall be established by
resolution of the City Council. The fees so established shall be sufficient to
reimburse the City for all connection costs. (Ord. 410, 11-11-80)
      1.   Standard Connection Fee: Reimbursement for constructing a standard
connection four inches (4") in diameter and fifty feet (50') or less in length.
      2.   Nonstandard Connection Fee: Reimbursement for a larger than standard
diameter building sewer or a longer than standard length.
      3.   Responsibility for Connection Fees: All owners connecting to the
sewer shall pay the appropriate connection fee. When City forces are required,
as provided herein, to construct any portion of a connection to an existing
public sewer, the owner shall pay the standard connection fee plus any
additional cost for extra length or extra size for a nonstandard connection. If
any rock excavation is required, the owner shall pay the cost of such
excavation in addition to any other fees or charges. (Ord. 394, 6-12-79)
   B.   User Rates and Charges: General user charges shall be established by
resolution of the City Council and shall be in accordance with the "Wastewater
System User Rate Evaluation" of March, 1979, for the City, as amended.
Industrial user charges and Municipal user charges shall be established by
separate agreement with the City Council. All charges so established shall be
in proportion to the benefits derived by the user from the sewage works and
shall be in accordance with any applicable regulations of the United States
government. (Ord. 410, 11-11-80)
      1.   Determination of User Rates: The sewer user rates for each user (or
user class) shall be based on the user's contribution to the total wastewater
loading of the treatment facilities in comparison to a standard equivalent user
as defined below. Each user (or user class) shall be assigned a number of
equivalent users to be multiplied by a constant monthly cost factor to
determine the basic user monthly rate.
      2.   Equivalent User: One equivalent user shall be defined as
contributing four hundred thirty (430) gallons per day of wastewater containing
not more than fifty five-hundredths (.55) pounds of five (5) day BOD and fifty
five-hundredths (.55) pounds of suspended solids. The equivalent user flow has
been developed from population and sewer usage records which indicate an
average single dwelling unit has two and six-tenths (2.6) people contributing
one hundred sixty five (165) gallons per day per person. Standard engineering
data indicates twenty-hundredths (.20) pounds of five (5) day BOD and twenty-
hundredths (.20) pounds of suspended solids respectively per person per day.
The basic equivalent user shall be subject to revision if population, water
usage, sewage volume and/or other information indicates flow and/or strength
significantly different than defined herein. Revision of the basic equivalent
user criteria shall normally only be made upon the recommendation of a
registered professional engineer.
The number of equivalent uses to be assigned each user (or user class) shall be
in accordance with the equivalent user schedule included in the Wastewater
System User Rate Evaluation. Assignment of equivalent users shall apply for one
year until the next charge and shall be based on at least one equivalent user
unless otherwise indicated in the Wastewater System User Rate Evaluation.
      3.   Revision of User Charges: The sewer user charges shall, as a
minimum, be reviewed annually and updated to reflect actual costs of operation,
maintenance, replacement and financing of the sewage collection and treatment
facilities. Any revisions of the user charges shall be based on actual
operation, maintenance, replacement and financing expenses, and/or on
significant changes in the total number of equivalent users, the total daily
flow, the total daily BOD and/or the total daily suspended solids. The City may
install flow-measuring devices and/or collect wastewater samples at any time in
any user's service line to determine actual usage as a basis for revision of
the user's charge. Revisions due only to changes in expenses and user class
shall be made by the City. Revisions involving user's flow, BOD and/or
suspended solids shall normally only be made upon the recommendation of a
registered professional engineer. All changes in user charges applicable to
this Article shall be computed by the methods outlined herein.
      4.   Monthly Rates: Monthly rates for all sewer users in the City shall
be established by the City Council by resolution or minute entry and shall be
listed on a schedule kept on file at all times in the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer. Said schedule of rates shall include all the various classification
of users, including surcharged and special users, if any. The rate schedule may
be added to or changed, as provided above, without necessity of amending this
Article, and shall be the effective rate schedule for sewer service charges
thereafter.
      5.   Adjustments: Any sewer user who feels his user charge is unjust and
inequitable as applied to his premises within the spirit and intent of the
foregoing provisions, may make written application to the City Council
requesting a review of his user charge. Said written request shall, where
necessary, show the actual or estimated average flow and strength of his
wastewater in comparison with the values upon which the charge is based,
including how the measurements or estimates were made. Any flow measurements
and/or testing of wastewater shall be approved in detail by the City and/or its
Engineer. Review of the request by the City Council shall determine if it is
substantiated or not, including recommending further study of the matter for
the City and/or user by a registered professional engineer.
      6.   Wastewater System User Rate Evaluation: The method of classifying
users, calculating user charges and distributing revenues received shall be
based on the methods used in the Wastewater System User Rate Evaluation which
is hereby accepted, and in concept, made a part hereof. (Ord. 394, 6-12-79)
   C.   Effective Date of Rates and Charges: All rates and charges for sewer
service and connection fees shall be effective upon passage by the City Council
of a resolution establishing, revising or amending such rates and charges.
(Ord. 410, 11-11-80)
 
Notes
1 1. See Article C of this Chapter for amounts.
7-4B-8: PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structures, appurtenances
or equipment which is a part of the sewage works.
7-4B-9: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this Article. The
Superintendent or his representative shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   B.   While performing the necessary work on private commercial property, the
Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the City shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the commercial
enterprise conducted upon such property.
   C.   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private property through which a sewer connects to the public sewer, or on
which sewage works are located, for the purpose of, but not limited to,
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any
portion of the sewage works located on said property. All entry and subsequent
work, if any, on such property, shall be done in a manner to minimize permanent
disturbance of said property.
7-4B-10: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person found to be violating any provision of this Article except Section
7-4B-8 shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations. Any person who shall continue
any violation beyond the time limit provided for in this Section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day in which any violation shall continue shall
be deemed a separate offense.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Article shall become liable
to the City for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the City by reason of
such violation, including attorney's fees and costs. The City may levy a
special assessment for such expense, loss or damage against any private
property on which any violation occurs and shall be collected as provided in
Idaho Code 50-1008. (Ord. 394, 6-12-79)
ARTICLE C. WATER AND SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
7-4C-1: Water And Sewer User Fees
7-4C-1-1: Water Use Fees
7-4C-1-2: Sewer Use Fees
7-4C-1-3: Unoccupied Homes And Water Shutoff
7-4C-2: Connection Fees
7-4C-3: Deposits
7-4C-4: Water Turn On And Off
7-4C-5: Water And Sewer Service In Flood Hazard Areas
7-4C-6: Rates Outside City Limits
7-4C-7: Water Disconnected For Nonpayment; Reconnect Charge
7-4C-8: Responsibility For Rates And Charges
7-4C-1: WATER AND SEWER USER FEES:
7-4C-1-1: WATER USE FEES:
   A.   Fees Established: All legal owners of a residence, commercial business
or property with a meter connection shall be charged a base fee of twelve
dollars ($12.00), a percentage of which to retire 1982 water bonds, a
percentage for administration costs, and a percentage for replacement
construction, in addition to actual water usage at the rate of:
 
Up to 61,000 gallons     $0.75 per 1,000 gallons
Over 61,000 gallons      1.50 per 1,000 gallons
 
Note: Meter readings in cubic feet are converted to gallons. To convert cubic
feet to gallons, multiply cubic feet by 7.5 for gallon usage.
   B.   Winter Water Rate Schedule:
 
Number Of Users Estimated      Billing
Per Household   Usage Of Water
1               3,000 gallons     $14.25
2               5,000 gallons     15.75
3               7,000 gallons     17.25
4               9,000 gallons     18.75
5               11,000 gallons    20.25
6               13,000 gallons    21.75
 
Credit or debit will be adjusted following the first reading of the actual
water usage during the winter months when the meters are not read. (Res. 37-H,
8-22-2006)
   C.   Adjustments: The city is on water meters and consumption of city water
is calculated on the volume of water going through the meter; therefore, the
homeowner is responsible for the consumption of water recorded by the city. The
city will only adjust calculated consumption on a thirty (30) day, daily
average basis under the following conditions:
      1.   The homeowner, after notification of an excessive water usage from
the city office, replaces or repairs the problem area immediately, or the
homeowner is made aware of a problem and notifies the city office of the
problem and the action that is being taken to rectify the problem.
      2.   The city has tested the water meter and the meter proves to be
malfunctioning.
      3.   After due consideration of an adverse situation, or otherwise
unexplainable consumption of water, the city council deems an adjustment
necessary.
      4.   The city, after posting notice, publishing, or personal request by a
city employee, requests that water be consumed for the benefit of the city
water system.
Adjustments on water consumption will not exceed thirty (30) days unless
otherwise posted or published by the city. (Res. 129, 12-10-1985)
7-4C-1-2: SEWER USE FEES:
   A.   Rates: Upon and after the effective date hereof, sewer fees shall be
assessed monthly as follows:
  Monthly Rates
                                                                  Monthly Rates
Residence                                                           $ 10.00
Barber and beauty shops                                             10.00
Offices                                                             10.00
Shops without public restrooms                                      10.00
Schools ($1,252.36 per school year flat rate)                       104.38
Forest service ($1,252.36 per year flat rate)                       104.38
Motels (plus $0.75 per room, plus commercial rate of $21.61 for     15.00
laundry)
Courthouse                                                          21.61
Commercial business rates                                           21.61
Laundromats and cleaners                                            43.21
 
   B.   Industrial And Other Fees: Rates for industrial and other uses shall be
set by individual agreement with the city council and placed on file in the
city hall. (Res. 37-H, 8-22-2006)
7-4C-1-3: UNOCCUPIED HOMES AND WATER SHUTOFF:
All unoccupied homes, businesses and properties with a water meter shall also
be subject to the twelve dollar ($12.00) monthly base fee and ten dollar
($10.00) sewer charge, if connected to the sewer system. Water base rate and
sewer service charge shall not be waived when water is turned off. (Res. 37-H,
8-22-2006)
7-4C-2: CONNECTION FEES:
Water and sewer connection fees to the city main lines are set under subsection
9-5-1D of this code. (Res. 37-H, 8-22-2006)
7-4C-3: DEPOSITS:
A refundable fifty dollar ($50.00) water/sewer deposit shall be paid to the
city of Challis prior to the use of the city water/sewer system for new
accounts. The city shall refund the full deposit after six (6) months to all
members in good standing. (Res. 37-H, 8-22-2006)
7-4C-4: WATER TURN ON AND OFF:
Water turn on and off fees by the city for any reason other than nonpayment
will be twenty five dollars ($25.00). Water turn on and off fees on weekends
and holidays shall be thirty seven dollars fifty cents ($37.50), plus actual
labor charged to the city. (Res. 37-H, 8-22-2006)
7-4C-5: WATER AND SEWER SERVICE IN FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
All persons shall continue to apply for and pay a water hookup fee of thirty
five dollars ($35.00) and sewer hookup fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) to
the city clerk-treasurer pursuant to section
7-4A-1 of this chapter.
The city council shall review all applications for water and sewer service, and
if the applicant's property is located within an area of flood hazards, the
council shall advise the applicant thereof and make such further review,
recommendations or approval of said application as may be feasible and
necessary. (Res. 10, 4-8-1975)
7-4C-6: RATES OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
Any person desiring city water and/or sewer to a premises outside the city
limits shall first appear in person before the city council with such request.
If council approval for such connection is obtained, the water and/or sewer
connection fees and the monthly fees for water and/or sewer shall be one
hundred seventy five percent (175%) of the rates for such services within the
city limits. (Res. 37C, 10-14-1986)
7-4C-7: WATER DISCONNECTED FOR NONPAYMENT; RECONNECT CHARGE:
The foregoing rates and charges for water/sewer service and connection fees
shall be due on or before the fifth day of each and every month, and if not so
paid shall become delinquent on said date and subject to termination of
service. If such a charge is not paid within fifteen (15) working days after
the due date, water and sewer services shall be disconnected the morning of the
sixteenth working day until all delinquent billings are paid in full, together
with a twenty five dollar ($25.00) reconnect fee. (Res. 37-H, 8-22-2006)
7-4C-8: RESPONSIBILITY FOR RATES AND CHARGES:
Property owners shall be held legally responsible for the payment of all water/
sewer fees and deposits and shall continue to be held responsible even after
filing a "release form" allowing the city to forward all billings to the name
and address of a lessee or renter. All bills left unpaid thirty (30) days after
the due date shall subject the owner to penalties described under Idaho Code,
allowing the city to levy an assessment against the property for the amount of
the unpaid balance. (Res. 37C, 10-14-1986)
CHAPTER 5
TREES
SECTION:
7-5-1: Statement Of Value
7-5-2: Purpose And Objectives
7-5-3: Definitions
7-5-4: Private Tree Care
7-5-5: Public Tree Care
7-5-6: City Council Review
7-5-1: STATEMENT OF VALUE:
Established trees are valuable assets to the community of Challis. In the
ecosystem typical of the area, trees are uncommon and dependent on human care
to survive. Healthy, strategically placed trees beautify, increase property
values and make the community a more pleasant place to live. (Ord. 465A, 8-21-
2014)
7-5-2: PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES:
This chapter is intended to provide direction in planting and caring for trees.
The major objectives are to encourage preservation, protection, and proper
maintenance of trees within city limits. The ultimate goal is to enhance the
beauty of the city. (Ord. 465A, 8-21-2014)
7-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
HAZARDOUS TREES: Public or private trees that prevent appropriate passage or
safe vision on any public property.
OBSTRUCTIVE TREES: Public or private trees that prevent appropriate passage or
safe vision on any public right of way.
PARK TREES: Trees or shrubs in public parks or open space owned by the city to
which the public has free access.
PRIVATE TREES: All trees other than public trees.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Improved or unimproved public property, owned by,
dedicated to, or deeded to the public for pedestrian, vehicular or other use.
It includes, but is not limited to, streets, alleys, sidewalks, access routes
for public utilities and open public spaces.
PUBLIC TREES: Trees or shrubs situated in such a manner that over fifty percent
(50%) of the base or trunk is on public property or within a public right of
way.
STREET TREES: Trees or shrubs on land lying between property lines on all
public rights of way within the city. (Ord. 465A, 8-21-2014)
7-5-4: PRIVATE TREE CARE:
Except under conditions stated in this section, the city will not dictate
policy for trees on private property.
The city may require pruning or removal of any private trees that are
determined to be hazardous or obstructive. (Ord. 465A, 8-21-2014)
7-5-5: PUBLIC TREE CARE:
Except as outlined in this section, the city will have jurisdiction to maintain
public trees as it sees fit.
It shall be unlawful:
   A.   For any public tree to be "topped" or "headed" in such a way that the
crown is removed or severely cut back.
   B.   To cut down, destroy, or damage any public tree without permission of
the city.
   C.   Attach devices or signs to any public tree.
   D.   Dispose of or apply any substance toxic to trees near any public trees
or on public property.
   E.   Damage any public trees as a result of construction or excavation
activities.
   F.   Vandalize or deface any public tree.
   G.   Remove or damage any device whose purpose is to provide care in support
for any public tree.
   H.   Failure to remove branches or debris resulting from private or public
tree maintenance or natural disaster from any right of way. Responsibility for
removal lies with the private or public owner of the tree.
   I.   Plant public trees with the following limits:
      1.   Within four feet (4') of any building or structure.
      2.   Within ten feet (10') of fire hydrants or utility poles.
      3.   Within two feet (2') of existing curb, sidewalk or asphalt.
      4.   Within ten feet (10') of sewer or water line access.
      5.   Within twenty feet (20') of a stop or yield sign.
      6.   Within the sight triangle of any public intersection.
      7.   Trees whose maximum height will eventually interfere with overhead
power lines.
Failure to abide by subsections A through I of this section may result in a
fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00) after ten (10) days' notice from the
Challis city clerk to the offending party. (Ord. 465A, 8-21-2014)
7-5-6: CITY COUNCIL REVIEW:
Any tree planted on public property must receive approval, from the city
council, prior to planting. (Ord. 465A, 8-21-2014)
TITLE 8
AIRPORT REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL AIRPORT PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: General Regulations and Restrictions
8-1-2: Wastewater Disposal and Use
8-1-3: User Fees and Charges
8-1-3-1: User Fees Established
8-1-3-2: Lease Rates
8-1-3-3: Fuel Tax
8-1-3-4: Responsibility for Charges
8-1-3-5: Nonliability of City
8-1-1: GENERAL REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Definitions: "Challis, Idaho Municipal Airport", "runway", "taxiway"
and "parking apron" shall mean the City of Challis, Idaho Municipal Airport
located north of the City and those areas presently used as such and so
designated upon the official Airport Layout Plan in the office of the City
Clerk-Treasurer as from time to time amended.
   B.   Pedestrians and Vehicles: No unauthorized pedestrians shall enter upon,
cross or traverse any Challis Municipal Airport runway, taxiway, parking apron
or other airport property adjacent thereto, and no unauthorized motor vehicle,
motorcycle, bicycle or other conveyance shall be driven, operated or taken upon
any Challis Municipal Airport runway, taxiway, parking apron or other airport
property adjacent thereto without the consent of the City or its designated
airport manager or other representative. Any vehicle authorized to enter upon
airport property shall be properly marked and shall otherwise meet all City,
County, State and Federal regulations or standards pertaining to the vehicles
upon said airport. The foregoing shall not apply to persons boarding or
deplaning from, or loading or unloading aircraft properly parked upon said
parking apron.
   C.   Animals: No dogs or other animals shall be permitted on Challis
Municipal Airport property unless restrained by a leash or otherwise confined
in such a manner to be under control, and no horses, cattle or other livestock
shall be permitted on Challis Municipal Airport property at any time.
   D.   Damage to Airport Property: It shall be unlawful to intentionally
damage, remove or deface any gates, fences or signs erected at the Challis
Municipal Airport, or to otherwise damage any Challis Municipal Airport
property.
   E.   Liability for Damages: Any unauthorized pedestrians or the owner,
operator or lessee of any unauthorized vehicle, motorcycle, bicycle or other
conveyance and the owner of any unauthorized livestock shall be liable for
damages caused to airport surfaces and for any injuries or damages to persons
or property resulting from such unauthorized use of the Challis Municipal
Airport.
   F.   Enforcement and Penalties: Any person violating any provisions of this
Section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to such penalties as provided by law. The City may also
enforce this Section by any appropriate civil remedy, including an action for
injunctive relief. (Ord. 366, 10-14-75)
8-1-2: WASTEWATER DISPOSAL AND USE:
   A.   Property Reserves:
      1.   The City hereby reserves and agrees not to convey or release for a
twenty (20) year period approximately one hundred (100) acres of airport
property for existing airport facilities and future airport expansion, which
reserved property is indicated on the Airport Layout Plan.
      2.   Of the remaining approximately one hundred (100) acres of airport
property, the City will reserve for a period of twenty (20) years a minimum of
sixty (60) acres for land application of wastewater discharged from the City
sewer lagoons, the location of such reserved acreage being indicated on the
Airport Layout Plan.
   B.   Use of Wastewater for Crop Irrigation: The City will apply wastewater
to specified crops by irrigation in accordance with an approved plan of
operation prepared by Hamilton and Voeller, Engineers, in accordance with all
applicable Federal, State and local laws, regulations and standards, including
those established by the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare.
   C.   Construction of Sprinkler Irrigation System: The City has the financial
capability and will maintain the financial capability to construct and operate
a sprinkler irrigation system for said land application of the sewage
wastewater. (Res. 26, 6-13-78)
8-1-3: USER FEES AND CHARGES:
8-1-3-1: USER FEES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Tie-Downs: The City is authorized to charge and collect the following
fees for tie-down of fixed-wing aircraft for the parking of any fixed-wing
aircraft on the tie-down area of the Challis Municipal Airport:
 
ON APRON        OFF APRON
$75.00 per year $25.00 per year
2.00 per day    1.00 per day not to exceed yearly rate.
 
   B.   Helicopter Parking: The Municipal Airport Manager is authorized to
charge and collect the following fees for helicopter parking at the Challis
Municipal Airport:
   PAD
   $150.00 per year
   5.00 per day
Provided, that two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per year credit will be
granted to any person, government entity or firm who installs its own pad on
the Challis Municipal Airport, having first obtained written permission from
the City Council for doing so. This write-off privilege is based upon a six (6)
year write off and is nontransferable, and any person, government entity or
firm who has installed a pad shall have first option for lease of the pad at
the then current lease price; and further provided, that any pad so installed
shall meet all applicable minimum specifications.
   C.   Commercial Use: The City is authorized to charge and collect the
following commercial use fees from out-of-area commercial operators and from
local commercial operators, as defined in Chapter 2 of this Title:
   Cost
 
                                     Yearly Charge-Local  Yearly Charge-
Aircraft Weight  Each Landing Charge Commercial Operators Nonlocal Commercial
                                                          Operators
0 to 6,000 lbs.  $ 2.50              $ 75.00              $150.00
6,000 to 12,500  15.00               200.00               350.00
lbs.
Over 12,500 lbs. 25.00               500.00               750.00
 
   D.   Parking: All local commercial operators, as defined in Chapter 2 of
this Title, shall provide parking for employees and short-term customer parking
on their leased property, or in the alternative, shall pay the following
parking fees for the parking lot; provided, that said parking fees shall be
paid by any person desiring to park a motor vehicle for longer than twenty four
(24) hours at the Challis Municipal Airport:
   Parking Fees
   $35.00 per year
   10.00 per month
   1.00 per day after 24 hours
Provided further, that the City property adjacent to the paved access road
between Lots 2 and 3 of the Challis Municipal Airport shall remain open to the
public for passenger and cargo pick-up and delivery (thirty [30] minute maximum
parking); and Lot B, Challis Municipal Airport, shall be reserved for leased
parking at the rates stated above.
8-1-3-2: LEASE RATES:
All leases on the Challis Municipal Airport shall be billed at the rate of four
and two-tenths cents (4.2¢) per square foot, plus annual increases for the cost
of living.
8-1-3-3: FUEL TAX:
A fuel tax of one and five-tenths cents (1.5¢) per gallon shall be paid, billed
on the reading of totalizer meter on the pump, and trucks over seven hundred
(700) gallon capacity and without a meter shall pay a fuel tax of two cents
(2¢) per month per gallon of truck capacity. Any person selling fuel at the
Challis Municipal Airport shall have the price of such fuel prominently
displayed at the dispensing site.
8-1-3-4: RESPONSIBILITY FOR CHARGES:
It shall be the duty of any person, firm, corporation or commercial operator to
report and pay for all charges incurred each month. Failure to pay the said
charges incurred may result in the impoundment of the violating aircraft and
civil suit for the collection thereof.
8-1-3-5: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
The City, by imposing the foregoing charges, assumes no responsibility for the
care and maintenance of aircraft or motor vehicles parked at the Challis
Municipal Airport, nor for any loss or damage to persons or property in
connection with aircraft or motor vehicles parked at said airport; and the
owners of aircraft and automobiles using or parking at the Challis Municipal
Airport assume all responsibility and risk of loss at said airport. (Res. 43B,
7-9-85)
CHAPTER 2
REQUIREMENTS FOR AIRPORT SERVICES
SECTION:
8-2-1: Purpose
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-3: Contracts and Leases
8-2-4: Requirements of Lessees
8-2-5: Rights of the City
8-2-6: Use of Common Areas
8-2-7: Condition of Premises
8-2-8: Local Commercial Operators
8-2-8-1: Services and Functions Offered
8-2-8-2: Application for Local Commercial Operator Rights; Approval or Denial
8-2-8-3: Insurance Requirements; Financial Responsibility
8-2-8-4: Eligibility to Provide Services
8-2-8-5: Expansion or Discontinuance of Services
8-2-8-6: Required Facilities
8-2-8-7: Construction Standards
8-2-8-8: Rates and Charges for Services
8-2-8-9: Conduct of Operation; Rights not Exclusive
8-2-9: License for Ancillary Services
8-2-10: Waiver of Rules and Regulations
8-2-11: Enforcement and Penalties
8-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to:
   A.   Provide minimum standards and requirements for commercial aeronautical
activities for the safe and efficient operation of the Challis Municipal
Airport.
   B.   To enhance its orderly growth.
   C.   To preclude the granting of an exclusive right to conduct an
aeronautical activity in violation of section 308 (a) of the Federal Aviation
Act of 1958.
   D.   To conform to title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Part 21 of
the Department of Transportation Regulations.
   E.   To assure to all lessees the availability of airport property of fair
and reasonable terms and without unjust discrimination. (Ord. 421, 7-14-81)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section:
LESSEE: Any person, firm or corporation, whether commercial, private or
governmental unit, who leases airport property from the City. Only local
commercial operators and out- of-area commercial operators who have paid the
use fee 1  shall conduct commercial activity on the Challis Municipal Airport.
(Ord. 421, 7-14-81)
LOCAL COMMERCIAL OPERATOR: Any person, firm or corporation who performs any of
the commercial functions for hire or furnishes any of the services as
hereinafter set out for local commercial operators at the Challis Municipal
Airport. All activities, operations or services provided on the airport
property for compensation shall be considered commercial and shall meet the
standards set forth herein; provided, however, these standards shall not apply
to operators referred to herein as "out-of-area commercial operators" which do
not use the Challis Municipal Airport as the base for their operations. The
classification as a local commercial operator or out-of-area commercial
operator shall be made on a case-by-case basis by the City Council and an
operator determined to be an out-of-area commercial operator shall be subject
to a commercial use fee, as set by the City Council 2 .
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  8-1-3 of this Title.
2 2. See Section
  8-1-3 of this Title.
8-2-3: CONTRACTS AND LEASES:
   A.   Contracts and Leases Subordinate:
      1.   All contracts and leases between the lessees and the City shall be
subordinate to the provisions of any existing or future agreement between the
City and the United States, relative to the operation or maintenance of the
airport, the execution of which has been or may be required as a condition
precedent to the expenditure of Federal funds for the development of the
airport properties.
      2.   All contracts and leases between any lessee and the City shall be
subordinate to the right of the City during time of war or national emergency
to lease the landing area or any part thereof to the United States government
for military or naval use, and if any such lease is so made, the provisions of
any contracts or leases in conflict with the provisions of the lease to the
government shall be suspended.
   B.   City Construction of Facilities: In the event the City constructs the
physical plant facilities (hangars, etc.) for use by any lessee under the
provisions of any lease or other contract, such lease or contract with such
lessee shall be on such terms and conditions as to guarantee a full return of
the investment to the City, plus interest and reasonable rental for use during
such period.
   C.   Sublease:
      1.   No lessee shall sublease or sublet any premises leased by such
lessee from the City, or assign any such lease without the prior written
approval of the City.
      2.   In the event the lessee sublets any portion of his lease, the
sublessee must agree to assume the full obligations of the lease as set out
herein and must agree to fully cooperate with the City in seeing that these
standards are complied with. The sublessee shall immediately comply with any
reasonable request or direction of the City as it relates to the enforcement of
these standards.
   D.   Default: In the event that the lessee or its sublessee fails to comply
fully with these standards or fails to comply with the reasonable request or
direction of the City as it relates to these standards, said operator or
sublessee shall be in default. If said default continues for more than thirty
(30) days after notice of said default, the City may terminate the lease. The
operator is responsible for the performance of the sublease.
8-2-4: REQUIREMENTS OF LESSEES:
   A.   Compliance with Provisions: All lessees and users of the Challis
Municipal Airport shall abide by and comply with all State, County and City
laws and ordinances, the rules and regulations of the City and the rules and
regulations of the State and Federal Aviation Administration.
   B.   Payment of Taxes: All lessees shall, at their own expense, pay all
taxes and assessments against any buildings or other structures placed on the
premises by them, as well as all taxes and assessments against the personal
property used by them in their operations.
   C.   Pay Utilities: All lessees shall provide and pay for all lights, gas,
electrical current, water, sewer charges and garbage collection charges used or
incurred anywhere in or about the leased premises, and shall pay the charges
made therefor by the suppliers thereof promptly when due.
8-2-5: RIGHTS OF THE CITY:
The City reserves the right to:
   A.   Protection of Aerial Approaches: To take any actions it considers
necessary to protect the aerial approaches to the airport against obstructions,
together with the right to prevent any local commercial operator from erecting,
or permitting to be erected, any building, sign or other structure on the
airport which, in the opinion of the authority, would limit the usefulness of
the airport or constitute a hazard to aircraft.
   B.   Develop Airport Areas: To further develop or improve all areas of the
airport as it sees fit, regardless of the desires or views of any local
commercial operator, and without interference or hindrance from any such local
commercial operators.
   C.   Inspections: To enter upon any premises leased to any lessee at any
reasonable time for the purpose of making such inspections as it may deem
expedient for the proper enforcement of these minimum standards and for the
proper enforcement of any covenant or condition of any lessee's contract or
lease agreement.
8-2-6: USE OF COMMON AREAS:
Local commercial operators, government agencies and private noncommercial
lessees shall have the right in common with others authorized so to do without
additional fee, to use common areas of the airport, including runways,
taxiways, aprons, roadways, floodlights, landing lights, signals and other
conveniences for the takeoff, flying and landing of aircraft of the operator.
8-2-7: CONDITION OF PREMISES:
Each lessee shall remove from the airport or otherwise dispose of in a manner
approved by the airport directors all garbage, debris and other waste material
(whether solid or liquid) arising out of its occupancy of the premises or out
of its operations. Each lessee shall keep and maintain his leased premises in a
neat and orderly manner, and shall keep the grass cut and the buildings
maintained in a manner approved by the City. The City may require a clean up
deposit from any lessee to assure that any premises used by such lessee shall
be surrendered to the City in a comparable condition as when the operator
received possession, reasonable wear from proper use thereof excepted.
8-2-8: LOCAL COMMERCIAL OPERATORS:
8-2-8-1: SERVICES AND FUNCTIONS OFFERED:
One or more of the following services and functions are offered: passenger
service, freight service, flight instruction, ground school instruction,
aircraft maintenance, crop dusting, avionics, fuel storage and sale 1 .
 
Notes
1 1. See Article A of this Code.
8-2-8-2: APPLICATION FOR LOCAL COMMERCIAL OPERATOR RIGHTS; APPROVAL OR DENIAL:
An applicant desiring a lease or license to provide a commercial service at the
airport shall submit a written application to the Challis Airport Commission
containing all the following pertinent information two (2) months prior to the
desired occupancy date:
   APPLICATION FOR FIXED BASE OPERATOR
GENERAL: A fixed based operator must provide the services agreed upon between
the operator and the City Council under the terms of his lease or license for
all users of his services and facility. The facility must be so staffed and
equipped that the fixed base operator will be able to render said services
independent of any other fixed base operator during reasonable hours and
without unreasonable delays.
      An application for a term lease to conduct fixed base operations shall be
in the form of a written proposal which shall include:
1. Complete financial statement in detail showing assets, liabilities and net
worth of the business, including a profit and loss statement of any existing
commercial air activity in which the applicant is engaged.
   2. Statement setting forth in detail the proposed overall investment.
   3. A complete list of services to be provided and an approximate time in
which those services will be available to the public after the approval of the
application.
   4. Plot plans, building blueprints, fuel storage plans, materials and
equipment list.
   a. Plot plans shall include area location and layout.
   b. Building blueprints shall include structural design and materials to be
used, and proposed structures must bear approval of the City of Challis.
   5. Demonstration that the applicant has the proper license or certificates
required by the F.A.A. to conduct the activities proposed.
SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS:
   Auto Parking Areas: Auto parking areas must be sufficient to provide
adequate parking space for all employees plus adequate space for customer use.
Parking lot layout must set forth the number of auto parking spaces to be
provided.
   Fuel Sales and Storage: Any proposal for storage or sale of fuel shall meet
the requirements of the City minimum standards for storage and sale of fuel at
the Challis Municipal Airport 1 . Any person selling fuel shall have current
fuel prices posted prominently on the fuel source.
GENERAL INFORMATION: Applicant must submit the following information with this
form:
      Individual: Complete an accurate list of the names and addresses of all
persons having a financial interest in the proposed operation.
      Partnership: Complete an accurate list of the names and addresses of the
members of the partnership.
      Corporation: Complete an accurate list of the names and addresses of the
officers and directors of the corporation.
The Challis Airport Commission, within fourteen (14) days of submission of the
application, shall submit its recommendation for approval or denial of the
application to the City Council. The City Council, within one month of receipt
of the Airport Commission's recommendation, shall either enter into a contract
with the operator or deny the application.
 
Notes
1 1. See Article A of this Chapter.
8-2-8-3: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS; FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Insurance Requirements: All local commercial operators shall protect
the public generally, the customers or clients of such local commercial
operators and the City from any and all lawful damages, claims or liability and
shall carry comprehensive general liability insurance in a company authorized
to do business in the State of Idaho with limits of not less than one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per person, three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) for each occurrence for personal injury, and one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) property damage with the City named as an additional
insured, which policies must be approved by the City Council and a certificate
of insurance thereof furnished to the authority. It is further understood that
as circumstances in the future dictate, the City may require an increase in
bodily injury and property damage insurance.
   B.   Financial Responsibility: A local commercial operator shall satisfy the
City that it is technically and financially able to perform the services of a
local commercial operator. This shall include the responsibility for
demonstrating continued financial solvency and business ability by the
submitting of an annual financial statement and credit reference on or before
April 15 of each year. In cases of doubt by the City to such ability of a local
commercial operator, the City may conduct a hearing to determine appropriate
action. In each instance, the City shall be the final judge as to the
qualifications and financial ability of the local commercial operator.
8-2-8-4: ELIGIBILITY TO PROVIDE SERVICES:
Any person capable of meeting the minimum standards set forth herein for any of
the stated categories is eligible to become a local commercial operator at the
airport, subject to the execution of a written lease containing such terms and
conditions as may be determined by the City.
Each local commercial operator shall provide his own buildings, personnel and
equipment, and other requirements as herein stated upon land leased from the
City.
8-2-8-5: EXPANSION OR DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICES:
A local commercial operator shall not engage in any business or activity on the
airport other than that authorized under his current approved application. A
local commercial operator desiring to expand his operation or to discontinue
services provided, shall first apply in writing to the City for permission to
do so, setting forth in detail the reasons and conditions for the request. The
City shall then grant or deny the request on such terms and conditions as the
City deems to be prudent and proper under the circumstances.
8-2-8-6: REQUIRED FACILITIES:
All local commercial operators at the airport shall make telephone service
conveniently and readily available for public use, and shall provide short-term
parking areas for customers and employees on land leased from the City. Local
commercial operators who provide passenger service shall provide ample lounges
and restrooms for their customers with a total minimum floor space of two
hundred fifty (250) square feet.
Any vehicle parked for longer than twenty four (24) hours shall be parked in
the long- term parking lot and subject to parking fees as established by City
Council 1 .
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 8-1-3-1D of this Code.
8-2-8-7: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
All construction required of such operators shall be in accordance with design
and construction standards then in effect required or established by the City
or any governmental authority having jurisdiction for the facility or activity
involved. All operators may be required to furnish the City clean up deposits
or payment and performance bonds commensurate with any construction required
under the standards herein fixed or under any contract or lease by and between
such operator and the City.
8-2-8-8: RATES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICES:
The rate or charges for any and all activities and services of such operators
shall be determined by the operators, subject to review by the City, and
subject, further, to the requirement that all such rates or charges shall be
reasonable and be equally and fairly applied to all users of the services.
8-2-8-9: CONDUCT OF OPERATION; RIGHTS NOT EXCLUSIVE:
Local commercial operators will at all times during the continuance of the term
of the lease and any renewal or extension thereof conduct, operate and maintain
for the benefit of the public, the local commercial operation provided for and
described therein, and all aspects and parts and services thereof as defined
and set forth, and will make all such services available to the public, and
will devote its best efforts for the accomplishment of such purposes, and will
at all times make charges to patrons and customers for all merchandise or
materials and services furnished or rendered but will refrain from imposing or
levying excessive or otherwise unreasonable charges or fees for any facilities
or services. Notwithstanding anything contained in a lease that may be or
appear to the contrary, it is expressly understood and agreed that the rights
granted thereunder are nonexclusive and the City reserves the right to grant
similar privileges to another operator or operators on other parts of the
airport when, in its sole discretion, the City feels a need exists.
8-2-9: LICENSE FOR ANCILLARY SERVICES:
The City may consider an application by an individual for a license to provide
ancillary services, including but not limited to, motel facilities, restaurants
and shops, when in the Council's discretion the service is necessary for the
convenience of the public.
8-2-10: WAIVER OF RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The City may in its discretion waive any portion of these rules and regulations
for the benefit of a commercial airline licensed by the CAB, any governmental
agency or a person performing a nonprofit public service, performing air search
and rescue operations, or engaging in fire fighting operations. (Ord. 421, 7-
14-81)
8-2-11: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any term of this Chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to punishment as provided for in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. In addition, the City may enforce the provisions of this
Chapter by any appropriate civil action, including but not limited to,
injunction, in which event the City shall be entitled to all costs and
expenses, including attorney's fees, in the prosecution of such action. (Ord.
421A, 7-13-82; 1988 Code)
ARTICLE A. SALE AND STORAGE OF ENGINE FUEL
SECTION:
8-2A-1: Definition of Licensee
8-2A-2: License Required
8-2A-3: Application for License; Approval or Denial
8-2A-4: Eligibility for License
8-2A-5: Conditions of License
8-2A-6: Design and Construction Standards
8-2A-7: Expansion or Discontinuance of Operation
8-2A-8: Improvements
8-2A-9: Effect of License During Emergencies
8-2A-10: Waiver of Rules and Regulations
8-2A-1: DEFINITION OF LICENSEE:
The licensee is defined as any person, firm or corporation selling or storing
for sale aircraft engine fuel at the Challis Municipal Airport.
8-2A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
All activities, operations or services relating to the sale or storage for sale
of aircraft engine fuel and provided on the airport property for compensation
shall be considered commercial and shall meet the standards set forth, and only
licensees shall conduct such commercial activity on the Challis Municipal
Airport.
8-2A-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; APPROVAL OR DENIAL:
An applicant desiring a license to sell, or store for sale, aircraft engine
fuel at the Challis Municipal Airport shall submit a written application to the
City Council, containing all the following pertinent information at least sixty
(60) days prior to the desired occupancy date:
   A.   An applicant must agree to execute and conform to the terms of the
license agreement between the licensee and the City for the particular aircraft
engine fuel activity desired to be performed, which agreement shall be prepared
by the City.
   B.   An applicant for a license to sell, or store for sale, aircraft engine
fuel at the Challis Municipal Airport shall be in the form of a written
proposal which shall include:
      1.   Complete financial statement in detail showing assets, liabilities
and net worth of the business, including a profit and loss statement of any
existing commercial air activity in which the applicant engaged.
      2.   Statement setting forth in detail the proposed overall investment.
      3.   A complete list of services to be provided and an approximate time
in which those services will be available to the public after the approval of
the application.
      4.   Plat plans, fuel delivery and storage plans, material and equipment
list, with detailed information relating to tank or truck type and size, type
of pump(s), filter(s), hoses and metering devices, together with such other
information as may be requested by the City pertaining to the proposed
facility.
The Council, within thirty (30) days, shall arrive at some contract agreement
or reject the application.
8-2A-4: ELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
Any person capable of meeting the minimum standards set forth is eligible to
become a licensee at the airport, subject to the execution of a written
license.
8-2A-5: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Operation of Licensed Activity Only: A licensee shall not engage in any
business or activity on the airport other than that authorized under this
particular agreement.
   B.   Payment of Taxes and Utility Charges: All licensees shall pay all taxes
and assessments against any facilities placed by them on the Challis Airport
property, all taxes and assessments against the personal property used by them
in their operations and all charges for utilities.
   C.   Premises to be Clean: The licensee shall remove, or otherwise dispose
of in a manner approved by the City, all garbage, debris and other waste
materials (solids or liquids) arising out of its occupancy of the airport or
out of its operations. Licensee shall keep and maintain its fuel delivery and
storage facilities in a safe, clean, neat and orderly manner and in good repair
at all times.
8-2A-6: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
All installations of facilities shall be in accordance with design and
construction standards required or established by the Federal, State, County,
City or agency for the facility or activity involved, and as follows:
   A.   Maintain separate pumping equipment for each grade of fuel sold,
meeting all applicable Federal, State, County and City requirements with
reliable metering devices subject to independent inspection and with a pumping
efficiency capable of servicing all aircraft normally using the airport.
   B.   Provide and maintain totalizer meter, filter-equipped dispensers for
dispensing of each grade or type of aviation fuel usually required.
   C.   Install at all fueling systems adequate grounding rods to reduce the
hazards of static electricity, and maintain adequate fire extinguishers.
8-2A-7: EXPANSION OR DISCONTINUANCE OF OPERATION:
Any licensee desiring to extend his operation or to discontinue operations
shall first apply, in writing, to the City for permission, setting forth in
detail the reasons and conditions for the request.
8-2A-8: IMPROVEMENTS:
The City reserves the right to further develop or improve all areas of the
airport as it sees fit, regardless of the desires or views of any licensee and
without interference or hindrance from any licensee.
8-2A-9: EFFECT OF LICENSE DURING EMERGENCIES:
All licenses and agreements between each licensee and the City shall be
subordinate to the right of the City during time of war or a national emergency
to lease the landing area or any part of the airport to the United States
government for military or naval use.
8-2A-10: WAIVER OF RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The City may, in its discretion, waive any portion of these rules and
regulations for the benefit of any governmental agency or person performing a
nonprofit public service, performing air search and operations or engaging in
fire fighting operations. (Ord. 439, 9-13-83)
TITLE 9
BUILDING, PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SECTION:
9-1-1: Adoption Of Comprehensive Plan
9-1-1: ADOPTION OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The city has adopted a comprehensive plan in compliance with Idaho Code 67-6508
and it is on file in the office of the city clerk. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
CHAPTER 2
AREA OF CITY IMPACT
(Reserved)
(Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
CHAPTER 3
FLOOD CONTROL
SECTION:
9-3-1: Statutory Authorization; Finding Of Fact; Purpose
9-3-2: Scope
9-3-3: Definitions
9-3-4: Flood Insurance Study And Maps
9-3-5: Administration Of Provisions
9-3-6: Development Permit Required
9-3-7: Flood Hazard Reduction Provisions
9-3-7-1: General Standards
9-3-7-2: Specific Standards
9-3-7-3: Floodways
9-3-8: Inspection And Enforcement
9-3-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION; FINDING OF FACT; PURPOSE:
   A.   Statutory Authorization: The legislature of the state of Idaho has in
Idaho Code 67-6501 et seq., delegated the responsibility to local governmental
units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the city council does ordain as
follows.
   B.   Finding Of Fact:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of tax base, all
of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      2.   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities, and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses
that are inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood
damage also contribute to the flood loss.
   C.   Statement Of Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare, and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designated:
      1.   To protect human life and health;
      2.   To minimize expenditures of public money and costly flood control
projects;
      3.   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      4.   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
      6.   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
      7.   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard; and
      8.   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
9-3-2: SCOPE:
This Chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
jurisdiction of the City.
9-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this Chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meanings they have in common usage and to
give this Chapter its most reasonable application.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the flood plain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Designation on maps always includes the letter A or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equalled or
exceeded in any given year; also referred to as the "100-year flood".
Designation on maps always includes the letter A or V.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
FLOOD or FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report by the Federal Insurance
Administration that includes flood profiles, the Flood Boundary-Floodway Map
and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to enter the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of this Chapter found at subsection
9-3-7-2A2 of this Chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For flood plain
management purposes, the term "manufactured home" also includes park trailers,
travel trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days. For insurance purposes, the term
"manufactured home" does not include park trailers, travel trailers and similar
vehicles.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on
or after the effective date hereof.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued; provided, the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within one hundred eighty
(180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation, or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footing, piers or foundation or the erection of temporary forms; nor
does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings such as
garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally above ground.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either before the improvement or repair is
started, or if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. For the purposes of this Chapter, "substantial improvement" is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
9-3-4: FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY AND MAPS:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance
Administration in a scientific and engineering report entitled "The Flood
Insurance Study for the City of Challis", dated September 24, 1984, with
accompanying Flood Insurance Maps is hereby adopted by reference and declared
to be a part of this Chapter. The Flood Insurance Study is on file at City
Hall, 211 Main Street, Challis, Idaho.
9-3-5: ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS:
The City Council is hereby appointed to administer and implement this Chapter
by granting or denying development permit applications in accordance with its
provisions. Duties of the City Council shall include, but not be limited to:
   A.   Permit Review: Review all development permits to determine:
      1.   That the permit requirements of this Chapter have been satisfied.
      2.   That all necessary permits have been obtained from those Federal,
State or local governmental agencies from which prior approval is required.
      3.   If the proposed development is located in the floodway, and if so,
assure that the encroachment provisions of subsection 9-3-7-3A of this Chapter
are met.
   B.   Use of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with Section
9-3-4 of this Chapter, the City Council may obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a Federal,
State or other source in order to administer Sections
9-3-7-2 and
9-3-7-3 of this Chapter.
   C.   Information to be Obtained and Maintained:
      1.   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the Flood
Insurance Study or required as in subsection B above, obtain and record the
actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, and whether or not
the structure contains a basement.
      2.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
         a.   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level); and
         b.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this Chapter.
   D.   Alteration of Watercourses:
      1.   Notify adjacent communities and the Department of Water Resources
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the Federal Insurance Administration.
      2.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
   E.   Interpretation of FIRM Boundaries: Make interpretations where needed as
to exact location of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where
there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions). The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given
a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation. Such appeals shall be
granted consistent with the standards of section 60.6 of the Rules and
Regulations of the National Flood Insurance Program 1 .
 
Notes
1 1. 44 CFR 59-76.
9-3-6: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED:
A development permit shall be obtained before construction or development
begins within any area of special flood hazard established in Section
9-3-4 of this Chapter. The permit shall be for all structures including
manufactured homes, as defined in Section
9-3-3 of this Chapter, and for all development including fill and other
activities, also as defined in said Section
9-3-3.
9-3-7: FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION PROVISIONS:
9-3-7-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards, the following standards are required:
   A.   Anchoring:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
      2.   All manufactured homes must likewise be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement and shall be installed using methods
and practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may include, but
are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors
(reference FEMA's "Manufactured Home Installation in Flood Hazard Areas"
guidebook for additional techniques).
   B.   Construction Materials and Methods:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      3.   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air-conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise
elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during conditions of flooding.
   C.   Utilities:
      1.   Water Supply Systems: All new and replacement water supply systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into
the system.
      2.   Sewage Systems: New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems
and discharge from the systems into flood waters.
      3.   Waste Disposal Systems: On-site waste disposal systems shall be
located to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   D.   Subdivision Proposals:
      1.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
      2.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
      3.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
      4.   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available from another authoritative source, it shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed developments which contain at least
fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres (whichever is less).
   E.   Review of Building Permits: Where elevation data is not available
either through the Flood Insurance Study or from another authoritative source
(subsection 9-3-5B hereof), applications for building permits shall be reviewed
to assure that proposed construction will be reasonably safe from flooding. The
test of reasonableness is a local judgment and includes use of historical data,
high water marks, photographs of past flooding, etc., where available. Failure
to elevate at least two feet (2') above grade in these zones may result in
higher insurance rates.
9-3-7-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in Section
9-3-4 or subsection 9-3-5B of this Chapter, the following provisions are
required:
   A.   Residential Construction:
      1.   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
base flood elevation.
      2.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding are prohibited or shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other coverings
or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction:
      1.   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to the level of the base flood elevation;
or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, shall:
         a.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
         b.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
         c.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this Section based on their
development and/or review of the structural design, specifications and plans.
Such certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth in
subsection 9-3-5C2 of this Chapter.
      2.   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed, must
meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described in
subsection A2 of this Section.
      3.   Applicants floodproofing nonresidential buildings shall be notified
that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot (1')
below that level.
   C.   Manufactured Homes: All manufactured homes to be placed or
substantially improved within Zones A1-30, AH and AE shall be elevated on a
permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at
or above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of subsection
9-3-7-1A2 of this Chapter.
9-3-7-3: FLOODWAYS:
Located within areas of special flood hazard established in Section
9-3-4 of this Chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is
an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry
debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions
apply:
   A.   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other development unless certification by a registered
professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that encroachments
shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge.
   B.   If subsection A above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this Section
9-3-7.
9-3-8: INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Inspection: The City Council or its authorized representative is hereby
empowered to cause any buildings or tract of land to be inspected or examined
for the purpose of determining conformity with the provisions of this Chapter.
Upon the discovery of any condition or violation of any of the provisions of
this Chapter, an order may be issued by the City Council or its authorized
representative demanding removal or correction of the violation.
   B.   Violations Declared a Nuisance: Violations of this Chapter are hereby
declared to be nuisances, and the City Council or its authorized agent, after
thirty (30) days' written notice to remove or correct the violation, may
prevent, remove and abate the same at the expense of the party creating or
maintaining the same, in which event the City may levy a special assessment as
provided in Idaho Code 50-1008 on the land or premises whereon the nuisance is
situated to defray the cost or to reimburse the City for the cost of abating
the same.
   C.   Civil Prosecution: In addition to or in lieu of the foregoing, the City
may bring any appropriate civil action, including abatement, injunction and/or
damages in which event the City shall be entitled to all costs including
attorney's fees in prosecution of such action.
   D.   Penalty: In addition to the foregoing, any person violating the
provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be subject to such penalties as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 411B, 4-14-87)
CHAPTER 4
MOBILE HOMES
(Rep. by Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
CHAPTER 5
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
9-5-1: Development Fees
9-5-2: Public Hearings Procedure
9-5-2-1: Scope Of Regulations
9-5-2-2: Notification
9-5-2-3: Procedures
9-5-2-4: Records And Other Regulations
9-5-1: DEVELOPMENT FEES:
   A.   Authority To Establish Development Fees: The city shall establish
development fees or in lieu of or credit agreements to be paid by developers of
property within the corporate limits of the city and within annexed properties
and to properties requesting services within the city impact area 1  as
established under Idaho Code 67-6526, as amended. Such development fees shall
be adopted by the city council by resolution, and shall be in amounts adequate
to cover the costs of municipal facilities and services as a result of property
development in the city and surrounding area, including, but not limited to,
water, sewer, police, fire protection, streets, municipal buildings,
operations, maintenance and administration, and engineering and planning.
   B.   Adjustment Of Development Fees: The development fees established by
city resolution shall be adjusted each six (6) months by an amount equal to the
percentage of index change for the preceding six (6) month period, of the
consumer price index, maintained by the United States department of labor, or
comparable statistics on the cost of living for the city. The city may
establish additional categories of services to be included in the fee or the
city may retire old ones through modification procedures. Such adjusted fees
shall then be adopted by city council resolution. If the adjusted fee is
increased by five percent (5%) or greater, the city council shall first hold a
public hearing after fifteen (15) days' notice thereof published in the
"Challis Messenger"; except, that notice and public hearings shall not be
required for any increase as a result of the consumer price index adjustment.
   C.   Payment Prior To Construction: No residential, commercial or public
building shall be constructed or erected in the city or in annexed properties
or on properties where the city is requested to furnish municipal facilities or
services as required by law, and no zoning permit therefor shall be issued by
the city, until agreements are in effect between the developer and the city
providing for payment of fees, credit or additional work done, or construction
in lieu of payment of fees as established by the city pursuant to this section.
Developers (including, without limitation, an individual, firm, corporation,
partnership, association or other entity) shall provide such information as may
from time to time be required by the city for purposes of determining the
proper development fees in lieu of construction or credit arrangements.
Development fees shall be paid to the city clerk-treasurer.
   D.   Amount Of Fee Required: Developers shall pay the development fees or
shall perform improvements in lieu of fees assessed by the city, as set by
resolution, for all municipal facilities and services for each class of
building as established by the city. Development fees imposed under this
section shall be in addition to, and not a substitute for, any other fees,
charges or taxes imposed or assessed by any governmental authority or entity.
      1.   Storage capacity charge, filtration capacity charge, supply main
oversizing charge, land acquisition, waste treatment capacity charge, ancillary
service charge, interceptor capacity charge shall all be held in abeyance until
such time as city growth demands reinstatement.
   E.   Variances:
      1.   Variances Authorized: The city council shall have the authority to
vary the application and terms of this section when, by reason of exceptional
conditions, strict application of any regulation enacted herein would result in
difficulty or undue or unnecessary hardship. Such relief may be granted
provided only that such action does not substantially impair the intent and
purposes of this section.
      2.   Public Hearing: Upon application for variance, the city council
shall conduct a public hearing on the application, and notice of public hearing
shall be made in the "Challis Messenger", the official newspaper of the city.
      3.   Fee: The applicant for variance shall be charged a sufficient fee,
as set by resolution of the city council, to cover all costs of publishing the
notice of the public hearing.
   F.   Violations; Enforcement: It shall be unlawful to build, occupy or use
any building or structure for which development fees under this section have
not been paid, or in lieu of agreements made, and any violation of this section
shall be punishable as a misdemeanor.
In addition to, or in lieu of the foregoing, the city may enforce this section
by any appropriate civil action, including abatement, injunction and/or damage,
in which event the city shall be entitled to all costs including attorney fees
in the prosecution of such action. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 2 of this title.
9-5-2: PUBLIC HEARINGS PROCEDURE:
9-5-2-1: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
Public hearings shall be required for all variances, special use permits,
amendments and adoptions of new plans, rezones and other special requests
related to planning and zoning regulations and ordinances. (Ord. 499, 4-16-
2009)
9-5-2-2: NOTIFICATION:
Notice of public hearings shall be published fifteen (15) days prior to the
date of the hearing in the official newspaper of circulation in the area.
Notification to neighboring property owners within three hundred feet (300') of
the property in question shall also be required in certain cases. Notices to
neighboring property owners should be presented through registered mail,
fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the hearing. Where more than two hundred
(200) persons need to be notified, dated signatures of property owners
attesting to notification of issues fifteen (15) days prior to the public
hearing shall suffice. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
9-5-2-3: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application For Hearing: All persons desiring consideration for a
special request should file an application with the city and ask to be placed
on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled meeting of the planning and
zoning commission 1 .
   B.   Request Review: Within ten (10) days of its regularly scheduled
meeting, the planning and zoning commission shall review the request for
conformance or nonconformance to regulations.
   C.   Responsibilities Of Applicant: If the application is within the limits
of the applicable regulations, the commission shall set a date for a public
hearing. Applicant shall be responsible for:
      1.   Notifying adjacent property owners; procedures are stated in section
9-5-2-2 of this chapter.
      2.   Getting notification of public hearing date, time, location and
topic of discussion in the newspaper; procedures are stated in section
9-5-2-2 of this chapter.
      3.   Securing an affidavit of proof of notification from the newspaper.
      4.   Obtaining all other pertinent information as stated in the
application.
   D.   Planning And Zoning Commission Action: Within ten (10) days of the
hearing, the commission shall approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the
request and forward a recommendation to the city council. Requests shall
automatically be placed on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled meeting
of the city council.
   E.   City Council Action: The council shall review commission
recommendations and set a date for a public hearing where applicable.
   F.   Additional Responsibilities Of Applicant: Applicant shall again be
responsible for items stated in subsections C1 through C4 of this section.
   G.   Final Decisions: Within fifteen (15) days of the public hearing, the
commission shall approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the request.
(Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 1 of this code.
9-5-2-4: RECORDS AND OTHER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Interested persons may appear in person, by representation or by
requesting a person to read a letter (a copy of which shall be submitted to the
city as hearing evidence).
   B.   Concerned parties must appear in person or by representation to answer
and clarify issues. Failure to do so could result in postponement of hearing.
   C.   A transcribable verbatim record of the proceedings shall be made and
kept for a period of not less than six (6) months after a final decision on the
matter. Upon written request and within the time period provided for retention
of the records, any person may have the record transcribed at his own expense.
   D.   There shall also be provisions for the keeping of minutes of the
proceedings and the signature of all persons in attendance. Both records shall
be retained indefinitely or as provided by law.
   E.   Approval or denial shall be based upon standards provided by law and
shall be in writing and accompanied by a statement in the form of findings of
fact or conclusion of law that explains the criteria and standards considered
relevant, shall state facts relied upon and explain the justification for the
decision based on the criteria, standards and facts set forth. (Ord. 499, 4-16-
2009)
TITLE 10
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
ZONING PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Purpose
10-1-2: Definitions
10-1-1: PURPOSE:
These regulations and zoning restrictions are for the purpose of promoting the
health, safety, moral and general welfare of the inhabitants, present and
future, and of the taxpayers and visitors of the city by the orderly
development of the city, beneficial uses of land and preservation of the
environment of residential and commercial areas of the city. (Ord. 499, 4-16-
2009)
10-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms, when used in this title, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section. Words not defined herein shall be given the
meanings ordinarily applied to such words.
                                A subordinate building or use which is located
                                on the same lot on which the main building or
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE:      use is situated and which is reasonably
                                necessary and incidental to the conduct of the
                                primary use of such building or to the main
                                use.
                                The commercial and noncommercial raising,
                                harvesting and selling of crops; the feeding,
                                breeding, management and sale of, or the
AGRICULTURAL USE:               produce of, livestock, poultry, furbearing
                                animals or honeybees; truck gardening; nursery;
                                or any other agricultural or horticultural use
                                of animal husbandry or farming or any
                                combination thereof.
APPLICANT:                      Person, firm, group or organization who makes
                                application under this title.
BLOCK:                          A group of lots, tracts, or parcels within well
                                defined boundaries, usually streets.
BOARD:                          The board of county commissioners of Custer
                                County, Idaho.
                                A structure designed or used as the living
                                quarters for one or more families or a
BUILDING:                       structure designed or used for occupancy by
                                people for commercial, agricultural, or
                                industrial uses.
                                The vertical distances measured from the
                                sidewalk level or its equivalent established
                                grade opposite the middle of the front of the
                                building to the highest point of the roof in
                                the case of a flat roof, and to the mean height
BUILDING HEIGHT:                level between eaves and ridge of a gabled roof;
                                provided, that where buildings are not back
                                from the street line, the height of the
                                building may be measured from the average
                                elevation of the finished lot grade at the
                                front of the building.
                                An imaginary line established by a zoning
BUILDING SETBACK LINE:          ordinance that requires all buildings to be set
                                back a certain distance from lot lines.
                                An area proposed or provided and improved by
BUILDING SITE:                  grading, filling, excavation or other means for
                                erecting pads for buildings.
CITY:                           City of Challis, Idaho.
CITY ENGINEER:                  An engineer employed by the city, either as a
                                contracted position or as a city employee.
                                The planning and zoning commission of the city
COMMISSION:                     of Challis, Idaho, as appointed by the city
                                council.
                                A comprehensive plan or parts thereof,
                                providing for the future growth and improvement
                                of thecity and for the general location and
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:             coordination of streets and highways, schools
                                and recreation areas, public building sites,
                                and other physical development, which shall
                                have been duly adopted by the council.
                                An estate consisting of an undivided interest
                                in common in real property, in an interest or
                                interests in real property, or in any
CONDOMINIUM:                    combination thereof; together with a separate
                                interest in real property, in an interest or
                                interests in real property, or in any
                                combination thereof.
                                Any unplatted or platted parcels of land under
                                the same ownership that touch each other. If
CONTIGUOUS PARCEL OR LOT:       parcels are separated or divided by platted
                                roads or city and state highways, they shall
                                not be considered contiguous.
COUNCIL:                        The city council of the city of Challis, Idaho.
COUNTY RECORDER:                The office of the county recorder of Custer
                                County, Idaho.
                                A written agreement or a written commitment
                                that affects the use of development of a parcel
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT:          of property that is the subject of a rezone or
                                development request. A written commitment shall
                                also be known as a development agreement.
                                A building or portion thereof, designed
                                exclusively for residential occupancy,
DWELLING:                       including one-family, two-family and multiple-
                                family dwellings, but not including hotels,
                                boarding and lodging houses.
                                A floodplain is defined by FEMA maps and
FLOODPLAIN:                     controlled through the "flood control
                                ordinance" of the city of Challis.
                                Any use customarily conducted entirely within a
                                dwelling and carried on by the inhabitants
HOME OCCUPATION:                thereof, which use is clearly incidental and
                                secondary to the use of the dwelling for
                                dwelling purposes and complies with subsection
                                10-10-4B6 of this title.
                                A parcel or plat of land occupied or suitable
                                for occupancy by one main building or use, with
LOT:                            accessory buildings, including the open spaces
                                required by this title, and having its
                                principal frontage upon a public street or
                                highway.
                                LOT AREA: The area of any lot shall be
                               determined exclusive of street, highway, alley,
                                road, or other rights of way.
                               LOT TYPES: As used in these regulations, lot
                                types are as follows:
                               Corner Lot: A lot located at the intersection
                                of two (2) or more streets.
                               Interior Lot: A lot other than a corner lot,
                                with frontage on only one street.
                               Through Lot: A lot with frontage on more than
                                one street other than a corner lot.
                                A structure, constructed after June 15, 1976,
                                in accordance with the HUD manufactured home
                                construction and safety standards, and is
                                transportable in one (1) or more sections,
                                which, in the traveling mode, is eight (8) body
                                feet or more in width or is forty (40) body
                                feet or more in length, or when erected on
                                site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more
                                square feet, and which is built on a permanent
                                chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
                                with or without a permanent foundation when
MANUFACTURED HOME:              connected to the required utilities, and
                                includes the plumbing, heating, air
                                conditioning, and electrical systems contained
                                therein, except that such term shall include
                                any structure which meets all the requirements
                                of this subsection except the size requirements
                                and with respect to which the manufacturer
                                voluntarily files a certification required by
                                the secretary of housing and urban development
                                and complies with the standards established
                                under 42 U.S.C. 5401 et seq., Idaho State
                                Statute 39-4105-8.
                                A transportable structure, built on or before
                                July 1, 1976, which is at least ten (10) body
                                feet in width and forty (40) body feet in
                                length, built on a permanent chassis and
                                designed to be used as a dwelling with or
MOBILE HOME:                    without a permanent foundation when connected
                                to the required utilities. No mobile home may
                                be placed on a single-family lot within the
                                city after the effective date hereof unless it
                                meets the rehabilitation standards as specified
                                in title 44 of the Idaho Code. Mobile homes do
                                not include recreational vehicles.
                                Any site or tract of land under single
                                ownership, upon which two (2) or more mobile
                                home habitations are parked, either free of
MOBILE/MANUFACTURE D HOME PARK: charge or for revenue purposes; including any
                                roadway, building, structure, vehicle or
                                enclosure used or intended for use as a part of
                                the facilities of such park.
                                An area open to the sky for outdoor recreation
OPEN SPACE:                     activity, exclusive of streets, buildings, or
                                other covered structures.
                                A vehicular type unit primarily designed as
                                temporary living quarters, which is less than
                                ten (10) body feet in width and is less than
                                forty five (45) body feet in length, for
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE:           recreational, camping, or traveling use, which
                                either has its own motive power or is mounted
                                on or drawn by another vehicle. The basic
                                entities are: travel trailers, camping
                                trailers, truck camper, fifth wheel camper and
                                motor home.
                                A parcel of ground in a recreational vehicle
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE LOT:       park intended to be rented as a place to park a
                                recreational vehicle for temporary dwelling
                                purposes.
                                A tract of ground under unified ownership
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK:      developed for the purpose of providing rental
                                space for parking of recreational vehicles on
                                individual spaces within its confines.
                                Uses of land or structures, or both, which may
SPECIAL USES:                   be permitted within any use district subject to
                                the provisions of section 10-10-3 of this
                                title.
                                An open space, unoccupied and unobstructed from
YARD:                           the ground upward, on the same lot with a main
                                building except as otherwise provided in this
                                title.
                                The zoning administrator shall be the city
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:           clerk. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009; amd. Ord. 521, 10-
                                3-2024)
 
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Scope Of Regulations
10-2-2: Open Space On Lots
10-2-3: Number Of Buildings On A Lot
10-2-4: Building Height
10-2-5: Accessory Buildings
10-2-6: Access To Public Street
10-2-7: Public Or Semipublic Areas
10-2-8: Agricultural Use
10-2-9: Private Property Rights
10-2-1: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   New Uses: No building or structure shall be erected, converted,
enlarged, reconstructed or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land
be used for any purpose other than is permitted in the district in which the
building or land is located.
   B.   Special Uses: No building or structure, other than a building for
special use, shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered, except in conformity with the area regulations of the
zone in which the building is located.
   C.   Lots Of Record: Any separate lot, the title of which was of record at
the time of the adoption of this title, that does not meet the requirements of
this title for yards, courts or other areas of open space may be utilized for
single residence purposes, provided the requirements for such yard or court or
lot area, width, depth or open space are within seventy five percent (75%) of
that required by this title. The purpose of this provision is to permit
utilization of recorded lots which lack adequate width or depth as long as
reasonable living standards can be provided.
   D.   Zoning Permits: Nothing in this title shall be deemed to require any
change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building upon which
actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the adoption of this title and
upon which building actual construction has been diligently carried on; and
provided further, that such building shall be completed within one year. (Ord.
499, 4-16-2009)
10-2-2: OPEN SPACE ON LOTS:
   A.   Method Of Calculation: No space which, for the purpose of a building or
dwelling group, has been counted or calculated as part of a side yard, rear
yard, front yard, court or other open space required by this title, may, by
reason of change in ownership or otherwise, be counted or calculated to satisfy
or comply with a yard, court or other open space requirement of or for any
other building.
   B.   Encroachments Prohibited: The minimum yards or other open spaces,
including lot areas required by this title for each and every building existing
or for any building hereafter erected, shall not be encroached upon or
considered as yard or open space requirements for any other building.
   C.   Vision Clearance: No wall, fence or shrubbery shall unreasonably
obstruct or interfere with traffic visibility. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-2-3: NUMBER OF BUILDINGS ON A LOT:
Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered to provide dwelling
units shall be located on a lot as herein defined and in no case shall there be
more than one dwelling on one lot unless otherwise provided in this title.
No residential structure shall be erected upon the rear of a lot or upon a lot
with another dwelling; except, that in a two-story garage with living quarters
upon the second floor, such quarters may be occupied for occasional use by
guests. There may also be constructed a guesthouse without kitchen, or rooms
for guests within an accessory building, provided such facilities are used for
occasional housing of guests of the occupants of the main structure and not for
permanent occupancy by others. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-2-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No structure may be erected to exceed the height limits established by Custer
County airport zoning ordinance no. 1, or of the zone in which it is located.
Aerials or antennas designed for radio or for home television reception may be
erected to a height not to exceed sixty feet (60') from the ground level,
provided said aerial or antenna is erected on a building or in the rear yard
area. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-2-5: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
Accessory buildings, except as otherwise permitted in this title, shall be
subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Where an accessory building is structurally attached to a main
building, it shall be subject to and must conform to all regulations of this
title applicable to the main building.
   B.   Accessory buildings shall meet the side yard restrictions as herein set
forth for each zoning district. Accessory buildings may be placed up to the
rear lot line which adjoins an alley, unless access to such accessory building
is from the alley, in which event minimum setback from the alley shall be five
feet (5').
   C.   No accessory building shall be used for temporary or permanent human
occupancy. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-2-6: ACCESS TO PUBLIC STREET:
No building shall be constructed or erected upon a lot or parcel of land which
does not abut upon a public street or have permanent easement for access to a
public street, which easement shall have a minimum width of twenty five feet
(25') unless an easement of lesser width was of record prior to the adoption of
this title. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-2-7: PUBLIC OR SEMIPUBLIC AREAS:
An area indicated on the official zoning map as a public park or recreation
area, public utility area, cemetery, public school site or semipublic open
space shall not be used for any other purpose, and when the use of the area is
discontinued, it shall automatically be zoned residence A, until otherwise
zoned. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-2-8: AGRICULTURAL USE:
Agricultural use is permitted in any zone or district provided for in this
title, subject to the following conditions and specifications:
   A.   Cows, horses, goats, pigs, sheep, mules or burros shall be allowed;
provided, that at least ten thousand (10,000) square feet of open lot area,
exclusive of buildings, shall be provided for each animal. For these purposes,
an unweaned animal at the side of its mother shall not be considered as a
separate animal.
   B.   Poultry or rabbits or similar animals shall be allowed for
noncommercial purposes in conjunction with the residential use of the lot.
Poultry or rabbits and similar animals shall not be raised for commercial
purposes except in areas and upon conditions and application therefor for a
special use permit to the city council. Application for a special use permit
shall be presented to the Challis planning and zoning commission and considered
and processed by the city council in accordance with Idaho Code 67-6512 and any
amendments thereto or the corresponding provisions of any future statute
relating to special use permits.
   C.   All animals shall be properly fed, watered, maintained and cared for.
   D.   The land on which each animal is kept shall be fenced with good and
sufficient fence, adequate to secure and confine each animal.
   E.   Each animal shall be kept, secured and confined in such a manner so as
to prevent unnecessary or offensive odors or noises. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-2-9: PRIVATE PROPERTY RIGHTS:
In considering any development application under this title, the planning and
zoning commission shall consider the following questions to ensure the
protection of private property rights under Idaho Code:
   A.   Does the regulation or action result in the permanent or temporary
physical occupation of the property?
   B.   Does the regulation or action require a property owner to dedicate a
portion of property or grant an easement?
   C.   Does the regulation deprive the owner of all economically viable uses
of the property?
   D.   Does the regulation have a significant impact on the landowner's
economic interest?
   E.   Does the regulation deny a fundamental attribute of ownership?
   F.   Does the regulation serve the same purpose that would be served by
directly prohibiting the use or action; and does the condition imposed
substantially advance that purpose? (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
10-3-1: Zoning Districts Established
10-3-2: Zoning Map
10-3-1: ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose of this title, the city shall be and is divided into zoning
districts as follows:
Residence A zone
Residence B zone
Commercial A zone
Commercial B zone
Commercial C zone
Communications tower zone
Entrance district zone
Airport zone
(Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-3-2: ZONING MAP:
The boundaries of the zones hereinabove designated shall be established and
clearly marked upon that certain map identified by the approving signatures of
the city council, marked and designated as the "zoning map", which map is now
on file in the office of the city clerk-treasurer. Said map has been heretofore
examined in detail by the city council and is adopted as a part of this title,
but this title and said map shall be subject to change from time to time as may
be determined by the city council, following procedures provided by law. (Ord.
499, 4-16-2009)
CHAPTER 4
RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. RESIDENCE A ZONE
SECTION:
10-4A-1: Permitted Uses
10-4A-2: Lot Area And Yards
10-4A-3: Building Height
10-4A-4: Dwelling Width
10-4A-1: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the residence A zone are:
Accessory buildings, provided they shall be located as required in section
10-2-5 of this title and subsection 10-4A-2E of this article.
Home occupations as herein provided.
One-family dwellings.
Signs; one on each lot not exceeding twelve (12) square feet in area,
pertaining to the lease or sale of the building or premises on which the sign
is located placed flush on a building on the premises, and not self-
illuminated.
Special uses, subject to the provisions of section
10-10-3 of this title.
Temporary buildings used for construction purposes for a period not to exceed
one year.
Truck gardening and other horticultural uses.
Uses customarily incident to any of the above uses, including permitted home
occupations, as provided herein. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-4A-2: LOT AREA AND YARDS:
No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any building or structure,
shall be hereafter erected or maintained unless the following described yards
and lot areas are provided and maintained in connection with such building,
structure or enlargement:
   A.   Front Yard: Each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed shall have a
front yard of not less than thirty feet (30'). Where lots comprising forty
percent (40%) or more of the frontage between two (2) intersecting streets are
developed with a variation of not more than twenty feet (20') in depth, the
average of such front yards shall establish the minimum front yard depth for
the entire frontage. In no case shall a front yard of more than fifty feet
(50') be required.
   B.   Side Yards: The minimum distance of any building, including accessory
buildings, from the side lot line of an adjoining interior lot shall be fifteen
feet (15') for any building fifteen feet (15') in height or less, and for
buildings greater than fifteen feet (15') in height, such minimum distance
shall be fifteen feet (15') plus four inches (4") for each foot or fraction
thereof in excess of fifteen feet (15') in building height, measured from
average ground level adjacent to lot line to the peak of the roof. The minimum
distance of any building, including accessory buildings, from the street
adjacent to a side lot line shall be five feet (5').
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having an average depth of not
less than ten feet (10'); provided, that accessory buildings may be placed up
to the real lot line.
   D.   Lot Area: Every dwelling erected or structurally altered shall be on a
lot having an area of not less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet and a
width at the established building line of not less than one hundred feet
(100'), and there shall be no more than one dwelling for each lot; provided,
however, that a single lot having less area and width, the title to which has
been recorded before the enactment of this title, may be improved with a
single-family dwelling, provided all yards and open spaces are within seventy
five percent (75%) of those required herein, and provided further, the total
lot area is not less than seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet.
   E.   Accessory Buildings; Yard Obstructions: Accessory buildings shall not
encroach upon the front yard, but they may encroach upon the rear yard as
hereinabove provided; provided, that on a corner lot, accessory buildings shall
not encroach upon the front or side yards adjacent to the abutting streets.
(Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-4A-3: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any building or structure,
shall be hereafter erected or maintained to exceed two and one-half (21/2)
stories, nor shall it exceed thirty five feet (35') in height. Accessory
buildings shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-4A-4: DWELLING WIDTH:
Minimum width of any dwelling, including manufactured/mobile homes, in
residence A zone, shall be twenty feet (20'), exclusive of porches, patios,
carports and garages. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
ARTICLE B. RESIDENCE B ZONE
SECTION:
10-4B-1: Permitted Uses
10-4B-2: Accessory Buildings And Uses
10-4B-3: Lot Area And Yards
10-4B-4: Building Height
10-4B-1: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the residence B zone are any uses permitted in the residence
A zone. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-4B-2: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USES:
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to any of the above uses,
including permitted home occupations, as provided herein, are permitted. (Ord.
499, 4-16-2009)
10-4B-3: LOT AREA AND YARDS:
No building shall be erected nor shall any existing structure be enlarged or
altered unless the following yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in
connection with such building, structure or enlargement:
   A.   Front Yard: Front yards in the residence B zone shall be fifteen feet
(15').
   B.   Side Yards: The minimum distance of any building, including accessory
buildings, from a side lot line shall be one foot (1') for each one foot (1')
or fraction thereof in building height, or ten feet (10'), whichever is
greater. The minimum distance of any building, including accessory buildings,
from a street adjacent to a side lot line, shall be five feet (5').
   C.   Rear Yard: Rear yards in the residence B zone shall be not less than
ten feet (10'); provided, that accessory buildings may be placed up to the rear
lot line.
   D.   Lot Area: Every dwelling erected or structurally altered shall be on a
lot having a width at the established building line of not less than forty five
feet (45') and an area of not less than four thousand five hundred (4,500)
square feet, and there shall be no more than one dwelling for each such lot.
(Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-4B-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall be erected or enlarged to exceed a height of two and one-half
(21/2) stories, nor shall it exceed thirty five feet (35') in height. (Ord.
499, 4-16-2009)
CHAPTER 5
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. COMMERCIAL A ZONE
SECTION:
10-5A-1: Permitted Uses
10-5A-2: Special Uses
10-5A-3: Lot Area
10-5A-4: Yards
10-5A-5: Building Height
10-5A-6: Signs
10-5A-1: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the commercial A zone are:
Banks, title companies and real estate offices.
Barbershops and beauty shops.
Bars, lounges, clubs and dance halls.
Indoor theaters.
Library.
Lodges and clubs.
Newspaper.
Professional offices, including legal, medical and dental.
Radio and television studios, but not including transmitter stations.
Retail stores and services, including:
Auto parts.
Bookstores.
Cameras.
Clothing.
Convenience markets.
Drugstores.
Electronic.
Fabric.
Florists.
Furniture.
Jewelry.
Liquor sales.
Medical and dental clinics.
Ready to wear specialty.
Restaurant and cafe, including food preparation to eat away from premises.
Sporting goods.
Supermarket.
Toys.
Upholstery shops.
Yard goods.
Single-family and multiple-family residential use. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-5A-2: SPECIAL USES:
Other uses within the commercial A zone may be permitted whenever such uses are
specifically authorized by the planning and zoning commission and the city
council. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-5A-3: LOT AREA:
Every building erected or structurally altered shall be on a lot having an area
of not less than four thousand five hundred (4,500) square feet and a width at
the established building line of not less than forty five feet (45'), and there
shall be no more than one building for each such lot; provided, however, that a
single lot having less area and width according to the official plats on file
in the office of the Custer County, Idaho, recorder as of the effective date
hereof, may be improved with a commercial building otherwise meeting all
requirements of this title. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-5A-4: YARDS:
   A.   Front And Side Yards: There shall be no minimum required front or side
yard in the commercial A zone.
   B.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a minimum average depth of
not less than five feet (5') if access to a building or structure is from an
alley. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-5A-5: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered to exceed a
height of three (3) stories, nor shall it exceed forty five feet (45') in
height. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-5A-6: SIGNS:
All exterior signs in the commercial A zone shall meet the following
requirements:
   A.   Building Permit Required: No sign shall be constructed, erected or
altered structurally unless a building permit therefor has been issued.
   B.   Freestanding Signs: Freestanding signs or signs erected perpendicular
to a building shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in area; minimum
distance from the ground level to the bottom of such sign shall be ten feet
(10') and maximum height of such sign measured from the ground level to the top
of the sign shall be twenty feet (20'); and minimum setback shall be eighteen
inches (18") from the edge of a street curb to the outer edge of the sign.
   C.   Wall Signs:
      1.   Signs placed flush against the front or side walls of buildings
shall be limited in width to three-fourths (3/4) of the width or length of the
wall at the place where the sign is located, but there shall be no minimum
distance from ground level or maximum height restrictions for such signs if
they do not protrude from the wall.
      2.   For signs placed flush against walls which protrude or extend from
the building wall due to the thickness of the sign, minimum distance from
ground level to the bottom of the sign shall be ten feet (10') and maximum
height measured from the ground to the top of the sign shall be twenty feet
(20'). No sign placed flush against walls shall protrude more than twelve
inches (12") in thickness from the wall of the building on which the sign is
placed.
   D.   Rotating, Flashing Signs: Signs with strobe type rotating lights that
would simulate an emergency vehicle or rotating flashing signs shall be
prohibited.
   E.   Advertising Restrictions: Signs shall only advertise the business
activity conducted on the premises on which the sign is located.
   F.   Exemptions: These requirements shall not apply to official traffic or
highway markers or signs erected by any authorized governmental authority.
(Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
ARTICLE B. COMMERCIAL B ZONE
SECTION:
10-5B-1: Permitted Uses
10-5B-2: Special Uses
10-5B-3: Lot Area
10-5B-4: Yards
10-5B-5: Building Height
10-5B-6: Signs
10-5B-1: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the commercial B zone are:
Auto parts sales.
Automobile and truck service stations.
Automobile sales, rental and service.
Bowling alleys.
Building and lumber supplies.
Carpenter, electrical and plumbing establishments.
Commercial recreation facilities, including theaters.
Convenience markets.
Furniture store.
Greenhouses and nurseries.
Hotels, motels, lodging.
Laundry, dry cleaning.
Liquor stores.
Machine shops not equipped with machines or equipment which make the excessive
vibrations or noise disturbing to adjacent property occupants.
Manufacturing done within the confines of a structure that can be conducted
without creating objectionable noise, odor, dust, smoke, gas fumes or vapor and
that has a use compatible with the use and occupancy of adjoining properties.
Medical and dental clinics.
Mini-storage units enclosed within a building or buildings.
Mobile home sales and services, including recreational vehicles.
Real estate offices.
Restaurants.
Supermarkets.
Truck, automobile or bus storage yards.
Upholstery shops. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-5B-2: SPECIAL USES:
Other uses within the commercial B zone may be permitted whenever such uses are
specifically authorized by the planning and zoning commission and the city
council. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-5B-3: LOT AREA:
Every building erected or structurally altered shall be on a lot having an area
of not less than nine thousand (9,000) square feet and a width at the
established building line of not less than ninety feet (90'); provided,
however, that a single lot having less area and width, the title to which has
been recorded before the enactment of this title, may be used for permitted
uses provided all yards and open spaces are within seventy five percent (75%)
of those required herein and, provided further, that the total lot area is not
less than eight thousand (8,000) square feet. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-5B-4: YARDS:
   A.   Front And Side Yards: No front or side yards shall be required; except,
when a building or group of buildings abuts upon a residential district, a yard
shall be provided on the side of the lot abutting the residential district,
such yard having a width of not less than ten feet (10').
   B.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of a depth of not less than five
feet (5') when abutting upon a public street or alley, and not less than ten
feet (10') when no dedicated alley or public way exists at the rear of the lot.
The rear yard may be used for off street parking and loading. (Ord. 499, 4-16-
2009)
10-5B-5: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered to exceed a
height of three (3) stories, nor shall it exceed forty five feet (45') in
height. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-5B-6: SIGNS:
All exterior signs in the commercial B zone shall meet the following
requirements:
   A.   Building Permit Required: No sign shall be constructed, erected or
altered structurally unless a building permit therefor has been issued.
   B.   Freestanding Signs: Freestanding signs or signs erected perpendicular
to the building shall not exceed forty (40) square feet in area; minimum
distance from the ground level to the bottom of such sign shall be ten feet
(10') and maximum height of any such sign measured from the ground level to the
top of the sign shall be twenty feet (20'); and minimum setback shall be twelve
inches (12") from the edge of a street curb to the outer edge of the sign.
   C.   Wall Signs:
      1.   Signs placed flush against the front or side walls of buildings
shall be limited in width to the width or length of the wall at the place where
the sign is located, but there shall be no minimum distance from ground level
or maximum height restrictions for such signs if they do not protrude from the
wall.
      2.   For signs placed flush against walls which protrude or extend from
the building wall due to the thickness of the sign, minimum distance from
ground level to the bottom of the sign shall be ten feet (10') and maximum
height measured from the ground to the top of the sign shall be twenty feet
(20'). No such sign placed flush against walls shall protrude more than
eighteen inches (18") in thickness from the wall of the building on which the
sign is placed.
   D.   Signs Imitating Emergency Vehicles: Signs with strobe type rotating
lights that would simulate an emergency vehicle shall be prohibited.
   E.   Advertising Restrictions: Signs shall only advertise the business
activity conducted on the premises on which the sign is located.
   F.   Exemptions: These requirements shall not apply to official traffic or
highway markers or signs erected by any authorized governmental authority.
(Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
ARTICLE C. COMMERCIAL C ZONE
SECTION:
10-5C-1: Permitted Uses
10-5C-2: Lot Area
10-5C-3: Building Height, Yards And Signs
10-5C-1: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the commercial C zone are:
Administrative offices used directly in connection with, and upon the same
premises as, any of the following uses.
Assembly.
Automobile painting, repairing, reconditioning and body and fender work when
done within the confines of a structure.
Brick or pottery manufacturing, stone or monument works.
Heavy metal appliance and steel fabricating shops and machine shops.
Laboratories, research, experimental, film or testing.
Light or heavy manufacturing, fabrication, assembly or packaging of products
from previously prepared material such as cloth, plastic, paper, leather,
metal, stone, cement or concrete, but not including such operations involving
primary production of wood, metal or chemical products from raw materials.
Manufacturing of electric and electronic instruments and devices such as
television, radio and phonograph equipment.
Meatpacking and storage, but not stockyards or slaughterhouses.
Other manufacturing or industrial uses upon special use permit upon the finding
by the planning and zoning commission and the city council that such use is of
the same general character as those permitted in the commercial C zone and
which will not be detrimental to the other uses within the district or to the
adjoining land uses.
Packaging.
Processing.
Public and quasi-public corporation yards.
Public utility electric substations and distribution centers.
Railroad yards and repair shops and freight stations; and trucking and motor
freight stations.
Research, wholesale or storage uses.
Wholesale business, storage or warehousing. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-5C-2: LOT AREA:
Every building erected or structurally altered shall be on a lot having an area
of not less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet and a width at the
established building line of not less than one hundred feet (100'). (Ord. 499,
4-16-2009)
10-5C-3: BUILDING HEIGHT, YARDS AND SIGNS:
Building height, area requirements and sign requirements and restrictions shall
be similar to sections
10-5B-4,
10-5B-5 and
10-5B-6 of this chapter, which sections are incorporated herein as though set
forth verbatim, with the exception of the following change: Maximum height from
ground level to top of sign for freestanding signs set forth in subsection 10-
5B-6B of this chapter shall be fifty feet (50') instead of twenty feet (20').
(Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
ARTICLE D. COMMUNICATIONS TOWER ZONE
SECTION:
10-5D-1: Purpose
10-5D-2: Definitions
10-5D-3: Permitted Uses
10-5D-4: Height
10-5D-5: Regulations
10-5D-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to create a limited area in the city of Challis
on which new wireless communications towers and facilities may be constructed,
to control the size and configuration of such facilities, for the purpose of
promoting the health, safety, moral and general welfare of the inhabitants,
present and future, and of the taxpayers and visitors of the city by the
orderly development of the city, beneficial uses of land and preservation of
the environment of residential and commercial areas of the city. The zone is a
one hundred fifty foot by one hundred fifty foot (150' x 150') area as shown on
the survey attached to the ordinance codified herein, and is herein
incorporated by reference to the city's existing zoning map and comprehensive
plan. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-5D-2: DEFINITIONS:
COLLOCATION: The use of a single support system on the ground by more than one
carrier or several support systems on an existing building or structure by more
than one carrier.
FACADE MOUNTED: Directly attached or affixed to the elevation of any structure.
FREESTANDING TOWER: A tower not physically attached to a building or structure.
A tower is attached to the ground by a foundation.
LATTICE TOWER: A support structure that consists of a network of crossed metal
braces, forming a tower that is usually triangular or square in cross section.
MASTER DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A plan showing a carrier's expected network of
wireless communication facilities within the city and county. The master
development plan shall be considered proprietary and trade secret material
which is not a public record or otherwise available to the public through
public records statutes or the freedom of information act.
UTILITY POLE: A telephone, power, light, cable television, or flag pole. Light
poles shall include street, stadium and security light poles.
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY: A facility that transmits and/or receives
electromagnetic signals, including antennas, microwave dishes, parabolic
antennas, directional antennas and other type of equipment for the transmission
or reception of such signals, towers or similar structures supporting the
equipment, equipment buildings, shelters, cabinets and other facilities. (Ord.
499, 4-16-2009)
10-5D-3: PERMITTED USES:
In the communications tower zone area the only permitted use shall be wireless
communications towers and facilities in accordance with this article. (Ord.
499, 4-16-2009)
10-5D-4: HEIGHT:
No communication tower or wireless communication facility shall exceed one
hundred fifty feet (150') in height as measured from the ground, nor the other
height restrictions of this article, except as may be allowed by special use
permit as provided in this article. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-5D-5: REGULATIONS:
The placement, use or modification of any wireless communication facility or
communications tower is subject to the provisions of this section.
   A.   Permit Required: New towers are allowed by permit when in compliance
with this article, following public hearing. Wireless communication facilities
attached to utility poles, existing towers or facades attached to buildings and
structures are permitted subject to the provisions of this article.
   B.   Preferred Locations And Facility Types:
      1.   Site Selection Criteria: A master development plan is to be created,
prior to any wireless communication facility permit request, based upon
engineering constraints (including frequency clashes) and desired areas of
service. Wireless communication facilities shall be located on a master
development plan and are preferred in the following priority order:
         a.   Collocation on an existing tower, structure or building, in
compliance with this article. The applicant shall have the burden of proving
that there are no feasible existing structures upon which to locate, which
comply with the conditions of this article.
         b.   On the property within the city's communication zone.
         c.   The applicant shall provide proof of legal year round access to
the facility site from a public road, at the time of application for any
request to erect a new tower.
      2.   Priority Order: Facility types are preferred in the following
priority order:
         a.   Roof mounted.
         b.   Facade mounted.
         c.   Lattice tower.
         d.   Freestanding tower.
         e.   Utility pole mounted.
      3.   Collocation: Collocation is considered to be a visually unobtrusive
installation method because the equipment is attached to an existing structure.
Collocation of a wireless communication facility shall require notification to
and administrative review by the city planning and zoning commission. A fee of
two hundred dollars ($200.00) is required for the review. The city may change
the fee to be charged by resolution of the city council.
      4.   New Towers: No new tower shall be permitted unless the applicant
demonstrates that no existing tower or structure can accommodate the
applicant's proposed wireless communication facility. Evidence submitted to
demonstrate the unavailability of other towers or structures shall address all
of the following:
         a.   Provide a statement on why collocation on an existing tower or
structure will not be possible.
         b.   The fees, costs or contractual provisions required by the owner
in order to share an existing tower or structure or to adapt an existing tower
or structure for collocation are unreasonable.
      5.   Modification To Existing Towers: Modification to an existing tower,
other than an increase in height, shall require notification to the city and
administrative review by the city planning and zoning commission. A fee of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) is required for the review. The city may change the
fee to be charged by resolution of the city council. Any requested change in
height shall require a special use permit.
   C.   Application Procedure: The city council shall be the initial granting
authority for wireless communication facility collocating on existing
structures or utility poles in accordance with the standards set forth herein.
All other wireless communication facilities shall require a permit from the
city of Challis. An application for a wireless communication facility shall
contain the information set forth below, in addition to the standard
application information required for all permits:
      1.   A site plan including location, type and height of the proposed
wireless communication facility with setbacks, property lines, adjacent land
uses, structures and zoning.
      2.   Elevation drawings or before and after photographs/drawings
simulating and specifying the location and height of the antennas, support
structures, equipment enclosures and other accessory uses.
      3.   The master development plan showing the location of all existing and
proposed wireless communication facility sites of the applicant within the
county and city, including the service area of each wireless communication
facility. The master development plan shall be considered proprietary and trade
secret material which is not a public record or otherwise available to the
public through public records statutes or the freedom of information act.
      4.   Evidence demonstrating the unavailability of collocation, as set
forth above.
      5.   Certification from the applicant's engineer that collocation of
additional antennas for at least one additional provider is possible on the
proposed structure and a signed and notarized statement by the applicant
agreeing to accommodate collocation of additional antennas on the tower and
that the applicant agrees to enter into leases with other providers allowing
use of the tower at a monthly lease rate. If parties cannot agree to a
collocation fee then the rate shall be set by the city council based on the
average market rate in comparable areas.
      6.   A lease agreement with the landholder that allows for collocation on
the tower.
   D.   Standards:
      1.   Roof Mounted:
         a.   Height: Roof mounted wireless communication facilities may extend
above the highest portion of the roof, including parapet wall, by a distance
equal to its distance to the nearest exterior wall.
         b.   Setback: Roof mounted wireless communication facilities shall be
set back from the edge of the building at least the height of the antenna.
         c.   Lighting: Lighting of antennas or support structures shall be
prohibited except as required by the FAA.
      2.   Facade Mounted:
         a.   Height: Facade mounted wireless communication facilities may not
exceed fifteen feet (15') above the facade to which it is attached.
         b.   Setback: Facade mounted wireless communication facilities may
project a maximum of eighteen inches (18") from the facade, but may not
encroach into any public right of way.
         c.   Attachment: The antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical
equipment must be the same color as the supporting structure so as to make the
antenna and related equipment as unobtrusive as possible.
      3.   Towers:
         a.   Height: Towers shall not exceed one hundred fifty feet (150') in
height as measured from the ground. If applicant believes that a greater height
is necessary, applicant shall have the burden of proving same, including
production of RF documentation to support the need for greater height. Any
application for greater height shall be by request for a variance.
         b.   Setback: All new towers shall be in the city communication zone,
therefore setbacks are not an issue. However, to the extent setback of the
tower is an issue in the future, setbacks shall be measured from the base of
the tower to the property line of the parcel on which located. Towers shall be
set back from all residential and residentially zoned property at least one
hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the tower height as measured from the
ground.
         c.   Color: Freestanding towers shall be a neutral color, simulate a
standard utility pole, or otherwise be camouflaged or disguised so as to make
the tower as unobtrusive as possible. Lattice towers shall be a neutral color,
camouflaged, or otherwise be designed and erected to make the tower as
unobtrusive as possible.
         d.   Lighting: Lighting of antennas or support structures shall be
prohibited, except as required by the FAA.
         e.   Maintenance: All facilities shall be properly maintained to avoid
accumulations of materials and conditions which create unsightly appearances.
   E.   Abandonment/Bonding: Upon abandonment or discontinuation of use, the
carrier shall physically remove the wireless communication facility within
ninety (90) days of the date of abandonment or discontinuation of use, and
restore the site to its original condition. The carrier shall provide to the
city, prior to issuance of a permit, a performance bond in the amount of twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00) or a bond equal to a written estimate from a
qualified tower removal contractor to guarantee that the facility will be
removed when no longer in use. The city of Challis shall be named as an obligee
in the bond and must approve the bonding company.
   F.   Construction Near Airports: Any erection or construction of wireless
communications facilities within any airport clear zone, shall in addition to
complying with the conditions of this article, follow all other local, state
and federal regulations as to such erection or construction of such facilities.
(Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
CHAPTER 6
ENTRANCE DISTRICT ZONE
SECTION:
10-6-1: Purpose
10-6-2: Permitted Uses
10-6-1: PURPOSE:
This district is established to allow the city to develop an appropriate and
safe entrance and welcome identification for the many residents of Idaho and
visitors who pass through the area. As such, this zone is created to protect
the health, safety and welfare of residents and nonresidents from encroachment
of noncompatible uses. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-6-2: PERMITTED USES:
Driveway access to private property.
Municipal signs upon recommendation of the planning and zoning commission and
approval by the city council upon the finding that the sign is compatible with
the other uses and appearance of the zone. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
CHAPTER 7
AIRPORT ZONE
SECTION:
10-7-1: Permitted Uses
10-7-2: Inclusion Of Other Zones; Conflicting Provisions
10-7-1: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the airport zone are those uses compatible with aircraft
operations and specially permitted by the city council, and subject in all
respects to the provisions of Custer County airport zoning ordinance no. 1,
which provisions and the description of said zone are incorporated herein by
reference and made a part hereof. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-7-2: INCLUSION OF OTHER ZONES; CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
The airport zone may include within its boundaries other zones established by
this title, and in the event of a conflict between the provisions of this title
and Custer County airport zoning ordinance no. 1, the latter shall control to
the extent of such conflict. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
CHAPTER 8
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
10-8-1: Continuation Of Nonconforming Use
10-8-1: CONTINUATION OF NONCONFORMING USE:
The lawful use of land or buildings existing at the effective date hereof may
continue although such use does not conform to the regulations specified by
this title for the zone or district in which such land or buildings are
located, subject to the following conditions and specifications:
   A.   Discontinuance Of Nonconforming Use: Any nonconforming use of land or
building which has ceased by discontinuance, abandonment or removal shall
thereafter conform to this title. Uses may be continued under the following
conditions:
      1.   If the nonuse continues for a period of one year or longer, the city
shall, by written request, require that the owner declare his intention with
respect to the continued nonuse of the improvements in writing within twenty
eight (28) days of receipt of the request. If the owner elects to continue the
nonuse, he shall notify the city in writing of his intention and shall post the
property with notice of his intent to continue the nonuse of the improvements.
He shall also publish notice of his intent to continue the nonuse in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county where the property is located.
If the property owner complies with the requirements of this subsection, his
right to use such improvements in the future for their designed purpose shall
continue, notwithstanding any change in the zoning of the property.
      2.   The property owner may voluntarily elect to withdraw the use by
filing with the city clerk an affidavit of withdrawn use. If the property is
redesigned for a different use, the property owner shall be deemed to have
abandoned any grandfather right to the prior use of the property.
      3.   For purposes of this section "designed purpose" means the use for
which the improvements were originally intended, designed and approved pursuant
to any applicable planning and zoning ordinances.
      4.   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to prohibit
the city from passing or enforcing any other law or ordinance for the
protection of the public health, safety and welfare.
   B.   Damaged Building Or Structure: Any nonconforming sign or building, the
structure or exterior of which has been seventy five percent (75%) damaged or
destroyed by fire or any other cause, shall thereafter conform to this title.
   C.   Moving Of Building: No nonconforming use of a building may be moved to
any other part or parcel of land on which the same was conducted at the time of
the adoption of this title, or to any other zoning district wherein said use
would not be permitted by the terms of this title.
   D.   Enlargements: Nonconforming uses presently existing may continue, but
any nonconforming building shall not be enlarged or extended. (Ord. 499, 4-16-
2009)
CHAPTER 9
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
10-9-1: Parking Space Regulations And Requirements
10-9-2: Schedule Of Parking Requirements
10-9-3: Off Street Loading Spaces
10-9-1: PARKING SPACE REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Size; Access; Location: For the purpose of this chapter, one hundred
eighty (180) square feet of area, which has a means of ingress or egress from
an alley or street, shall be deemed parking space for one vehicle. Such space
shall not occupy any part of any required front yard, but when open, may be
included as a part of a required open space for side or rear yard. On corner or
through lots, parking space may not be included as part of required yards lying
adjacent to any street.
   B.   Materials Of Construction: Such parking spaces and access driveways
shall be paved or otherwise surfaced with an all weather, dustproof material.
That part of the driveway connecting from the curb line to the property line
shall be paved with concrete or asphaltic materials.
   C.   Use Of Existing Spaces; Reduction: Available off street parking
facilities provided by the municipality within the required distance for each
use as herein provided may be used to meet the requirements of parking space
for each such land use as herein provided. Parking spaces located in the street
may not be used to meet the parking space requirements as herein provided,
except for residential use only within any zoning district established by this
title. Parking space required under this chapter may be reduced at times when
the capacity or use of a building is changed in such a manner that a new use or
capacity would require less space than before the change. Such reduction may
not be below the standards for the new use set forth in this chapter.
   D.   Joint Use Of Parking Facilities: The joint use of parking facilities
may be permitted in cases where major parking demands occur on different days
of the week or during different hours; provided, that parking spaces will be
available for each use in accordance with the standards contained herein.
   E.   Parking Facilities Plan: A plan of parking facilities shall accompany
each application for a building permit or certificate of compliance. The
completion of the improvements for parking according to such plan shall be a
requisite for the validity of the permit or certificate. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-9-2: SCHEDULE OF PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
In any zone, except as noted below, every building erected or structurally
altered, enlarged or increased in capacity, and every land use shall be
provided with minimum off street parking facilities as follows:
                                      A minimum of 2 parking spaces, plus 1
                                      additional parking space for each 20
Automobile sales                     units in inventory, all of such parking
                                      to be provided off of the street and on
                                      the premises where the business is
                                      conducted
                                      1 parking space for each 5 seats or
                                      bench seating spaces based upon maximum
                                      seating capacity. For purposes of this
                                      type of use, parking spaces already
                                      provided to meet parking requirements
                                      for stores, office buildings and
Churches, auditoriums, gymnasiums,    industrial establishments, or on street
stadiums, theaters and other places  or off street parking facilities
for public or private assembly with   provided by the municipality lying
fixed seats                           within 300 feet of the place of public
                                      assembly as measured along the lines of
                                      public access, and not normally in use
                                      or made available for other parking,
                                      may be used to meet up to 75 percent of
                                      the total requirements of parking space
                                      for places of public assembly
                                      1 parking space for each 200 square
Dance halls, bowling alleys and      feet of floor area, to be provided on
private clubs                         the premises or within 300 feet of the
                                      entrance
Hospitals and clinics                1 parking space for each 4 hospital
                                      beds
Hotels, rooming houses, clubs and    1 parking space for each 4 guest
fraternal homes                       sleeping rooms
                                      1 parking space for each 5 employees,
                                      based on the greatest number of
Manufacturing establishments         employees at 1 time, to be provided on
                                      the premises or within 1,000 feet of
                                      the main entrance
One- and two-family dwellings and    1 parking space for each dwelling unit
multiple-family dwellings
                                      1 parking space for each 300 square
                                      feet of store space, to be provided on
                                      the premises or within 200 feet of the
Stores, offices and other retail      entrance; except, that restaurants,
establishments                       bars or establishments whose primary
                                      use is to serve meals and refreshments
                                      to patrons shall provide 1 parking
                                      space for each 100 square feet of floor
                                      space in the building
Tourist courts and motels            1 parking space for each unit
                                      1 parking space for each transient
                                      sleeping room offered for tourist
Tourist homes                        accommodations in addition to parking
                                      spaces required for permanent residents
                                      of the building
Wholesale and distributing           1 parking space for every 3 employees
establishments
 
The downtown business district (the area currently zone commercial A) is exempt
from these regulations due to the nature of the original townsite and lot size
plans. Requiring businesses in the above district to conform to these standards
would result in unnecessary hardship due to inability to expand and improve
facilities to compete viably with new businesses established in less densely
populated areas. Furthermore, requiring these businesses to conform to existing
parking standards within their limited areas would detract new businesses from
establishing in existing vacant lots in the above area and would probably
result in the deterioration of the existing commercial A district. (Ord. 499,
4-16-2009)
10-9-3: OFF STREET LOADING SPACES:
   A.   Loading or unloading areas shall not be considered as parking areas.
   B.   On the same lot with every building or part thereof, to be used for
other than exclusively dwelling purposes, there shall be provided on the lot
adequate loading and unloading space for motor vehicles in order to avoid undue
interference with the public use of streets or alleys. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
CHAPTER 10
ZONING ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-10-1: Zoning Permits
10-10-2: Variances
10-10-3: Special Uses
10-10-4: Performance Standards
10-10-5: Rezoning Process
10-10-6: Development Agreements
10-10-7: Lighting
10-10-8: Amendments
10-10-9: Notice Of Hearings
10-10-10: Inspections; Enforcement; Penalties
10-10-11: Nonliability Of City
10-10-1: ZONING PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required; Term: No building shall be constructed, erected or
altered structurally in any zoning district established by this title and no
sign erected in the commercial A, commercial B, commercial C, entrance district
or airport zones unless a zoning permit therefor has been issued by the city
council or its authorized representative. All permits shall issue only in
conformity herewith and shall be valid only for a period of one year
thereafter.
   B.   Application For Permit; Approval Or Denial: Prior to the proposed
construction or alteration, applications for zoning permits shall first be
submitted to the Challis planning and zoning commission, if appointed, not less
than five (5) days prior to the next regular meeting of the Challis planning
and zoning commission for its recommendation, which commission shall have a
reasonable time fixed by the city council to examine the application before the
commission makes its decision. If a planning and zoning commission does not
exist, the same procedure shall be used to apply before the city council. The
city council shall establish by resolution the time period within which a
recommendation must be made to the city council and the time period within
which a decision must be made by the city council approving or denying the
permit. Whenever the city council or planning and zoning commission grants or
denies a permit, it shall specify the ordinance used in evaluating the
application, the reasons for approval or denial and the actions, if any, that
the applicant could take to obtain a permit.
   C.   Permit Fee: Zoning permit fee costs shall be established by city
council resolution.
   D.   Review Of Decisions: An applicant denied a permit or aggrieved by a
decision of the planning and zoning commission, if appointed, may, within sixty
(60) days, seek review by the city council. An applicant denied a permit or
aggrieved by a decision of the city council may seek judicial review under the
procedures provided by Idaho Code, and any amendments thereto. (Ord. 499, 4-16-
2009)
10-10-2: VARIANCES:
The council may authorize in specific cases such variance from the terms of
this code as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owning to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this code would
result in unnecessary hardship. A variance is a modification of the bulk and
placement requirements of this code as to lot size, lot coverage, width, depth,
setbacks, height or other ordinance provisions affecting the size or shape of a
structure or placement of a structure upon lots or the size of lots. No
nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures or buildings in other
districts shall be considered grounds for issuance of a variance. Variances
shall not be granted on the grounds of convenience or profit, but only where
strict application of the provisions of this code would result in unnecessary
hardship. Finally, the reason for a variance was not caused by the owner's, or
previous owner's, actions.
   A.   Application And Standards For Variances: A variance from the terms of
this code shall not be granted by the council unless and until a written
application for a variance is submitted to the council containing:
      1.   Name, address, and telephone number of applicant(s);
      2.   Legal description of property;
      3.   Description of nature of variance requested; and
      4.   A narrative statement demonstrating that the requested variance
conforms to the following standards:
         a.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are
peculiar to the land, structure, or building involved and which are not
applicable to other lands, structures, or buildings in the same district;
         b.   That a literal interpretation of the provisions of this code
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same district under terms of this code.
         c.   That special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant; and
         d.   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this code to other lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district.
A variance shall not be granted unless the commission makes specific findings
of fact based directly on the particular evidence presented to it that support
conclusions that the above mentioned standards and conditions have been met by
the applicant.
   B.   Findings: No variance shall be favorably acted upon by the city council
without a written recommendation from the city planning and zoning commission,
resulting from a public hearing, study and/or investigation, and unless there
is a finding that all of the following exist:
      1.   That there are unique physical conditions, including irregularity,
narrowness or shallowness of lot size or shape, or exceptional topographical or
other physical conditions peculiar to and inherent in the particular zoning
lot; and that, as a result of such unique physical conditions, practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships arise in complying strictly with the use
or bulk provisions of this code; and that the alleged practical difficulties or
unnecessary hardships are not due to circumstances created generally by the
strict application of such provisions in the neighborhood or district in which
the zoning lot is located.
      2.   That because of such physical conditions, there is no reasonable
possibility that the development of the zoning lot, in strict conformity with
the provisions of this code, will bring a reasonable return, and that the
granting of such a variance is therefore necessary to enable the owner to
realize a reasonable return from such a zoning lot.
      3.   That the variance, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the neighborhood or district in which the zoning lot is located;
will not substantially impair the appropriate use or development of adjacent
property; and will not adversely affect the public health, safety or welfare of
the community at large and the neighborhood.
      4.   That the practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships claimed as
a ground for a variance have not been created by the owner or by a predecessor
in title. Where all other required findings are made, the purchase of a zoned
lot subject to the restrictions sought to be varied shall not itself constitute
a self-created hardship.
      5.   That within the intent and purpose of this code, the variance, if
granted, is the minimum variance necessary to afford relief; and to this end,
the city council may permit a lesser variance than that applied for.
      6.   That such variance will not violate the provisions of the Idaho
Code.
      7.   That no nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures or
buildings in the same district, and no permitted or nonconforming use of lands,
structures or buildings or other districts shall be considered grounds for the
issuance of a variance.
      8.   That the applicant for a variance has shown sufficient proof that
strict compliance will result in unnecessary hardship or practical
difficulties; and that the city has not provided contrary evidence justifying
that the restriction is reasonably related to the legitimate exercise of
zoning.
      9.   That such a variance will not have the effect of nullifying the
interest, purpose, spirit and intent of this code and that of the comprehensive
development plan 1 .
   C.   Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards: In granting a variance, the
city council may prescribe appropriate conditions, bonds and safeguards in
conformity with this code. Violations of such conditions, bonds or safeguards,
when made a part of the terms under which the variance is granted, shall be
deemed a violation of this code.
   D.   Actions By The City Officials:
      1.   Planning And Zoning Commission Action: Within forty five (45) days
of the first regularly scheduled meeting after submission of the written
application, the planning and zoning commission shall either approve,
conditionally approve or disapprove the application as presented, and within
fifteen (15) days forward a written recommendation to the city council.
      2.   City Council Action: Within forty five (45) days of the first
regularly scheduled meeting following the submission of the planning and zoning
commission's recommendation, the city council shall either approve,
conditionally approve or disapprove the recommendation as presented, and within
ten (10) days notify the applicant with written notice of the action on the
request.
      3.   Denial Of Request: Where the commission or the council is unable to
make an adequate or appropriate decision concerning the effects of the request
on the public health, safety and welfare of the community and the neighborhood
at large, and it feels that the results of the public hearings would be
inadequate, the commission may deny the request and the council disapprove the
request and recommendation prior to the hearing, under the provision that an in
depth study of the issues commence immediately.
   E.   Appeals: Where the applicant or any affected person who appears in
person or in writing is denied his request by the planning and zoning
commission, he may appeal the decision to the city council, provided the appeal
is submitted within fifteen (15) days from the negative decision. Upon receipt
of an appeal, the city council shall set a hearing date to consider all the
information, testimony and minutes of meetings and public hearings to reach a
decision to uphold, conditionally uphold or overrule the decision of the
planning and zoning commission. The action shall only be overruled by a
favorable vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the full officiating body. (Ord.
499, 4-16-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 1 of this code.
10-10-3: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   Purpose: A special use is established for the location of specific
classes of uses which are deemed desirable for the public welfare within a
given district or districts, but which are potentially incompatible with
typical uses permitted within them, providing it has no adverse effect on the
public or neighborhood and when it is not in conflict with the purpose, spirit
and intent of this title or the comprehensive development plan 1 . The granting
of a special use permit does not entail making an exception to this title, but
rather permitting certain uses which this title authorizes under stated
conditions.
   B.   Application Of Provisions: Classes and types of uses subject to a
special use permit are outlined in sections
10-4A-1,
10-5A-2, and
10-5B-2 of this title. All other classes and types of uses not specifically
stated in this title are subject to a special use permit, including:
Cemeteries.
Churches and accessory buildings used for religious teachings.
Hospitals, sanitariums or clinics.
Libraries.
Municipal or privately owned recreation buildings or a community center.
Nursery schools, day nurseries and childcare centers.
Parking area, public.
Police stations, fire stations or place for storage of municipal equipment.
Public administration building, auditorium, gymnasium or any other publicly
owned structure.
Public or private park or playgrounds.
Public utility facilities, i.e., filtration plant or pumping station, heat or
power plant, transformer station and other similar facilities.
Schools, public or private.
Shopping centers.
   C.   Standards: A special use permit shall be acted upon by the city council
upon written recommendation from the city planning and zoning commission, if
appointed, resulting from a public hearing, study and/or investigation; and
only after reviewing the particular facts and circumstances of each property in
terms of the following standards and finding adequate evidence showing that
such use at the proposed location:
      1.   Will not adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare;
      2.   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general
objectives or with any specific objective of the comprehensive plan and/or this
title;
      3.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and that such use will not change the
essential character of the same area;
      4.   Will not be hazardous, injurious or disturbing to existing or future
neighboring uses;
      5.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and
services such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage
structures, refuse disposal, water and sewer, and schools;
      6.   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community and neighborhood at large;
      7.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment
and conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property
or the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise,
smoke, fumes, glare or odors;
      8.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares;
      9.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural,
scenic or historic feature of major importance, or that add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community such as
trees, watercourses, historic spots and other similar irreplaceable assets.
   D.   Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards: In granting a special use
permit, the city council may prescribe appropriate conditions, bonds and
safeguards in conformity with this title. Violations of such conditions, bonds
or safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the special use is
granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title.
   E.   Actions By The City Officials:
      1.   Planning And Zoning Commission Action: Within forty five (45) days
of the first regularly scheduled meeting after submission of the written
application, the planning and zoning commission shall either approve,
conditionally approve or disapprove the application as presented, and within
fifteen (15) days forward a written recommendation to the city council.
      2.   City Council Action: Within forty five (45) days of the first
regularly scheduled meeting following the submission of the planning and zoning
commission's recommendation, the city council shall either approve,
conditionally approve or disapprove the recommendation as presented, and within
ten (10) days notify the applicant with written notice of the action on the
request.
      3.   Denial Of Request: Where the commission or the council is unable to
make an adequate or appropriate decision concerning the effects of the request
on the public health, safety and welfare of the community and the neighborhood
at large, and it feels that the results of the public hearings would be
inadequate, the commission or the council may deny the request under the
provision that an in depth study of the issues commence immediately.
      4.   Public Lands: Where it is determined that a proposed park,
playground, school or other public use as shown on the future acquisitions map,
as authorized in section 67-6517, Idaho Code, is located in whole or in part
within a proposed development, the commission shall notify the appropriate
public agency concerning the land proposed to be acquired. Within thirty (30)
days of the date of notice, the public agency may request the governing body to
suspend consideration on the permit for sixty (60) days from the date of the
request; however, if an agreement is not reached within sixty (60) days, the
commission shall resume consideration of the special use application.
   F.   Conditions On Special Use Permit: If the application is approved or
approved with modifications, conditions may be attached including, but not
limited to, those:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on other development;
      2.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development;
      3.   Controlling the duration of development;
      4.   Assuring that development is maintained properly;
      5.   Designating the exact location and nature of development;
      6.   Requiring the provision for on site or off site public facilities or
services;
      7.   Requiring large scale developments to provide sufficient park or
open space facilities of acceptable size, location and site characteristics
that may be suitable for the proposed development.
   G.   Appeals: Where the applicant or any affected person who appears in
person or in writing is denied his request by the planning and zoning
commission, he may appeal the decision to the city council, provided the appeal
is submitted within fifteen (15) days from the negative decision. Upon receipt
of an appeal, the city council shall set a hearing date to consider all the
information, testimony and minutes of meetings and public hearings to reach a
decision to uphold, conditionally uphold or overrule the decision of the
planning and zoning commission. The action shall only be overruled by a
favorable vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the full officiating body. (Ord.
499, 4-16-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 1 of this code.
10-10-4: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Limitations On Height: No building or other structure erected in any
land use district shall have a height greater than that specified in section
10-2-4 of this title and within each zoning category, except that the council,
by special use permit, may authorize a greater height to the extent that the
council determines that: 1) provisions have been made for protection from fire
hazards and against aviation accidents, 2) consideration has been given to the
protection of view and to the character of the neighborhood, 3) proper
provision has been made for light and air, and 4) such greater height will
better promote the protection of the environment in the area. The height
limitations do not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water tanks,
ventilators, chimneys or other appurtenances usually required to be placed
above the roof level and not intended for human occupancy except where the
height of such structures will constitute a hazard to the safe landing and
takeoff of aircraft at an established airport.
   B.   Provisions For Unique Land Uses: Certain unique land uses pose special
problems that may have detrimental influence on surrounding land uses. The
following performance standards for such unique land uses shall be adhered to
in addition to all other provisions of this title:
      1.   Bulk Storage Of Flammable Liquids And Gases, Aboveground And For
Resale:
         a.   Will be located at least three hundred feet (300') from a
residential zone, a residence, motel, hotel, except for an owner's residence or
other dwellings;
         b.   Will be erected subject to the approval of the commission and
council; and
         c.   Will have suitable loading and unloading spaces and off street
parking facilities subject to the approval of the commission and council.
      2.   Chemicals, Pesticide And Fertilizer Storage And Manufacture:
         a.   Will have adequate fire protection, storage area, handling and
disposal as approved by the commission and council.
      3.   Contractor's Yard: That portion of a premises devoted to the storage
and maintenance of construction equipment and materials:
         a.   Will be limited to storage, maintenance and processing incidental
to contracting work. There shall be no general industrial or commercial uses;
         b.   Will be completed by an eight foot (8') sight obscuring fence.
      4.   Drive-In Restaurant:
         a.   Will be enclosed on the property line with landscaping and
fencing, except for ingress and egress, to prevent trash from moving onto other
properties;
         b.   Will have a six foot (6') high sight obscuring fence along the
property lines that adjoin a residence;
         c.   Will provide for adequate trash receptacles; and
         d.   Will avert the direction of night lighting toward any residence.
      5.   Gravel Pits, Rock Quarries, Sand And Clay Pits And Other Natural
Resources Of Commercial Value Not Under State Or Federal Supervision And
Control (Only Within Area Of City Impact Per City/County Agreement):
         a.   The extent and method of rehabilitation shall be determined in
advance of issuing a zoning permit with due consideration given to what is
suitable and compatible with the surrounding area;
         b.   Upon depletion of the area, all temporary buildings and
structures, except property line fences and structures for the loading,
measuring or weighing of salable material in storage, shall be entirely removed
from the property.
      6.   Home Occupation:
         a.   Not more than one person other than members of the family
residing on the premises shall be engaged in such occupation;
         b.   The use of the dwelling unit or an exterior building for the home
occupation shall be clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for
residential purposes by its occupants, and as area equivalent to not more than
fifty percent (50%) of floor area of the dwelling unit shall be used in the
conduct of the home occupation;
         c.   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the
building or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home
occupation;
         d.   Total residential and business motor vehicle travel to and from
the dwelling shall not exceed an average of fifteen (15) round trips per day
during any five (5) day period. Said occupation shall require no additional
parking space;
         e.   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation
that creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in
a single-family residence. In the case of electrical interference, no equipment
or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interferences in any
radio or television receivers off the premises, or causes fluctuation in line
voltage off the premises;
         f.   The occupation shall be conducted entirely within a structure on
the property.
      7.   Manufactured, Mobile Home And Recreational Vehicle Parks: The
following improvements shall be provided in all manufactured/mobile home and
recreational vehicle parks:
         a.   Site Selection:
            (1) Topography: The topography must be favorable to good site
drainage, minimum grading, manufactured/mobile home/recreational vehicle
placement, and ease of maintenance.
            (2) Availability Of Utilities: The site must be readily accessible
to public utilities, including water, sewerage, and electricity.
            (3) Necessary Land Area: The area of the manufactured home/
recreational vehicle park must be sufficient in size to accommodate: a) the
number of manufactured/mobile home/recreational vehicle spaces desired; b)
roads and parking areas for motor vehicles; c) service areas, buildings and
playgrounds.
         b.   Site Improvements:
            (1) The physical improvements of the site must be arranged to
provide: a) a convenient means of pedestrian and vehicular access to each
manufactured/mobile home/recreational vehicle space, parking areas, and
accessory buildings; b) an adequate supply of potable water; c) a safe method
of sewage disposal; d) electrical service for lighting and power; and e)
diversion of surface water away from buildings, manufactured/mobile home/
recreational vehicle spaces, service and recreational areas.
         c.   Site Planning: A plan of the proposed manufactured home park must
be developed for approval of the city indicating the layout of manufactured/
mobile home/recreational vehicle spaces, roads, walks, service buildings,
service areas, utilities, and necessary grading.
         Determination must be made in the initial planning stage on the number
of manufactured/mobile homes/recreational vehicles to be accommodated.
            (1) Manufactured/Mobile Home/Recreational Vehicle Space Sizes: Each
manufactured/mobile home space must be not less than one thousand two hundred
fifty (1,250) square feet in area and should be at least twenty five feet (25')
wide. Recreational vehicle spaces may be smaller but must accommodate the
average recreational vehicle size.
            (2) Spacing Of Manufactured/Mobile Homes/Recreational Vehicles: The
minimum spacing between manufactured/mobile homes/recreational vehicles and
between manufactured/mobile homes and buildings must be:
               (A) Side to side spacing: Fifteen feet (15');
               (B) End to end spacing: Ten feet (10') from the manufactured
home park property line.
            (3) Roads, Walks And Parking Areas:
               (A) General Circulation: Safety and convenience must be a major
consideration in the layout of roads, walks, and parking areas within the
manufactured home park. All roads must be continuous.
               (B) Servicing: Suitable vehicular access for firefighting
equipment, delivery of fuel, removal of garbage and refuse, and for other
necessary services must be provided.
               (C) Width Of Roads And Parking Areas: Main access roads,
excluding parking, must be two (2) lane and at least twenty four feet (24')
wide.
               (D) Parking Area: The same number of motor vehicle parking
spaces must be provided as the number of manufactured spaces. These must be
provided in special parking areas.
               (E) Walks: The manufactured home park walk system must include a
walk from the entrance of each manufactured/mobile home to service facilities.
               (F) Width Of Walks:
                  (i) Public walks: Minimum four feet (4').
                  (ii) Entrance walks (from public walk to manufactured/
recreational vehicle door): Two feet (2').
            (4) Service Buildings: Each manufactured home/recreational vehicle
park that is planning on serving recreational vehicles must be provided with
one or more service buildings containing the requisite number of plumbing
fixtures and other service equipment. The service buildings must conform in
general to the following requirements:
               (A) Location: The building should be located not more than two
hundred feet (200') from any recreational vehicle space.
               (B) Construction: The materials and methods used in the
construction of service buildings must conform to local building codes for
buildings of this nature. It must have an interior finish which is moisture
resistant and can be easily cleaned. All rooms of service buildings must be
ventilated and all exterior openings provided with screens.
            (5) Facilities (Recreational Vehicle Park Only):
               (A) Toilet Rooms: Separate men's and women's toilet rooms must
be provided and distinctly marked. These rooms must be separated by a sound
resistant wall. A vestibule or screen wall must be provided to prevent direct
view into the toilet rooms when exterior doors are open.
               (B) Plumbing Fixtures: Every recreational vehicle park must
provide adequate toilet and laundry facilities. In no instances should there be
less than one laundry unit (laundry or washing machine); one water closet, one
lavatory and one shower for women; and one water closet, one lavatory and one
shower for men. A slop water closet (water closet with seat removed) must be
provided in each service building. The slop water closet should be in a
separate room of the service building with a single direct opening to the
outside.
The facilities listed above will accommodate the planned number of recreational
vehicle spaces. One water closet must be provided for each sex for every ten
(10) additional recreational vehicles. (Urinals for men may be substituted for
1/3 of these water closets.)
One lavatory must be provided for each sex for every ten (10) additional
recreational vehicles; and one shower or bathtub for each sex for every twenty
(20) additional recreational vehicles. A laundry unit must be provided for
every twenty (20) additional spaces.
            (6) Fire Prevention:
               (A) The court area shall be subject to the rules and regulations
of the fire prevention authority.
            (7) Regulations:
               (A) No permanent additions of any kind shall be built onto, nor
become a part of, any manufactured/mobile home/recreational vehicle. Skirting
of coaches is permissible, but such skirting shall not permanently attach the
coach to the ground, provide a harborage for rodents, or create a fire hazard.
The wheels of a coach shall not be removed, except temporarily when necessary
for repairs. Jacks or stabilizers may be placed under the frame of the coach to
prevent movement on the springs while the coach is parked and occupied. No
owner or person in charge of a dog, cat, or other pet animal shall permit it to
run at large, or to commit any nuisance within the limits of any manufactured
home park.
      8.   Schools/Development Around Schools: As schools are placed or planned
within areas around the county, considerations for the following will be
planned for and included in any development applications:
         a.   Safe access routes to school for children.
         b.   Coordinated recreation areas in or around the school areas.
         c.   Open space areas preserved in and around the school areas.
         d.   Provisions for sidewalks, bike paths, greenways and other
alternate transportation routes.
         e.   Bus turnout and transportation routes for buses.
         f.   Other features and amenities to ensure the safety of the
schoolchildren.
      9.   Wrecking Yards/Junkyards:
         a.   No wrecking or junk yards are allowed within the Challis city
limits. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-10-5: REZONING PROCESS:
   A.   General: Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare,
or good zoning practices require, the council may, after receipt of
recommendation thereon from the commission and subject to procedures provided
by law, amend, supplement, change or repeal the regulations, restrictions, and
boundaries or classification of property.
   B.   Initiation Of Zoning Amendments: Amendments to this title may be
initiated in one of the following ways:
      1.   By adoption of a motion by the commission, if appointed;
      2.   By adoption of a motion by the council; and
      3.   By the filing of an application by a property owner or a person who
has existing interest in property within the area proposed to be changed or
affected by said amendment.
   C.   Contents Of Application: Applications for amendments to the official
zoning map adopted as part of this title shall contain at least the following
information:
      1.   Name, address, and telephone number of applicant;
      2.   Proposed amending ordinance, approved as to form by the board;
      3.   Present land use;
      4.   Present zoning district;
      5.   Proposed use;
      6.   Proposed zoning district;
      7.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the council showing property
lines, thoroughfares, existing and proposed zoning and such other items as the
council may require;
      8.   A list of all property owners and their mailing addresses who are
within three hundred feet (300') or as determined by the planning and zoning
commission of the external boundaries of the land being considered;
      9.   A statement on how the proposed amendment relates to the
comprehensive plan, availability of public facilities, and compatibility with
the surrounding area; and
      10.   A fee according to schedule as established by resolution of the
council.
   D.   Transmittal To Commission, If Appointed, And/Or The Council: Zoning
districts shall be amended in the following manner:
      1.   Requests for an amendment to the zoning ordinance shall be submitted
to the commission, if appointed, who shall evaluate the request to determine
the extent and nature of the amendment requested;
      2.   If the request is in accordance with the adopted comprehensive plan,
the commission may recommend and the council may adopt or reject the ordinance
amendment under the notice and hearing procedures as herein provided; and
      3.   If the request is not in accordance with the adopted comprehensive
plan, the request shall be submitted to the commission, which shall recommend,
and the council may adopt or reject an amendment to the comprehensive plan
under the notice and hearing procedures provided in section 67-6509, Idaho
Code. After the comprehensive plan has been amended, the zoning ordinance may
then be amended as hereinafter provided for.
   E.   Commission Public Hearing: The commission, if appointed, shall hold a
public hearing and make recommendations or proposed zoning amendments. Zoning
amendments may consist of text or map revisions.
      1.   Zoning Ordinance Text Amendment: The commission, prior to
recommending a zoning ordinance text amendment to the council shall conduct at
least one public hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity
to be heard. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of time
and place, and the amendment shall be published in the official newspaper or
paper of general circulation within the jurisdiction. Following the
commission's hearing, if the commission makes a material change from what was
presented at the public hearing; further notice and hearing shall be provided
before the commission forwards the amendment with its recommendation to the
council if the council will not conduct a subsequent public hearing concerning
the proposed change. If the council will conduct a subsequent public hearing,
notice of the planning and zoning commission recommendation shall be included
in the notice of public hearing provided by the council.
         a.   Zoning Ordinance Map Amendment: The commission, prior to
recommending a zoning ordinance map amendment that is in accordance with the
comprehensive plan to the council, shall conduct at least one public hearing in
which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard. At least
fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of time and place and the
amendment shall be published in the official newspaper or paper of general
circulation within the jurisdiction. Additional notice shall be provided by
mail to property owners and residents within the land being considered; three
hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being considered;
and any additional area that may be impacted by the proposed change as
determined by the commission. When notice is required to two hundred (200) or
more property owners or residents in lieu of the mail notification three (3)
notices in the official newspaper or paper of general circulation is
sufficient, provided that, the third notice appears not less than ten (10) days
prior to the public hearing. Following the commission's hearing if the
commission makes a material change from what was presented at the public
hearing; further notice and hearing shall be provided before the commission
forwards the amendment with its recommendations to the council if the council
will not conduct a subsequent public hearing concerning the proposed change. If
the council will conduct a subsequent public hearing, notice of the planning
and zoning commission recommendation shall be included in the notice of public
hearing provided by the council.
   F.   Recommendation By Commission: Within a reasonable time period after the
public hearing of the proposed amendment, the commission shall transmit its
recommendation to the council. The commission may recommend that the amendment
be granted as requested, or it may recommend that the amendment be denied. The
commission shall ensure that any favorable recommendations for amendments are
in accordance with the comprehensive plan established goals and objectives.
   G.   Action By The Council: The council, prior to adopting, revising, or
rejecting the amendment to the zoning ordinance as recommended by the
commission shall conduct at least one public hearing using the same notice and
hearing procedures as the commission. If the commission has not been appointed,
the council will hold only one single public hearing as specified herein.
Following the council hearing, if the council makes a material change from what
was presented at the public hearing; further notice and hearing shall be
provided before the council adopts the amendment.
Within a reasonable time period after the public hearing of the proposed
amendment, the council shall accept the recommendation of the commission's
report unless rejected by a vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the members.
Upon granting or denying an application to amend the zoning ordinance, the
council shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The facts and reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   H.   Resubmission Of Application: No application for reclassification of any
property which has been denied by the council shall be resubmitted, in either
substantially the same form or with reference to substantially the same
premises for the same purposes within a period of one year from the date of
such final action; unless there is an amendment in the comprehensive plan which
resulted from a change in conditions as applying to the specific property under
consideration.
   I.   Zoning Upon Annexation: Prior to annexation of an unincorporated area,
the commission shall make a recommendation to the city council for changes to
the comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance for the unincorporated area to be
annexed. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-10-6: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of a development agreement is to provide a means
to allow the council to place conditions and/or restrictions on a rezone or
other development to mitigate the impact of the rezone or development and to
provide a means for delineating the commitments, obligations, and
responsibilities of the parties (government agencies, developers, individuals,
etc.) involved.
   B.   Applicability: As a condition of rezoning or development, at any time
during any stage of the development permitting process, a development agreement
may be requested by the council, recommended by the commission, if appointed,
or it may be requested by the developer.
   C.   Agreement Proposal: In the event a development agreement is submitted
or in the event a development agreement is deemed appropriate by the
commission, if appointed, during or after a public hearing, the reasons for
proposing the use of a development agreement or a proposed development
agreement shall be forwarded to the council with the commissioner's findings
and recommendation.
   D.   Recommendation: In the event the council makes a finding that a
development agreement would be in the best interest of the city, but where no
development agreement was recommended by the commission and presented to the
council, the council shall remand the matter back to the commission with
instructions that a development agreement be prepared, that it contain such
terms as are in the best interest of the city and the developer, that it be
made a part of the public hearing process and that it be included in the
commission's recommendations.
   E.   Content: A request for a development agreement shall be in addition to
an application for rezone and shall contain the following:
      1.   An affidavit by the property owner, if the owner is not the same as
the applicant, agreeing that the property subject to the rezone may be subject
to a binding development agreement.
      2.   The specific use or uses of the property affected by the development
agreement.
      3.   The concept plan, which shall include, but not be limited to, three
(3) at least eighteen inch by twenty four inch (18" x 24") site plans and one
eight and one-half inch by eleven inch (81/2" x 11") drawing showing:
         a.   Existing structure(s) that will remain, labeled as to existing
and proposed uses.
         b.   Building footprint(s), height, number of stories, proposed uses
(office, retail, restaurant), and square footage of proposed structures. If
residential, overall density and number of dwelling units per building.
         c.   North arrow.
         d.   Scale.
         e.   Property boundaries.
         f.   Names of applicant, owners if different than applicant, preparer
and project.
         g.   Size of project.
         h.   Existing vegetation.
         i.   Existing and proposed grades for hillside developments.
         j.   Parking areas with total number of parking spaces.
         k.   Locations and widths of right of way, easements, canals, ditches
and property lines.
         l.   Drainage features.
         m.   Conceptual landscape plan.
         n.   Interior streets and access streets.
      4.   The time period for which the agreement is to be valid.
      5.   A statement that failure to comply with all of the commitments in
the approved development agreement shall be deemed a consent to rezone the
property to its preexisting state or to the preexisting zone.
      6.   If the development agreement is being requested by the applicant, as
opposed to having been required by the council or by the commission, a
statement must be included wherein the applicant agrees that all time limits
set forth by the code are waived.
      7.   Any proposed phasing schedule.
   F.   Process:
      1.   Whenever a development agreement is requested or proposed, the
zoning administrator shall work with the applicant to prepare the agreement. In
addition to the information required in subsections E3a through E3n of this
section, any additional uses may be addressed. Those issues may include, but
are not limited to, density, site design, mitigation of impact on surrounding
neighborhoods, appearance, provision of utilities, public services or public
facilities, and any use restrictions.
      2.   The commission shall hold a public hearing to consider the proposed
development agreement simultaneously with its hearing to consider the requested
rezone or other development request. After its hearing, the commission shall
make a recommendation to the council and in its recommendation it may recommend
approval or denial of the development agreement or it may recommend additional
terms, conditions, duties or obligations which should be covered by the
agreement.
      3.   After the council receives the recommendation from the commission,
the council shall hold a public hearing on the proposed development agreement.
After conducting its public hearing and considering the recommendation of the
commission, the council shall approve, deny or modify the agreement as the
board, in its discretion, deems necessary. After approval by the council, a
development agreement may be modified only by the permission of the council and
after complying with the notice requirements as set forth in Idaho Code section
67-6509.
   G.   Record: Development agreements shall be recorded in the office of the
county recorder and shall take effect upon adoption of the amendment of the
zoning ordinance or approval of a subdivision or other development.
   H.   Agreement Binding: Development agreements shall be binding upon the
owner or developer and the council as set out in Idaho Code section 67-6511A.
   I.   Termination; Reversal: A development agreement may be terminated and
the zoning designation upon which the use is based reversed, upon the failure
of the owner or developer or any successor or assignee thereof to fulfill any
of the requirements of the development agreement within a reasonable time,
within the time set in the agreement or upon the failure of the owner or
developer or their successors or assigns, to act in the manner agreed upon, and
after complying with the notice and hearing requirements as set forth in Idaho
Code section 67-6509.
   J.   Subsequent Owners: Each subsequent owner, any successor or assignee, or
any person who shall thereafter acquire an interest in the property, shall take
that interest subject to the terms and conditions which are set out in the
development agreement and they shall conform to and abide by the terms and
conditions of that agreement.
   K.   Council Obligation: By permitting or requesting a development
agreement, the council does not obligate itself to adopt any proposed zoning
ordinance or approve any development. The council is obligated once they have
signed the agreement.
   L.   Written Consent: A written development agreement shall be deemed
written consent to rezone the affected property and the commitment of the owner
or developer or any successor or assignee to comply with the conditions imposed
by the development agreement.
   M.   Violation; Enforcement: Development agreements may be enforced by any
person through any means permitted by law. That relief shall include, but not
necessarily be limited to, specific performance, injunctive relief, or through
the criminal process for violation of any provision of this title or title 11
of this code and provided for in Idaho state code section 67-6527.
   N.   Developer As Applicant: A developer shall be considered the applicant
in any development agreement. In the event that a developer consists of more
than one person or entity, all persons who will be engaged in the development
shall be bound by the agreement.
   O.   Other Agreements, Terms And Conditions: In addition to a development
agreement as set forth above, the council may enter into agreements that
require certain terms and conditions to be complied with as a condition of
subdivision approval. One of the terms of any agreement may be that in the
event a developer does not comply with the agreement, subdivision approval may
be withdrawn. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-10-7: LIGHTING:
   A.   Purpose: The general purpose of this section is to protect and promote
the public health, safety and welfare, the quality of life, by establishing
regulations and a process of review for exterior lighting. This section
establishes standards for exterior lighting in order to accomplish the
following:
      1.   To protect against direct glare of excessive lighting;
      2.   To provide safe roadways for motorists, cyclists and pedestrians;
      3.   To prevent light trespass in all areas of the county;
      4.   To provide lighting guidelines.
   B.   Scope: All exterior lighting installed after the effective date hereof
in any and all zoning districts in the city shall be in conformance with the
requirements established by this title and any other applicable ordinances.
   C.   Definitions: Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used
in this section shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have
in common usage and to give this section its most reasonable application:
    EXISTING LIGHTING: Any and all lighting installed prior to the effective
date hereof.
   EXTERIOR LIGHTING: Temporary or permanent lighting that is installed,
located or used in such a manner to cause light rays to shine outside and
includes all yard (100w HPS) and street (250w HPS) lamps.
   LIGHT POLLUTION: Any adverse effect of manmade light including, but not
limited to, light trespass, uplighting, the uncomfortable distraction to the
eye, or any manmade light that diminishes the ability to view the night sky;
often used to denote urban sky glow.
   D.   Criteria: The council and/or the planning and zoning commission shall
have the authority to require any new lighting to meet the recommendations and
guidelines, in addition to the requirements of this section.
Any new outdoor lighting installed or any existing lighting being replaced
shall meet the requirements of the local electric company for high pressure
sodium lamps including a full cutoff shade.
   E.   Violations And Legal Actions: If after investigation, the city finds
that any provision of this section is being violated, the city shall give
notice by hand delivery or by certified mail, return receipt requested, of such
violation to the owner and/or to the occupant of such premises, demanding that
the violation be abated within thirty (30) days of the date of mailing the
notice. If the violation is not abated within the thirty (30) day period, the
city may institute actions and proceedings, either legal or equitable, to
enjoin, restrain or abate any violations of this chapter and to collect the
penalties for such violations. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-10-8: AMENDMENTS:
Any amendment to this title shall require the following action:
   A.   Full review and study by the Challis planning and zoning commission.
   B.   Complete public hearings by the planning and zoning commission and the
city council after at least fifteen (15) days' notice prior to each of said
hearings by publication, posting and mailed notifications to property owners
and residents within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of
the land of the district subject to said proposed amendment. (Ord. 499, 4-16-
2009)
10-10-9: NOTICE OF HEARINGS 1 :
Whenever any public hearing relative to this title is to be conducted by the
planning and zoning commission or the city council, at least fifteen (15) days
prior to the hearing, notice of the time and place and summary of the subject
of the hearing shall be published in the official city newspaper or in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city. Copies of said notice shall
also be posted in three (3) conspicuous public places within the city and
copies shall be mailed to adjoining landowners when appropriate. (Ord. 499, 4-
16-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 9-5-2 of this code.
10-10-10: INSPECTIONS; ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES:
   A.   Inspections: The city council or its authorized representative is
hereby empowered to cause any buildings or tracts of land to be inspected or
examined for the purpose of determining conformity with the provisions of this
title. Upon the discovery of any condition or violation of any of the
provisions of this title, an order may be issued by the city council or its
authorized representative demanding removal or correction of the violation.
   B.   Nuisances: Violations of this title are hereby declared to be a
nuisance, and the city council or its authorized agent, after thirty (30) days'
written notice to remove or correct the violation, may prevent, remove and
abate the same at the expense of the party creating or maintaining the same, in
which event the city may levy a special assessment as provided in Idaho Code
50-1008 on the land or premises whereon the nuisance is situated to defray the
cost or to reimburse the city for the cost of abating the same.
   C.   Civil Action: In addition to or in lieu of the foregoing, the city may
bring any appropriate civil action, including abatement, injunction and/or
damages, in which event the city shall be entitled to all costs including
attorney fees in prosecution of such action.
   D.   Penalties: In addition to the foregoing, any person violating the
provisions of this title shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be subject to such penalties as provided by law.
   E.   Mediation: Mediation of planning and zoning issues may be provided in
accordance with Idaho Code 67-6510 and any revisions. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
10-10-11: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
This title shall not be construed to hold the city responsible for any damage
to persons or property by reason of the inspection or reinspection authorized
herein, or failure to inspect or reinspect or by reason of issuing a building
permit as herein provided. (Ord. 499, 4-16-2009)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Jurisdiction
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be cited as the SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF CHALLIS,
IDAHO. (Ord. 498, 4-16-2009)
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of these regulations is to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to provide for:
   A.   The harmonious development of the area.
   B.   The coordination of streets and roads within the subdivision with other
existing or planned streets and roads.
   C.   Adequate open space for travel, light, air and sanitary facilities.
   D.   Adequate transportation, water drainage and sanitary facilities.
   E.   The avoidance of scattered subdivision of land which would result in
either of the following:
      1.   The lack of water supply, sewer service, drainage, transportation,
police protection, fire protection, or other public services.
      2.   The unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of public
funds for the supply of such services.
   F.   The requirements as to the extent and the manner which:
      1.   Roads shall be created and improved in accordance with the city of
Challis regulations and transportation plan, if adopted by the city council.
      2.   Water and sewer and other utility mains, piping connections, or
other facilities shall be installed.
      3.   "Flood areas" are recognized according to FEMA maps and regulated
under city of Challis ordinance.
   G.   The manner and form of making and filing of any plat.
   H.   The administration of these regulations by defining the powers and
duties of approval authorities. (Ord. 498, 4-16-2009)
11-1-3: JURISDICTION:
   A.   These regulations shall apply to the subdividing of all land within the
unincorporated parts of the city, unless negotiation procedures result in a
determination to the contrary, and shall include the following:
      1.   The result of an act of dividing a lot, tract, or parcel of land
into three (3) or more parts for the purposes of transfer of ownership, use or
development.
      2.   The dedication of any public street or alley through or along any
tract of land.
      3.   The redivision of an original parcel of land into three (3) or more
parcels except as provided in the exceptions listed below.
   B.   This title shall not apply to any of the following:
      1.   An adjustment of ownership boundary as shown on a recorded plat
which does not reduce the area, frontage, width, depth or building setback
lines of each building site below the minimum zoning requirements and does not
change the original number of lots in any block of the recorded plat.
      2.   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent
or a court decree for the distribution of a decedent's property.
      3.   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as
defined and allowed in the Idaho Code.
      4.   The acquisition of street rights of way by a public agency in
conformance with the comprehensive plan.
      5.   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundaries that does not result in the change of the present land usage or
which does not reduce the area, frontage, width, depth or building setback
lines of each building site below the minimum zoning requirements and does not
change the original number of lots in any block of the recorded plat.
      6.   A division of any original parcel into not more than two (2)
parcels, provided that each parcel resulting from such subdivision shall have
legal access to an improved and open public right of way. (Ord. 498, 4-16-2009)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Interpretation Of Terms Or Words
11-2-2: Meaning Of Terms Or Words
11-2-1: INTERPRETATION OF TERMS OR WORDS:
Terms or words used herein shall be interpreted as follows:
   A.   The present tense includes the past or future tense, the singular
includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular.
   B.   The word "shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive; and the word
"should" is preferred.
   C.   The masculine shall include the feminine. (Ord. 498, 4-16-2009)
11-2-2: MEANING OF TERMS OR WORDS:
ACCESS: A legally and physically defined area available and practical for motor
vehicle ingress and egress to parcels, areas or tracts of land. In determining
practicality, the topography, drainage, potential for erosion, and other
factors may be considered. The following are types or forms of access:
Alley: Any thoroughfare at least ten feet (10') wide and not more than thirty
feet (30') wide which has been dedicated or deeded to the public for public use
and which affords a secondary means of access to abutting properties.
Arterial: A general term including expressways and major arterial streets; and
interstate, state or county highways having regional continuity.
City Road: A public road, including its entire right of way, under the
jurisdiction of the city of Challis.
Collector: A street providing for traffic movement within neighborhoods of the
city and between major arterials.
Cul-De-Sac: A street connected to another street at one end only and provided
with a turnaround space at its terminus.
Frontage: A local street, parallel to and adjacent to an arterial street to
provide access to abutting properties.
Local: A street providing direct access to residential, commercial, industrial,
or other abutting land and for local traffic movements and connects to
collector and/or major street.
Loop: A local street with both terminal points on the street of origin.
Partial: A dedicated right of way providing only a portion of the required
street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract of land.
Private: A street that is not accepted for public use or maintenance that
provides vehicular and pedestrian access.
Private Road: A road which provides access to parcels, areas or tracts of land
and has been approved by the city for use as a private road. A private road
shall be considered that portion of a lot or parcel that is used for access
purposes as described by an easement. A private road is not repaired, plowed or
otherwise maintained by the city nor can the city contract for its maintenance.
State Highway: A public road, including its entire right of way, under the
jurisdiction of the state of Idaho/Idaho transportation department.
U.S. Forest Service Road And The Bureau Of Land Management: A federally owned
easement or right of way which provides access to federally owned land.
ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION: An action, as allowed by ordinance, that is taken by
city staff and does not need the approval or action of the planning and zoning
commission or the city council.
ADMINISTRATOR: The city clerk of the city of Challis.
APPLICANT: Person, firm, group or organization who makes application for
subdivision under this title.
BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts, or parcels within well defined boundaries,
usually streets.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Custer County, Idaho.
BUILDING: A structure designed or used as the living quarters for one or more
families or a structure designed or used for occupancy by people for
commercial, agricultural, or industrial uses.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: An imaginary line established by a zoning ordinance that
requires all buildings to be set back a certain distance from lot lines.
BUILDING SITE: An area proposed or provided and improved by grading, filling,
excavation or other means for erecting pads for buildings.
CITY: The city of Challis, Idaho.
CITY ENGINEER: An engineer employed by the city, either as a contracted
position or as a city employee.
COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission of the city of Challis, Idaho,
as appointed by the city council.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A comprehensive plan or parts thereof, providing for the
future growth and improvement of the city and for the general location and
coordination of streets and highways, schools and recreation areas, public
building sites, and other physical development, which shall have been duly
adopted by the council.
CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of an undivided interest in common in real
property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any combination
thereof; together with a separate interest in real property, in an interest or
interests in real property, or in any combination thereof.
CONTIGUOUS PARCEL OR LOT: Any unplatted or platted parcels of land under the
same ownership that touch each other. If parcels are separated or divided by
platted roads or city and state highways, they shall not be considered
contiguous.
COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Challis, Idaho.
COUNTY RECORDER: The office of the county recorder of Custer County, Idaho.
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public by ordinance, resolution, or entry in the official minutes as by the
recording of a plat. Dedicated land becomes public land upon the acceptance by
the council.
DEVELOPER: The subdivider or authorized agent(s) of the subdivider.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A written agreement or a written commitment that affects
the use of development of a parcel of property that is the subject of a rezone
or development request. A written commitment shall also be known as a
development agreement.
DWELLING UNIT: Space within a dwelling comprising living, dining, sleeping room
or rooms, storage closets, as well as space and equipment for cooking, bathing
and toilet facilities.
EASEMENT: Authorization by a property owner for the use by another or the
public and for a specified purpose of any designated part of his property.
Also, a right acquired by prescription.
ENGINEER: Any person who is licensed or registered in the state to practice
professional engineering.
FLOODPLAIN: A floodplain is defined by FEMA maps and controlled through the
"flood control ordinance" of the city of Challis.
LOT: An area of land occupied or to be occupied by a building or other
structure, or to be used in connection with an activity that is shown as a
separately bounded area in a recorded subdivision plat or deed.
LOT AREA: The area of any lot shall be determined exclusive of street, highway,
alley, road, or other rights of way.
LOT TYPES: As used in these regulations, lot types are as follows:
Corner Lot: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets.
Interior Lot: A lot other than a corner lot, with frontage on only one street.
Through Lot: A lot with frontage on more than one street other than a corner
lot.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, constructed according to the HUD/FHA
manufactured/mobile home construction and safety standards, built after July 1,
1976, transportable in one or more sections, and may be sited on lots within
the city limits after meeting the following requirements. Manufactured homes do
not include recreational vehicles.
   A.   The manufactured home shall be multisectional.
   B.   The roof must meet snow load recommendations of the city but at a
minimum shall be a pitched roof, except that no standards shall require a slope
of greater than a nominal three feet (3') in height for each twelve feet (12')
in width.
   C.   The manufactured home shall be placed on an excavated and backfilled
foundation and enclosed at the perimeter such that the home is located not more
than twelve inches (12") above grade;
   D.   The manufactured home shall have exterior siding and roofing which in
color, material and appearance is similar to the exterior siding and roofing
materials commonly used on surrounding dwellings.
   E.   The manufactured home shall have a foundation fascia that is similar in
appearance and durability to the masonry foundation of site built dwellings and
which surround the entire perimeter of the structure and completely enclose the
space between the siding and the finished grade.
   F.   The manufactured home shall be permanently affixed and set upon a
foundation base having an anchoring system that is totally concealed under the
structure. The running gear and towing hitch shall be removed.
   G.   The manufactured home shall be granted a zoning application from the
city to ensure that the manufactured home is placed on site to HUD standards
set forth in circular letter 2-83, dated April 8, 1983, or as later amended,
published by the Boise service office of HUD regulating the perimeter
foundation, the anchoring of the structure to its foundation and other building
requirements.
   H.   The manufactured home shall meet all other state of Idaho requirements.
MOBILE HOME: A transportable structure, built on or before July 1, 1976, which
is at least ten (10) body feet in width and forty (40) body feet in length,
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. No
mobile home may be placed on a single-family lot within the city after the
effective date hereof unless it meets the rehabilitation standards as specified
in title 44 of the Idaho Code. Mobile homes do not include recreational
vehicles.
MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: Any site or tract of land under single
ownership, upon which two (2) or more mobile home habitations are parked,
either free of charge or for revenue purposes; including any roadway, building,
structure, vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the
facilities of such park.
MONUMENT: Any permanent marker either concrete, galvanized iron pipe, iron or
steel rods, used to identify any tract, parcel, lot or street lines.
OPEN SPACE: An area open to the sky for outdoor recreation activity, exclusive
of streets, buildings, or other covered structures.
ORIGINAL PARCEL: A lot or tract as recorded on any plat or record on file in
the office of the county recorder, or any unplatted parcel of land held in one
ownership and of record as of the effective date hereof. The original vested
owner retains original parcel date and rights.
OWNER: The individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, trust, or
corporation or any other entity having any interest in the land to be
subdivided.
PARCEL: An area of land under one ownership.
PERFORMANCE BOND OR SURETY BOND: A financial guarantee by a subdivider or
developer with the city in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of
the estimated construction cost guaranteeing the completion of physical
improvements according to plans and specifications within the time prescribed
by the agreement paid to the city clerk.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed as a combination
of residential, recreational, commercial and industrial uses planned for a
tract of land to be developed as a unit under single ownership or control,
which is developed for the purpose of selling individual lots or estates,
whether fronting on private or dedicated streets, which may include two (2) or
more principal buildings.
PLAT: A map of a subdivision.
Final Plat: A map of all or part of a subdivision providing substantial
conformance to an approved preliminary plat, prepared by a registered engineer
and surveyor in accordance with this title and the Idaho Code.
Preliminary Plat: A preliminary map, including supporting data, indicating a
proposed subdivision development, prepared in accordance with this title and
the Idaho Code.
Recorded Plat: A final plat bearing all of the certificates of approval
required in this title and duly recorded in the city.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary
living quarters, which is less than ten (10) body feet in width and is less
than forty five (45) body feet in length, for recreational, camping, or
traveling use, which either has its own motive power or is mounted on or drawn
by another vehicle. The basic entities are: travel trailers, camping trailers,
truck camper, fifth wheel camper and motor home.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE LOT: A parcel of ground in a recreational vehicle park
intended to be rented as a place to park a recreational vehicle for temporary
dwelling purposes.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A tract of ground under unified ownership developed
for the purpose of providing rental space for parking of recreational vehicles
on individual spaces within its confines.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public way,
which normally includes streets, sidewalks and other public utilities or
service areas.
STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS: Those specifications and drawings pertaining to the
construction of streets, curbs and gutters, sidewalks, sewers, water lines,
fire hydrants, utilities, or other improvements within a subdivision as may be
adopted by the city and are also stated in title 7 of this code.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STREET/ROAD: See definition of Access.
SUBDIVIDER: The subdivider shall be deemed to be the individual, firm,
corporation, partnership, association, syndicate, trust, or other legal entity
that executes the application and initiates proceedings for the subdivision of
land in accordance with the provisions of this title. The subdivider need not
be the owner of the property; however, he shall be an agent of the owner or
have sufficient proprietary rights in the property to represent the owner.
SUBDIVISION: The division of any original parcel of land or property as more
fully defined in chapter 1 of this title.
UTILITIES: Installations for conducting water, sewage, gas, telephone,
electricity, television, stormwater, and similar facilities providing service
to and used by the public.
VICINITY MAP: A small map, drawn to scale, which indicates the location of the
area to be platted in relation to other known landmarks, roadways, public
buildings, etc., within a two (2) mile radius. (Ord. 498, 4-16-2009)
CHAPTER 3
PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
SECTION:
11-3-1: Subdivision Approval Required
11-3-2: Preliminary Plat
11-3-3: Final Plat
11-3-1: SUBDIVISION APPROVAL REQUIRED:
Any person desiring to create a subdivision as herein defined shall submit all
necessary applications to the city. No final plat shall be filed with the city
or improvements made on the property until the plat has been acted upon by the
commission, if appointed, and conditionally approved by the council. No lots
shall be sold until the plat has been recorded in the office of the county
recorder. (Ord. 498, 4-16-2009)
11-3-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Application: The subdivider shall file with the commission, if
appointed, and city council a complete subdivision application form and
preliminary plat data as required by this section.
   B.   Combining Preliminary And Final Plats: The applicant may request that
the subdivision application be processed as both a preliminary and final plat
if all the following exists:
      1.   The proposed subdivision does not exceed ten (10) lots, and all lots
have legal access.
      2.   No new public and private street dedicating or street widening is
involved.
      3.   No major special development considerations are involved such as
development in floodplain, hillside development or the like.
      4.   All required information for both preliminary and final plat is
complete and in an acceptable form.
A request to combine both preliminary plat and final plat into one application
shall be acted upon by the commission, if appointed, and council.
   C.   Content Of Preliminary Plat: The contents of the preliminary plat and
related information shall be in such a form as required by this section;
however, any additional maps or data deemed necessary by the commission, if
appointed, and council may also be required.
The subdivider shall submit to the city at least the following:
      1.   Ten (10) copies of the preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision,
drawn in accordance with the requirements hereinafter stated; each copy of the
preliminary plat shall be on good quality paper, shall have dimensions of not
less than twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36"), shall be drawn
to scale of not less than one inch to two hundred feet (1" = 200') unless
written waiver for a modified scale is obtained from the city.
      2.   Appropriate information that sufficiently details the proposed
development within any special development area, such as hillside, planned unit
development, floodplain, mobile home, large scale development, hazardous and
unique areas of development.
   D.   Requirements Of Preliminary Plats: The following shall be shown on the
preliminary plat or shall be submitted separately:
      1.   The name of the proposed subdivision.
      2.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the subdivider or
subdividers and the engineer or surveyor who prepared the plat.
      3.   The name and address of all adjoining owners of property, whether or
not bisected by a public right of way as shown on record in the county
assessor's office.
      4.   The legal description of the subdivision.
      5.   Scale, north point, and date of preparation including dates of any
subsequent revisions.
      6.   A statement of the intended use of the proposed subdivision, such
as: residential single-family; or two-family and multiple housing; commercial;
industrial; recreational; or agricultural and showing of any sites proposed for
parks, playgrounds, schools, churches or other public uses.
      7.   A map of the entire area scheduled for development if the proposed
subdivision is a portion of a larger holding intended for subsequent
development.
      8.   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to the
surrounding area (2 mile minimum radius, scale optional).
      9.   The land use and existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and the
adjacent land.
      10.   Topography by contours related to USGS survey datum, or other datum
approved by the city engineer or commission or council, or other water
features; direction of flow; location and extent of areas subject to inundation
whether such inundation be frequent, periodic, or occasional.
      11.   Location of water wells, streams, canals, irrigation laterals,
private ditches, washes, lakes, or other water features; direction of flow;
location and extent of areas subject to inundation whether such inundation be
frequent, periodic, or occasional.
      12.   Location, widths, and names of all presently existing platted
streets, railroads, utility rights of way of public record, public areas,
permanent structures to remain, water wells, and municipal corporation lines.
      13.   The acreage of the tract proposed to be subdivided.
      14.   Name, book, and page numbers of any recorded adjacent subdivision
having common boundary with the tract proposed to be subdivided.
      15.   Street layout, including location, width, and proposed names of
streets, alleys, crosswalks and easements; connections to adjoining platted
tracts.
      16.   Lot lines and blocks showing the dimensions and numbers of each.
      17.   A site report as required by the appropriate health district where
individual wells or septic tanks are proposed.
      18.   A statement designating the method of disposal of sewage within the
subdivision and a statement indicating the method by which culinary water will
be provided to all lots within the proposed subdivision. A written statement of
approval from the Eastern Idaho health district as to the proposed water supply
and sewage disposal system shall accompany the preliminary plat.
      19.   A preliminary calculation and layout of the proposed system for
stormwater disposal and locations of outlets subject to approval of the city
engineer or commission or council.
      20.   Any additional information as required by the commission or council
after review of the preapplication.
      21.   A written statement as to whether a variance will be requested with
respect to any provision of this title describing the particular provision, the
variance requested, and the reasons therefor.
      22.   All other requirements under sections 50-1301 through 50-1334 of
Idaho Code.
   E.   Fees: Fees shall be set by resolution of the council.
   F.   Certification: Upon receipt of the preliminary plat, and all required
data as provided herein, the city shall certify the application as complete and
shall affix the date of application acceptance thereon. Said preliminary plat
shall therefore be placed on the commission or council (if a commission is not
appointed) agenda for consideration at the next available regular meeting of
the commission or council.
   G.   Agency Review: The city may transmit one copy of the application to
city departments and such other agencies that have jurisdiction or an interest
in the proposed subdivision for their review and recommendations. This shall
include:
      1.   Other governing bodies having joint jurisdiction.
      2.   The appropriate utility companies, irrigation companies or districts
and drainage districts.
      3.   The superintendent of the school district.
      4.   All public safety departments including fire and law enforcement.
      5.   Other agencies having an interest in the proposed subdivision as
suggested on the application form including:
Idaho transportation department
Eastern Idaho health district
If no written reply is received by the city from any of the various departments
or interested agencies within ten (10) business days from the date of
notification, approval of the preliminary plat by such department or agency
will be considered to be granted.
   H.   Publication Notification:
      1.   Notification To Property Owners: At least fifteen (15) days prior to
the hearing, notice of the time and place and a summary of the proposal shall
be published in the official newspaper or paper of general circulation within
the jurisdiction. Notice may also be made available to other newspapers, radio
and television stations serving the jurisdiction for use as a public service
announcement. Notice shall also be provided to property owners and residents
within the land being considered, three hundred feet (300') beyond the external
boundaries of the land being considered, and any additional area that may be
substantially impacted by the proposed development as determined by the city.
When notice is required to two hundred (200) or more property owners or
residents, in lieu of the mailing notification, three (3) notices in the
newspaper or paper of general circulation is sufficient; provided, the third
notice appear ten (10) days prior to the public hearing.
   I.   Commission Action (If Appointed):
      1.   Hearing By Commission: Within a reasonable time period following the
close of the public hearing, the commission shall arrive at a decision on the
preliminary plat, considering the preliminary plat, written comments from
concerned persons and agencies that are part of the record for the hearing, and
evidence and testimony submitted at the public hearing.
      2.   Commission's Findings: In determining the acceptance of a proposed
subdivision, the commission shall consider the objectives of this title and at
least the following:
         a.   The conformance of the subdivision with the comprehensive
development plan and zoning ordinance.
         b.   The availability of public services to accommodate the proposed
development.
         c.   The continuity of the proposed development with the capital
improvement program.
         d.   The public financial capability of supporting services for the
proposed development.
         e.   The other health, safety or environmental problems that may be
brought to the commission's attention.
   J.   Action On Preliminary Plat By Commission: The commission may approve,
approve conditionally, disapprove, or table the preliminary plat for additional
information. Such action shall occur a reasonable time period from the date of
the receipt of the recommendation by the planning commission. The action and
the reason for such action shall be stated in writing by the commission, and
forwarded to the applicant. The commission shall also forward a statement of
the action taken and the reasons for such action, together with a copy of the
preliminary plat, to the council for their information and record.
   K.   If A Commission Is Not Appointed: If a commission is not appointed, the
council shall follow the process set forth in subsections I and J of this
section in deliberating on the preliminary plat application.
   L.   Action On Preliminary Plat By Council: The council shall act upon the
report of the commission within a reasonable time period following receipt of
the report.
Upon conclusion of the meeting, the council shall base its findings upon the
report of the commission and within a reasonable time period will declare its
findings. It may sustain, modify, or reject the recommendations of the
commission and may make such findings as are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this title, the comprehensive plan, and the Idaho Code.
   M.   Approval Period:
      1.   Failure to file and obtain the certification of the acceptance of
the final plat application by the city within one year after action by the
council shall cause all approvals of said preliminary plat to be null and void,
unless an extension of time is applied for by the subdivider and granted by the
commission.
      2.   In the event the development of the preliminary plat is made in
successive contiguous segments in an orderly and reasonable manner, and
conforms substantially to the approved preliminary plat, such segments, if
submitted within successive intervals of one year may be considered for final
approval with resubmission for preliminary plat approval.
   N.   Action On Combined Preliminary And Final Plat: If after a public
hearing the commission's conclusion is favorable to the subdivider's request
for the subdivision to be considered as both a preliminary plat and final
subdivision, then a recommendation shall be forwarded to the council in the
same manner as herein specified for a final plat. The commission may recommend
that the combined application be approved, approved conditionally or
disapproved.
   O.   Compliance With Development Agreement: If a development agreement has
been utilized to approve the development, subsequent rezone and platting of the
property and has not been complied with, the rezone and plat may be rescinded
by action of the council. (Ord. 498, 4-16-2009)
11-3-3: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Application: After the approval or conditional approval of the
preliminary plat, the subdivider may cause the total parcel, or any part
thereof, to be surveyed and a final plat prepared in accordance with the
approved preliminary plat. The subdivider shall submit to the commission, if
appointed, or council the following:
      1.   Ten (10) copies of the final plat.
      2.   Ten (10) copies of the final engineering construction drawings for
streets, water, sewer, sidewalks and other improvements.
   B.   Contents Of Final Plat: The final plat shall include and be in
compliance with all items required hereunder and title 50, chapter 13, Idaho
Code. The required dedications, acknowledgments and certifications shall appear
on one of the serially numbered sheets. The final plat shall be accompanied by
and include the following:
      1.   Application For Approval: A written application for approval of such
final plat as stipulated by the commission or council.
      2.   Proof Of Ownership: Proof of current ownership of the real property
included in the proposed final plat.
      3.   Conformance With Preliminary Plat: Conformance with the approved
preliminary plat and meeting all requirements or conditions thereof.
      4.   Conformance With This Title: Conformance with all requirements and
provisions of this title.
      5.   Acceptable Practices And Standards: Acceptable engineering practices
and local standards.
      6.   Title: A title which includes the name of the subdivision and its
location by number of section, township, range.
      7.   Professional Engineer Or Registered Land Surveyor: Name, address,
and registration number of seal of the registered professional engineer or
registered land surveyor preparing the plat.
      8.   Scale, North Arrow, Date Of Preparation: Scale, north arrow, and
date of plat preparation.
      9.   Boundaries: Boundaries of the tract to be subdivided fully balanced
and closed, showing all bearings and distances, determined by an accurate
survey in the field. All dimensions shall be expressed in feet and decimals
thereof.
      10.   Excepted Parcels: Any excepted parcel(s) within the plat boundaries
shall show all bearings and distances, determined by an accurate survey in the
field. All dimensions shall be expressed in feet and decimals thereof.
      11.   Cardinal Points: Location and description of cardinal points to
which all dimensions, angles, bearings and similar data on the plat shall be
referenced; each of two (2) corners of the subdivision traverse shall be tied
by course and distance to separate section corners or quarter section corners.
      12.   Physical Encroachments: Location of all physical encroachments upon
the boundaries of the tract.
      13.   Rights Of Way: Names, right of way lines, courses; lengths, width
of all public streets, alleys, crosswalks and utility easements, radii points
of tangency and central angles of all curvilinear streets and alleys, radii of
all rounded street line intersections.
      14.   Drainageways: All drainageways shall be shown on the plat. The
rights of way of all major drainageways, as designated by the city, shall be
dedicated to the public.
      15.   Easements: All easements for rights of way provided public services
or utilities and any limitations of the easements. Construction within the
easements shall be limited to utilities; and wood, wire or removable section
type fencing.
      16.   Residential Lots: Location and all dimensions of all residential
lots.
      17.   Lot Numbers And Designations: All residential lots shall be
numbered by consecutive numbers throughout the plat. "Exceptions", "tracts",
and "private parks" shall be so designated, lettered, or named and clearly
dimensioned.
      18.   Sites Dedicated To The Public: Location, dimensions, bearings,
radii, arcs, and central angles of all sites to be dedicated to the public,
will be clearly indicated and intended use specified.
      19.   Adjoining Subdivisions: Location of all adjoining subdivisions with
date, book, and page number of recordation noted, or if unrecorded, so marked.
      20.   Private Deed Restrictions: Any proposed private deed restrictions
to be imposed upon the plat or any part or parts thereof pertaining to the
intended use of the land shall be typewritten and attached to the plat and to
each copy submitted.
      21.   Dedication: Statement of dedication of all streets, alleys,
crosswalks, drainageways, pedestrianways; and other easements for public use by
the person holding title of record, and by persons holding title as venders
under land contract. If lands dedicated are mortgaged the mortgagee shall also
sign the plat.
Dedication shall include a written location by section, township, and range, of
the tract. If the plat contains private streets, public utilities shall reserve
the right to install and maintain utilities in the street rights of way.
      22.   Acknowledgment Of Dedication: Execution of dedication acknowledged
and certified by a notary public.
      23.   Certification By Engineer Or Surveyor: Certification by the
registered professional engineer or registered land surveyor making the plat,
that the plat is correct and accurate, and that the monuments described in it
have been located as described.
      24.   Certificate Of Plat Approval: Certificate of plat approval by the
commission or council.
   C.   Fees: Fees shall be set by resolution of the council.
   D.   Commission Review (If Appointed):
      1.   Hearing By Commission: The final plat, prepared in accordance with
title 50, chapter 13, Idaho Code, and the provisions set forth herein, shall be
filed with the commission.
In the event the final plat does not conform to the approved preliminary plat,
the commission shall so inform the subdivider and proceed to review the plat as
if it were a preliminary plat.
      2.   Action Of Commission On Final Plat: The commission, at its next
available regular meeting following receipt of the final plat by the city,
shall consider the plat, and following said meeting shall approve, approve
conditionally, disapprove or table the final plat for additional information
within a reasonable time period from the date of the regular meeting at which
the plat is first considered.
   E.   If A Commission Is Not Appointed: If a commission is not appointed, the
council shall follow the process set forth in subsection D of this section in
deliberating on the preliminary plat application.
   F.   Council Action: The final plat, following commission action and
recommendations thereon, shall be submitted to the council at its next
available regular meeting following completion of review by the commission. The
council shall consider the commission's findings, and comments from concerned
persons and agencies to arrive at a decision on the final plat. The council
shall approve, approve conditionally, or table the final plat for additional
information within a reasonable time period from the date of the meeting at
which the plat is first considered.
   G.   Approval Period: Final plat shall be filed with the county recorder
within one year after written approval by the council, otherwise such approval
shall become null and void unless prior to said expiration date an extension of
time is applied for by the subdivider and granted by the council.
   H.   Method Of Recording: Upon approval of the final plat by the council,
the subdivider's prepayment of recording fees for construction of off site
improvements or posting of surety bond, and the inclusion of the following
signatures on the final plat, the city shall submit the final plat to the
county recorder for recording:
      1.   Certification and signature of the council verifying the subdivision
has been approved.
      2.   Certification and signature of the city clerk, if required, and the
city engineer verifying that the subdivision meets the city requirements and
has been approved by the council.
      3.   Certification of the sanitation restrictions on the face of the plat
as per section 50-1326, Idaho Code, and by the proper representative of the
Eastern Idaho health district or other authorized state agency.
   I.   Sale Of Lots: All lots within a subdivision must be sold and developed
as platted, approved and recorded. (Ord. 498, 4-16-2009)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Minimum Design Standards Required
11-4-2: Streets
11-4-3: Blocks
11-4-4: Pedestrian Walkways
11-4-5: Lots
11-4-1: MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS REQUIRED:
All subdivisions shall conform to the standards of the city comprehensive plan,
the zoning ordinance of the city, this title, any standard specifications and
drawings for the construction of improvements of the city including the "Manual
For Highway And Street Standards" (local highway technical assistance council),
and other ordinances and regulations of the city including title 7 of this
code. (Ord. 498, 4-16-2009)
11-4-2: STREETS:
   A.   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of all
streets shall conform to the city comprehensive plan, this title, and any
standard specifications and drawings adopted by the city transportation plan,
if adopted by the city council, and shall be constructed in relation to
existing and planned streets, to topographical conditions, to public
convenience and safety, and in their relation to the proposed uses of the land
to be served by such streets.
   B.   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial
street, railroad, or limited access highway, the city may require frontage
streets, reverse frontage streets, or such other treatment for the appropriate
use of the tract.
   C.   There shall be provided rights of way of such width and as provided for
in the city comprehensive plan, this title, and standard specifications and
drawings adopted by the council, provided, however, that the width of said
right of way shall in no case be less than set forth in standard specifications
and drawings adopted by the city.
   D.   Cul-de-sac streets shall terminate in a circular turnaround with a
right of way diameter of at least one hundred feet (100'). The council may
approve an equally convenient form of turning space where extreme conditions
justify. The maximum length shall be four hundred feet (400') from the entrance
to the center of a turnaround or as determined by the commission or council
based upon topography, lot size or other conditions affecting the proposed
subdivision.
   E.   Dead end streets will not be approved except in locations designated by
the council as necessary to future extensions in development of adjacent lands.
In any case, a dead end street serving more than four (4) lots shall provide,
by easement, a temporary turning circle with a one hundred foot (100') radius
or other acceptable design to accomplish adequate access.
   F.   Streets shall be planned to intersect as nearly as possible at right
angles, but in no event at less than seventy degrees (70°). Streets
intersecting an arterial shall do so at a ninety degree (90°) angle.
   G.   Where any street deflects at an angle of ten degrees (10°) or more, a
connecting curve shall be required having a minimum centerline radius of three
hundred feet (300') for arterial and collector streets and one hundred twenty
five feet (125') for local streets.
   H.   Streets with centerline offsets of less than one hundred twenty five
feet (125') shall be avoided.
   I.   A tangent at least one hundred feet (100') long shall be provided
between reverse curves for collector and arterial streets.
   J.   At street intersections, property line centers shall be rounded by a
circular arc, said arc having a minimum tangent length of twenty feet (20').
   K.   Street intersections with more than four (4) legs and Y type
intersections where legs meet at acute angles shall be avoided.
   L.   Maximum grades of seven percent (7%) for all streets and roads. (Ord.
498, 4-16-2009)
11-4-3: BLOCKS:
   A.   Every block shall be so designed as to provide two (2) tiers of lots,
except under special conditions where this is not feasible or practical, and
except where lots back onto an arterial street, natural feature or subdivision
boundary.
   B.   Blocks shall not be less than three hundred feet (300') long in all
cases. (Ord. 498, 4-16-2009)
11-4-4: PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS:
Pedestrianways with right of way widths of eight feet (8') or greater will be
required in all new developments where essential for circulation or access to
schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation and other community
facilities. (Ord. 498, 4-16-2009)
11-4-5: LOTS:
   A.   The lot size, width, depth, shape and orientation and minimum setback
lines shall comply with the minimum requirements of the zoning ordinance.
   B.   The size and shape of lots shall be in conformance to any zoning
regulations effective in the area of the proposed subdivision and shall be not
less than seventy five feet (75') in width unless a wider width has been
established for that development or by the zoning ordinance.
   C.   Each lot shall contain a satisfactory building site that is related to
topography and conforms to the city zoning requirements. (Ord. 498, 4-16-2009)
CHAPTER 5
IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Responsibility For Plans
11-5-2: Required Improvements
11-5-3: Financial Guarantee Arrangements
11-5-1: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PLANS:
It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed subdivision
to have prepared by a registered engineer, a complete set of construction
plans, including profiles, cross sections, specifications, and other supporting
data, for all required public streets, utilities and other facilities. Such
construction plans shall be based on preliminary plans that have been approved
with the preliminary plat, and shall be prepared in conjunction with the final
plat. Construction plans are subject to approval by the responsible public
agencies. All construction plans shall be prepared in accordance with any
standards, specifications or drawings adopted by the council. (Ord. 498, 4-16-
2009)
11-5-2: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
Every subdivider shall be required to install the following improvements in
accordance with the conditions and specifications as follows:
   A.   Monuments: Monuments shall be set in accordance with section 50-1303,
Idaho Code, and pursuant to the standards specifications or drawings as adopted
by the council.
   B.   Streets: All streets shall be constructed in accordance with the access
and construction standards and specifications adopted by the council.
   C.   Public Utilities: The subdivider shall cause to be constructed public
utility lines to the boundaries of all lots within a proposed subdivision, said
utilities to include at a minimum, electricity and telephone. Water and sewer
lines shall also be provided when hooking up to city services. Underground
utilities are encouraged and may be required by the commission and the council.
   D.   Storm Drainage: An adequate storm drainage system shall be required in
all subdivisions. The type, extent, location and capacity of said drainage
facilities shall be recommended by a registered engineer employed by the
subdivider, and approved by the council. Construction shall follow the
specifications and drawings as may be adopted by the council for stormwater
drainage.
   E.   Fire Hydrants And Water Mains: Adequate fire protection shall be
required in accordance with the appropriate fire district standards.
   F.   Street Name Signs: Street name sign, design, and placement shall be at
each street intersection in accordance with city ordinances and addressing as
set by the city.
   G.   Street Lighting: Streetlights may be required to be installed at
intersections throughout the subdivision. A subdivider shall conform to the
requirements of the Challis zoning ordinance and the public utility providing
such lighting. Such utilities may be placed underground. (Ord. 498, 4-16-2009)
11-5-3: FINANCIAL GUARANTEE ARRANGEMENTS:
   A.   Financial Guarantee Of Performance: At the time of recording the final
plat, the subdivider shall have previously constructed all required
improvements before filing of the final plat. In lieu of the actual
installation of the required public improvements before filing of the final
plat, the council may permit the subdivider to provide a financial guarantee of
performance in one or a combination of the following arrangements:
      1.   Surety Bond:
         a.   Accrual: The bond shall accrue to the council covering
construction, operation and maintenance of the specific public improvement.
         b.   Amount: The bond shall be in an amount equal to one hundred fifty
percent (150%) of the total estimated cost for completing construction of the
specific public improvement, as estimated by the city engineer and approved by
the council.
         c.   Term Length: The term length in which the bond is in force shall
be for a period to be specified by the council for the specific public
improvement.
         d.   Bonding For Surety Company: The bond shall be with a surety
company authorized to do business in the state of Idaho, acceptable to the
council.
      2.   Cash Deposit, Certified Check, Cashier's Check, Or Irrevocable Bank
Letter Of Credit:
         a.   Treasurer, Escrow Agent Or Trust Company: A cash deposit,
certified check, cashier's check, or an irrevocable bank letter of credit, such
surety acceptable by the council shall be deposited with an escrow agent or
trust company.
         b.   Escrow Time: The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified
check, cashier's check, or irrevocable bank letter of credit, shall be for a
period to be specified by the council.
         c.   Progressive Payment: In the case of cash deposits or certified
checks, an agreement between the board and subdivider may provide for
progressive payment out of the cash deposit or reduction of the certified
check, cashier's check or irrevocable bank letter of credit, to the extent of
the cost of the contemplated portion of the public improvement, in accordance
with a previously entered into agreement.
   B.   Conditional Approval Of Final Plat: With respect to financial
guarantees, the approval of all final subdivision plats shall be conditioned on
the accomplishment of one of the following:
      1.   The construction of improvements to current standards and required
by this chapter shall have been completed by the subdivider and approved by the
council.
      2.   Surety acceptable to the council shall have been filed in the form
of a cash deposit, certified check, cashier's check, irrevocable bank letter of
credit or surety bond, in an amount equal to one hundred fifty percent (150%)
of the estimated cost of the improvements as determined by the city engineer or
council.
   C.   Inspection Of Public Improvements Under Construction: Before approving
a final plat and construction plans and specifications for public improvements,
an agreement between the subdivider and council shall be made to provide for
checking or inspecting the construction and its conformity to the submitted
plans. Within a reasonable time period after completion of improvements, the
council shall certify the completion acceptance or nonacceptance of the
construction and shall transmit a copy of said certification to the subdivider.
No zoning permits will be issued until such improvements are made and accepted
or the financial guarantee as specified by the ordinance is received.
   D.   Penalty In Case Of Failure To Complete The Construction Of A Public
Improvement: In the event the subdivider shall, in any case, fail to complete
such work within the period of time as required by the conditions of the
guarantee for the completion of public improvements, the council may use any
proceeds of the surety bond or other financial guarantee posted by the
subdivider for the completion of said public improvements. In order to
accomplish this, the council shall reimburse itself for the cost and expense
thereof by appropriating the cash deposit, certified check, irrevocable bank
letter of credit or cashier's check which the subdivider may have deposited in
lieu of a surety bond, or may take such steps as may be necessary to require
performance by the bonding or surety company, and as included in a written
agreement between the council and the subdivider.
In the event the subdivider fails to construct said improvements as required,
and the council finds it necessary to use the financial guarantee funds for
completion of said improvement, the same shall not relieve the subdivider, his
agents, officers or employees from liability for completion of the same or for
restitution to the city for costs of construction of said improvements. (Ord.
498, 4-16-2009)
CHAPTER 6
SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
11-6-1: Planned Unit Development Subdivisions
11-6-2: Subdivision Within A Floodplain
11-6-3: Hillside Subdivision
11-6-4: Cemetery Subdivision
11-6-5: Subdivision Within An Area Of Critical Concern
11-6-1: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   General: Planned unit developments shall be subject to requirements set
forth in the zoning ordinance and also subject to all provisions within this
title.
   B.   Minimum Area: A planned unit development for the following principal
uses shall contain an area of not less than:
      1.   Three (3) acres for residential use.
      2.   Five (5) acres for residential use with subordinate commercial use.
      3.   Ten (10) acres for commercial use.
      4.   Ten (10) acres for industrial use.
   C.   Site Development Plan: The developer shall provide the commission or
council with a colored rendering of adequate scale to show the completed
development that will include at least the following:
      1.   Architectural style and building design.
      2.   Building materials and color.
      3.   Landscaping.
      4.   Screening.
      5.   Garbage areas.
      6.   Parking.
      7.   Open space.
   D.   Private Streets: Private street construction standards shall be the
same as those required for public streets dedicated to the city.
   E.   Homeowners' Association: The homeowners' association bylaws and other
similar deed restrictions, which provide for the control and maintenance of all
common areas, recreation facilities or open space shall be filed with the city.
   F.   Storage Areas: Storage areas shall be provided for the anticipated
needs of boats, campers and trailers. For typical residential development, one
adequate space shall be provided every two (2) living units. This may be
reduced by the council if there is a showing that the needs of a particular
development are less.
   G.   Maintenance Building: A maintenance building shall be provided, size
and location to be suitable for the service needs that are necessary for the
repair and maintenance of all common areas.
   H.   Open Space: The location of open space shall be appropriate to the
development and shall be of such shape and area to be usable and convenient to
the residents of the development.
   I.   Control During Development: Single ownership or control during
development shall be required and a time limit may be imposed to guarantee the
development is built and constructed as planned. (Ord. 498, 4-16-2009)
11-6-2: SUBDIVISION WITHIN A FLOODPLAIN:
Any subdivision proposed within a floodplain shall meet all requirements of
title 9, chapter 3, "Flood Control", of this code, adopted by city of Challis.
(Ord. 498, 4-16-2009)
11-6-3: HILLSIDE SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Appearance And Preservation: In order to preserve, retain, enhance and
promote the existing and future appearance, natural topographic features,
qualities and resources of hillsides, special consideration shall be given to
the following:
      1.   Skyline and ridge tops.
      2.   Rolling grassy landforms, including knolls, ridges and meadows.
      3.   Tree and shrub masses, grass, wildflowers and topsoil.
      4.   Rock outcroppings.
      5.   Streambeds, draws and drainage swales, especially where tree and
plant formations occur.
      6.   Characteristic vistas and scenic panoramas.
   B.   Hillside Development Evaluation:
      1.   All development proposals shall take into account and shall be
judged by the way in which land use planning, soil mechanics, engineering
geology, hydrology, civil engineering, environmental and civic design,
architectural and landscape design are applied in hillside areas, including,
but not limited to:
         a.   Planning of development to fit the topography, soils, geology,
hydrology and other conditions existing on the proposed site.
         b.   Orientation of development on the site so that grading and other
site preparation is kept to an absolute minimum.
         c.   Shaping of essential grading to blend with natural landforms and
to minimize the necessity of padding and/or terracing of building sites.
         d.   Division of large tracts into smaller workable units on which
construction can be completed within one construction season so that large
areas are not left bare and exposed during the winter- spring runoff period.
         e.   Completion of roads built to city standards.
         f.   Allocation of areas not well suited for development because of
soil, geology or hydrology limitations for open space and recreation uses.
         g.   Minimizing disruption of existing plant and animal life.
         h.   Consideration of the view from and of the hills.
      2.   Areas having soil, geology or hydrology hazards shall not be
developed, unless it is shown that their limitations can be overcome, that
hazard to life or property will not exist, that the safety, use or stability of
a public way or drainage channel is not jeopardized and that the natural
environment is not subjected to undue impact.
   C.   Engineering Plans: The developer shall retain a professional engineer
to obtain the following information:
      1.   Soils Report: For any proposed hillside development, a soils
engineering report shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report
shall include data regarding the nature, distribution and strength of existing
soils, conclusions and recommendations for grading procedures, design criteria
for corrective measures and opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy
of sites to be developed.
      2.   Geology Report:
         a.   For any proposed hillside development, a geology report shall be
submitted with the preliminary plat. This report shall include an adequate
description of site geology and an evaluation of the relationship between the
proposed development and the underlying geology and recommendations for
remedial remedies.
         b.   The investigation and subsequent report shall be completed by a
professional geologist registered in the state.
      3.   Hydrology Report:
         a.   For any proposed hillside development, a hydrology report shall
be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report shall include an adequate
description of the hydrology, conclusions and recommendations regarding the
effect of hydrologic conditions on the proposed development and opinions and
recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to be developed.
         b.   Flood frequency curves shall be provided for the area proposed
for development.
   D.   Grading Plan:
      1.   A preliminary grading plan shall be submitted with each hillside
preliminary plat proposal and shall include the following information:
         a.   Approximate limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to
be achieved by the grading, including all cut and fill slopes, proposed
drainage channels and related construction.
         b.   Preliminary plans and approximate locations of all surface and
subsurface drainage devices, walks, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs
and other protective devices to be constructed.
         c.   A description of methods to be employed in disposing of soils and
other material that is removed from the grading site, including the location of
the disposal site.
      2.   A final grading plan shall be submitted with each final plat and
shall include the following information:
         a.   Limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to be achieved
by the grading, including all proposed cut and fill slopes and proposed
drainage channels and related construction.
         b.   Detailed plans and locations of all surface and subsurface
drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs and other
protective devices to be constructed.
         c.   A schedule showing when each stage of the project will be
completed, including the total area of soils surface which is to be disturbed
during each stage together with estimated starting and completion dates. In no
event shall the existing (natural) vegetative ground cover be destroyed,
removed or disturbed more than fifteen (15) days prior to grading.
   E.   Development Standards:
      1.   Soils:
         a.   Fill areas shall be prepared by removing organic material, such
as vegetation and rubbish, and any other material which is determined by the
soils engineer to be detrimental to proper compaction or otherwise not
conducive to stability; no rock or similar irreducible material with a maximum
dimension greater than eight inches (8") shall be used as fill material in
fills that are intended to provide structural strength.
         b.   Fills shall be compacted to at least ninety five percent (95%) of
maximum density, as determined by the city engineer.
         c.   Cut slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one
vertical (2:1); subsurface drainage shall be provided as necessary for
stability.
         d.   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one
vertical (2:1); fill slopes shall not be located on natural slopes two to one
(2:1) or steeper or where fill slope toes out within twelve feet (12')
horizontally of the top of an existing or planned cut slope.
         e.   Top and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from
property boundaries a distance of three feet (3') plus one-fifth (1/5) of the
height of the cut or fill but need not exceed a horizontal distance of ten feet
(10'); tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from structures a
distance of six feet (6') plus one-fifth (1/5) the height of the cut or fill,
but need not exceed ten feet (10').
         f.   The maximum horizontal distance of disturbed soil surface shall
not exceed seventy five feet (75').
      2.   Roadways:
         a.   Road alignments should follow natural terrain, and no unnecessary
cuts or fills shall be allowed in order to create additional lots or building
sites.
         b.   One-way streets shall be permitted and encouraged, where
appropriate, for the terrain and where public safety would not be jeopardized.
Maximum width shall be seventeen feet (17').
         c.   The width of the graded section shall extend three feet (3')
beyond the curb back or edge of pavement on both the cut and fill sides of the
roadway.
         d.   Standard vertical curb (6 inches) and gutter may be required
along both sides of all paved roadways.
      3.   Driveways And Parking: Combinations of collective private driveways,
cluster parking areas and on street parallel parking bays shall be used to
attempt to optimize the objectives of minimum soil disturbance, minimum
impervious cover, excellence of design and aesthetic sensitivity.
   F.   Vegetation And Revegetation:
      1.   The developer shall submit a slope stabilization and revegetation
plan which shall include a complete description of the existing vegetation, the
vegetation to be removed and the method of disposal, the vegetation to be
planted and slope stabilization measures to be installed. The plan shall
include an analysis of the environmental effects of such operations, including
the effects on slope stability, soil, erosion, water quality and fish and
wildlife.
      2.   Vegetation sufficient to stabilize the soil shall be established on
all disturbed areas as each state of grading is completed. Areas not contained
within lot boundaries shall be protected with perennial vegetal cover after all
construction is completed. Efforts shall be made to plant those species that
tend to recover from fire damage and do not contribute to a rapid rate of fire
spread.
      3.   The developer shall be fully responsible for any destruction of
native vegetation proposed for restoration. He shall carry the responsibility
both for his own employees and for all subcontractors from the first day of
construction until the notice of completion is filed. The developer shall be
responsible for replacing such destroyed vegetation.
   G.   Maintenance: The owner of any private property on which grading or
other work has been performed pursuant to a grading plan approved for a zoning
permit granted under the provisions of this code shall continuously maintain
and repair all graded surfaces and erosion prevention devices, retaining walls,
drainage structures or means and other protective devices, plantings and ground
cover installed or completed.
   H.   Utilities: It is encouraged that all new service utilities be placed
underground. (Ord. 498, 4-16-2009)
11-6-4: CEMETERY SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Function: The developer may provide the commission with written
documentation that will sufficiently explain the functions of the proposed
cemetery for either human or animal remains.
   B.   Compliance With Idaho Code: The developer shall submit a written
statement that has been prepared by an attorney that adequately assures the
compliance of the proposed cemetery with the procedural management requirements
that are outlined in title 27, Idaho Code, as amended. (Ord. 498, 4-16-2009)
11-6-5: SUBDIVISION WITHIN AN AREA OF CRITICAL CONCERN:
   A.   General: Hazardous or unique areas may be designated as an area of
critical concern by the city or by the state. Special consideration shall be
given to any proposed development within an area of critical concern to assure
that the development is necessary and desirable and in the public interest in
view of the existing unique conditions. Hazardous or unique areas that may be
designated as areas of critical concern are as follows:
      1.   Earthquake locations.
      2.   Unstable soils.
      3.   Historical significance.
      4.   Floodplain.
      5.   Wildfire urban interface and other areas of fire hazards.
      6.   Other areas of critical concern.
   B.   Plan Submission: The developer may be required to prepare and submit an
environmental assessment or impact statement along with the preliminary plat
application for any development that is proposed within an area of critical
concern.
   C.   Content Of Environmental Statement: The content of the environmental
statement shall usually be prepared by an interdisciplinary team of
professionals that shall provide answers to the following questions:
      1.   What changes will occur to the area of environmental concern as a
result of the proposed development?
      2.   What corrective action or alternative development plans could occur
so as not to significantly change the area of environmental concern?
      3.   What changes in the area of environmental concern are unavoidable?
      4.   What beneficial or detrimental effect would the development have on
the environment (i.e., animal life, plant life, social concerns, economic
noise, visual, and other)? (Ord. 498, 4-16-2009)
CHAPTER 7
VACATIONS AND DEDICATIONS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Application Procedure
11-7-1: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
Any property owner desiring to vacate an existing subdivision, public right of
way or easement, or desiring to dedicate a street right of way or easement
shall complete and file an application with the commission. These provisions
shall not apply to the widening of any street that is shown in the
comprehensive plan, or the dedication of streets, rights of way, or easements
to be shown on a recorded subdivision. (Ord. 498, 4-16-2009)
CHAPTER 8
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
11-8-1: Enforcement
11-8-2: Penalties
11-8-1: ENFORCEMENT:
No subdivision plat required by this title or the Idaho Code shall be admitted
to the public land records of the city or recorded by the county recorder,
until such subdivision plat has received final approval by the council. The
prosecuting attorney shall, in addition to taking whatever criminal action
deemed necessary, take steps to civilly enjoin any violation of this title.
(Ord. 498, 4-16-2009)
11-8-2: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm, or corporation using an unimproved and unrecorded plat in the
sale of subdivided land or violating any of the terms or provisions of this
title or failure to comply with any of its requirements may be punished by a
fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) per lot. (Ord. 498, 4-16-
2009)
