CITY CODE
of
CRAIGMONT, IDAHO
2010
Code current through:
Ord. 448, passed June 4, 2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Craigmont, Idaho, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 448, passed June 4, 2024. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2010-408
   AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF CRAIGMONT, IDAHO, ADOPTING THE CRAIGMONT CITY
CODE, REPEALING CERTAIN GENERAL ORDINANCES PASSED PRIOR TO THE ADOPTION OF THIS
ORDINANCE, PROVIDING FOR EXCEPTIONS, PROVIDING FOR CIVIL AND CRIMINAL PENALTIES
FOR VIOLATIONS, PROVIDING FOR AN EFFECTIVE DATE AND REPEAL OF CONFLICTING
ORDINANCES
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CRAIGMONT, IDAHO
AS FOLLOWS.
SECTION 1:
   The Craigmont city code as published by Sterling Codifiers in 2010 is hereby
adopted by the city council of the city of Craigmont and is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Craigmont.
   The city code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the Craigmont city
code and is hereby published by the authority of the city council.
   All general ordinances of the city of Craigmont, passed prior to the date of
August 4, 2009 are repealed, with certain exceptions, as is set forth in detail
in the Craigmont city code.
   Ordinances of the city of Craigmont passed since the date of August 4, 2009
are deemed to supplement the Craigmont city code.
SECTION 2:
   This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon the approval and
passage by city council of the city of Craigmont and upon the publication of a
summary of the same in the official newspaper of the city of Craigmont.
   PASSED UNDER SUSPENSION of all rules and regulations of the city council
upon which a proper roll call vote was duly taken and duly enacted as an
ordinance of this city at a regular meeting of the mayor and council of the
city of Craigmont, Idaho held on the 7th day of September, 2010.
/s/   
Roger Riggers, Mayor
 
 
ATTEST:
 
 
/s/   
LaLisa Thomason, City Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
Craigmont City Code   1
Saving Clause   2
Definitions And Interpretations   3
General Penalty   4
Mayor And City Council   5
City Officers And Employees   6
Municipal Finances   7
Miscellaneous Administrative Provisions   8
City Hall Rental   9
Area Of City Impact   10
CHAPTER 1
CRAIGMONT CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this city code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Craigmont. This city
code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the CRAIGMONT CITY CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the city council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3  of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents. (2010 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2010 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the city code. (2010 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
Except as otherwise directed or approved by the city council or authorized by
law, it shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or
deface in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner
that the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code
books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested persons,
shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to the
office of the city clerk-treasurer when directed so to do by order of the city
council. (2010 Code; amd. Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Tax levy ordinances;
   B.   Appropriation ordinances;
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
   D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
   F.   Salary ordinances;
   G.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
   H.   Improvement ordinances;
   I.   Bond ordinances;
   J.   Ordinances relating to elections;
   K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the city; and
   L.   All special ordinances. (2010 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2010 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (2010 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this city code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted by reference or
any codes or portions of codes adopted herein is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted
by reference or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2010 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Rules Of Construction
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
In the construction of this code, the following rules shall be observed, unless
such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city
council or repugnant to the context of the provisions:
   A.   Verb Tense And Plurals: Words used in the present tense include the
future, the singular number includes the plural and the plural number includes
the singular.
   B.   Shall, May: The word "shall" imposes a duty, and the word "may" confers
a power.
   C.   Gender: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only
shall extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
   D.   Interpretation: All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions
contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that the true
intent and meaning of the council may be fully carried out.
   E.   Oath, Swear: The word "oath" includes "affirmation" and the word
"swear" includes the word "affirm". Every mode of oral statement under oath or
affirmation is embraced in the term "testify" and every written one in the term
"depose".
   F.   Authority Of Board Or Officer: Words prohibiting anything being done,
except in accordance with a license or permit or authority from a board or
officers, shall be construed as giving such board or officer power to license
or permit or authorize such thing to be done.
   G.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city
has been changed in the content of this city code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant
to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1963 Code §
1-103; amd. 2010 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings as herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
                                     A person acting on behalf of another with
AGENT:                               authority conferred, either expressly or
                                     by implication.
CITY:                                The city of Craigmont, county of Lewis,
                                     state of Idaho.
CLERK-TREASURER:                     The clerk-treasurer of the city of
                                     Craigmont.
CODE:                                The Craigmont City Code, as amended.
COUNCIL:                             Unless otherwise indicated, the council of
                                     the city of Craigmont.
COUNTY:                              The county of Lewis, state of Idaho.
DAY:                                 Any twenty four (24) hour period from
                                     midnight to midnight.
                                     Whenever reference is made in this code to
EMPLOYEES:                           a city employee by title only, this shall
                                     be construed as though followed by the
                                     words "of the city of Craigmont".
                                     A sum of money charged by the city for the
FEE:                                 carrying on of a business, profession or
                                     occupation.
FISCAL YEAR:                         The fiscal year of the city shall commence
                                     on October 1 of each year 1 .
                                     A civil public offense, not constituting a
                                     crime, punishable by a penalty not
INFRACTION:                          exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00)
                                     and for which no incarceration may be
                                     imposed 2 .
                                     Imports only a knowledge that the facts
                                     exist which brings the act or omission
KNOWINGLY:                           within the provisions of this code. It
                                     does not require any knowledge of the
                                     unlawfulness of such act or omission.
                                     Includes lands, tenements, hereditaments,
LAND, REAL ESTATE AND REAL PROPERTY: water rights, possessory rights and
                                     claims.
LICENSE:                             The permission granted for the carrying on
                                     of a business, profession or occupation.
 
MISDEMEANOR:                       Any offense not defined as a felony or
                                   infraction under state law.
MONTH:                             A calendar month unless otherwise expressed.
                                   Imports a want to such attention to the
NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, NEGLIGENT AND nature or probable consequences of the act
NEGLIGENTLY:                       or omission as a prudent man ordinarily
                                   bestows in acting in his own concern.
                                   Anything offensive to the sensibilities of
                                   reasonable persons, or any act or activity
                                   creating a hazard which threatens the health
NUISANCE:                          and welfare of inhabitants of the city, or
                                   any activity which by its perpetuation can
                                   reasonably be said to have a detrimental
                                   effect on the property of a person or
                                   persons within the community.
                                   As applied to a building or land, shall
OCCUPANT:                          include any person who occupies the whole or
                                   any part of such building or land whether
                                   alone or with others.
                                   Any act forbidden by any provision of this
OFFENSE:                           code or the omission of any act required by
                                   the provisions of this code.
                                   Whenever reference is made in this code to a
OFFICERS:                          city officer by title only, this shall be
                                   construed as though followed by the words
                                   "of the city of Craigmont".
OPERATOR:                          The person who is in charge of any
                                   operation, business or profession.
                                   As applied to a building or land, shall
OWNER:                             include any part owner, joint owner, tenant
                                   in common, joint tenant or lessee of the
                                   whole or of a part of such building or land.
                                   Any public or private corporation, firm,
PERSON:                            partnership, association, organization,
                                   government or any other group acting as a
                                   unit, as well as a natural person.
                                   Shall include every description of money,
                                   goods, chattels, effects, evidence of rights
                                   in action and all written instruments by
PERSONAL PROPERTY:                 which any pecuniary obligation, right or
                                   title to property is created, acknowledged,
                                   transferred, increased, defeated, discharged
                                   or diminished and every right or interest
                                   therein.
 
PROPERTY:   Includes both real and personal property.
QUARTER:    Any three (3) month period, ending with the last days of March, June,
            September and December.
RETAILER:   Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to
            the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF    The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other property.
WAY:
STATE:      The state of Idaho.
STREET:     Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
            squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT OR   As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
OCCUPANT:   the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
            others.
WHOLESALER, Unless otherwise specifically defined, these terms shall be understood to
WHOLESALE   relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons
DEALER:     who purchase for the purpose of resale.
            When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted, implies
WILFULLY:   simply to a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
            referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
            another, or to acquire an advantage.
            May include printing and any other mode of representing words and letters,
WRITTEN, IN but when the written signature of any person is required by law to any
WRITING:    official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper handwriting
            of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
            person's proper mark.
YEAR:       Any one calendar year. (1963 Code § 1-103; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 444, 4-2-
            2024)
 
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-1001.
2 2. IC §§ 18-111 and 18-113A.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections and subsections of the city code are
intended as mere catchwords to indicate the content of the section or
subsection and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor
be deemed to govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning
or intent of the provisions of any section hereof, nor unless expressly so
provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the
catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2010 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Continuing Offenses
1-4-3: Application To Public Officers
1-4-4: Violation; License Revocation (Rep. by Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
Except in cases where a different punishment is provided in this code or by
applicable city ordinance:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Every offense declared to be a misdemeanor under this code
is punishable by imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding six (6) months,
or by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by both.
   B.   Infraction: Every offense declared to be an infraction under this code
is punishable by a fine not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00). (2010
Code; amd. Ord. 444, 5-2-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-302.
1-4-2: CONTINUING OFFENSES:
A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or
obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this code. (2010 Code; amd. Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
1-4-3: APPLICATION TO PUBLIC OFFICERS:
   A.   Unless otherwise expressly provided in this code or applicable city
ordinance, nothing in this code is intended to, nor shall it, subject any
public official, officer or employee of city of any other governmental entity,
agency or taxing district to any liability, prosecution or penalty arising from
an otherwise lawful act within the scope of said person’s official public
duties. (1963 Code § 1-103; amd. Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
1-4-4: VIOLATION; LICENSE REVOCATION:
(Rep. by Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Composition Of Council
1-5-2: President Of The Council (Rep. by Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
1-5-3: Powers And Duties Of Council (Rep. by Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
1-5-4: Mayor, Powers And Duties (Rep. by Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
1-5-5: Departments And Commissioners; Organization
1-5-6: Council As Final Authority (Rep. by Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
1-5-7: Council Meetings
1-5-8: Presentation And Passage Of Ordinances (Rep. by Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
1-5-9: Vacancy In Office (Rep. by Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
1-5-10:    Salaries
1-5-11:    Continuity Of Government In Case Of Disaster Or Emergency (Rep. by
Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
1-5-1: COMPOSITION OF COUNCIL:
The legislative authority of the city shall be vested in a city council
consisting of four (4) members, qualified as provided by law. (Ord. 231, 8-9-
1967)
1-5-2: PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL:
(Rep. by Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
1-5-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF COUNCIL:
(Rep. by Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
1-5-4: MAYOR, POWERS AND DUTIES:
(Rep. by Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
1-5-5: DEPARTMENTS AND COMMISSIONERS; ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Departments Created: For the purpose of better administration of the
city, the city council shall divide the administrative duties of the city into
five (5) departments, as follows: departments of public utilities, public
property, public protection, public works, and finance. (1963 Code § 1-907;
amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Organization; Department Commissioners Appointed: At each biennial
organization of the city council, the council shall select and elect from their
number a commissioner for each of the various departments. The departments
shall be composed of those divisions of the city which the council may assign
to each commissioner. Unless otherwise provided by resolution of the city
council, the duties of each department commissioner shall be as follows:
      1.   Commissioner Of Public Utilities: The commissioner of public
utilities shall have full supervision, charge and control of the water
department and sewer division, as well as such other duties as may be assigned
to him by the city council.
      2.   Commissioner Of Public Property: The commissioner of public property
shall have full supervision, charge and control of the municipal airport,
municipal parks, municipal buildings and equipment. He shall perform such other
duties as may be assigned to him by ordinance or by the council. (1963 Code §
1-908)
      3.   Commissioner Of Public Protection: The commissioner of public
protection shall have full supervision, charge and control of the city fire
department and municipal refuse disposal facilities. He shall perform such
other duties as may be from time to time assigned to him by ordinance or by the
council. (1963 Code § 1-908; amd. 2010 Code)
      4.   Commissioner Of Public Works: The commissioner of public works shall
have full supervision of the streets department and street lighting system of
the city. He shall perform such other duties as may be from time to time
assigned to him by ordinance or by the council.
      5.   Commissioner Of Finance: The commissioner of finance shall have full
supervision, charge and control of the financial planning of the city. The
mayor shall serve as the commissioner of finance. The commissioner of each
department shall, upon the request of the commissioner of finance, submit to
him annually a budget for his department.
      All powers and authorities granted to each department commissioner by the
city council pursuant to this code or otherwise are subject to the ultimate
supervision, control, and direction of the city council. No department
commissioner shall have any legal agency or authority to bind the city upon any
debt, contract or other legal obligation unless expressly authorized by the
city council. (1963 Code § 1-908; amd. Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
1-5-6: COUNCIL AS FINAL AUTHORITY:
(Rep. by Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
1-5-7: COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings, Time And Place: The city council shall hold regular
meetings on the first Tuesday of each month. Such meetings shall be held in the
city hall and shall commence at seven o’clock (7:00) P.M. If the regular
meeting day of any month is a holiday, the meeting shall be held on the
following Tuesday at the regular hour.
   B.   Special Meetings: The mayor or one-half (1/2) plus one of the
membership of the council may call special meetings, the object of which shall
be submitted to the members in writing and the call, object and the disposition
thereof shall be entered upon the journal by the clerk-treasurer.
   C.   Quorum And Discipline:
      1.   At all meetings of the council, a majority of the full council shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business; unless otherwise provided
by law, a question before the council shall be decided by a majority of the
members present.
      2.   For the purpose of holding regular or special meetings, a number
less than a majority may compel the attendance of absent members in such manner
and under such penalties as the council may by ordinance have previously
prescribed. Regular or special meetings of the council may be recessed until
further notice. (Ord. 231, 8-9-1967)
   D.   (Rep. by Ord. 444, 4-2-2024) (Ord. 231, 8-9-1967; amd. 2010 Code; Ord.
440, 12-5-2023; Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
1-5-8: PRESENTATION AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES:
(Rep. by Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
1-5-9: VACANCY IN OFFICE:
(Rep. by Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
1-5-10: SALARIES:
Commencing for the calendar year of 2023, the salaries of the Mayor and of the
members of the Craigmont City Council shall be as follows:
   A.   The Mayor shall receive an annual salary in the sum of one thousand
eight hundred dollars ($1,800.00); and
   B.   Each member of the Council shall receive an annual salary in the sum of
nine hundred dollars ($900.00). (Ord. 415, 8-4-2015, eff. 1-1-2016; amd. Ord.
436, 6-6-2023)
1-5-11: CONTINUITY OF GOVERNMENT IN EVENT OF DISASTER OR EMERGENCY:
(Rep. by Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Appointments, Terms And Bonds
1-6-2: Salaries Of Appointive Officials
1-6-3: City Clerk-Treasurer
1-6-4: City Attorney
1-6-5: City Maintenance Supervisor
1-6-1: APPOINTMENTS, TERMS AND BONDS:
   A.   Officers Appointed: The mayor, with the consent of the city council,
shall appoint a clerk-treasurer, attorney, chief of the fire department, city
maintenance supervisor and other such officers as may be deemed advisable for
the efficient operation of the city. (1963 Code § 1-1001; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Term Of Office; Removal: All appointive officers shall hold office for
the term for which they were appointed and qualified; provided, that any
appointive officer may at any time be removed by the action of the majority of
the city council; provided further, that all employees holding positions by
virtue of appointment only may be removed and discharged at the pleasure of the
appointing power. (1963 Code § 1-1002)
   C.   Bonds Of Officers: The following officers shall give bonds to the city,
with two (2) or more sufficient sureties, in the penal sum as follows, provided
surety bonds may be furnished at the expense of the city in lieu of personal
bonds:
 
City clerk-treasurer:        $20,000.00
City maintenance supervisor: 10,000.00
(1963 Code § 1-1003; amd. 2010 Code)
1-6-2: SALARIES OF APPOINTIVE OFFICIALS:
The salaries or other remuneration of appointive officials shall be fixed by
resolution of the city council, unless their salaries are elsewhere provided
for in this code. (1963 Code § 1-702)
1-6-3: CITY CLERK-TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment: The mayor, with the consent of the city council, shall
appoint a clerk-treasurer who shall hold office for the duration of said
appointment or until such time as said person is removed from office by the
city council.
   B.   Duties: The clerk-treasurer shall have all the duties of the city clerk
and duties of the city treasurer as provided by state law, including but not
limited to Title 50, Idaho Code, as amended. In addition, the clerk-treasurer
shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   Keep Seal, Ordinances And Records: The clerk-treasurer shall be
custodian of the seal and affix same to documents as provided. The clerk-
treasurer shall also be custodian of all public records, documents, ordinances,
resolutions and orders of the council, and such other papers and documents as
may be delivered into the clerk-treasurer’s custody.
      2.   Attend Council Meetings; Keep Minutes And Records: The clerk-
treasurer shall attend all sessions of the council, keep a correct journal and
shall keep in a separate book a record of ordinances passed by the council and
of the title of such ordinances; and all ordinances not published in book form
shall be carefully indexed alphabetically. The clerk-treasurer shall see that
each ordinance is published as required by law, and shall keep on file the
proof of such publication.
      3.   Funds, Records And Financial Duties:
         a.   Receive And Safely Keep Funds: It shall be the duty of the clerk-
treasurer to receive and safely keep in designated depositories, as required by
law, all monies or funds belonging to the city which may come into his hands;
to disburse the same upon an appropriation by ordinance or resolution of the
city council after audit and allowance by the city council of claims therefor,
and upon warrant of the mayor. Securities belonging to the city, incapable of
deposit in a checking account, shall be kept by the clerk-treasurer in a safety
deposit box in some banking institution designated by the city council. All
bonds or securities delivered to the clerk-treasurer by any designated
depository of city funds as security for such funds shall be deposited with the
county auditor or other public official as may be provided by law.
         b.   Keep Proper Books And Records: The clerk-treasurer shall keep in
a suitable book or books a full and accurate account of municipal money and
funds received by him, showing the date of the receipt thereof, the person from
whom received, on what account, and to what fund the same is credited, with the
date of disbursement, the person to whom disbursed, on what account and against
what fund.
         c.   Issue Duplicate Receipts For Money Received: The clerk-treasurer
shall execute and deliver to every officer or other person paying money or
funds into the treasury a receipt therefor specifying the date of payment, the
amount thereof and upon what fund or account the same is received.
         d.   Report To City Council:
            (1)   The clerk-treasurer shall prepare and present to the council
at its regular meeting each month a full and complete statement of the
financial transactions of the clerk-treasurer’s office during month preceding,
which said statement shall set forth: all receipts for licenses issued; money
received with applications for licenses which are to come before the council;
and all other funds received by him as clerk-treasurer; and said report shall
give a detailed explanation of disbursements redeemed including a statement of
the aggregate of warrants outstanding against each fund at the close of such
month.
            (2)   The clerk-treasurer shall also, at the close of each fiscal
year, present to the council an annual report covering the operations of the
entire year, which report shall contain a description of the bonds issued and
sold during the year, and the term of sale; and shall itemize each and every
expense thereof.
            (3)   The clerk-treasurer shall also make such additional report
and furnish such other data from the records and files of their office as may
be requested by the city council or be required by law.
            4.   Public Records - Designated Custodian: Unless otherwise
provided by resolution of the city council, the clerk-treasurer is hereby
designed as the custodian of all public records in the possession and control
of city for purposes of the Idaho Public Records Act, Chapter 1, Title 74,
Idaho Code, as amended, and the clerk-treasurer shall perform the duties of
said designated custodian respect to requests to inspect or copy public records
in the possession or control of city pursuant to said act.
            5.   Keep Books And Records: The clerk-treasurer shall keep such
books and permanent records of the transactions and business of the clerk-
treasurer’s office as may be necessary to accurately disclose all transactions
and business of said office. The clerk-treasurer shall also countersign all
warrants, and keep a "Warrant Register And Abstract Of Expenditures", showing
the number and amount of warrants issued and the person to whom issued, the
date redeemed, the interest paid, and the several funds against which each of
said warrants is drawn.
            6.   Issue Licenses And Permits: The clerk-treasurer shall
administer the issuance of all city licenses and permits issued by city as
required under this code or applicable ordinance, a duplicate of which shall be
kept on file, but no license or permit shall be issued to any person unless
fees and charges fixed by law shall have first been paid, for which payment the
clerk-treasurer shall issue a receipt in duplicate. The clerk-treasurer shall
endorse upon the receipt and duplicate receipt the number of the license permit
issued, the number of the application for license or permit, and the duplicate
of such receipt so issued shall be kept on file with the duplicate license or
permit.
            7.   Keep Record Of Municipal Bonds: The clerk-treasurer shall keep
records of outstanding bonds of the city, showing the number and amount of
each, for what and to whom said bonds were issued; and when any of said bonds
are purchased or paid or cancelled, said record shall show the fact; and in the
clerk- treasurer’s report at the close of each fiscal year, the clerk-treasurer
shall describe particularly the bonds issued and sold during the year, the
terms of sale, and itemize each and every expense thereof.
            8.   Warrants: The clerk-treasurer shall duly administer the
processing and payments of all city warrants as provided by state law.
            9.   Claims: The clerk-treasurer shall duly present all claims
filed with the city to the city council for consideration as provided by state
law.
            10.   Attest Documents: The clerk-treasurer, when authorized and
directed by the city council, shall attest and place the city seal officially
and in behalf of the city on all contracts, including deeds, bonds, bills,
notes, obligations and other agreements, ordinances, documents and papers to
which the city is a party, and where required, shall prepare certified copies
of the same.
            11.   Deliver Books And Papers To Successor: The clerk-treasurer
shall deliver to the clerk-treasurer’s successor in office all books, monies,
papers and other property pertaining to said office.
            12.   Publish Quarterly Reports Of Receipts And Expenditures: It
shall be the duty of the clerk-treasurer to cause to be published for at least
one insertion in some newspaper of general circulation in the city, between the
first and third Mondays of May, August, November and February of each and every
year a full statement of the receipts and expenditures of the city, giving the
source from which received, to what purpose applied and to whom paid.
            13.   Collect All Monies: The clerk-treasurer shall receive, and
all officers or other persons shall forthwith pay to, the clerk-treasurer,
except as otherwise provided by this code, all monies due the city on any
account whatsoever.
            14.   Monthly Report To Council: The clerk-treasurer shall at the
end of each and every month, and at other times when required by the city
council, render an account, including a showing, under oath, the condition of
the treasury at the date of such account, including in said statement the
balance of money in the treasury with a detailed statement of the specified
amount in each designated depository and of the amount and class of security
held to guarantee such deposit. Such account shall also contain a statement of
receipts and disbursements and of all warrants redeemed and paid by the clerk-
treasurer, which said warrants, with all vouchers held by the clerk-treasurer,
shall be filed with any and all books or papers in the office of the clerk-
treasurer for the purpose of inspection or examination. (Ord. 286, 9-5-1978;
amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
1-6-4: CITY ATTORNEY:
   A.   Appointment: The mayor, with the consent of the city council, shall
appoint a city attorney who shall hold office for the duration of his
appointment or until such time as he shall be removed by the city council.
(1963 Code § 1-1201; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Duties: The city attorney shall be the legal advisor to the city and
shall have such other duties as provided for city attorneys under state law,
including but not limited to as provided in Chapter 2, Title 50, Idaho Code, as
amended.
      1.   The city attorney shall be the legal advisor of the council.
      2.   He shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits and actions
necessary to be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the city, or
that may be ordered by the council.
      3.   When requested, he shall attend meetings of the council and give
them his opinion upon any matters submitted to him. (1963 Code § 1-1202; amd.
Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
1-6-5: CITY MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR:
   A.   Appointment: The mayor, with the consent of the city council, may
appoint a city maintenance supervisor who shall hold office for the duration of
his appointment or until such time as he shall be removed by the city council.
(1963 Code § 1-1401; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Duties: The city maintenance supervisor shall have charge of the
superintending of all municipal work as follows:
      1.   Streets And Alleys: He shall supervise the grading, surfacing,
repairs and maintenance of all streets and alleys.
      2.   Sewer: He shall supervise the installation and maintenance of all
sewer lines in the city, except the installation of sewer projects which are
accomplished by contract.
      3.   Water: He shall supervise the installation and maintenance of all
water mains and water services, except the installation of water mains so
accomplished by contract.
      4.   Parks: He shall have charge of the care and maintenance of the
municipal parks.
      5.   Equipment: He shall have charge of and supervise the repair and
upkeep of all municipal works equipment.
      6.   Employment And Supervision: He may employ, with the consent of the
city council, such help as is needed to carry on the work of the city, such
help to be directly under the supervision of his office.
      7.   Other Duties: The supervisor shall be responsible for the
accomplishment of such other work of the city which the city council may from
time to time assign to him.
      8.   Make Report: The supervisor shall present to the city council at its
regular meeting each month a written report of the municipal work accomplished
the preceding month and also, as far as can be foreseen, municipal work planned
for the current month. (1963 Code § 1-1402; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL FINANCES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Depository
1-7-2: Funds And Accounts
1-7-1: DEPOSITORY:
The city council may by resolution designated one or more depositories for the
deposit and safe keeping of city funds consistent with state law. Unless
otherwise directed by the city council or provided by law, the clerk-treasurer
shall keep monies belonging to or in the care of the city coming into the
clerk-treasurer’s possession or control in the depository(ies) so designated by
the city council. (1963 Code § 1-601; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 435, 5-2-2023; Ord.
444, 4-2-2024)
1-7-2: FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS:
   A.   Capitalization Of Fixed Assets And Fixed Asset Inventory Maintenance: A
policy has been established by the city for the following purposes:
      1.   Capitalization of fixed assets; and
      2.   A process for maintaining fixed assets inventory.
   B.   Sewer Revenue Account: The city clerk-treasurer is hereby authorized to
open a separate account at the Wells Fargo Bank N.A., Craigmont, Idaho, or its
successor, or at such other depository(ies) directed by the city council, to
deposit all sewer revenues generated by the sewer system.
   C.   The city shall have a minimum of four funds:
      1.   Water fund;
      2.   Wastewater fund;
      3.   Sanitation fund; and
      4.   General fund:
         a.   All other expenses not covered in water, wastewater, or sewer
funds. (Ord. 326, 8-1-1989; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 435, 5-2-2023; Ord. 444, 4-2-
2024)
CHAPTER 8
MISCELLANEOUS ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Corporate Seal
1-8-2: Official Newspaper
1-8-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
   A.   Design: The common, corporate and official seal of the city shall be
circular in form with inner and outer circles. The outer circle shall be one
and one-half inches (11/2") in diameter, and the inner circle shall be one inch
(1") in diameter. It shall bear upon the upper portion of space between the two
(2) circles, the words "City of Craigmont, Idaho". Upon the upper space within
the inner circle, and upon the upper portion thereof, shall be inscribed the
word "Incorporated", and upon the lower portion of the space within the inner
circle shall be the words "June 17, 1920". Upon and across the center of the
space within the inner circle, shall be the word "Seal". (1963 Code § 1-401;
amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Adoption: The seal described in subsection A of this section is hereby
adopted as the official common and corporate seal of the city. (1963 Code § 1-
402)
   C.   Custody Of Seal: The city clerk-treasurer shall be the custodian of the
corporate seal of the city, and shall affix said seal imprint upon all official
city documents, records and licenses. (1963 Code § 1-403)
1-8-2: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The "Lewis County Herald", a weekly newspaper printed and published in Lewis
County, and a newspaper of general circulation in the city, is hereby
appointed, designated and constituted the official newspaper of the city, and
such writings as are required under and by virtue of the city council to be
given publication in a newspaper shall be published in said newspaper. (1963
Code § 1-501; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 9
CITY HALL RENTAL
SECTION:
1-9-1: Rental Authorized
1-9-2: Rental Fees
1-9-1: RENTAL AUTHORIZED:
The assembly rooms and kitchen of the city hall may be rented to public or
business organizations or individuals upon proper application being made to the
city clerk-treasurer, and the payment of the appropriate rental fees. The city
hall shall be made available for use by such organizations or individuals,
either separately or in conjunction with the use of other rooms, only by
specific authorization of the city council. (Ord. 239, 8-12-1969)
1-9-2: RENTAL FEES:
   A.   Time Of Payment: Rental fees for the use of the city hall shall be paid
in advance and upon the making of the application for rental, when the rental
period desired is one month or less. If a period of rental for longer than one
month is desired, the first month's rental shall be payable in advance, and
each succeeding month's rental shall be due and payable to the clerk-treasurer
on the first day of the month preceding use.
   B.   Payment Of Fees; Waivers; Responsibility For Damages:
      1.   Rental fees shall be set and determined by resolution of the mayor
and city council. The city council may waive any rental fee, or any portion
thereof, for any particular user or use the city hall if the city council
determines that such waiver is in the best interest of the city.
      2.   Any organization or individual using any room in the city hall shall
be responsible for any damages to said room or its contents, and shall be
responsible for cleaning said room immediately after each use.
      3.   The city shall pay all normal utility fees and heating expenses
during the rental period. (Ord. 239, 8-12-1969; amd. Ord. 325, 5-2-1989; 2010
Code; Ord. 444, 4-2-2024)
CHAPTER 10
AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
1-10-1: Purpose
1-10-2: Geographic Area Of City Impact
1-10-3: Comprehensive Plan And Zoning Ordinance
1-10-4: Subdivision Ordinance
1-10-5: Council Review And Comment; Approval
1-10-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of establishing an area of city impact is to identify a logical
fringe area adjoining the city. The fringe area includes the unincorporated
area surrounding Craigmont that has a potential for development that could
affect the provision of public services or the quality of life in Craigmont.
(Ord. 289, 12-5-1978)
1-10-2: GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
The officially adopted geographic area of city impact includes all
unincorporated land within the southern 1/2 of Sections 27, 28, and 29, and SE
1/4 of Section 30, the eastern 1/2 of Section 31, all of Sections 32, 33, and
34 in T.34N., R.1W.; and within the eastern 1/2 of Section 6, all of Sections
3, 4, and 5 in T.33N., R.1W. All parcels of land, or portions thereof, lying
within the area of city impact shall be subject to provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 289, 12-5-1978)
1-10-3: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND ZONING ORDINANCE:
The comprehensive plan and the zoning ordinance, and subsequent amendments
thereto, as officially adopted by the board of county commissioners, Lewis
County, Idaho, shall apply to the area of city impact. (Ord. 289, 12-5-1978)
1-10-4: SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE:
Pursuant to Idaho Code sections 50-1306 and 50-1308, the subdivision ordinance,
and subsequent amendments thereto, as officially adopted by the city council,
shall apply to all plats situated within one mile outside the city limits. The
subdivision ordinance, and subsequent amendments thereto, as officially adopted
by the board of county commissioners, shall apply to all other plats situated
within the area of city impact. (Ord. 289, 12-5-1978)
1-10-5: COUNCIL REVIEW AND COMMENT; APPROVAL:
Any request for development, zone change, conditional use permit, or variance
within the area of city impact shall be referred to the city council for review
and comment. The city council shall have forty (40) days to consider the
request and submit a reply to the board of county commissioners. If no reply is
received by the board within the forty (40) day period, the city council
forfeits its right to comment on the request, and processing shall continue
under the board's administration. Both the city council and board shall approve
all subdivision plats within the area of city impact, pursuant to Idaho Code
sections 50-1306 and 50-1308. (Ord. 289, 12-5-1978)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Planning And Zoning Commission   1
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Commission Established; Membership, Duties
2-1-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP, DUTIES:
Those members duly constituted as members of the city council shall exercise
and be charged with all rights, obligations and duties as set forth in Idaho
Code title 67, chapter 65, relating to planning and zoning affecting the city.
Said city council shall exercise all of the powers required and authorized by
Idaho Code section 67-6504, in lieu of the appointment of a planning and zoning
commission. (2010 Code)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
General Licensing Provisions   1
Liquor, Beer And Wine   2
Liquor By The Drink   2A
Beer   2B
Wine   2C
Peddlers, Solicitors And Transient Merchants   3
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Applications
3-1-2: Persons Subject To License
3-1-3: Forms
3-1-4: Signatures
3-1-5: Inspections Or Investigations
3-1-6: Term Of License
3-1-7: Building And Premises
3-1-8: Change Of Location
3-1-9: Nuisances
3-1-10: Posting Of License
3-1-11: Revocation Of License Or Permit; Hearing
3-1-12: Appeal Procedure
3-1-1: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by this code shall be made
in writing to the city clerk-treasurer or his designee, unless otherwise
specifically provided by law. Each application shall state the name of the
applicant, the permit or license desired, the location to be used, if any, the
time covered and the fee to be paid; and each application shall contain such
additional information as may be required by the issuing official. (2010 Code)
3-1-2: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to this
requirement if by himself or through an agent, employee or partner, he holds
himself forth as being engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits
patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs or attempts to perform
any part of such business or occupation in the city. (2010 Code)
3-1-3: FORMS:
Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept on file by the city clerk-treasurer or his designee. (2010
Code)
3-1-4: SIGNATURES:
Each license or permit issued shall bear the signature of the city clerk-
treasurer or his designee in the absence of any provision to the contrary.
(2010 Code)
3-1-5: INSPECTIONS OR INVESTIGATIONS:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit, where laws of the
city necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such
permit or license, the city clerk- treasurer or his designee shall refer such
application to the proper officer for making such investigation within forty
eight (48) hours of the time of such receipt. The officer charged with the duty
of making the investigation or inspection shall make a report thereon,
favorable or otherwise, within ten (10) days after receiving the application or
a copy thereof. (2010 Code)
3-1-6: TERM OF LICENSE:
All annual licenses shall terminate on December 31, where no provision to the
contrary is made. (2010 Code)
3-1-7: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no permit shall
be issued for any thing or act if the premises and building to be used for the
purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the city. (2010 Code)
3-1-8: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any licensed
business or occupation or of any permitted act may be changed, provided ten
(10) days' notice thereof is given to the city clerk-treasurer or his designee;
and further provided, that the building requirements of this code are complied
with. (2010 Code)
3-1-9: NUISANCES:
No business, licensed or not, shall be conducted or operated as to amount to a
nuisance in fact. (2010 Code)
3-1-10: POSTING OF LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the city
to keep his license posted at all times in a prominent place on the premises
used for such business. (2010 Code)
3-1-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT; HEARING:
   A.   City Authority: Any license or permit, for a limited time, may be
revoked by the city council during the life of such license or permit for the
violation by the licensee or permittee of any provision relating to the license
or permit, the subject of the license or permit, or the premises occupied; such
revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed. The city council shall be
authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the closing of the
premises, and the suspension of any business license or permit for a period not
to exceed fifteen (15) days.
   B.   Hearing: Within ten (10) days after the city officials have so acted,
the mayor shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not
the license or permit should be revoked.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing for revocation of a license or
permit shall be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be sent to the
licensee or permittee by certified mail at his last known address or personally
served at least five (5) days prior to the date of the hearing.
   D.   Hearing Procedure: At the hearing, the licensee or permittee shall be
permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross examine
witnesses. The mayor shall preside over the city council who will render the
decision and recommendation.
   E.   Causes For Revocation: Business licenses and permits issued under the
ordinances of the city, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the city
council after notice and hearing as provided in subsections C and D of this
section for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit.
      2.   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of ordinance provisions
or state law relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the
license or permit, or the premises occupied.
      3.   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
      4.   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owing to the city.
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or investigation or any interference
with a duly authorized city officer or employee while in the performance of his
duties in making such inspections, as provided in this code. (2010 Code)
3-1-12: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the city to
issue a license or permit or by the revocation of a license or permit shall
have the right to appeal the city's decision to the city council. Such appeal
shall be requested by submitting a written request to the mayor within five (5)
days of the action of the city which is appealed.
   B.   Council Consideration: The city council shall consider the appeal at
its next regularly scheduled meeting, at which time the applicant shall be
entitled to present his appeal orally or in writing. The city council shall act
on the appeal within seven (7) days of the hearing and shall either uphold the
action of the city or shall direct the issuance of a license or permit which
the city has denied or the reissuance of a license or permit which the city had
revoked. (2010 Code)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR, BEER AND WINE
ARTICLE A. LIQUOR BY THE DRINK
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Purpose
3-2A-2: Definitions
3-2A-3: License Issuance; Conditions And Restrictions
3-2A-4: Application For License
3-2A-5: Investigation Of Applicant
3-2A-6: Form Of License
3-2A-7: Transfer Of License; Fee
3-2A-8: License Fee; Term Of License
3-2A-9: Premises And Location Requirements
3-2A-10: Hours Of Sale
3-2A-11: Gambling Prohibited
3-2A-12: Restrictions On Sales By Licensee
3-2A-13: Purchases By Unqualified Persons
3-2A-14: Intoxicated Persons
3-2A-15: Restrictions On Sales And Advertising
3-2A-16: Unlicensed Rooms Unlawful
3-2A-17: License Revocation Or Cancellation
3-2A-18: Certification Of Conviction
3-2A-1: PURPOSE:
The mayor and city council may issue licenses to qualified applicants as herein
provided, whereby the licensee shall be authorized and permitted to sell liquor
by the drink at retail within the city; and, upon the issuance of such license,
the licensee therein named shall be authorized to sell liquor by the drink at
retail in the city in accordance with the provisions of this article and the
terms and provisions of Idaho Code section 23-901 et seq., as amended. (1963
Code § 5-401; amd. 2010 Code)
3-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
All terms, words and phrases used in this article, and not herein specifically
defined, but defined in Idaho Code section 23-902, as amended, shall be given
the meanings set out in said statute. (1963 Code § 5-424; amd. 2010 Code)
All words and phrases used in this article, the definition of which is not
given in this section, shall be given the ordinary and commonly understood and
accepted meaning.
The following words and phrases used in this article shall be given the
following interpretations:
INTERDICTED PERSON: A person to whom the sale of liquor is prohibited under the
laws of the state of Idaho and this article.
LICENSE: A license issued by the city to a qualified person under which it
shall be lawful for the licensee to sell and dispense liquor by the drink at
retail as provided by this article and as provided by law.
LICENSEE: A person to whom a license is issued under the provisions of this
article.
LIQUOR: All kinds of liquor sold by and in a state liquor store of the state of
Idaho.
PERSON: Every individual, partnership, corporation, organization or association
holding a state retail liquor license, whether conducting the business
singularly or collectively. (1963 Code § 5-402)
3-2A-3: LICENSE ISSUANCE; CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Issuance To State Licensees: The clerk-treasurer, upon the approval of
the city council, is hereby authorized and directed to issue licenses to
qualified applicants to whom licenses to sell retail liquor by the drink shall
have been issued by the director of Idaho state police. (1963 Code § 5-403;
amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Separate Licenses: Every license issued under the provisions of this
article is separate and distinct and no person except the licensee therein
named shall exercise any of the privileges granted thereunder. (1963 Code § 5-
408)
   C.   Applicable To Premises Only: All licenses issued under the provisions
of this article shall be applicable only to the premises in respect to which
they have been issued. (1963 Code § 5-409)
   D.   Disqualified Persons: No license shall be issued to any person, firm,
corporation, association or other group defined as not being qualified to be
licensed under the provisions of Idaho Code section 23-910. (1963 Code § 5-411;
amd. 2010 Code)
3-2A-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Each applicant for a license shall file with the city clerk- treasurer an
application, in writing, setting forth the following facts:
   A.   That he is the lawful holder of a license issued by the director of
Idaho state police pursuant to the provisions of Idaho Code section 23-901 et
seq., as amended, and the licensee shall also present a copy of the state
license. (1963 Code § 5-404; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Description of premises for which license is sought and its location,
and the name of the owner of said premises; such description shall set forth as
a fact that there are windows and/or doors to said premises on the street side
thereof, and that such windows and/or doors have clear window glass therein
permitting an unobstructed view of the interior of said premises from the
abutting street, except when the same are covered by blinds or shades.
   C.   The names and addresses of all persons who will have any financial
interest in any business to be carried on in and/or upon the licensed premises,
whether such interest results from open loans, mortgages, conditional sales
contracts, silent partnerships, trusts or any other basis than open trade
accounts incurred in the ordinary course of business, and the amount of such
interest.
   D.   If the premises described in the license application are not owned by
the applicant, the application shall be accompanied by a certificate of the
owner of the premises expressing such owner's consent to the sale of liquor by
the drink on such premises.
   E.   The name and address of the applicant, which shall include all members
of a partnership or association and the officers and members of the governing
board of a corporation. (1963 Code § 5-404)
   F.   If, during the period of any license issued hereunder, any change shall
take place in any of the requirements of subsections A through E of this
section, the licensee shall forthwith make a report of such change to the city
clerk-treasurer. (1963 Code § 5-404; amd. 2010 Code)
3-2A-5: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license under this article,
accompanied by the necessary license fee, the city council may make such
investigation of all matters pertaining thereto as it shall deem proper. If the
council shall determine that the contents of the application are true, that
such applicant is qualified to receive a license, that his premises are
suitable for the carrying on of the intended business, and that the
requirements of this article have been met and complied with, a license shall
be issued; otherwise the application shall be denied and the license fee
returned. (1963 Code § 5-405)
3-2A-6: FORM OF LICENSE:
Every license issued under this article shall set forth the name of the person
to whom issued, the location by street and number, or other definite
designation of the premises; if issued to a partnership, the names of the
persons constituting the partnership shall be therein set forth; if issued to a
corporation or association, the names of the principal officers and the
governing board shall be therein set forth. Such license shall be signed by the
licensee. (1963 Code § 5-406)
3-2A-7: TRANSFER OF LICENSE; FEE:
A license issued under the provisions of this article shall be transferable
upon the payment of a transfer fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) to the city clerk-
treasurer. (Ord. 291, 3-6-1979; amd. 2010 Code)
3-2A-8: LICENSE FEE; TERM OF LICENSE:
   A.   Fee: Each licensee to whom a license is issued under the provisions of
this article shall pay to the city in advance an annual license fee of two
hundred twenty five dollars ($225.00). (Ord. 391, 3-8-2005)
   B.   Term: All licenses hereunder shall expire annually upon the date the
corresponding state license expires. The license fee shall be for an entire
year, and shall not be prorated but shall be paid in full at the beginning of
each year. (Ord. 391, 3-8-2005; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Refund: No refund shall be allowed for any cancelled, revoked or unused
license. No refund or discount of an annual license fee shall be granted or
allowed for any year. (Ord. 391, 3-8-2005)
3-2A-9: PREMISES AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Sanitation: All licensed premises shall be maintained in sanitary
condition according to the requirements of Idaho department of health and
welfare licensing requirements, as amended. (1963 Code § 5-412; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Location Restrictions; Exceptions: No license shall be issued for any
premises in any neighborhood which is predominantly residential or within three
hundred feet (300') of any public school, church, or any other place of
worship, measured in a straight line to the nearest entrance of the licensed
premises, except with the approval of the city council; provided, that this
limitation shall not apply to any duly licensed premises that at the time of
licensing did not come within the restricted area, but subsequent to licensing
came therein. (1963 Code § 5-413; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Examination Of Premises: Any law enforcement officer shall have the
right at any time to make an examination of the premises of any licensee to
ascertain whether the laws of the state of Idaho and the ordinances of the city
are being complied with, and it shall be unlawful to refuse any such officer
the right of admittance or access to such premises. (1963 Code § 5-421)
3-2A-10: HOURS OF SALE:
No liquor shall be sold, offered for sale, or given away upon any licensed
premises during the following hours:
   A.   Memorial Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day from one o'clock (1:
00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. on the following day.
   B.   On any other day between two o'clock (2:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M. (Ord. 345, 6-4-1991)
   C.   On any day of a general, primary or municipal election until after the
time when the polls are closed. (1963 Code § 5-415)
3-2A-11: GAMBLING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit, conduct, play, carry on, open
or cause to be opened any gaming in or upon licensed premises or in or upon any
premises directly connected by door, hallway or other means of access from the
licensed premises, except such forms of gaming as are authorized by the laws of
the state of Idaho and the ordinances of the city. (1963 Code § 5-416)
3-2A-12: RESTRICTIONS ON SALES BY LICENSEE:
No licensee or his or its employees, agents, servants or bartenders shall sell,
deliver or give away, or cause or permit to be sold, delivered or given away
any liquor to:
   A.   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   B.   Any person actually, apparently or obviously intoxicated.
   C.   Any habitual drunkard.
   D.   An interdicted person. (1963 Code § 5-417; amd. Ord. 256, 6-13-1972;
2010 Code)
3-2A-13: PURCHASES BY UNQUALIFIED PERSONS:
Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, or other person who
knowingly misrepresents his or her qualifications for the purpose of obtaining
liquor from such licensee shall be equally guilty with such licensee and shall,
upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1963 Code § 5-418; amd.
Ord. 256, 6-13-1972; 2010 Code)
3-2A-14: INTOXICATED PERSONS:
No intoxicated person shall be permitted to remain in, loiter or loaf in the
place of business of any licensee, and the licensee and his agents, servants or
bartenders shall give any and all necessary and required assistance to any law
enforcement officer of the city, the county or state in evicting and removing
said person from the premises. (1963 Code § 5-419)
3-2A-15: RESTRICTIONS ON SALES AND ADVERTISING:
   A.   Liquor In Original Containers: It shall be unlawful for any licensee to
sell, keep for sale, dispense, give away or otherwise dispose of any liquor in
the original containers or otherwise than by retail sale by the drink for
consumption only upon the licensed premises.
   B.   Liquor Purchased From State Liquor Dispensary: No liquor shall be sold
by any licensee, except the same which has been purchased by the licensee from
the Idaho liquor dispensary through its regular retail stores and distributors.
   C.   Advertising: It shall be unlawful for any licensee to adopt or use any
name, sign or advertisement outside of the licensed premises advertising the
handling or sale of liquor therein. (1963 Code § 5-420)
3-2A-16: UNLICENSED ROOMS UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any room or premises in
which liquor is received or kept, whether owned by such person or by another,
or to which liquor is brought, for consumption on the premises by members of
the public or of any club, incorporated or unincorporated, or a corporation or
association, unless such person and the premises are licensed under this
article. (1963 Code § 5-422)
3-2A-17: LICENSE REVOCATION OR CANCELLATION:
The right shall be, and at all times shall remain, vested in the city council
to revoke or cancel the license of any person licensed hereunder for any
violation of this article; and upon verified complaint filed with the council,
the council shall, by written notice, cause such alleged offender to appear
before said council and be heard upon said complaint. A copy of such complaint
shall be served with such notice, and the day and hour of the hearing, which
shall be at least five (5) days from the serving of such complaint, shall be
specified in such notice, and such hearing shall be had in the city hall,
unless a different place shall be specified in such notice. If at said hearing,
upon the taking of evidence on behalf of the city and such alleged offender, it
shall appear to the council that cause exists for the cancellation or
revocation of such license, the same may be cancelled or revoked without
further process of law. Upon such cancellation or revocation, no refund of any
unexpired portion of the license fee shall be made to the licensee; and the
fact of such revocation shall immediately be certified to the director of Idaho
state police by the city clerk-treasurer, and if any conviction is had
hereunder, a certified copy of the judgment therein shall be immediately
certified to said director. (1963 Code § 5-423; amd. 2010 Code)
3-2A-18: CERTIFICATION OF CONVICTION:
Upon the conviction of any licensee of any provision of this article, the city
clerk-treasurer shall forthwith certify a copy of said conviction and forward
the same to the director of Idaho state police. (1963 Code § 5-425; amd. 2010
Code)
ARTICLE B. BEER
SECTION:
3-2B-1: Definitions
3-2B-2: Alcohol Content
3-2B-3: Licensing Requirements
3-2B-4: Application For License
3-2B-5: Qualifications Of Licensee
3-2B-6: License Fees; Term Of License
3-2B-7: Transfer Of License; Fee
3-2B-8: Power To Refuse, Revoke And Investigate
3-2B-9: Restrictions On Sales By Licensees
3-2B-10: Beer Consumption In Public Places
3-2B-11: Beer Sales At Certain Places Prohibited
3-2B-12: Hours Of Sale; View Into Premises
3-2B-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt, and/or other ingredients in drinkable water.
RETAILER: Any person licensed to sell beer to the consumer at the premises
described in the license.
YEAR: A calendar year. (1963 Code § 5-301; amd. 2010 Code)
3-2B-2: ALCOHOL CONTENT:
Beer, as defined in Idaho Code section 23-1001, may be sold and distributed at
retail in the city under the conditions prescribed in this article and not
otherwise. (1963 Code § 5-302; amd. 2010 Code)
3-2B-3: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to sell beer, or offer beer for sale at retail to the consumer
without first obtaining a license therefor from the city, and a separate
license shall be required for each place of business where beer is sold. (1963
Code § 5-303)
   B.   Posting Of License: It shall be the duty of each person to whom a
license is issued under this article to keep the same displayed in a
conspicuous place within the premises for which issued. (1963 Code § 5-309)
   C.   Fractional Licenses: No fractional or part year licenses shall be
issued. (1963 Code § 5-310)
3-2B-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
All applications for licenses shall be in writing and filed with the city
clerk-treasurer upon forms to be furnished by said clerk-treasurer, and such
application shall be accompanied by the license fee prescribed therein, and
shall specify:
   A.   The name, age and citizenship of the applicant if an individual; and if
a corporation, the name of the state or county in which incorporated, its
principal place of business, together with its principal place of business in
Idaho, and the names and places of residence of its designated agent in Idaho;
and if a partnership, the names and residences of all partners.
   B.   If the application is made by an individual, a statement as to whether
or not he is a citizen of the United States, and if so, when and where born; if
a naturalized citizen, the time and place where he was naturalized.
   C.   Length of time the applicant has resided in the city, and if a
corporation, when and where it first commenced to do business in Idaho.
   D.   The name and location of the business place to be operated under the
license.
   E.   A statement that the applicant possesses all of the qualifications for
obtaining such license as prescribed by this article. (1963 Code § 5-304)
3-2B-5: QUALIFICATIONS OF LICENSEE:
   A.   No retail license shall be issued to an applicant who:
      1.   Is not a person of good moral character and/or repute, and twenty
one (21) years of age or older.
      2.   Is not a citizen of the United States, or has not been a bona fide
resident of the state of Idaho for a period of thirty (30) days prior to the
date of making application.
      3.   Shall have been convicted for violation of any law of the state of
Idaho or the United States of America or of this city regulating, governing or
prohibiting the sale of alcoholic beverages, or intoxicating liquor; provided,
however, in case the applicant is a partnership, the requirements relative to
residence shall be deemed satisfied when any member of the partnership or the
actual manager thereof has been a bona fide resident of the state for a period
of thirty (30) days prior to the date of making such application, and if the
applicant is a corporation, such corporation shall be qualified to do business
within the state, and the manager of such business place shall be such citizen
and shall have been such resident.
   B.   Furthermore, no person shall be permitted to receive or hold a license
under this article for use in connection with any business not under the
personal supervision, management and control of said person to whom said
license is issued. (Ord. 238, 7-1-1969)
3-2B-6: LICENSE FEES; TERM OF LICENSE:
   A.   Fees Enumerated; License Term:
      1.   The annual license fee for the year 2005-2006 and following years
shall be as follows:
         a.   The license fee for any retailer selling beer, any of which is
consumed or to be consumed on the premises where sold, shall be seventy five
dollars ($75.00) per year or any part thereof.
         b.   The license fee for any retailer selling beer, none of which is
consumed or to be consumed on the premises where sold, is hereby fixed at forty
dollars ($40.00) per year or any part thereof. (Ord. 390, 3-8-2005)
      2.   All licenses issued under the provisions of this article shall
expire concurrently with the state license issued. (Ord. 390, 3-8-2005; amd.
2010 Code)
   B.   Refunds: No refunds shall be allowed for any cancelled, revoked or
unused license. (1963 Code § 5-311)
3-2B-7: TRANSFER OF LICENSE; FEE:
A license granted under the provisions of this article shall be transferable
upon the payment of a transfer fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) to the city
clerk-treasurer. (Ord. 291, 3-6-1979; amd. 2010 Code)
3-2B-8: POWER TO REFUSE, REVOKE AND INVESTIGATE:
   A.   Council Authority: The city council shall have the power to refuse a
license to any applicant, and/or revoke a license at any time when in the
judgment of the said council the business interests and the welfare of the
city, and/or the inhabitants thereof, will be best served by the denial or
revocation thereof; and for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not any
licensee is conforming with this article or any other provisions of the city
code, as well as the laws of the state, the law enforcement official shall have
the right, at all reasonable times, to inspect the places where beer is sold
under the licenses issued. Provided further, that any license issued under the
provisions of this article shall be forfeited, cancelled and revoked by order
of the council if, after the issuance thereof, and during the period for which
said license shall have been issued, the holder thereof shall fail to possess
all the qualifications enumerated as prerequisites to the obtaining of such
license. The city clerk-treasurer, upon such revocation, shall, in writing,
send by United States certified mail, a notification to the other issuers of
other retailer's license to such licensee, stating sufficient facts for
identification of the licensee, and the grounds and date of such revocation.
   B.   Investigation: No license shall be issued by the city clerk- treasurer
until each applicant has been properly and adequately investigated by the law
enforcement official, and the prior approval of the city council has been
obtained. (1963 Code § 5-312)
3-2B-9: RESTRICTIONS ON SALES BY LICENSEES:
It shall be unlawful to sell or serve beer to any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years, or to any person or classes of persons to whom the sale
of beer is prohibited by the state of Idaho or the United States of America.
(1963 Code § 5-313; amd. Ord. 255, 6-13-1972; 2010 Code)
3-2B-10: BEER CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES:
No person shall drink beer upon any public highway or street or other public
place within the limits of the city unless said place has been licensed by the
city council as a place where beer may be sold at retail. (1963 Code § 5-314)
3-2B-11: BEER SALES AT CERTAIN PLACES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to sell beer or offer beer for sale or otherwise dispose
of the same at any public dance, or at any public dance hall, or any public
school grounds or in any public school building within the city. (1963 Code §
5-315)
3-2B-12: HOURS OF SALE; VIEW INTO PREMISES:
   A.   Beer Sales: It shall be unlawful to sell beer or offer beer for sale,
or otherwise dispose of the same, or permit beer to be consumed upon any
premises operated under licenses issued in accordance with the provisions of
this article except during hours authorized by Idaho law. (1963 Code § 5-316;
amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Other Businesses: It shall be unlawful for any premises licensed for
sale of beer within the city, under the provisions of this article, to be kept
open for the conduct or operation of any other business except during hours
authorized by Idaho law, and no patrons or customers shall be admitted to such
licensed premises during prohibited hours. (1963 Code § 5-317; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   View Into Premises: During such prohibited hours, all blinds or shades
shall be rolled up, drawn back or removed from the windows and doors of such
licensed premises so as to permit full view into such licensed premises from
the exterior of said premises, and a night light shall at all times be kept
burning in the interior of said premises during such closed hours. (1963 Code §
5-317)
   D.   Customers Prohibited From Premises: No patrons or customers of any
licensed premises or any persons other than the employees of said premises or
law enforcement officers shall be permitted on such premises except during
hours authorized by Idaho law. (1963 Code § 5-317; amd. 2010 Code)
ARTICLE C. WINE
SECTION:
3-2C-1: Definitions
3-2C-2: Sale Of Wine Authorized
3-2C-3: Licensing Requirements; Fee
3-2C-4: Investigation Of Applicant
3-2C-5: Transfer Of License; Fee
3-2C-6: Restrictions On Purchases And Sales
3-2C-7: Wine Consumption In Public Places
3-2C-8: Restrictions Concerning Underage Persons
3-2C-9: License Revocation, Cancellation Or Suspension
3-2C-10: Violation A Misdemeanor
3-2C-1: DEFINITIONS:
All words and phrases used in this article, the definition of which is not
herein given, shall be given their ordinary and commonly understood and
accepted meaning.
The following terms, as used in this article, are hereby defined as follows:
COUNTY LICENSE: A retail wine license issued by the board of commissioners of
Lewis County, Idaho.
PERSON: Includes an individual, firm, copartnership, association, corporation,
or any group or combination acting as a unit, and includes the plural as well
as the singular unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is disclosed
by the context in which it is used.
RETAIL WINE LICENSE: A license issued by the city authorizing a person to sell
wine at retail for off premises consumption or for consumption on the premises,
but separate licenses shall be required for each type of sales activity.
RETAILER: A person to whom a retail wine license has been issued hereunder.
STATE LICENSE: A retail wine license issued by the director of the Idaho state
police.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage containing not more than twenty one percent (21%)
alcohol by volume obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar content of
fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar, as is defined in Idaho
Code section 23-1303. (Ord. 250, 6-29-1971; amd. Ord. 287, 12-5-1978; 2010
Code)
3-2C-2: SALE OF WINE AUTHORIZED:
The sale of wine at retail within the corporate limits of the city, for either
off premises or on premises consumption, is hereby authorized, subject to the
provisions of this article. (Ord. 287, 12-5-1978)
3-2C-3: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; FEE:
   A.   License Required: No person shall sell wine at retail unless he
possesses a valid license therefor issued pursuant to the provisions of this
article. (Ord. 250, 6-29-1971)
   B.   Fee: There is hereby established a license fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) per year for the sale of wine for off premises consumption and a
license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the sale of wine for on premises
consumption; provided, however, that the on premises license fee shall be ten
dollars ($10.00) for any person holding a valid city beer license. (Ord. 287,
12-5-1978)
   C.   Separate License For Each Premises: A separate retail wine license
shall be required for each premises; provided, however, nothing herein shall
prohibit a distributor or retailer from possessing licenses for more than one
premises. (Ord. 250, 6-29-1971)
   D.   Fractional License; Term Of License:
      1.   No fractional or part year license shall be issued except as
provided in this article. (Ord. 389, 2-8-2005)
      2.   All licenses issued hereunder shall expire on January 31 at twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight in the year following the year in which issued. (Ord.
389, 2-8-2005; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Application; Fee: All applications for a license hereunder shall be
made on forms provided by the city clerk-treasurer and shall be accompanied by
the appropriate fee.
   F.   Form And Posting Of License: All licenses issued hereunder shall be on
forms provided by the city clerk-treasurer, and shall be posted by the licensee
in a conspicuous place in his place of business.
   G.   State And County Licenses Required: No retail wine license issued by
the city shall authorize the retailer to sell wine at retail unless such person
possesses state and county licenses. (Ord. 250, 6-29-1971)
3-2C-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license under this article,
accompanied by the necessary license fee, the city council may make such
investigation of all matters pertaining thereto as it shall deem proper. If the
council shall determine that the contents of the application are true, that
such applicant is qualified to receive a license, that his premises are
suitable for the carrying on of the intended business, and that the
requirements of this article have been met and complied with, a license shall
be issued; otherwise the application shall be denied and the license fee
returned. (Ord. 250, 6-29-1971)
3-2C-5: TRANSFER OF LICENSE; FEE:
A license granted under the terms of this article shall be transferable upon
the payment of a transfer fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) to the city
clerk-treasurer. Provided, however, no portion of a license fee shall be
refundable for an unused, cancelled or revoked license after said license is
once issued. (Ord. 291, 3-6-1979; amd. 2010 Code)
3-2C-6: RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASES AND SALES:
   A.   Purchasing Wine: Any ordinance to the contrary notwithstanding,
including, but not limited to, subsection
3-2A-15B of this title, the holder of a license for the retail sale of liquor
by the drink, as defined in article A of this chapter, is hereby authorized to
purchase wine from persons holding valid wine distributors' licenses or wine
retailers' licenses. (Ord. 250, 6-29-1971)
   B.   Sales Of Wine: Retailers holding valid licenses for the retail sale of
liquor by the drink pursuant to article A of this chapter may sell wine for
consumption on or off the licensed premises. Retailers who do not possess a
valid license for the retail sale of liquor by the drink or a valid license
issued hereunder for on premises consumption shall not permit consumption of
wine on the licensed premises and may sell the wine only in its original
unbroken container. Wine sold for consumption on the retailer's premises may be
sold only during hours that beer can be sold pursuant to the laws of this
state. Wine sold by a retailer for consumption off the premises of the retailer
may be sold only during the hours that beer may be sold pursuant to the laws of
this state. (Ord. 287, 12-5-1978)
3-2C-7: WINE CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES:
No person shall drink wine upon any public highway or street or other public
place within the limits of the city unless said place has been licensed by the
city council as a place where liquor by the drink may be sold at retail for on
premises consumption. (Ord. 250, 6-29-1971)
3-2C-8: RESTRICTIONS CONCERNING UNDERAGE PERSONS:
   A.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years may purchase, consume
or possess wine.
   B.   No person shall give, sell or deliver wine to any person under the age
of twenty one (21) years.
   C.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall by any means
represent to any retailer or to any agent or employee of such retailer that he
or she is twenty one (21) years or more of age for the purpose of inducing such
retailer or his agent or employee to sell, serve or dispense wine to such
person.
   D.   No person shall, by any means, represent to any retailer, or the agent
or employee of such retailer, that any other person is twenty one (21) years or
more of age, when in fact such other person is under the age of twenty one (21)
years, for the purpose of inducing such retailer, or the agent or employee of
such retailer, to sell, serve, or dispense wine to such other person. (Ord.
250, 6-29-1971; amd. Ord. 257, 6-13-1972; 2010 Code)
3-2C-9: LICENSE REVOCATION, CANCELLATION OR SUSPENSION:
The right shall be, and at all times shall remain, vested in the city council
to revoke, cancel or suspend the license of any person licensed hereunder for
any violation of this article or of any violation of any county ordinance,
state or federal law relating to the sale of wine; and, upon verified complaint
filed with the council, the council shall, by written notice, cause such
alleged offender to appear before such council and be heard upon said
complaint. A copy of such complaint shall be served with such notice, and the
day, hour and place of the hearing, which shall be at least five (5) days from
the date of delivery of such notice, shall be specified in such notice. If at
such hearing, upon the taking of evidence on behalf of the city and such
alleged offender, it shall appear to the council that cause exists for the
cancellation or revocation of such license, the same may be cancelled, revoked
or suspended without further process of law, and the fact of such cancellation,
revocation or suspension shall immediately be certified to the director of the
Idaho state police and the board of commissioners of Lewis County. (Ord. 250,
6-29-1971; amd. 2010 Code)
3-2C-10: VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article or fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions of this article shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. (Ord. 250, 6-29-1971)
CHAPTER 3
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Certificate Of Registration
3-3-3: Notice Regulating Peddlers And Solicitors
3-3-4: Duties Of Solicitors And Peddlers
3-3-5: Uninvited Soliciting Or Peddling
3-3-6: Time Limit On Soliciting And Peddling
3-3-7: Violation; Penalties
3-3-8: Constitutional Rights
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words, as used herein, shall be
construed to have the meanings herein ascribed thereto:
ITINERANT VENDOR: Any person who transports tangible personal property for
retail sale within the city who does not maintain in the state an established
office, distribution house, sales house, warehouse, service center or residence
from which such business is conducted; provided, however, this term shall not
include any person who delivers tangible personal property within the city who
is fulfilling an order for such property which was solicited or placed by mail
or other means. It shall be prima facie evidence that a person is an "itinerant
vendor" if the person does not transact business from a fixed location or if
the person does not own, or lease for a term of at least six (6) months, the
property from which business is conducted.
PEDDLING: Selling or offering for sale, barter or exchange at retail any goods,
wares, merchandise or services of any kind whatsoever by traveling from place
to place along the streets of the city or from residence to residence therein,
but shall not include solicitation or canvassing for future delivery.
"Peddling" may, in some instances, include the activities of an "itinerant
vendor" or "transient merchant", as defined herein. If a peddler is also an
"itinerant vendor" or "transient merchant", as defined herein, then those
provisions shall also be applicable. To the extent that the provisions of this
chapter relative to "peddling" are inconsistent with those relating to
"itinerant vendors" and/or "transient merchants", the more restrictive
provisions shall apply.
REGISTERED SOLICITOR AND REGISTERED PEDDLER: Means and includes any person who
has obtained a valid certificate of registration as herein provided, where such
certificate is in the possession of, and on the person of, the one soliciting
or peddling during all soliciting or peddling.
REGISTERED TRANSIENT MERCHANT AND REGISTERED ITINERANT VENDOR: Any person who
is a "transient merchant" or "itinerant vendor" as defined herein and who has
obtained and has in his possession a valid certificate of registration.
RESIDENCE: Means and includes every separate living unit occupied for
residential purposes by one or more persons, contained within any type of
building or structure.
SOLICITING: Means and includes any one or more of the following activities:
   A.   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise,
foodstuffs, insurance, or services of any kind, character or description
whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever, all for future delivery;
provided, however, that seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines,
periodicals, newspapers and every other type or kind of publication shall not
be deemed to be "soliciting", and such activities are not regulated by this
chapter.
   B.   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation, or project.
TRANSIENT MERCHANT: Any person who is engaged temporarily in the retail sale of
goods, wares or merchandise in the city and who, for the purpose of conducting
such business, occupies any building, room, vehicle, structure of any kind, or
vacant lot; provided, however, this term does not include any person selling
goods, wares or merchandise which are raised, produced or manufactured by him,
to any person selling vegetables, fruit or perishable farm products at an
established city market, to any person operating a store or refreshment stand
at a resort, or to any person operating a stand or booth on or adjacent to
property owned by him or upon which he resides. It shall be prima facie
evidence that a person is a "transient merchant" if the person does not
transact business from a fixed location or if the person does not own, or lease
for a term of at least six (6) months, the property from which business is
conducted. (2010 Code)
3-3-2: CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
   A.   Certificate Required: A written application for a certificate of
registration as herein provided shall be secured by every person desiring to
engage in "soliciting" or "peddling", as herein defined, from persons in
residences within the city and, in addition, by every person desiring to engage
in soliciting from any business, office or manufacturing facility within the
city for gifts or contributions of money, clothing or other valuable thing
except for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit association,
organization, corporation or project.
   B.   Application For Certificate: Application for a certificate of
registration shall be made upon a form provided by and filed with the city
clerk-treasurer. The applicant shall state, under oath, such information
requested on the application form as is required by the provisions of this
chapter and such other relevant information as determined by the city clerk-
treasurer.
   C.   Prohibited Registrants: No certificate of registration shall be issued:
1) to anyone seeking to solicit for a charitable or nonprofit association,
organization, corporation or project unless such charity or nonprofit group is
specifically approved in advance by the city council which may waive
requirement of individual registration and fees if a list of names and
addresses of individuals to be involved are supplied to the city clerk-
treasurer; or 2) to any person who has been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the state of Idaho or any other state or federal law
of the United States, within five (5) years of the date of the application; or
3) to any person who has been convicted of a violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter or to any person whose certificate of registration issued
hereunder has previously been revoked as herein provided unless specifically
approved by the city council.
   D.   Fees:
      1.   Fees Established: A fee shall be paid at the time of filing the
application, as follows:
 
Certificate Requested                     Fee
1 day:                                    $ 5.00
More than 1 day and not more than 1 week: 25.00
More than 1 week:                         50.00
 
      2.   Waiver Of Fees: The mayor may waive such fee in his or her
discretion, but all fee waivers shall be reported to the city council.
   E.   Issuance Or Denial Of Certificate; Contents:
      1.   Denial: The mayor, after consideration of the application and all
information obtained relative thereto, shall deny the application if the
applicant does not possess the qualifications for such certificate as herein
required. Endorsement shall be made by the mayor upon the application of the
denial of the application.
      2.   Issuance: When the applicant is found to be fully qualified, the
certificate of registration shall be issued by the mayor or his or her
designee.
      3.   Time Limit For Action: All applications shall be acted upon by the
mayor within seven (7) days after receipt of a completed application.
      4.   Contents: Each certificate of registration shall state the
expiration date thereof.
   F.   Revocation Of Certificate: Any certificate of registration issued
hereunder may be revoked by the mayor if the holder of the certificate is
convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or has made
a false material statement in the application, or otherwise becomes
disqualified for the issuance of a certificate of registration under the terms
of this chapter. Immediately upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall
be given by the mayor to the holder of the certificate in person or by
certified U.S. mail addressed to his or her address set forth in the
application. Immediately upon the giving of such notice of revocation, the
certificate of registration shall become null and void.
   G.   Records Kept: The city clerk-treasurer shall cause to be kept in his or
her office an accurate record of every application received and acted upon
together with all other information and data pertaining thereto and of all
certificates of registration issued under the provisions of this chapter, and
of the denial of applications. Applications for certificates shall be numbered
in consecutive order as filed, and every certificate issued, and any renewal
thereof, shall be identified with the duplicate number of the application upon
which it was issued. (2010 Code)
3-3-3: NOTICE REGULATING PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS:
   A.   Notice Requirements: The owner or occupant of any residence who desires
to forbid trespasses by solicitors or peddlers, or unlicensed solicitors and
peddlers, may attach or exhibit upon or near the main front door, and the main
rear or side door (if any, and if to be protected), a card or plaque stating
such of the following, as may be appropriate, in letters at least one-third
inch (1/3") in height:
SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS NOT INVITED
or
SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS NOT INVITED
UNLESS REGISTERED WITH THE CITY
   B.   Nonexclusive Notice Provided By City: For the convenience of residents
of the city and for purposes of uniformity, cards or plaques containing the
foregoing legend shall be made available by the city. The form of card or
plaque provided for in this section shall not be deemed to be an exclusive form
of notice. Such card or plaque so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice
to any solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon. (2010 Code)
3-3-4:   DUTIES OF SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS:
   A.    It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon any property of
another in the city after receiving, immediately prior to such entry, notice
from the owner or occupant that such entry is forbidden, or to remain upon the
property of another after receiving notice from the owner or occupant to
depart.
   B.    A person shall be deemed to have received notice from the owner or
occupant, within the meaning of this chapter, if he has been notified
personally, either orally or in writing, or if a printed or written notice
forbidding such entry has been conspicuously posted at the main entrance to
said property or the forbidden part thereof.
   C.    Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant. (2010 Code)
3-3-5:   UNINVITED SOLICITING OR PEDDLING:
   A.    Uninvited Soliciting Or Peddling Prohibited: Any person soliciting or
peddling who is forbidden entry by notice given in compliance with this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of remaining on the property after receiving notice to
depart if he shall remain on the property, or if he shall ring the doorbell or
knock or create any sound calculated to attract the attention of the occupant.
   B.    Exemptions: Notices exhibited pursuant to this chapter shall not be
deemed applicable to and shall not prevent access to residential property by a
solicitor or peddler who has received prior invitation, written or oral, from
the owner or occupant thereof. (2010 Code)
3-3-6:   TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING AND PEDDLING:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this chapter or not, to go upon any premises
and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, or
rap or knock upon any door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated
to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of
securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in "soliciting" as
herein defined, prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock (9:00)
P.M. (2010 Code)
3-3-7:   VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.    Violation; Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation who shall be found
guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction of violating any provision of this
chapter or of failing to comply with any requirement hereof, or of violating
any permit, any approval, or any directive issued under the provisions of this
chapter, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   B.    Reimbursement Of Costs: Any person, firm or corporation who shall be
found guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction of violating a provision of
this chapter or of failing to comply with any requirement hereof, or of
violating any certificate, any approval, or any directive issued under the
provisions of this chapter, shall, in addition to the fines provided, be
obligated to reimburse the city for its attorney fees, court costs, court
reporter costs, and expert witness fees, and all other out of pocket costs
incurred by the city in the prosecution of the said violation or violations.
   C.    Injunctive Relief: The city may make application to the circuit court
for an injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other
order as the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter.
(2010 Code)
3-3-8:   CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted or enforced to deprive any person
of any rights guaranteed under the constitution of the state or the United
States. (2010 Code)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
Nuisances   1
Trees And Shrubbery   2
Billposting And Handbills   3
Livestock Feeding And Breeding   4
Fire Prevention And Protection   5
Fire Hazard Inspection   6
Tall Grass And Weeds   7
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-2: Nuisance Declared
4-1-3: Prohibited Conduct
4-1-4: Automotive Hobby Projects
4-1-5: Commercial Enterprises
4-1-6: Enforcement; Right Of Entry
4-1-7: Abatement Procedure
4-1-8: Declaration Of Public Nuisance
4-1-9: Removal Cost Assessment
4-1-10: Alternative Provisions
4-1-11: Jurisdiction
4-1-12: Penalty And Enforcement
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them:
ABANDONED: To have a motor vehicle on private property without the permission
of the person having rights to the possession of the property or on a public
street or other property open to the public for the purposes of vehicular
traffic or parking, or upon or within the right of way of any road or highway,
for forty eight (48) hours or longer.
AUTOMOTIVE HOBBY PROJECT: A noncommercial accessory use involving the
restoration, maintenance, and/or preservation of motor vehicles taking place
exclusively on residential private property within the city limits of the city
of Craigmont.
AUTOMOTIVE HOBBY SITE: Any privately owned real property upon which the
resident is restoring, maintaining, and/or preserving one or more motor
vehicles.
CONTAINER: A garbage can, dumpster, or any other kind of storage device
customarily sold, rented, constructed, or utilized for use as for temporary
storage of waste matter, and lawfully located on the property in question.
FRONT YARD: All property, including driveways and entranceways extending
between side lot lines across the frontage of a lot adjoining a public street
other than an alley, and from any side of the principal building.
HAZARDOUS WASTE:
   A.    Any "hazardous waste" as defined by the resource conservation and
recovery act of 1976 (42 USC section 6901 et seq.), as amended from time to
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder;
   B.   Any "hazardous substance" as defined by the comprehensive environmental
response, compensation and liability act of 1980 (42 USC section 9601 et seq.),
as amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder;
   C.   Radon and material quantities of petroleum products;
   D.   Any substance the presence of which on the property is regulated by any
federal, state or local law relating to the protection of the environment or
public health; and
   E.   Any other substance which by law requires special handling in its
collection, storage, treatment or disposal.
HIGHWAY: A way or place of whatever nature, publicly maintained and open to the
use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking. "Highway"
includes street or alley. "Highway" does not include those portions of said way
or place which are not utilized for vehicular travel, such as those portions of
aprons, setbacks, easement rights of way, or property owned by the public which
extends beyond the surface area normally utilized for vehicular travel or
parking. Said areas are to be considered public property for purposes of this
chapter.
INOPERATIVE: A vehicle that is incapable of being propelled under its own power
or operation.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: All property owned by the public. "Public property" does not
include a highway.
REAR YARD: A yard extending between side lot lines across the rear of a lot
opposite the side(s) of a building which fronts upon a public street and from
the rear lot line to the principal building.
VEHICLE: A device by which any person or property may be propelled, moved, or
drawn, whether or not utilized solely upon a highway, except a device moved
solely by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks,
whether or not in a condition capable of operation or use.
WASTE MATTER: Any kind of liquid or solid waste, hazardous waste, manufactured
goods, appliance, fixture, furniture, machinery, vehicle, personal property or
any other thing or part thereof, whether of value or valueless, that is
demolished, discarded, dismantled, partially dismantled, dilapidated, or so
worn, deteriorated, or in such a condition as to be generally unusable and/or
inoperable in its existing state.
This shall include by way of illustration only, and without limitation: trash
or refuse of any kind, litter, commercial waste, industrial or construction or
demolition debris of any kind, such as rubble, broken asphalt and concrete,
crates, cartons, metal, glass, appliances or appliance shells, boat bodies and
parts, used tires, vehicle bodies and parts, commercial or industrial equipment
bodies and parts, snowmobile bodies and parts, trailers and parts, recreational
vehicle bodies and parts, mobile home and manufactured home bodies and parts,
and inoperable or damaged vehicles of any kind, and any cast off tangible
personal property or fixtures. (Ord. 2009-405, 8-4-2009)
4-1-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Pursuant to the authority granted by Idaho Code section 50-334 and correlated
other provisions, the city council makes the following findings and
declarations: The accumulation and storage of waste matter on private or public
property is found to create a condition tending to reduce the value of
surrounding private property, to promote blight and deterioration, and to
invite plundering, to create fire hazards, to constitute an attractive nuisance
creating a hazard to the health and safety of minors, to create a harborage for
rodents and insects and to be injurious to the health, safety and general
welfare of entire neighborhoods and/or a significant number of persons.
Therefore, the presence of the following on private or public property, unless
expressly permitted herein, are declared to constitute a public nuisance and
are prohibited, and may be abated as such in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter:
   A.   Unlicensed, Abandoned Or Wrecked Vehicle: An unlicensed, abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle, or part thereof, on private or
public property except as expressly hereinafter permitted. However, abandoned
vehicles shall be dealt with as prescribed by Idaho Code section 49-1801 et
seq.
   B.   Uncovered Containers Holding Waste Matter: An uncovered container
holding waste matter, or such a container with a cover which is not secure
against dogs, unless said container of a type that is not normally covered,
such as compost bins, or sludge drying bins.
   C.   Waste Matter Outside Containers: Waste matter not in a container.
   D.   Waste Matter Entering Waters: Waste matter stored in such fashion that
it or any of it may enter the waters of a stream or river, directly or
indirectly, or come to be in contact with such waters.
   E.   Waste Or Vegetative Matter Constituting Fire Hazard: Waste matter or
dry or dead vegetative matter so located as to constitute a fire hazard to
buildings or lands, and vegetative matter which will in the ordinary course
become such a hazard; but not hay or other agricultural products stored in a
fashion customary on farms in the community and in accord with the applicable
fire codes adopted by the city.
   F.   Unsightly Conditions: Waste matter or one or more containers which by
reason of its or their location and character are unsightly and interfere with
the reasonable enjoyment of adjacent or nearby property. (Ord. 2009-405, 8-4-
2009)
4-1-3: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
In addition to the provisions of section
4-1-2 of this chapter, the following conduct is hereby prohibited:
   A.   Allowing Escape Of Waste From Waste Transportation Vehicle: To wilfully
cause or permit any vehicle to be used for the transportation of waste to be so
loaded or in such condition or so uncovered that waste matter escapes from the
vehicle while being driven.
   B.   Discharging Waste: To wilfully discharge waste matter onto the surface
of the earth other than into a container or beneath the surface of the earth,
or into any stream, river, or other water body.
   C.   Causing Or Permitting Nuisance: To wilfully cause or allow a nuisance
or permit a nuisance to continue on property in the possession of the offender
or on any abutting street, sidewalk or right of way. Any entity or person who,
upon receiving notice of the existence of a nuisance as described in the
abatement procedure set forth herein, fails to remedy the same within the time
established in said abatement procedure, shall be deemed to have wilfully
allowed or permitted a nuisance to continue.
   D.   Violations; Failure To Comply: To wilfully violate any other provision
or requirement of this chapter, or to fail to comply with any order issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-405, 8-4-2009)
4-1-4: AUTOMOTIVE HOBBY PROJECTS:
   A.   Intent Of Section: It is the intent of this section to provide
standards for the restoration, maintenance, and/or preservation of personal
motor vehicles conducted as a hobby, and conducted at a person's residence or
upon private property.
   B.   Required Standards:
      1.   Automotive hobby projects may only be conducted on residential
property, and only as a noncommercial project. No commercial, retail or
wholesale sales of automobiles, or automotive parts or supplies, shall be
conducted upon a site claiming lawful use as an automotive hobby project. No
restoration, repair or maintenance of motor vehicles shall be conducted upon
any residential site for which monetary compensation is received.
      2.   All automotive hobby sites shall be maintained in a safe and orderly
manner so as not to create a public nuisance, an unsightly condition, an
undesirable condition, a health or fire hazard.
      3.   No automotive hobby sites may contain more than four (4) inoperable
dismantled or unregistered vehicles which constitute an automotive hobby
project. No automotive hobby projects may be stored in the front yard of any
lot. All automotive hobby sites must be located in the rear yard of any lot. If
any automotive hobby site contains more than two (2) automotive hobby projects,
said projects must be screened from view so that it or they are not visible at
a distance of six feet (6') observed from the property lines of adjacent
properties, by a sight obscuring fence of not less than, nor more than, six
feet (6') in height, or a hedge of not less than six feet (6') in height.
      4.   The restrictions set forth in this chapter do not apply to those
automobiles stored inside of a fully enclosed building. Further, the
restrictions set forth in this chapter do not apply to duly registered and
licensed vehicles which are inoperable but upon which repair is being
conducted, but only so long as said repair is conducted and completed within
sixty (60) days of the vehicle becoming inoperable. Automobiles being repaired
may only be stored or parked in improved parking areas or driveways, and shall
not be stored or parked in any front yard of a residential site.
      5.   Any motor vehicle restoration preservation, maintenance or repair
hobby operation involving welding, painting or use of flammable liquids shall
be conduced in a safe, prudent and lawful manner. (Ord. 2009-405, 8-4-2009)
4-1-5: COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISES:
No person or entity operating any commercial enterprise within the city shall
cause, allow, or permit waste matter to be present upon the property being
utilized unless within a fully enclosed structure. (Ord. 2009-405, 8-4-2009)
4-1-6: ENFORCEMENT; RIGHT OF ENTRY:
It shall be the right of the fire chief or other officer designated by the
mayor to inspect properties, investigate complaints, and determine whether or
not a nuisance exists in accordance with the terms of this chapter. The fire
chief, or such other designated officer, or his or her designated agent, shall
be authorized to enter upon private property or public property to investigate,
remove, or cause the removal of a vehicle or parts thereof declared to be a
nuisance pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2009-405, 8-4-2009)
4-1-7: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
The below described procedure shall apply for the abatement of public nuisances
other than dangerous buildings. Regardless of the exercise of any enforcement
remedy contained in this chapter, the city shall have the right of abatement
with respect to any public nuisance. The exercise of the right of abatement or
any procedures described herein shall not be a prerequisite to exercise of any
other remedies or enforcement of the criminal provisions contained in this
chapter.
   A.   Abandoned Vehicle: The procedures and requirements of Idaho Code
section 49-1801 et seq., or its successor provisions shall apply to all
abandoned vehicles or vehicles which constitute waste matter, or vehicles being
kept, maintained, or stored in violation of the provisions of this chapter,
whether located upon highways, public property, or private property.
   B.   Other Nuisances: The abatement procedure set out in section
4-1-8 of this chapter shall apply to all other nuisances. (Ord. 2009-405, 8-4-
2009)
4-1-8: DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   A.   Declaration And Notice: A nuisance may be declared by the fire chief or
other person or officer designated by the mayor who, upon identification of a
nuisance, shall cause a written declaration to be issued, by mailing the same
to the last registered owner(s) of the real property upon which he determines a
nuisance is present, as reflected on the tax assessment rolls of Lewis County,
and by posting the same in a conspicuous place on the real property on which
the nuisance is located. Each notice that is mailed shall be sent by certified
mail, return receipt requested. Notice shall be deemed to have been provided
upon mailing. Every person entitled to notice of the declaration of nuisance
shall have thirty (30) days to remove or remedy the condition creating the
nuisance, or to request a public hearing as described below. Every notice of
declaration of nuisance shall contain the following:
      1.   A descriptive statement of the nuisance which is declared to exist;
      2.   Its location;
      3.   The name of the person or persons thought to be responsible;
      4.   A statement of a date, not less than thirty (30) days after the
mailing of such notice, which shall be the last date on which the addressee or
other claimant of the affected property or offending objects can demand a
hearing, or cause removal or remedy of the nuisance described;
      5.   A statement that such hearing would be for the purpose of
determining anew whether the nuisance exists;
      6.   Directions for the mailing of such a demand for hearing to the city
clerk; and
      7.   A statement that if no hearing is demanded, or if the result of the
hearing is to the effect that a nuisance exists, the owner or other addressee
will have thirty (30) days to commence and thereafter diligently to pursue and
complete the abatement and assess back the costs thereof against the property
in like fashion as for tax assessments.
   B.   Failure To Request Hearing: Failure to request a public hearing within
the time required shall be deemed conclusive as to the existence of the
nuisance as described in the declaration posted and mailed.
   C.   Hearing Procedure:
      1.   Upon receipt of a request for a public hearing, the mayor shall
establish a date for a public hearing, to be held no less than ten (10) days
nor more than thirty (30) days from receipt of said report. The public hearing
shall be to determine if a nuisance exists, and assessment of administrative
costs, and directions for removal or remedy.
      2.   Notice of said hearing shall be provided by certified mail to any
person or entity requesting a public hearing, to the last registered owner of
the real property upon which the fire chief, or other official designated by
the mayor, has determined a nuisance is present. Notice shall be deemed
completed upon mailing.
      3.   The city council shall hear all facts and testimony deemed
pertinent. The facts and testimony may include testimony, pictures, videos,
etc., on the condition of the property, vehicles, waste matter, or any other
evidence regarding the existence of a nuisance. The city council shall not be
limited by the technical rules of evidence. The owner of the land on which the
alleged nuisance is located may appear in person at the hearing or present a
written statement in time for consideration at the hearing, and deny
responsibility for the presence of the nuisance with his or her reasons for
such denial.
      4.   The city council, upon a finding that a public nuisance exists, may
impose such conditions and take such action as deemed appropriate under the
circumstances to carry out the purpose of this chapter, including delaying the
time for removal or remedy of the nuisance or part thereof, if, in its opinion,
the circumstances justify it. At the conclusion of the public hearing, the city
council must make written findings of fact and conclusions of law, and may
order the nuisance remedied or removed from the property as a public nuisance
and disposed of as hereinafter provided, and determine the administrative costs
to be charged against the owner of the parcel of land on which the nuisance is
located. The order requiring removal shall include:
         a.   A description of the nuisance or part thereof and the correct
identification number and license number of any vehicle constituting a part or
all of the nuisance, if available, at the site.
         b.   A statement that the nuisance must be removed or remedied within
thirty (30) days of adoption of the order, unless some other time period is
specified by the city council.
      5.   If an interested party makes a written presentation to the city
council but does not appear, he shall be notified in writing of the decision.
   D.   Abatement By City: Upon the expiration of thirty (30) days after
mailing of a declaration of nuisance if no hearing is requested, or the later
of thirty (30) days after adoption of the order declaring a condition to be a
public nuisance, or thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of notice of the
decision to an interested person who makes a written presentation if such
notice is required by this section, or the date specified in the order if a
date is specified. If the nuisance remains in whole or in part, the fire chief
or other officer or person appointed by the mayor, shall take steps to cause
the abatement of the nuisance by removal of the offending materials, whether by
fire suppression exercise, by use of city employees, or by letting an
appropriate contract in accord with the contracting procedures of the city. The
waste matter which constitutes the public nuisance may be disposed of by
removal to a garbage transfer station, dump, scrap yard, or automobile
dismantler's yard, or to any other similar facility. (Ord. 2009-405, 8-4-2009)
4-1-9: REMOVAL COST ASSESSMENT:
The cost of abatement, together with the administrative costs, shall be
calculated and assessed. If such amount is not paid within thirty (30) days of
the date of abatement, the same shall become a lien upon the property pursuant
to Idaho Code sections 50-334 and 50-1008, and shall be transmitted to the tax
collector for collection. The assessment shall have the same priority as other
city taxes. The city shall also be entitled to recover said costs in a civil
action brought by the city, and assess the same as additional penalties in a
misdemeanor prosecution. (Ord. 2009-405, 8-4-2009)
4-1-10: ALTERNATIVE PROVISIONS:
This chapter is not the exclusive regulation of public nuisances, or the
exclusive regulation of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicles
within the city. This chapter shall supplement and be in addition to the other
regulatory codes, statutes and ordinances heretofore or hereafter enacted by
the city, the state, or any other legal entity or agency having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2009-405, 8-4-2009)
4-1-11: JURISDICTION:
The abatement of nuisances under the provisions of this chapter shall apply
only to the corporate boundaries of the city. The city shall not extend their
authority under Idaho Code section 50-334 beyond the boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 2009-405, 8-4-2009)
4-1-12: PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT:
A violation of this chapter is a general misdemeanor and is also subject to
abatement action. Enforcement shall be by that person or official so designated
by the mayor, or his or her designated agents. (Ord. 2009-405, 8-4-2009)
CHAPTER 2
TREES AND SHRUBBERY
SECTION:
4-2-1: Purpose
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Application Of Provisions
4-2-4: Enforcement
4-2-5: Permit Required; Application
4-2-6: Trimming Trees Overhanging Streets Or Sidewalks
4-2-7: Injurious Pests Or Diseases
4-2-8: Removal Of Trees
4-2-9: Planting New Trees
4-2-10: City Authority
4-2-11: Appeal
4-2-1: PURPOSE:
It shall be the purpose of this chapter to protect trees throughout the city
and to regulate the trimming and maintenance of trees near the public streets,
and to regulate the maintenance of trees within the streets adjacent to private
property, including the type of trees to be planted in the future, the care of
those trees, disease control, which impliedly then protects the streets,
sidewalks, and curbs. All of said control is for the purposes of furthering the
aesthetics and beauty of the city while at the same time providing reasonable
care of improvements. (Ord. 356, 6-6-1995)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
DISEASED TREE: Any tree which exhibits actual evidence of disease of whatever
character or form, including infestation by pests a degree that it is actually
affecting the tree itself.
INJURIOUS PEST: Any insect, fungus, or growing parasite which materially
injures any tree or shrub.
OCCUPANT: The person actually occupying any particular property and having
control over the particular property under any contractual relationship with
the owner thereof.
OWNER: The vested owner of real property as shown by the county records, and
any contract purchaser of real property as shown by the public records or other
evidence of ownership.
PARKWAY: That portion of the street between the traveled portion of the road
and a sidewalk.
PRUNING: The physical removal of limbs or any portion of trees or shrubbery for
purposes of reducing the size of trees or shrubs, or in any way shaping the
same.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street improved, designed, or ordinarily used by the
public for vehicular travel.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street improved, designed, or ordinarily used by
the public for pedestrian travel.
STREET: All real property owned by the city for streets, alleys, or rights of
way as indicated by the public records or recorded plats of Lewis County, or
any public rights of way established by prescription, pursuant to Idaho law.
(Ord. 356, 6-6-1995)
4-2-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall apply to all trees, shrubs, and other similar growing plant
life that now exists, and all similar plants that are planted in the future
within the incorporated limits of the city. (Ord. 356, 6-6-1995)
4-2-4: ENFORCEMENT:
The mayor or his designated agent shall be the person responsible for the
regular review of all trees and shrubs which are subject to the provisions of
this chapter, with final authority being with the city council. (Ord. 356, 6-6-
1995)
4-2-5: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
   A.   Permit Required; Exception: It shall be unlawful for any person to
plant, remove, trim, cut, or in any way damage any tree or shrubbery on or
within any street without first procuring a permit so to do from the city;
provided, that no permit shall first be required in situations where public
inconvenience would result from the delay entailed in obtaining a permit or
where such delay would place life, limb, or property in jeopardy.
   B.   Filing Of Application; Investigation: Any person desiring a permit to
plant, remove, cut, or in any way damage a tree on or within the city streets
shall file with the city an application so to do on forms to be furnished by
the city setting forth therein in detail the work that is contemplated and the
location and address of the same. Upon the filing of such application, the city
shall investigate the contemplated work and if it is desirable and should be
done, shall issue a written permit; provided, that the work authorized in such
permit shall be done under the supervision of the city. (Ord. 356, 6-6-1995)
4-2-6: TRIMMING TREES OVERHANGING STREETS OR SIDEWALKS:
Any owner or occupant of any real property shall trim all trees on property
owned or occupied by him overhanging any street so that the branches thereon
will not interfere with pedestrians or public travel. Trees adjacent to streets
shall be pruned to a twelve foot (12') height above streets and a seven foot
(7') height above sidewalks. Furthermore, all trees shall be regularly pruned
so that dead or diseased limbs of trees shall be removed. (Ord. 356, 6-6-1995)
4-2-7: INJURIOUS PESTS OR DISEASES:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: All injurious pests and diseases infecting any tree
within the city are hereby declared to be public nuisances.
   B.   Eradication Of Diseases Or Pests: It shall be the duty of the owner of
any private property in the city to take all proper measures for the
eradication of any injurious disease or pest infecting or infesting any tree or
shrub and to cause the same to be sprayed with an effective formula approved by
permit with the city.
   C.   Owner Responsibility: The owner of property abutting the public street
shall be responsible for prohibiting the infestation, or spread or continued
existence of injurious pests or disease, and their eggs or larvae, to any tree
located within the public street. (Ord. 356, 6-6-1995)
4-2-8: REMOVAL OF TREES:
   A.   Permit Required: Property owners may remove trees from streets which
abut their property at their own expense after first receiving a permit from
the city. Furthermore, property owners may be required to remove trees that are
abutting their property if those trees are deemed a hazard or dangerous to the
public or other public or private property.
   B.   Owner Responsibility: All owners of property adjacent to the street
upon which are located existing trees shall have the obligation for the care of
trees and shrubbery adjacent to such property. Such financial responsibility
shall include disease control, insect infestation, pruning or trimming, and
removal if necessary. (Ord. 356, 6-6-1995)
4-2-9: PLANTING NEW TREES:
   A.   Permit Required: New trees may in the future be planted on a portion of
the public street if there is appropriate space therefor, and with the consent
of the city, after obtaining a permit for the same.
   B.   Criteria For Granting Permit: No shrubs or bushes may be planted upon
the street until a permit from the city council is obtained. The principal
criteria for granting permission shall be site restriction, the location of
sidewalks, curbs, and the location of any existing or future expected
utilities.
   C.   Unlawful Planting A Misdemeanor: Anyone planting shrubs or trees in
violation of this chapter shall be guilty of a general misdemeanor under the
laws of the state and shall be punishable as such. (Ord. 356, 6-6-1995)
4-2-10: CITY AUTHORITY:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city, without charge to the
owners of abutting property, from eradicating injurious pests and diseases, or
pruning trees located within the public street.
   B.   Furthermore, in the event of a violation of this chapter, and after a
thirty (30) day notice has been personally delivered to such person and the
violation continues to exist, the city may enter upon such property and cure
the violation, then having a right of action against said property owner for
all sums and costs incurred. (Ord. 356, 6-6-1995)
4-2-11: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by the action of the city or its designee may appeal to
the city council by delivering written notice to the city clerk-treasurer. The
city shall set the matter at the next regularly scheduled council meeting for
hearing. The council shall make a decision within thirty (30) days of the
hearing. (Ord. 356, 6-6-1995)
CHAPTER 3
BILLPOSTING AND HANDBILLS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Littering Public Thoroughfares Prohibited
4-3-2: Posting Notices On Fences Or Poles Restricted
4-3-1: LITTERING PUBLIC THOROUGHFARES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to scatter or throw upon the streets,
sidewalks, alleys or other public thoroughfares of the city, any handbills,
posters, advertisements or papers. Nothing herein shall be construed to
authorize any person to obstruct the public streets, sidewalks, alleys or
thoroughfares of the city or create any nuisance therein. The provisions of
this chapter shall not interfere or prevent the posting of notices required by
law to be posted. (1963 Code § 5-501)
4-3-2: POSTING NOTICES ON FENCES OR POLES RESTRICTED:
   A.   Consent Required For Posting To Fence Or Wall: It shall be unlawful for
any person to post, paint, tack or otherwise attach any notice or other
advertising matter to any fence, wall or building or other property until first
obtaining the consent of the owner of such property.
   B.   Attaching Notices To Poles Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to post, paint, tack or otherwise attach any notice or advertising
matter to any telegraph, telephone, electric or other such poles. (1963 Code §
5-502)
CHAPTER 4
LIVESTOCK FEEDING AND BREEDING
SECTION:
4-4-1: Policy
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Prohibited Acts
4-4-4: Exceptions
4-4-5: Complaints; Assistance In Prosecution
4-4-1: POLICY:
It is hereby declared as the policy of the city in the exercise of its powers,
its power to prevent and remove nuisances, and the exercise of its power to
prevent the introduction and spread of contagious disease, as provided under
the provisions of Idaho Code section 50-304, as amended, to limit, restrict or
prohibit the keeping, feeding and breeding of livestock within the corporate
limits of the city. It is further declared that a feedlot within the city
limits is a health and public nuisance to the people of the city, and that it
infringes on the well being, comfort, repose and enjoyment of the ordinary
individual residing within the city. It is further declared that the breeding
of livestock within the city limits is a moral nuisance and interferes with the
peaceful use and enjoyment of property. (1963 Code § 8-301; amd. 2010 Code)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall be given the
following interpretations:
BREED OR BREEDING: To produce offspring, the act of generating or producing
offspring.
CITY LIMITS: The incorporated limits of the city.
FEEDLOT: A place for the keeping and feeding of three (3) or more livestock.
LIVESTOCK: All breeds of cattle, horses, sheep, swine, hogs, and goats.
PERSON: Every individual, partnership, corporation, organization, or
association, singularly and collectively. (1963 Code § 8-302)
4-4-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Feedlots: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep and maintain a
feedlot within the corporate limits of the city. (1963 Code § 8-303)
   B.   Breeding Livestock: It shall be unlawful for any person to breed
livestock or to allow others to breed livestock upon his property within the
city limits. (1963 Code § 8-304)
   C.   Keeping Certain Animals: It shall be unlawful to breed, feed, care for
or maintain one or more rabbits, sheep, goats, hogs, pigs or swine within the
corporate limits of the city. (1963 Code § 8-305; amd. 2010 Code)
4-4-4: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter shall be subject to any exceptions or allowances that may be
hereinafter enacted by any zoning ordinance adopted by the city. (1963 Code §
8-306)
4-4-5: COMPLAINTS; ASSISTANCE IN PROSECUTION:
It is hereby made the duty of any officer of the city, knowing of any violation
of this chapter, to make complaints before the proper law enforcement officer
and to assist in the prosecution and conviction of offenders. Any officer
knowingly refusing to inform against or to prosecute any offender under the
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to removal from the office by the
mayor and city council. (1963 Code § 8-307; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 5
FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
SECTION:
4-5-1: Fireworks
4-5-2: General Precautions Against Fire
4-5-3: Smoking Prohibited Under Certain Conditions
4-5-1: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Definition: "Pyrotechnics", whenever used in this section, shall be
held to mean any sparkler, squib, rocket, firecracker, Roman candle, fire
balloon, signal light, railroad track torpedo, flashlight composition, pistol,
cane, cannon or other appliances using blank cartridges or caps, fireworks or
other devices or compositions used to obtain visible or audible pyrotechnic
displays. (1963 Code § 7-201)
   B.   Fireworks Prohibited; Exceptions: No person, firm or corporation shall,
within the city, have, keep, store, use, manufacture, sell or offer for sale,
handle or transport any pyrotechnics; provided, however:
      1.   That nothing in this section shall be held to apply to the
possession or use of signaling devices for current daily consumption by
railroads, trucks, and others requiring them.
      2.   That the chief of the fire department or the city clerk- treasurer
may, upon due application, issue a permit to a properly qualified person for
giving a pyrotechnic display of fireworks in the public parks or other open
places. (1963 Code § 7-202)
4-5-2: GENERAL PRECAUTIONS AGAINST FIRE:
   A.   Bonfires And Outdoor Rubbish Fires:
      1.   Permit Required: No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or
rubbish fire, or authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained on or in
any public street, alley, road or other public ground without a permit or other
proper authorization from the appropriate agency.
      2.   Location Restricted: No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire,
rubbish fire, or fire within a fire pit, or authorize any such fire to be
kindled or maintained on any private land unless: a) the location is not less
than fifty feet (50') from any structure and adequate provision is made to
prevent fire from spreading to within fifty feet (50') of any structure; or b)
the fire is contained in an approved waste burner with closed top, located
safely not less than fifteen feet (15') from any structure. (1963 Code § 7-501;
amd. 2010 Code)
      3.   Enforcement: The chief of the fire department may prohibit any or
all bonfires and outdoor rubbish fires when atmospheric conditions or local
circumstances make such fires hazardous. (1963 Code § 7-501)
   B.   Kindling Fire On Land Of Others: No person shall kindle a fire upon the
land of another without permission of the owner thereof or his agent. (1963
Code § 7-502)
   C.   Hot Ashes And Other Dangerous Materials: No person shall deposit hot
ashes or cinders, or smoldering coals, or greasy or oily substances liable to
spontaneous ignition, into any wooden receptacle, or place the same within ten
feet (10') of any combustible materials, except in metal or other
noncombustible receptacles. Such receptacles, unless resting on a
noncombustible floor or on the ground outside the building, shall be placed on
noncombustible stands, and in every case must be kept at least two feet (2')
away from any combustible wall or partition. (1963 Code § 7-503)
   D.   Accumulations Of Waste Materials: Accumulations of wastepaper, hay,
grass, straw, weeds, litter or combustible or flammable waste or rubbish of any
kind shall not be permitted to remain upon any roof or in any court, yard,
vacant lot or open space. All weeds, grass, vines or other growth, when same
endangers property, or is liable to be fired, shall be cut down and removed by
the owner or occupant of the property where such accumulations are located.
(1963 Code § 7-504)
   E.   Storage Of Combustible Materials:
      1.   Permit Required: No person shall store in excess of two thousand
five hundred (2,500) cubic feet gross volume of combustible empty packing
cases, boxes, barrels or similar containers, or rubber tires, or baled cotton,
rubber or cork, or other similarly combustible material without a permit from
the chief of the fire department.
      2.   Storage Requirements: Storage in buildings shall be orderly, shall
not be within two feet (2') of the ceiling, and not so located as to endanger
exit from the building. Storage in the open shall not be more than twenty feet
(20') in height, shall be so located, with respect to adjacent buildings, as
not to constitute a hazard, and shall be compact and orderly. (1963 Code § 7-
506)
   F.   Flammable Decorative Materials In Stores: Cotton batting, straw, dry
vines, leaves, trees, and other highly flammable materials shall not be used
for decorative purposes in show windows or other parts of stores unless
flameproofed; provided, however, that nothing in this subsection shall be held
to prohibit the display of saleable goods permitted and offered for sale. (1963
Code § 7-507)
   G.   Use Of Torches Or Flame Producing Devices For Removing Paint: Any
person using a torch or other flame producing device for removing paint from
any building or structure shall provide one approved fire extinguisher or water
hose connected to the water supply on the premises where such burning is done.
In all cases, the person doing the burning shall remain on the premises one
hour after the torch or flame producing device has been used. (1963 Code § 7-
509)
4-5-3: SMOKING PROHIBITED UNDER CERTAIN CONDITIONS:
   A.   Definition: "Smoking" shall mean and include the carrying of lighted
pipe, cigar, cigarette or tobacco in any form. (1963 Code § 7-701)
   B.   Designation Of Areas Where Smoking Prohibited: Where conditions are
such as to make smoking a hazard in any areas of warehouses, stores, industrial
plants, institutions, places of assembly, and in open spaces where combustible
materials are stored or handled, the chief of the fire department is empowered
and authorized to order the owner or occupant in writing to post "No Smoking"
signs in each building, structure, room or place in which smoking shall be
prohibited. The chief of the fire department shall designate specific safe
locations, if necessary, in any building, structure or place in which smoking
may be permitted. (1963 Code § 7-702)
   C.   No Smoking Signs: "No Smoking" signs required in accordance with
subsection B of this section shall read "By Order Of The Chief Of The Fire
Department". (1963 Code § 7-703)
   D.   Smoking And Removal Of No Smoking Signs Prohibited: It shall be
unlawful for any person to remove any legally required "No Smoking" sign or to
smoke in any place where such signs are posted. (1963 Code § 7-704)
CHAPTER 6
FIRE HAZARD INSPECTION
SECTION:
4-6-1: Inspection Authorized
4-6-2: Hazard Removal Upon Order
4-6-3: Failure To Remove Hazard
4-6-4: Serving Of Order
4-6-1: INSPECTION AUTHORIZED:
Authority is hereby given to the chief of the fire department to inspect or
cause to be inspected by fire department officers or members, as often as may
be necessary, all buildings, premises and public thoroughfares, except the
interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to
be corrected any conditions liable to cause fire, or any violations of the
provisions or intent of any laws of the city affecting the fire hazard. (1963
Code § 7-901)
4-6-2: HAZARD REMOVAL UPON ORDER:
Whenever an officer or member shall find in any building, upon any premises or
other place, combustible matter or dangerous accumulation of rubbish or
unnecessary accumulation of wastepaper, boxes, shavings, or any other highly
inflammable materials especially liable to fire, and which is so situated as to
endanger property, or shall find obstructions to or on fire escapes, stairs,
passageways, doors or windows liable to interfere with the operation of the
fire department, or egress of occupants in case of fire, he shall order the
same to be removed or remedied, and such order shall forthwith be complied with
by the owner or occupant of such premises or buildings, subject to appeal
within twenty four (24) hours to the city council, who shall, within five (5)
days, review such order and file its decision thereon; and unless the order is
revoked or modified, it shall remain in full force and be obeyed by such owner
or occupant. (1963 Code § 7-902)
4-6-3: FAILURE TO REMOVE HAZARD:
Any owner or occupant failing to comply with such order within ten (10) days
after said appeal shall have been determined, or, if no appeal is taken, then
within ten (10) days after the service of said order, shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor. (1963 Code § 7-903)
4-6-4: SERVING OF ORDER:
The service of any such order shall be made upon the occupant of the premises
to whom it is directed by either delivering a true copy of same to such
occupant personally or by delivering same to and leaving it with any person in
charge of the premises, or in case no such person is found upon the premises,
by affixing a copy thereof in a conspicuous place on the door to the entrance
of the said premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order upon
the owner of the premises, such order may be served either by delivering to and
leaving with said person a true copy of the said order, or, if such owner is
absent from the jurisdiction of the office making the order, by mailing him
such copy to the owner's last known post office address. (1963 Code § 7-904)
CHAPTER 7
TALL GRASS AND WEEDS
SECTION:
4-7-1: Title
4-7-2: Purpose And Intent
4-7-3: Definitions
4-7-4: Land Subject To Regulations
4-7-5: Tall Grass And Weeds/Noxious Weeds
4-7-6: Prohibition On Deposit Or Accumulation Of Yard Waste/Vegetation Debris
4-7-7: Enforcement
4-7-8: Declaration Of Nuisance
4-7-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the CITY OF CRAIGMONT TALL GRASS AND WEEDS
ORDINANCE and may be so cited. (Ord. 417, 3-1-2016)
4-7-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The City of Craigmont hereby finds that tall grass and weeds are a nuisance,
can have a blighting effect on neighborhoods, and can provide a refuge for
vermin and insects. The purpose of this chapter is to secure the public health,
safety and general welfare of the residents and property owners of the City of
Craigmont by regulating the height grass and weeds are allowed to grow in the
City of Craigmont. (Ord. 417, 3-1-2016)
4-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
 
                           Any type of grass or weed, but not including: a)
                           crops grown as a source of income, including but not
                           limited to corn, oats, hay, wheat or barley, or b)
GRASS:                     ornamental grasses intentionally planted and
                           maintained by the lot or parcel owner solely for
                           ornamental purposes so long as the same do not
                           otherwise constitute a fire hazard, detriment to
                           public health or nuisance.
                           The use of land for tilling of the soil, the raising
LAND USED FOR AGRICULTURE: of field or tree crops or animal husbandry, as a
                           source of income.
 
 
                      Any plant having the potential to cause injury to public
NOXIOUS WEEDS:        health, crops, livestock, land or other property; which
                      is designated as noxious by the State of Idaho and/or
                      Lewis County.
                      Any person who has the right to occupy a parcel of
OCCUPANT:             property due to being an owner or pursuant to a verbal or
                      written lease or rental agreement with the owner or agent
                      thereof.
                      Any person holding an ownership interest in land in the
                      City of Craigmont upon which there is tall grass growing.
OWNER:                For the purposes of this chapter, the name and address
                      listed on the County Tax Assessment Roll shall indicate
                      ownership interest in such land.
TALL GRASS AND WEEDS: Any grass or weed whose height exceeds ten inches (10")
                      above ground level grade.
                      Any plant, which in the opinion of the Craigmont City
                      Council, or its designee, designated as noxious by the
WEEDS:                Idaho Department of Agriculture, including grass over ten
                      inches (10") in height, other than that part of a
                      vegetable or flower garden, is regarded as a common
                      nuisance. (Ord. 417, 3-1-2016; amd. Ord. 445, 5-7-2024)
 
4-7-4: LAND SUBJECT TO REGULATIONS:
This chapter does not apply to the following:
   A.   Land used for agricultural or pasture purposes, including weeds in
fields devoted to growing any small grain crops such as wheat, oats, barley or
rye.
   B.   Portions of lots used for flower gardens, shrubbery or vegetable
gardens.
   C.   Naturally wooded areas, wetlands or meadows.
   D.   Areas designated by the Craigmont City Council as undeveloped open
space. (Ord. 417, 3-1-2016)
4-7-5: TALL GRASS AND WEEDS/NOXIOUS WEEDS:
   A.   Prohibition On Tall Grass And Weeds: It shall be unlawful for the owner
or occupant of any lot or parcel of land within the city to cause, allow,
permit or suffer any tall grass and weeds to remain standing or growing on such
lot or parcel. It shall be the duty of all said owners and/or occupants either
to cut down or otherwise dispose of by lawful means all tall grass and weeds,
as defined in this chapter, which are standing or growing upon said lot or
parcel, and to prevent said tall grass and weeds from perpetuating themselves
and from becoming an nuisance, fire hazard or detriment to public health.
   B.   Prohibition Of Noxious Weeds: It shall be the duty and responsibility
of all landowners to control noxious weeds on their land and property as
provided by Idaho law. The cost of controlling noxious weeds shall be the
obligation of the land owner. It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly
fail to control noxious weeds on any lot or parcel owned by the person in the
manner provided by Idaho law. (Ord. 445, 5-7-2024)
4-7-6: PROHIBITION ON DEPOSIT OR ACCUMULATIONS OF YARD WASTE/VEGETATION DEBRIS:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any lot or parcel of land to
cause, allow, permit or suffer the deposit or accumulation upon any portion of
such lot or parcel of land, of any brush, yard debris, dead vegetation, or cut
grass or weeds so as to create a nuisance due to unsightliness, an unhealthy or
unsafe condition, traffic hazard or fire hazard. (Ord. 417, 3-1-2016; amd. Ord.
445, 5-7-2024)
4-7-7: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Officer: This chapter shall be enforced by such persons who
shall be so designated by the Craigmont City Council.
   B.   Right Of Entry: The Ordinance Enforcement Officer, and his or her
authorized representatives, are hereby empowered to enter upon any premises or
land in the City of Craigmont for the purpose of inspecting, removing and/or
destroying of tall grass and weeds prohibited under this chapter. No person
shall molest or interfere with such person or persons while they are engaged in
carrying out the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Violation Notice: After inspection, if any property is determined to be
in violation of this chapter, a violation notice will be sent to the property
owner and/or occupant of said premises. The notice shall be sent by both first
class mail and/or by posting a copy of said notice on the property. The notice
shall give the property owner seven (7) days from the date of the notice to cut
the tall grass and/or weeds.
   D.   Failure To Comply: If the tall grass and weeds are not cut within seven
(7) days after the mailing and/or posting of a violation notice, the City of
Craigmont shall have the authority to enter upon the land and/or to cause the
lawn to be mowed by an authorized representative. Said authorized
representative is hereby empowered to enter upon any premises or land in the
City of Craigmont for the purpose of mowing tall grass and weeds in violation
of this chapter even if the property owner and/or occupant failed to actually
receive said notice. The City of Craigmont, its agents and representatives,
shall not be responsible for damage to buildings, vehicles, landscape, trees,
shrubs, etc., during the mowing of property in violation of this chapter.
   E.   Assessment Of Costs: All expenses of such cutting, to include equipment
usage, transportation, man-hours involved and overhead, including any and all
cost incurred in the removal or relocation of debris, junk or other
miscellaneous obstructions which would be necessary or convenient to carry out
the requirements of this chapter shall be paid by the owner of such land plus
an administrative charge of fifteen percent (15%) thereof per residential
parcel, per cutting. The City of Craigmont shall submit a bill to the property
owner for the cost of such cutting. If the property owner does not pay the bill
within thirty (30) days of the date of the invoice the cost of such payment
shall be charged against the premises and it shall become a lien created by
general law for taxes. (Ord. 417, 3-1-2016)
4-7-8: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE:
Any violation of any provision of this chapter is hereby declared to be
nuisance and the City of Craigmont may seek enforcement of this chapter by suit
for injunction, damages or other appropriate legal action, as against a
nuisance, pursuant to all relevant provisions of Idaho law. (Ord. 417, 3-1-
2016)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
Law Enforcement   1
Fire Department   2
Minors   3
Animal Control   4
Dogs   4A
Livestock And Poultry   4B
Recreational Vehicles As Dwellings     5
CHAPTER 1
LAW ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Law Enforcement Contracted With County
5-1-1: LAW ENFORCEMENT CONTRACTED WITH COUNTY:
Pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement, the city has contracted with the
Lewis County sheriff's department to enforce state statutes and county and city
ordinances, including, but not limited to, traffic enforcement and criminal and
civil enforcement. (2010 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Department Created; Officers
5-2-3: Chief Of Fire Department
5-2-4: Assistant Chiefs And Departmental Officers
5-2-5: Department Membership
5-2-6: Authority To Adopt Bylaws
5-2-7: Reimbursement Of Expenses
5-2-8: Apparatus And Equipment
5-2-9: Fire Alarms
5-2-10: Mutual Aid Agreements
5-2-11: Fire Calls Outside City
5-2-12: Vehicles Of Members
5-2-13: Prohibited Acts By Individuals
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
CHIEF: The appointed chief of the Craigmont volunteer fire department.
CITY: The city of Craigmont, Idaho.
COUNCIL OR CITY COUNCIL: The city council of Craigmont, Idaho.
DEPARTMENT: The Craigmont volunteer fire department. (1963 Code § 3-202)
5-2-2: DEPARTMENT CREATED; OFFICERS:
   A.   Creation: A department to be hereinafter known as the Craigmont
volunteer fire department, the object of which shall be prevention of fire and
protection of life and property within the city limits, is hereby created. The
fire department shall be a division of the department of public protection and
shall be under the supervision of the commissioner of public protection. (1963
Code § 3-201)
   B.   Officers: The department shall consist of a chief, a first assistant
chief, a second assistant chief, a secretary-treasurer, and such other officers
as the chief and the city council may deem necessary for the effective
operation of the department. (1963 Code § 3-203)
5-2-3: CHIEF OF FIRE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Selection; Qualifications:
      1.   The membership of the Craigmont volunteer fire department shall
elect from their own membership a person to be recommended to the city council
for appointment as chief of the department. The person chosen shall be elected
by a majority of the membership of the department present and voting at said
election. The person so recommended shall, upon confirmation and approval of
the city council, be appointed by the council as chief of the department.
      2.   The chief shall be technically qualified by training and experience
and shall have the ability to command individuals and hold their respect and
confidence. (1963 Code § 3-204)
   B.   Term Of Office: The chief shall serve for a term of two (2) years and
may be from time to time rerecommended and reappointed. (1963 Code § 3-205)
   C.   Accountability; Report To Council: The chief shall be accountable to
the city council only and shall make written and verbal reports thereto as the
council may require. (1963 Code § 3-206)
   D.   Removal Of Chief: The chief cannot be removed from office during his
term except by a written notice served upon the fire chief setting forth the
grounds and charges against him. The grounds and charges may be preferred by
the city council, or by a majority of the membership of the Craigmont volunteer
fire department. Then the said fire chief cannot be removed unless he shall
have had a hearing with the right to defend himself against the charges, and a
vote of a majority of the members of the city council. (1963 Code § 3-209)
   E.   Duties Of Chief:
      1.   The chief shall be responsible to the city council for the
personnel, morale, and general efficiency of the department. (1963 Code § 3-
210)
      2.   The chief shall, at least once monthly, conduct suitable drills and
instruction: in the operation and handling of equipment; first aid in rescue
work; salvage; a study of the buildings in the city; fire prevention, water
supplies; and all other matters generally considered essential to good
firemanship and safety of life and property from fire. Weather conditions not
permitting, drills shall consist of discussion of firefighting equipment and
apparatus. (1963 Code § 3-210; amd. 2010 Code)
      3.   The chief is hereby required to assist the proper authorities in
suppressing the crime of arson by investigating or causing to be investigated
the cause, origin and circumstances of all fires.
      4.   The chief is hereby empowered to enter any and all buildings and
premises at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to
serve written notice upon the owner or occupant to abate, within a specified
time, any and all fire hazards that may be found.
      5.   Any person so served with a notice to abate any fire hazards shall
comply therewith and promptly notify the chief.
      6.   The chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and minor equipment, personnel and other information
about the work of the department
      7.   The chief shall report quarterly to the city council: the condition
of the apparatus and equipment; the number of fires during the quarter, their
location and cause, the date of same and the loss occasioned thereby, the
number and purpose of all other runs made; the number of members responding to
each fire or other run and any changes in membership.
      8.   The chief shall make a complete annual report to the city council at
the last meeting at the close of the fiscal year, such report to include the
information specified in subsection E7 of this section, together with
comparative data for previous years and recommendations for improving the
effectiveness of the department.
      9.   The chief of the fire department shall be the chief executive
officer of the department, subject to the rules and regulations and orders of
the fire department and the city council, and shall have under such conditions,
control and command of all property belonging to the department and of all
subordinates in the service. He shall enforce the faithful observance of the
ordinances of the city and the rules and regulations of the fire department.
      10.   It shall be the duty of the chief of the fire department to see
that all property and apparatus provided for the use of the fire department is
protected from violence and kept clean, in good repair and in perfect condition
for immediate use, and to see that the fire plugs or hydrants of the city are
in good working order. (1963 Code § 3-210)
      11.   At all fires, the chief of the fire department shall have sole
command, and all members of the fire department and all law enforcement
officers shall, during the continuance of any fire, be subject to his order. He
may, when deemed necessary for extinguishment of any fire, call to his aid any
person present, age eighteen (18) years or older, and it shall be the duty of
every person so called upon by the chief of the fire department to render him
prompt service; provided, however, that in the absence of the chief or
assistant chiefs, the first firefighter to arrive upon the scene of said fire
shall be in command therewith until the arrival of the chief or assistant
chiefs or superior officer in the fire department. (1963 Code § 3-210; amd.
2010 Code)
5-2-4: ASSISTANT CHIEFS AND DEPARTMENTAL OFFICERS:
   A.   Selection; Accountable To Chief; Term:
      1.   The assistant chiefs and all other departmental officers except the
chief shall be elected by the members of the Craigmont volunteer fire
department from its own membership, and said persons shall be chosen by a
majority vote of members present and voting at said election and shall not be
subject to confirmation by the city council. Such officers shall be accountable
to the chief and subject to removal by majority vote of the members of the
Craigmont volunteer fire department.
      2.   The assistant chiefs and all other departmental officers shall be
elected for a term of two (2) years. (1963 Code § 3-207)
   B.   Duties Of Assistant Chiefs:
      1.   The first assistant chief and second assistant chief shall report to
the chief at fires and assist him in the discharge of his duties.
      2.   In the absence of the chief, the first assistant chief shall command
the department and be held responsible therefor in all respects with the full
powers and responsibilities of the chief.
      3.   In the absence of both the chief and first assistant chief, the
second assistant chief shall command the department with the full powers and
responsibilities of the chief. (1963 Code § 3-211)
   C.   Special Officers: The department may elect a president, vice president,
and secretary-treasurer, to be known as social officers. Such officers may be
elected in any manner and for any term the membership may decide upon, and
their duties shall be to arrange for and manage any or all social functions
sponsored by the department. (1963 Code § 3-233)
5-2-5: DEPARTMENT MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Composition; Qualifications: The membership of the department shall
consist of not less than twelve (12) nor more than fifteen (15) persons,
including the chief and departmental officers, as may be elected to membership
by a majority of the membership of the Craigmont volunteer fire department, and
shall be able bodied citizens at least eighteen (18) years of age residing
within the city of Craigmont, preferably property owners whose business
activities are normally within the confines of the city of Craigmont and who
have telephones in their homes. Provided however, all present members of the
Craigmont volunteer fire department, irrespective of this subsection, are
hereby granted membership in the Craigmont volunteer fire department
established by this chapter. Provided further, that in addition to the maximum
membership of the department above set forth, the department is hereby
authorized to associate in membership five (5) additional persons who shall be
known as "standby firefighters". Standby firefighters shall attend all drills,
lectures, fire runs and alarms of the department. The status of standby
firefighters in the department shall be determined by the bylaws, rules and
regulations that the department is hereinafter authorized to make. (1963 Code §
3-212; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Suspension Or Discharge Of Members: Any member of the department may be
suspended or discharged from the department on charges preferred by the chief
to the membership of the department at any time the chief may deem such action
necessary for the good of the department. Such member shall not be discharged
unless a majority of the members of the department at a regular meeting shall
vote by secret ballot to discharge such member from membership. (1963 Code § 3-
213)
   C.   Members Issued Badge: Each member of the department shall be issued a
badge designating his rank. (1963 Code § 3-224)
   D.   Special Police Powers Granted: All regularly appointed members of the
department are hereby given the necessary special police powers for the purpose
of enforcing the provisions of this chapter. (1963 Code § 3-231)
5-2-6: AUTHORITY TO ADOPT BYLAWS:
The volunteer fire department is hereby authorized to adopt bylaws, rules and
regulations for the administration of the department not in conflict with the
laws of the state or the ordinances of the city. These bylaws, rules and
regulations shall be effective when approved by the city council and a copy
filed with the city clerk-treasurer. The membership of the Craigmont volunteer
fire department shall, within thirty (30) days after the effective date hereof,
adopt a set of bylaws, rules and regulations of the department. (1963 Code § 3-
214)
5-2-7: REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES:
The reimbursement to be paid by the city to the fire department shall be in
addition to other reimbursements elsewhere provided in other ordinances of the
city, as follows:
   A.   The fire department shall receive for each member attending each drill
or lecture meeting a sum to be determined by resolution of the city council.
Attendance shall be determined by roll call by the secretary-treasurer
forthwith after the meeting has been called to order. The department shall
receive no reimbursement for members not present at said drill or meeting.
   B.   The department shall also receive reimbursement from the city when
actually engaged in fighting fires or when responding to a fire alarm, in an
amount as may be determined by city resolution. The city volunteer firefighters
shall not be considered employees of the city for any purpose. (Ord. 305, 5-1-
1984; amd. 2010 Code)
5-2-8: APPARATUS AND EQUIPMENT:
   A.   City Equipment: The department shall be equipped with the firefighting
apparatus and equipment as the city now owns and that which may be acquired
from time to time to maintain its efficiency and properly protect life and
property from fire. (1963 Code § 3-216)
   B.   Purchase Of Equipment: Recommendations of apparatus and equipment
needed shall be made by the chief and, after approval by the city council,
shall be purchased in such manner as may be designated by the city council.
(1963 Code § 3-217)
   C.   Housing Of Equipment: All equipment of the department shall be safely
and conveniently housed in such places as may be designated by the city
council. (1963 Code § 3-218)
   D.   Private Use Of Equipment Prohibited: No person shall use any fire
apparatus or equipment for any private purpose, nor shall any person wilfully
and without proper authority take away or conceal any article used in any way
by the department. (1963 Code § 3-220)
   E.   Unauthorized Persons Prohibited: No person shall enter any place where
fire apparatus is housed or handle any apparatus or equipment belonging to the
department unless accompanied by, or having special permission of, an officer
or authorized member of the department. (1963 Code § 3-221)
5-2-9: FIRE ALARMS:
Suitable arrangement or equipment shall be provided for citizens to turn in an
alarm, and for notifying all members of the department so that they may
promptly respond. (1963 Code § 3-219)
5-2-10: MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS:
The fire department of the city is hereby authorized to enter into agreements
or contracts with nearby incorporated communities in the establishment of a
mutual aid system. All contracts and agreements shall have the proper approval
of the city council before they shall become effective. (1963 Code § 3-222)
5-2-11: FIRE CALLS OUTSIDE CITY:
No apparatus shall be hired out or permitted to leave the city except to
protect property in which the city has a legal obligation, either through
ownership, lease, rental or permissive use, or in response to a call for aid at
a fire in a neighboring community, and then only with the consent of the mayor
or, in his absence from the community, the commissioner of public protection.
The officer in charge of the department shall have the power to assign
equipment for response to calls for outside aid in accordance with this chapter
where the absence of such equipment will not jeopardize the fire protection in
the city. Provided however, that in general, only one fire truck shall be
permitted to leave at any one time for any cause unless the city is otherwise
protected by companies of other communities "covering in" as may be scheduled
in a mutual aid agreement. (1963 Code § 3-223)
5-2-12: VEHICLES OF MEMBERS:
   A.   Right Of Way: All motor equipment and all personal vehicles of
department members shall have right of way over all other traffic when
responding to an alarm. (1963 Code § 3-225; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Insignia Issued: Each member of the department driving a vehicle shall
be issued a suitable insignia to be attached to the vehicle. (1963 Code § 3-
226; amd. 2010 Code)
5-2-13: PROHIBITED ACTS BY INDIVIDUALS:
   A.   Driving Over Fire Hose: No person shall drive any vehicle over a fire
hose except upon specific orders from the chief or other officer in charge
where the hose is used. (1963 Code § 3-227)
   B.   Parking Near Fire Hydrant Or Station: No person shall park any vehicle
or otherwise cause any obstruction to be placed within twenty feet (20') of the
entrance to any fire station or other place where fire apparatus is stored, or
within twenty feet (20') of any fire hydrant or cistern. (1963 Code § 3-228)
   C.   Following Fire Truck Or Parking Near Fire: No unauthorized person with
any vehicle shall follow within three hundred feet (300') of any apparatus
belonging to the department, nor park any vehicle within three hundred feet
(300') of a fire. (1963 Code § 3-229)
   D.   False Alarms: No person shall maliciously turn in or cause to be turned
in a false alarm. (1963 Code § 3-230)
CHAPTER 3
MINORS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Curfew
5-3-2: Minors In Pool Halls
5-3-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply to interpretation of
this section:
   LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person, other than a parent, having legal custody of a
minor.
   LOCAL TIME: Pacific Standard Time or Pacific Daylight Saving Time, as may be
in effect.
   MINOR: An unmarried person seventeen (17) years of age or under.
   OTHER CUSTODIAN: A person, other than a parent or legal guardian, to whom
legal or joint legal custody of the minor has been given by court order or who
is acting in loco parentis.
   PARENT: The biological or adoptive mother or father of a minor.
   PROPER WRITTEN PERMISSION: A written instrument, made and signed by the
minor's parent, legal guardian or other custodian, stating all of the
following: 1) the name, address and telephone number of the minor and of the
person making the instrument; 2) the date the instrument was signed; 3) a
statement of the dates and times for which the permission is effective; and 4)
a statement as to the specific purpose permission was given.
   PUBLIC PLACE: 1) Any property within the city of Craigmont owned by any
federal, state or local governmental entity, or political subdivision thereof,
including school districts and schools; and 2) public parks, streets, alleys,
sidewalks and rights of way; and 3) those portions of parking lots, situated on
private property, which are open to the public.
   B.   Prohibited Hours; Exceptions: It shall be unlawful for any minor to be
at or upon any public place within the city at the following times:
      1.   After ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. local time on Sunday, Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of each week; and until six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
local time the following morning.
      2.   After twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight local time Friday and Saturday
of each week and until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. local time the following
morning.
      3.   The provisions of subsections B1 and B2 of this section shall not
apply to minors:
         a.   In attendance at or going immediately to or from, without detour
or stop, an event sanctioned by a governmental entity, school, religious, civic
or fraternal organization; or
         b.   Who are accompanied by and under the immediate supervision of a
parent, legal guardian or other custodian; or
         c.   Who have in their possession an effective proper written
permission from the minor's parent, legal guardian, or other custodian,
evidencing said person's granting of permission to the minor to travel to or
from, or to be present at or upon a public place during the times prohibited by
subsections B1 and B2 of this section, as may be applicable, for a specific
purpose, and any such permission shall be effective for accomplishing the
stated specific purpose only. Provided, however, that no written permission
shall be effective more than five (5) days after the written instrument was
signed by the person making the instrument or after the specific purpose for
which permission was given has been fulfilled, whichever shall first occur; or
         d.   When the presence of the minor is connected with and required by
some business, trade, profession or occupation in which said minor is lawfully
engaged, including, but not limited to, agriculture; or
         e.   Who are involved in emergencies involving threat or injury to
life, health or property.
   C.   Encouraging Curfew Violations: It shall be unlawful for any person to
aid, abet or encourage a violation of this section.
   D.   Detention Of Minors; Notice To Parents Or Legal Guardians: Peace
officers shall have the authority to detain minors violating the provisions of
this section as provided for the detention of juveniles for misdemeanor
violations as set forth in Idaho Code title 20, chapter 5. If the peace officer
chooses to issue a uniform citation to violators pursuant to Idaho Code section
20-549, as amended, upon issuance of a uniform citation the peace officer shall
follow the procedures set forth in Idaho Code section 20-549, as amended, with
respect to obtaining endorsements on the citation and providing notice of the
citation to the minor's parents or legal guardians.
   E.   Violation A Misdemeanor: Violations of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 382, 12-3-2002)
5-3-2: MINORS IN POOL HALLS:
It shall be unlawful for any proprietor, manager or employee of any public pool
or billiard hall or other business establishment wherein intoxicating liquor or
alcoholic beverages are sold to be consumed on the premises to permit or allow
any child or minor under the age of eighteen (18) years to frequent or loiter
in such establishment; provided, however, that the same shall not be illegal in
places of business that are duly licensed by the state of Idaho as restaurants.
(1963 Code § 6-126; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-4-1: Trapping Regulations
5-4-1: TRAPPING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions:
   TRAP: Any mechanical device or snare which is designed to hold, capture,
and/or kill an animal including, but not limited to, live traps, steel jaw
foothold traps, padded jaw traps, body gripping (Conibear) traps, snares,
deadfalls, leg hold type traps, or similar devices.
   B.   Prohibited: Unless authorized by the Idaho department of fish and game,
pursuant to Idaho Code title 36, chapter 11, no person shall set a trap to
catch an animal (other than skunks, fox squirrels, mice, rats, gophers, voles
or moles) within city limits, except a person specifically authorized by the
council or law enforcement personnel or designee.
   C.   Penalties: Any person violating these provisions shall be deemed guilty
of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished pursuant to
this code and the Idaho Code, unless otherwise specifically provided for. (Ord.
2013-411, 5-7-2013)
ARTICLE A. DOGS
SECTION:
5-4A-1: Purpose
5-4A-2: Definitions
5-4A-3: Dog Licensing Requirements; Fees
5-4A-4: Kennel Operation License
5-4A-5: Rabies Quarantine
5-4A-6: Impoundment; Disposition; Fees
5-4A-7: Running At Large Prohibited
5-4A-8: Female Dogs In Heat
5-4A-9: Dangerous Dogs; Restrictions; Licensing
5-4A-10: Additional Offenses
5-4A-11: Enforcement; Animal Control Officers
5-4A-12: Interference Prohibited
5-4A-13: Immunity For City Officials
5-4A-14: Violations; Penalties
5-4A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide for regulation of the harboring of
dogs within the city limits, to promote public safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city, and to promote the welfare of dogs harbored within the
city limits. (Ord. 365, 10-1-1996)
5-4A-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise indicates, the following words and terms, when
used in this article, shall mean:
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: The Lewis County sheriff, his deputies, and/or other
authorized representatives.
AT LARGE/RUN AT LARGE: A dog is "at large" or "running at large" if it is off
its harborer's premises and not under control of a person.
BITE: Any closure by an animal's mouth causing a redness, breaking, or tearing
of the skin of any person or which materially damages or destroys the personal
property of another.
COMMERCIAL KENNEL: Any Premises or portion thereof on which three (3) or more
dogs are maintained, harbored, possessed, trained, bred, boarded or cared for
in return for compensation.
DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog that:
   A.   Without justified provocation has inflicted serious injury on a person;
or
   B.   Has been previously found to be at risk and thereafter bites or
physically attacks a person without justified provocation.
DOG: Any member, male or female, of the family of canis familiaris.
HARBOR, HARBORING: To own or keep a dog within the city limits of the city of
Craigmont. It shall be prima facie evidence that a person is harboring a dog
for the purposes of this article if the person: a) is listed as the owner or
harborer of the dog within the city of Craigmont on any application for dog
licensing; or b) is over eighteen (18) years of age and resides at or is in
physical control of a premises, or part thereof, on which a dog remains, or to
which it customarily returns daily for food and shelter, for three (3)
consecutive days or more.
HARBORER: Any person who owns a dog or keeps a dog within the city limits of
the city of Craigmont. The parents shall be presumed to be the owner of any dog
in the possession, custody or control of the parent's child.
HARBORER'S PREMISES: All real property under a harborer's ownership, lease, or
control inside the inner line of a sidewalk, or if there is no sidewalk, inside
the curb, ditch, or shoulder marking the edge of the traveled or used portion
of the public right of way. "Premises" also includes the inside of a closed
motor vehicle.
JUSTIFIED PROVOCATION: An act or omission that a reasonable person with common
knowledge of dog behavior would conclude is likely to precipitate a bite or
attack by an ordinary dog.
LEASH: A leash, lead, cord, or chain not more than ten feet (10') in length, by
which a dog is physically controlled by the person accompanying it.
NEUTERED DOG: Any male or female dog rendered incapable of reproducing
offspring by surgery or other veterinary medical procedure.
NONCOMMERCIAL KENNEL: Any kennel which is not commercial kennel as defined
above.
OWNER: Legal owner of a dog.
PHYSICALLY ATTACK: An aggressive action upon a person by a dog in which there
is physical contact between the dog and the person.
SERIOUS INJURY: An injury to a person characterized by bruising, laceration, or
other injury that would cause a reasonably prudent person to seek treatment
from a medical professional without regard to whether the person actually
sought medical treatment.
UNDER CONTROL: A dog is under control if:
   A.   The dog is confined within the boundaries of the harborer's premises;
or
   B.   The dog is not on the harborer's premises but is: 1) confined within a
vehicle; or 2) in the control of a responsible person by use of a leash not
exceeding ten feet (10') in length.
VETERINARY CLINIC OR HOSPITAL: Any establishment maintained and operated by a
licensed veterinarian for the boarding of animals or the diagnosis, treatment,
and care of diseased or injured animals. (Ord. 365, 10-1-1996; amd. 2010 Code;
Ord. 429, 11-7-2023)
5-4A-3: DOG LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; FEES:
   A.   License Required:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor a dog within the city
limits not licensed as provided by this article.
      2.   No license shall be required for dogs which are harbored within the
city limits by the owner thereof, if the owner: a) is not a resident of the
city; and b) the dog is harbored less than thirty (30) consecutive days within
the city; and c) the dog is validly licensed by another governmental licensing
authority.
   B.   Application And Information Required:
      1.   All licenses required under this article shall be issued by the
clerk-treasurer. In addition to payment of all required fees, all applicants
for dog licenses shall provide the following information to the clerk-treasurer
as a condition precedent to issuance of a license:
         a.   The name, address, and phone number of the owner;
         b.   The name, address, and phone number of the harborer if different
from the owner;
         c.   The name, age, breed, and gender of the dog;
         d.   An accurate photograph of the dog or a written description of the
weight, size, color, and distinguishing characteristics of the dog;
         e.   Whether the dog has been neutered;
         f.   Proof of current rabies vaccination; and
         g.   Whether the dog has been declared a dangerous or vicious dog by
any governmental authority.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly provide false
information on any application or in applying for any license under this
article.
      3.   Except as may be directed by resolution of the city council, the
clerk-treasurer shall refuse to issue or renew a license to any person who:
         a.   Fails to provide any information required to be submitted under
subsection A of this section or fails to pay the required license fee;
         b.   Knowingly provides false information in making application for
any license under this article; or
         c.   Applies for licensing of a dog that has been declared dangerous
or vicious dog by any governmental authority if disclosed by the applicant or
otherwise made known to the clerk- treasurer. Nothing herein shall require the
city clerk-treasurer to undertake any independent inquiry of this issue with
any person or governmental authority other than the applicant.
      4.   In the event the city clerk-treasurer shall deny the applicant a
license or renewal, the applicant may apply to the city council for issuance of
a license. The city council may issue said license by resolution of the council
on such terms and conditions the city council shall deem in the best interest
of the city.
   C.   License Fees:
      1.   All dog license fees and cost shall be set by resolution by the City
Council.
      2.   No lifetime licenses shall be issued.
      3.   All licenses issued under this article shall expire at twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight, December 31 of the year for which the license is
issued. A license for the succeeding calendar year may be obtained prior to
expiration of the current year's license but shall not be effective until the
expiration of the current license. No part of any dog license fee shall be
refundable.
      4.   Any annual city dog license purchased for the 1996 licensing year
shall be valid until twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, December 31, 1996, at
which time said license shall expire and renewal shall be required under this
article. Any "lifetime" city dog license purchased prior to the effective date
hereof shall be valid for a period of five (5) years from the effective date
hereof, and shall thereafter be deemed expired.
   D.   Collar And Valid Tag Required: Every dog harbored within the city
limits shall at all times wear a substantial, durable collar to which shall be
securely attached a valid current license tag issued by the city for the dog
wearing the tag as provided in this article.
   E.   Prohibited Tags; Exceptions; Transfer Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog harbored by the
person to wear any license tag or indicia of licensing other than a valid
license tag issued under this article for the dog wearing the tag. This
subsection shall not prohibit the wearing of nonlicense tags for the purpose of
identification, proof of vaccination, or similar tags if the dog is wearing a
valid current license tag issued under this article for the dog.
      2.   All licenses and tags issued under this article or predecessor
ordinances shall be nontransferable.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to transfer or attempt to
transfer to another person any license or tag issued under this article or
predecessor ordinances.
   F.   Maximum Number Of Dogs Per Household: There shall be no more than two
(2) licensed dogs permitted per household or per harborer, unless the same is
qualified and licensed as a kennel. (Ord. 365, 10-1-1996; amd. Ord. 439, 11-7-
2023)
5-4A-4: KENNEL OPERATION LICENSE:
No person shall operate or maintain a commercial or noncommercial kennel within
the city without first obtaining a license therefor as provided in this
chapter. (Ord. 365, 10-1-1996; amd. Ord. 439, 11-7-2023)
5-4A-5: RABIES QUARANTINE:
   A.   Quarantine Authorized: The animal control officer shall have the
authority to order the harborer of any dog showing symptoms of rabies or any
dog which has bitten any person to take the dog to the city pound,
veterinarian, or any other place in the business of boarding dogs for
quarantine for a period not to exceed fifteen (15) days, or for such other
periods as indicated by a licensed veterinarian as necessary to determine if
the subject dog is infected with rabies.
   B.   Dog Determined Free Of Rabies; Payment Of Fee: If the dog is determined
to be free of rabies, the dog shall be returned to the harborer upon payment of
one hundred percent (100%) of the regular fee for keeping dogs impounded.
   C.   Failure To Pay Fee; Disposal Of Dog: If the fee is not paid, the dog
shall be subject to disposal as provided in this article.
   D.   Alternative To Impoundment: In lieu of submitting the dog to
impoundment, the harborer may at their expense admit the dog to a licensed
veterinarian for examination and provide the city with a certification that the
dog is free from rabies.
   E.   Disposal Of Dog Afflicted With Rabies: Any dog afflicted with rabies
shall be disposed of immediately, either by the harborer or the animal control
officer. (Ord. 365, 10-1-1996)
5-4A-6: IMPOUNDMENT; DISPOSITION; FEES:
   A.   Impoundment Authorized; Notice To Owner:
      1.   All dogs running at large within the city limits may be impounded by
the animal control officer by the use of a tranquilizer gun or other humane
means of dog control.
      2.   If a dog is impounded, the animal control officer shall undertake a
reasonable inquiry to determine the identity of the owner or harborer of the
dog. Reasonable inquiry shall consist of and be limited to: a) examining any
tags affixed to any collar worn by the dog at the time of impoundment; and b)
examining the dog licensing records of the city. In the event the identity of
the owner or harborer of the dog is determined from said inquiry, the animal
control officer shall serve the owner or harborer of the dog with written
notice of the impoundment by: a) personal service; or b) regular first class
U.S. mail addressed to the last known mailing address of the owner or harborer
as shown by the records of the city clerk-treasurer, which service being
effective on the date of mailing. No such notice shall be required if the
identity of the owner or harborer is not determined from said inquiry.
      3.   The owner or harborer of any dog which may be taken up and impounded
under the provisions of this article may recover possession of the dog upon
payment to the city of any license fees, impoundment fees, and other costs
provided in this article.
   B.   Disposition Of Impounded Dogs: If the owner or harborer of any
impounded dog fails to pay any required fees and costs under this article
within seven (7) days after the date of service of any written notice required
under this section, or within five (5) days of the date of impoundment if no
notice is required, the animal control officer may dispose of the dog:
      1.   By delivering it to any person who will pay all fees and costs due;
or
      2.   By destroying the dog in a humane manner.
   C.   Fees Imposed; Payment Prior To Release: Impounded dogs shall not be
released until the owner or the harborer pays to the city clerk-treasurer:
      1.   Ten dollars ($10.00) capture fee;
      2.   Five dollars ($5.00) per day impoundment fee each day of
impoundment;
      3.   If the dog has not been issued a valid current city dog license
required under this article, a license fee as provided by this article;
      4.   Any other reasonable costs and expenses of impoundment incurred by
the city in impounding the dog, including any veterinary expenses reasonably
incurred. (Ord. 365, 10-1-1996)
5-4A-7: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any harborer of a dog to permit a harbored dog to:
   A.   Be or run at large; or
   B.   Go or remain upon any public premises not owned by, leased by, or in
the control of the harborer without the consent of the owner or occupier of the
private premises. (Ord. 365, 10-1-1996)
5-4A-8: FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT:
All persons harboring any female dog shall keep it shut up when in heat. Any
female dog running at large at such season may be disposed of by the animal
control officer without giving any notice required under section 5-4A-6 of this
article, or otherwise. The animal control officer may also dispose of, by
destroying in a humane manner, any dog found running at large which, in the
judgment of the animal control officer:
   A.   Displays symptoms of contagious disease; or
   B.   Displays serious physical injury or illness such that the animal
control officer deems, in the officer's sole discretion, that it is necessary
to destroy the dog to prevent further suffering; or
   C.   Displays vicious or aggressive behavior which poses an imminent risk of
physical injury to any person, and the dog cannot, in the discretion of the
animal control officer, be taken into control for impoundment by reasonably
humane methods. (Ord. 365, 10-1-1996)
5-4A-9: DANGEROUS DOGS; RESTRICTIONS; LICENSING:
   A.   Keeping Restricted:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor a dangerous dog within
the city limits, except as provided in this article.
      2.   The city clerk-treasurer shall not issue or renew any dog license
for any dog that has been declared dangerous by the city, or dangerous,
vicious, or other similar classifications by any governmental authority, except
as may be provided by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Dangerous Dog Declaration; Appeal:
      1.   The animal control officer may declare a dog to be a dangerous dog
if, upon investigation of any complaint, incident, or information otherwise
provided, the animal control officer finds that:
         a.   The dog is a “dangerous dog” as defined by this chapter; or
         b.   The dog has been declared a dangerous dog, other similar
declaration by any governmental authority.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, no dog may be found or declared to be a
dangerous or at-risk dog when, at the time an injury or damage was sustained,
the precipitating cause constituted justified provocation. Justified
provocation includes, but is not limited to, the following:
            (1)   The dog was protecting or defending a person within the
immediate vicinity of the dog from an attack or assault;
            (2)   The person was committing a crime or offense upon the
property of the owner or custodian of the dog;
            (3)   The person was at the time, or had in the past, willfully
tormented, abused or assaulted the dog;
            (4)   The dog was responding to pain or injury or protecting its
offspring;
            (5)   The dog was working as a hunting dog, herding dog, or
predator control dog on the property of, or under the control of, its owner or
keeper, and the damage or injury sustained was to a person who was interfering
with the dog while the dog was working in a place where it was lawfully engaged
in such activity, including public lands;
            (6)   The dog was a service animal individually trained to do work
or perform tasks for a person with a disability;
            (7)   The person was intervening between two (2) or more animals
engaged in aggressive behavior or fighting; or
            (8)   If otherwise contrary to Chapter 28, Title 25, Idaho Code.
      2.   If the animal control officer makes said declaration, the animal
control officer shall notify the owner or harborer of the declaration and the
manner and time limits in which an appeal of the declaration may be taken. Said
notice shall be in writing and served by: a) personal service; or b) regular
first class U.S. mail to the address of the known harborer as shown by the
records of the city clerk-treasurer, with service being effective on the date
of mailing.
      3.   The animal control officer may impound any dog declared to be
dangerous, including, but not limited to, impounding of the dog during the
pendency of any appeal proceeding. The owner and harborer of the dog shall be
liable for all costs and fees of impoundment regardless of the final
disposition of the case.
      4.   The owner or harborer of a dog declared dangerous shall have five
(5) business days from the date of service of the written declaration to
request a hearing appealing the declaration. The request for hearing shall be
in writing, identify the name, address and telephone number of the requesting
party, and shall be served upon the city clerk-treasurer within the time limit
above provided. In the event no hearing is requested within the time and in the
manner above provided, the animal control officer may dispose of the dog as
provided in subsection
5-4A-6B of this article without further notice to the owner or harborer.
      5.   If a hearing is requested, a hearing shall be held within seven (7)
days of the date the request for hearing is received by the city clerk-
treasurer, or at such other time as is agreed to by the requesting party.
         a.   The mayor and two (2) city council members appointed by the mayor
shall constitute the hearing panel and shall hear the appeal. The hearing shall
be informal and the "Idaho Rules Of Evidence" shall not apply. The owner,
harborer and the animal control officer or other representative of the city
shall be given the opportunity to submit evidence, present witnesses and be
heard on the matter, including the right to cross examination.
         b.   In determining whether the dog is dangerous, the hearing panel
may consider, among other evidence, past incidents, provocation for the
dangerous behavior, whether the conduct occurred on the premises where the dog
was harbored, the legal status of the alleged victim on the premises and any
other fact or allegation relating to the incident from which the declaration
arises.
      6.   If the hearing panel shall find that the declaration was proper, the
hearing panel may order disposition of the dog as deemed in the best interest
of the City and public safety, including but not limited to:
         a.   Directing the Animal Control Officer to destroy the dog in a
human manner as provided by §
5-4A-6 (B)(2) of this chapter;
         b.   Directing that the dog may be released to the owner or harborer
on such conditions as the hearing panel shall deem in the best interest of the
City and public safety, which may include, but are not limited to, that 1) the
dog will be removed from the City limits immediately following release and not
allowed to return; 2) requiring the owner or harborer to take steps sufficient
to confine the dog in a manner to prevent harm to the public; 3) requiring the
owner and harborer to provide a surety bond or proof of liability insurance for
compensation for those who may suffer injury by reason of harboring of a
dangerous dog; and 4) any other conditions, restrictions and limitations
applicable to judicial declarations for dangerous dogs provided in Idaho Code §
25-2810, as amended.
      7.   The decision of the hearing panel shall become final unless the
decision is appealed to the district court within three (3) days following the
date of decision. (Ord. 365, 10-1-1996; amd. Ord. 439, 11-7-2023)
5-4A-10: ADDITIONAL OFFENSES:
In addition to other provisions of this article:
   A.   Offenses Enumerated: It shall be unlawful for any person harboring or
in control of a dog to:
      1.   Permit the dog to scatter garbage, refuse and debris;
      2.   Permit the dog to chase any person, vehicle, or domestic animal;
      3.   Permit the dog to deposit fecal material on any property not that of
its owner or harborer without immediately removing the same from the property;
      4.   Permit the dog to bark, howl, or otherwise cause noise in a manner
which unreasonably disturbs, or is likely to disturb, the peace and quiet of
any person;
      5.   Harbor one or more dogs in such a manner that the keeping of the dog
results in a nauseous, foul, or offensive odor or so as to create a public
nuisance; or
      6.   Harbor a dog and fail to provide the dog with food, water, shelter,
or necessary veterinary care, which shall include a rabies vaccination every
three (3) years.
   B.   Cruelty To Dogs: It shall be unlawful for any person to beat, abuse or
otherwise engage in cruel or inhumane treatment of a dog. (Ord. 365, 10-1-1996)
5-4A-11: ENFORCEMENT; ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS:
   A.   Enforcement: Any peace officer or Lewis County sheriff's deputy is
hereby appointed and designated as an animal control officer of the city. In
addition to all authority granted to such officer for general enforcement of
laws as a peace officer, said officer is further authorized and directed to
enforce all provisions of this article and perform all duties of animal control
under this article. (Ord. 365, 10-1-1996; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Appointment Of Additional Persons: The city council may appoint such
additional persons as it deems necessary and proper to act as animal control
officer(s) who shall be under the supervision and control of the mayor. Any
such appointment shall be reflected in the minutes of the city council meetings
or by resolution of the city council. The compensation and terms and conditions
of contracting or employment of such person shall be determined from time to
time by the city council.
   C.   Actions Of Officers: All persons designated as animal control officers
under this article may undertake any action or duty as animal control officer
provided under this article concurrently, jointly, or individually. (Ord. 365,
10-1-1996)
5-4A-12: INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Interfering With Officers: It shall be unlawful for any person to
knowingly hinder, molest, or interfere with any animal control officer in the
discharge of any of his duties under this article. (Ord. 365, 10-1-1996)
   B.   Removal Of Dogs From Pound: It shall be unlawful and a general
misdemeanor for any person to attempt to remove or remove any dog or dogs from
the city pound or the possession of the animal control officer without the
consent of the animal control officer or otherwise as provided by this article.
(Ord. 365, 10-1-1996; amd. 2010 Code)
5-4A-13: IMMUNITY FOR CITY OFFICIALS:
The city, its officials, employees, animal control officers and agents shall
not be liable for any acts or commissions in performing duties arising from
this article and shall be immune from suit on any claims arising by reason of
any such alleged act or omission. (Ord. 365, 10-1-1996)
5-4A-14: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations And Remedies Cumulative: The violations, punishments, and
remedies provided in this article shall be cumulative with other provisions of
this code, and state and federal laws, and the city may cause any conduct or
condition in violation of this article constituting a public nuisance to be
abated as a public nuisance in the manner provided by law.
   B.   Violations/Penalties: In addition to other penalties and remedies
provided by this chapter, which shall be cumulative, any person violating any
provision of this ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Provided,
however, that any person in violation of § 5-4A-3(A), (D), (E) or (F), or § 5-
4A-4, of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction. (Ord. 365, 10-1-1996;
amd. Ord. 439, 11-7-2023)
ARTICLE B. LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY
SECTION:
5-4B-1: Running At Large Prohibited
5-4B-2: Freeing Impounded Animals Prohibited
5-4B-3: Tying Livestock
5-4B-1: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Livestock: It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any horse,
cattle, rabbit, goat, sheep, pig or hog or other livestock to run at large in
the city at any time during the year, and it shall be unlawful for anyone to
herd or drive any of the above named animals through the streets without having
said animals under control by means of rope, strap or other device by which
they may be led, unless such animal is being driven in harness or hauled. (1963
Code § 6-501; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Poultry: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep fowl or poultry
unless such fowl or poultry are at all times kept upon his own premises and in
enclosures. (1963 Code § 6-502)
5-4B-2: FREEING IMPOUNDED ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to break open or in any manner, directly or indirectly,
aid or assist in breaking open any pen or enclosure with intent of releasing
any animal confined therein pursuant to the provisions of this article. (1963
Code § 6-507)
5-4B-3: TYING LIVESTOCK:
It shall be unlawful for any person to tie livestock within reach of any
sidewalk or crosswalk or within reach of the fences, buildings, improvements,
trees or shrubbery of any other person within the city, or tie livestock to any
telephone, telegraph or utility pole within the city. (1963 Code § 6-503)
CHAPTER 5
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AS DWELLINGS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Prohibited Conduct
5-5-3: Temporary Occupancy Permit
5-5-4: Violations
5-5-1:   DEFINITIONS:
As used in the chapter, the following terms shall have the following means:
 
                              A lot, tract, parcel or other real property
PRIVATE PROPERTY:             situated within the city of Craigmont that is
                              not owned by a governmental entity.
                              A motor home, travel trailer, fifth-wheel
                              trailer, park model recreational vehicle,
                              truck camper or folding camping trailer, with
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE:         or without motive power, designed for
                              recreational or emergency occupancy. School
                              buses or van type vehicles which are
                              converted to recreational use, are defined as
                              recreational vehicles.
TOURIST COURT, TRAILER CAMP-  Have the same meaning as provided for such
AUTOMOBILE, TRAILER COACH and terms respectively in Craigmont City Code §
MOBILE HOME PARK:             10-1-6, as amended. (Ord. 433, 4-4-2023)
 
5-5-2:   PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person
to reside in, use or occupy any recreational vehicle as a habitation, dwelling
or place of abode on any private property for more than fourteen (14) days in
any calendar year except within an approved Tourist Court, Trailer Camp-
Automobile or Trailer Coach and Mobile Home Park. (Ord. 433, 4-4-2023)
5-5-3:   TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY PERMITS:
   A.   Authority To Issue Permits: The city council may issue temporary
occupancy permits authorizing temporary residing in, use and occupancy of any
recreational vehicle situated on private property otherwise prohibited under
this chapter as provided in this §
5-5-3 .
   B.   Temporary Occupancy Permits:
      1.   Applications - Fees: Applications for temporary occupancy permits
must be filed with the city clerk and shall be referred to the city council for
decision as hereafter provided. Applications must be signed by the applicant
and the record fee title owner of the private property where the recreational
vehicle will be used or occupied under the permit consenting to the
application. The applicant shall provide the city all information deemed
necessary by the city council to process the application, including but not
limited to: 1) the legal description of the private property where the
recreational vehicle will be used or occupied; 2) the name and address of the
record owner of said private property; 3) the number of persons who will reside
in, use or occupy the recreational vehicle on the private property; and 4) the
requested duration for the permit. The city council may by resolution from time
to time establish and amend a fee schedule for applications for temporary
occupancy permits, including fees sufficient to pay the cost of any notices,
publications or inspections required by law or otherwise determined necessary
by the city to process the application. The applicant shall pay the applicable
application fee at the time the application is filed with the city. The city
shall have no obligation to process any application filed with the city unless
the applicable application fee is paid in full by the applicant. The city
council shall have the authority to waive all or any portion of the application
fee when it deems such a waiver to be in the best interest of the city.
      2.   Hearing - Decision - Conditions - Judicial Review: Prior to granting
or denying a temporary occupancy permit, the city shall comply with the notice
and hearing requirements under Chapter 65, Title 67 of the Idaho Code, as
amended, applicable to special use permit applications. Unless otherwise
determined by resolution of the city council, the public hearing on the
application shall be initially commenced within thirty (30) days after all
notices required by law have been duly given. In addition:
         a.   Approval/Denial of Application. The approval or denial of any
application shall be based upon standards and criteria set forth in the
Comprehensive Plan, this chapter and other applicable city ordinances and
regulations, as otherwise provided in Chapter 65, Title 67 of the Idaho Code,
as amended. In addition, no temporary occupancy permit may be granted unless
the city council finds that issuance of the conditional use permit is: a)
consistent with the Comprehensive Plan; and b) in the best interest of the
city.
         The approval or denial of any application provided for in this section
shall be accompanied by a written decision of the city in compliance with
Chapter 65, Title 67 of the Idaho Code, as amended.
         b.   Duration: Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, no
temporary occupancy permit may be issued nor shall remain in effect for an
effective duration longer than ninety (90) days from the date of issuance of
the permit. Provided, however, that the city council may issue renewed permits
upon new application by the permit holder, including but not limited to payment
any application permit renewal fee. Each temporary occupancy permit shall state
a commencement date and termination date for the permit subject to the
provisions of this subsection. The temporary occupancy permit shall
automatically terminate upon expiration of the termination date stated in the
permit unless the permit is renewed prior to expiration of the current
temporary occupancy permit as provided under this subsection.
         c.   Conditions On Permits - Violation of Permit Conditions: The city
council may attach conditions to temporary occupancy permits issued as deemed
in the best interest of the city, including but not limited to any conditions
authorized under Chapter 65, Title 67 of the Idaho Code, as amended. It shall
be unlawful for any person to violate any term or condition of any temporary
occupancy permit issued by the city pursuant to this chapter.
         d.   Judicial Review: Judicial review of any final decision of the
city under this section may be taken in the same manner as provided for
judicial review of final local land use planning decisions under Chapter 65,
Title 67 of the Idaho Code, as amended.
      3.   Applicability/Non-Transferability of Permits: Unless otherwise
provided in the issued temporary occupancy permit, a temporary occupancy permit
issued by the city shall apply to the applicant and permitted occupants for the
subject lot specified in the permit for the duration of the permit only. A
temporary occupancy permit is not transferable to any other person,
recreational vehicle or to other private property. A temporary occupancy permit
shall not be considered as establishing a binding precedent to renew any
existing occupancy permit or grant other or additional temporary occupancy
permits. (Ord. 433, 4-4-2023)
5-5-4:   VIOLATIONS:
Violations of this chapter or any term or condition of any temporary occupancy
permit issued by the city pursuant to this chapter, shall be an infraction,
punishable by civil penalty or fine as provided by law for punishment of
infractions. In addition to all other remedies of the city, which shall be non-
exclusive and cumulative, the city may revoke any temporary occupancy permit in
the event the permit holder is in violation of terms or conditions of the
permit or is otherwise in violation of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
433, 4-4-2023)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
Traffic Regulations   1
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: State Laws Adopted
6-1-2: Speed Limits
6-1-3: Stopping, Standing And Parking Of Vehicles
6-1-4: Compression, Jake Brakes Prohibited
6-1-5: Snowmobiles
6-1-6: ATVs And UTVs
6-1-1: STATE LAWS ADOPTED:
   A.   Intent: It is hereby declared to be the intent of the city to aid and
assist, by whatever means possible, for the utmost consistency in traffic
regulation among and between agencies of Idaho having such jurisdiction. Toward
that end, adoption of the Idaho motor vehicle laws by the cities of Idaho is a
necessary means of assuring maximum uniformity within the state.
   B.   Laws Adopted: There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the use of all streets and public thoroughfares of
the city, that certain code, identified as the Idaho motor vehicle laws, more
particularly Idaho Code title 49, published by the department of law
enforcement, and as the same may hereafter be revised by the Idaho legislature,
or amended by the city, and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as an
ordinance of the city as fully as though set forth at length herein. (2010
Code)
6-1-2: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   General Citywide Limits:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle upon any of the
public thoroughfares or roads within the corporate limits of the city presently
existing or as may be hereafter established, at a speed in excess of twenty
five (25) miles per hour or as posted, except that the maximum rate of speed
shall be ten (10) miles per hour in all alleys.
      2.   Any speed in excess of the limit specified in this subsection shall
be prima facie evidence that the speed is not reasonable or prudent and that it
is unlawful.
   B.   Special Zones: It shall be unlawful to operate any such vehicle in any
school, church or special zone at a rate of speed greater than that prescribed
by the mayor and city council when appropriate signs are placed at such zones.
(2010 Code)
6-1-3: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Definition of Vehicle. The term “vehicle” as used in Section
6-1-3  of this ordinance shall mean every device in, upon, or by which any
person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway excepting
devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. The term “vehicle”
shall include, but is not limited to, motor vehicles, trailers, recreational
vehicles, motorhomes, travel trailers, fifthwheel trailers, fold down camping
trailers, semitrailers, and utility trailers as defined under Chapter 1, Title
49, Idaho Code.
   B.   Restrictions on Stopping, Standing and Parking Vehicles. Except as
otherwise provided in this ordinance, no person shall:
      1.   Stop, stand or park any vehicle, in whole or in part, upon or within
any portion of any street, alley, sidewalk or public right of way within the
city:
         a.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         b.   On or within a sidewalk;
         c.   On or within an intersection;
         d.   On or within a crosswalk;
         e.   On or within a bike lane or bike path;
         f.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
doing so would obstruct or interfere traffic;
         g.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure or tunnel upon or
within any highway, street, alley or public right of way;
         h.   On any railroad track or within 50 feet of any railroad crossing;
         i.   On the same block face afterthe expiration of the posted time
limit on a traffic control device during the remainder of that calendar day;
         j.   Along any curbing or within any area designated as a temporary or
permanent “No Parking” area by the City or governmental highway agency with
jurisdiction within the city by use of yellow paint, red paint, official
signage or other traffic control device;
         k.   Along any curbing or within any area designated as temporary or
permanent “Accessible Parking” or “Handicapped Parking” by the City or other
governmental highway agency with jurisdiction within the city by use of blue
paint, official signage or other traffic control device, without a valid
accessible or handicapped parking placard or plates on the vehicle issued to
the operator or an occupant of the vehicle displayed as required by law;
         l.   In any area or location prohibited for stopping, standing or
parking under Titles 18 or 49, Idaho Code, as amended; or
         m.   In any manner in violation of 1) any restriction, term or
condition of any permanent or temporary special parking zone established by the
City Council or Mayor pursuant to Section 6-1-3(G) of this ordinance, 2) any
restriction, term or condition of any Special Parking Permit issued by City
pursuant to Section 6-1-3(H) of this ordinance, or 3) any lawful direction of
any peace officer, Mayor or City personnel, or any traffic control devices.
      2.   Stop, stand or park any vehicle, in whole or in part, upon or within
any portion of any street, alley, sidewalk or public right of way within the
city except momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger:
         a.   In front of a public or private driveway;
         b.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant;
         c.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk or a bike/pedestrian curb
ramp, except at an intersection where a traffic control signal is in operation,
or in a parking meter zone;
         d.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing
signal, stop sign, yield sign or traffic control signal located at the side of
a roadway;
         e.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station, and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly sign-posted;
         f.   At any place where such stopping, standing or parking is
prohibited under this ordinance or otherwise by law.
      3.   Stop, stand or park any vehicle, in whole or in part, upon or within
any portion of street, alley, sidewalk or public right of way within the city
in any manner in that a) obstructs, impedes or interferes with vehicle traffic
or pedestrians traffic, or with management, maintenance or repair of the
street, alley, sidewalk or public right of way by City or governmental highway
with jurisdiction within the city, or b) is unsafe or creates a hazard to the
public, vehicles traffic or pedestrian traffic.
      4.   Abandon, stop, stand or park any disabled, inoperable or junk
vehicle, in whole or in part, upon or within any portion of any street, alley,
sidewalk or public right of way within the city except as authorized by the
City or governmental highway agency with jurisdiction within the city.
      5.   Stop, stand or park any vehicle, in whole or in part, at any
particular location upon or within any portion of any street, alley, or public
right of way for a period of forty eight (48) contiguous hours or longer unless
authorized by City. For purposes of this subsection, a vehicle parked at a
particular location shall be deemed to have remained continuously parked at
said particular location for a contiguous period unless during said period the
vehicle has moved more than six hundred feet (600') away from said particular
location for a period of more than twenty four (24) contiguous hours.
   C.   Restriction on Occupancy/Use of Stopped, Standing or Parked Vehicles
for Habitation. No person shall reside in, occupy or use any vehicle as a place
of temporary, overnight, or permanent habitation, abode or residence while such
vehicle is stopped, standing or parked in whole or in part upon or within any
portion of any street, alley, sidewalk or public right of way without a valid
permit issued by City. Unless authorized by City, no person shall 1) cause any
public or private utilities, electricity, heating fuel, water or sewage
services to be provided, supplied or physically connected to any vehicle
resided in, occupied or used in violation of this subsection, or 2) cause any
utility or service line, connection, or equipment serving or intended for
serving said parked vehicle to be placed within or across, or be situated upon
or within, any portion of any street, alley, sidewalk or public right of way.
   D.   Removal of Unlawfully Stopped, Standing or Parked Vehicles. Any
vehicle, in whole or in part, stopped, standing, parked or otherwise present
upon any portion of any street, alley, sidewalk or public right of way in
violation of any provision of Section
6-1-3  or any Special Parking Permit issued by the City, may be removed
therefrom by the Mayor, the Mayor’s designee, or any peace officer to the
nearest place of safety or storage. The owner and operator of any such vehicle
shall be jointly and severally liable for all costs of removal, towing, storage
and disposition of the vehicle. Disposition of any such removed vehicle
pursuant to this section shall be subject to all applicable provisions of Title
49, Idaho Code, as amended, concerning disposition of vehicles removed from
public highways, streets, and rights of way.
   E.   Exceptions. The prohibitions in division
6-1-3  B. shall not apply to:
      1.   Peace officers, fire ambulance and rescue personnel, and government
officials, employees and agents while acting in the course of their official
duties;
      2.   Employees and agents of public and private utilities during the
course of their official duties while actively engaged in the inspection,
placement, servicing, maintenance, repair or other work on utilities situated
within or adjacent to a highway, street, alley, sidewalk or public right of
way;
      3.   Persons and entities otherwise authorized by the City or other
governmental highway agency with jurisdiction within the city;
      4.   Stopping, standing or parking momentarily a) to avoid conflicts with
traffic or traffic hazards, b) to comply with directions from any traffic
control device, peace officer, City or highway agency personnel, or the law, or
c) for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers, goods or merchandise
provided that this exception for loading and unloading shall not apply in any
area where stopping, standing or parking is prohibited under Section
6-1-3  B.3. or 4. and shall not exceed a period of five (5) contiguous minutes;
or
      5.   Temporary parking of a disabled vehicle for repair or towing,
provided that a) such temporary parking shall be subject to all other
provisions of this ordinance, including but not limited to Section
6-1-3  B.5., and b) the owner or operator of such disabled vehicle shall notify
the City or a peace officer with law enforcement jurisdiction in Lewis County,
Idaho, of such parking of the disabled vehicle within twenty four (24) hours
after the time the disabled vehicle, in whole or part, is initially parked
within any portion of street, alley, sidewalk or public right of way.
   F.   Special Parking Zones - Temporary Parking Zones.
      1.   Special Parking Zones. The City Council may by ordinance designate
any portion of any street, alley or public way within the city as a special
parking zone, including but not limited to a “No Parking Zone”, “Loading Zone”,
“Residential Parking Zone”, “Accessible Parking Zone”, “Handicapped Parking
Zone”, excepting or varying application of this ordinance within the special
parking zone subject to any other terms, conditions and restrictions as deemed
in the best interest of the City. Upon designation of any such special parking
zones, the City shall cause signage or markings identifying the zone to be
made, erected and placed along or within the special parking zone.
      2.   Temporary Parking Zones. The City Council or Mayor may temporarily
designate any portion of any street, alley or public way within the city as a
“No Parking Zone” or place other temporary restrictions, terms or conditions
upon stopping, standing or parking on any portion of any street, alley or
public way by resolution of the City Council or order of the Mayor as deemed in
the best interest of the City, including but not limited to for purposes of
special events, emergencies, construction or other exigency. The City shall
cause a copy of any such resolution or order shall be posted in a public place
at the city hall and within or along the portion of the street, alley, or
public way in which the temporary restrictions, terms or conditions apply, and
the portion of the street, alley or public way subject to the resolution or
order shall be identified by signage or markings. Provided, however, that any
such temporary restrictions a) ordered by the Mayor shall not remain in effect
for a period exceeding seventy two (72) hours unless said period is extended by
the city council by resolution and ordinance, or b) established or extended by
resolution of the city council shall not remain in effect for a period
exceeding sixty (60) days.
   G.   Special Parking Permits. The City Council may issue special parking
permits that temporarily except or vary application of this ordinance with
respect to any person or entity as deemed in the best interest of the City as
provided in this section.
      1.   All special parking permits issued by City pursuant to this section
shall:
         a.   Be issued to the applicant only and shall not be transferrable;
         b.   State name, mailing address and telephone number of the
applicant;
         c.   State the license plate number and the year, make, model and
color of the vehicle to be parked pursuant to the permit; and
         d.   State the location(s) and authorized date(s)/time(s) of parking
authorized under the under the permit, which shall in no event exceed a
contiguous period of seventy two (72) hours under each permit issued.
      2.   The City Council may place such otherterms and conditions on
issuance of the permit as the City Council deems in the best interest of the
city. City may amend or revoke any permit issued pursuant to this section at
any time if the City deems such amendment or revocation of the permit to be in
the best interest of the City. All permits issued underthis section a) shall be
subject to all other applicable laws, ordinances or regulations, b) shall
solely authorize parking of the permitted vehicle as provided in the permit,
and c) shall not vest the permittee or any other person with any rights in any
street, alley or public right of way.
      3.   The permittee shall at all times during the effective period of the
permit cause the entire face of the permit to be prominently displayed in the
front windshield of the permitted vehicle such that the entire face of the
permit is visible from outside of the vehicle. Notwithstanding any provisions
of the permit, all permittees shall at all times comply with all lawful
directions of any peace officers, the Mayor and City personnel, and shall move
or relocate the permitted vehicle as may be requested them for any lawful
purpose, including but not limited to for traffic control, parking, safety, law
enforcement, emergencies, or for management, maintenance or of any streets,
alleys, public right of ways, utilities, public property, or for any other city
or public purpose.
      4.   The City Council may by resolution establish and from time to time
amend a fee schedule for issuance of special parking permits authorized under
this section.
   H.   Authorities Reserved. Nothing in Section
6-1-3  is intended to, nor shall it, limit or impair the authority of the City,
Mayor or any peace officer with respect to traffic control, parking, safety,
removal or impoundment of vehicles, law enforcement, emergencies, or the
management, maintenance or repair or of any streets, alleys, public right of
ways, utilities, public property, or for any other lawful purpose as may
otherwise be provided by law.
   I.   Enforcement - Penalties for Violations. The provisions of division
6-1-3  B. and C. shall be enforceable by the Mayor and any peace officer with
law enforcement jurisdiction within Lewis County, Idaho. Any violation of any
provision of division
6-1-3  C. shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by fine not
exceeding $1,000.00 or jail not exceeding six (6) months, or both. Any
violation of Section
6-1-3  B. shall constitute an infraction and shall be punishable by infraction
fine or civil penalty as provided under Idaho law for infractions. (Ord. 432,
4-28-2023)
6-1-4: COMPRESSION, JAKE BRAKES PROHIBITED:
The use of compression brakes, engine brakes, "jake brakes" and other similar
devices on trucks or other motorized vehicles within the city is hereby
prohibited. (Ord. 349, 9-1-1992)
6-1-5: SNOWMOBILES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to regulate in a reasonable
manner the operation of snowmobiles within the city, and to provide the
circumstances and conditions when and where snowmobiles may be legally operated
upon the public roadways of the city. (Ord. 254, 3-7-1972)
   B.   Definition: The term "snowmobile" shall mean every self- propelled
vehicle under one thousand (1,000) pounds unladen gross weight, designed
primarily for travel on snow or ice or over natural terrain, which may be
steered by tracks, skis or runners. (Ord. 254, 3-7-1972; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Operation Subject To Restrictions: It shall be lawful to operate a
snowmobile upon all the public roadways of the city upon the condition and
subject to the restrictions hereinafter set forth in this section.
   D.   Minimum Age Of Drivers: No person under the age of fourteen (14) years
shall drive or operate a snowmobile in the city.
   E.   Offenses By Persons Owning Snowmobiles: It shall be unlawful for any
person to knowingly permit, allow or encourage the operation or driving of a
snowmobile by a person under the age of fourteen (14) years.
   F.   Equipment: No snowmobile shall be operated in the city, unless it is
equipped with the following:
      1.   At least one, and not more than two (2), headlamps sufficient to
render clearly discernable persons and vehicles at a distance of two hundred
fifty feet (250') ahead.
      2.   Tail lamps, which when lighted shall emit a red light plainly
visible at a distance of two hundred fifty feet (250') to the rear.
      3.   At least one brake which may be operated by hand or foot.
      4.   A muffler in good working order and in constant operation to prevent
excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke; and no person shall use a
muffler cutout, bypass or similar device.
      5.   A mast or antenna displaying a red or red-orange fluorescent flag or
pennant a minimum of five feet (5') above the ground; such flag or pennant
shall be either rectangular or triangular in shape with the leading edge being
a minimum of six inches (6") and the length a minimum of twelve inches (12").
   G.   Regulations For Operation:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to drive, operate or park a snowmobile on any
sidewalk in the city.
      2.   No snowmobile shall be operated at a speed in excess of fifteen (15)
miles per hour in the city.
      3.   No snowmobile shall carry passengers or weight in excess of the
capacity recommended by the manufacturer thereof.
      4.   No sled, toboggan, trailer or any other device shall be towed by a
snowmobile except by means of a rigid tow bar connecting the same to such
device.
      5.   No person on skis shall be towed behind a snowmobile.
      6.   It shall be unlawful to drive or operate a snowmobile while under
the influence of intoxicating liquor.
      7.   All snowmobiles shall come to a full stop at all street
intersections.
      8.   All snowmobiles shall be operated only in single file on the extreme
right hand side of the street.
      9.   Operation of snowmobiles on the streets of the city shall be limited
to ingress and egress to and from the city; and city streets are not to be used
as a place of recreation for snowmobiles.
      10.   No snowmobile shall be operated within the city limits after ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M., except for the purpose of going directly to or from the
place of residence of the operator of such snowmobile or to its place of
storage.
      11.   No person shall operate a snowmobile carelessly and heedlessly, or
without due caution and circumspection and at a speed or in a manner as to
endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property. (Ord. 254, 3-7-1972)
6-1-6: ATVS AND UTVS:
   A.   Definitions. For purposes of this ordinance, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE OR ATV: Any recreational vehicle with three (3) or more
tires, weighing under nine hundred (900) pounds, fifty inches (50") or less in
width, having a wheelbase of sixty one inches (61") or less, traveling on low
pressure tires of ten (10) psi or less, has handlebar steering and seating
designed to be straddled by the operators.
CITY STREETS: All public highways, streets, alleys and rights of way within the
city limits of the city of Craigmont, excluding all public highways, streets
and rights of way within the city limits under the highway jurisdiction of the
Idaho Transportation Department.
UTILITY TYPE VEHICLE OR UTV: Any recreational motor vehicle other than an ATV,
motorbike or snowmobile, designed for and capable of travel over designated
unpaved roads, traveling on four (4) or more low pressure tires of twenty (20)
psi or less, maximum width less than seventy four inches (74"), maximum weight
less than two thousand (2,000) pounds, or having a wheelbase of ninety four
inches (94") or less. Utility type vehicle does not include golf carts,
vehicles specially designed to carry a disabled person, implements of husbandry
as defined in section 49-110(2), Idaho Code, or vehicles otherwise registered
under Title 49, Idaho Code.
   B.   Operation of ATVs/UTVs on City Streets - General Prohibition. No person
shall operate an ATV and UTV on or within a city street except as otherwise
expressly permitted under this ordinance.
   C.   Conditions for Permitted Operation of ATVs/UTVs on City Streets. All
city streets shall be open for travel by ATVs and UTVs subject to all of the
following conditions:
      1.   Limitations on Areas of Travel. ATVs and UTVs may only be operated
upon those portions of city streets designed and maintained for general
automobile traffic. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated on sidewalks, curbing
or ditches within city streets, provided, however, that ATVs or UTVs with snow
removal attachments may be temporarily operated on sidewalks for the purposes
of snow removal. All ordinances of the city of Craigmont pertaining to
operation of vehicles and vehicle parking shall be applicable to ATVs and UTVs
operated on city streets.
      2.   Valid Driver’s Licenses and Vehicle Registration Required. No person
shall operate any ATVs and UTVs on any city street unless the person then has a
valid current Idaho driver’s license. All ATVs and UTVs operated on city
streets shall have a valid current off-road vehicle registration issued by the
state of Idaho for the vehicle. Proof of valid current registration, whether a
plate or sticker, shall be displayed on the ATV or UTV in a place readily
visible upon inspection. City streets shall be closed to all unregistered ATVs
and UTVs.
      3.   Required Equipment. All ATVs and UTVs shall be equipped with the
following safety equipment as described in title 9, chapter 49 of the Idaho
Code, in good working order:
         a.   Stop lamps, headlamps, and taillamps;
         b.   A mirror so located as to reflect to the operator a view of the
roadway a distance of at least two hundred feet (2001) to the rear of the ATV
or UTV; and
         c.   A horn audible at least two hundred feet (200') from the ATV or
UTV.
      4.   Proof of Liability Insurance. The operator of any ATV or UTV on any
city street shall have proof of valid liability insurance for the ATV and UTV,
as required by Chapter 12, Title 49, Idaho Code, in the operator’s possession
on or around the vehicle at all times the vehicle is in operation on any city
street. The operator shall display such proof of liability insurance to any
peace officer requesting to examine it. No person shall be convicted of
violating this section if that person produces at any time prior to conviction
the certificate or proof of liability insurance covering the motor vehicle that
person is accused of operating in violation of this section, where the
certificate or proof of liability insurance demonstrates the existence of
liability insurance described in Idaho Code § 49-1212, as amended, which was in
effect at the time of occurrence of the violation.
      5.   Limitation on Application to other Highways. Nothing in this section
is intended to, nor shall it be deemed to, authorize or regulate use of ATVs or
UTVs on any portion of U.S. Highway 95 or any other highway, street or right of
way under the highway jurisdiction of the Idaho Transportation Department
within the city limits of the city of Craigmont.
      6.   Incorporated Idaho Code Provisions, It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate any ATV or UTV on any city street in violation of Chapter 80,
Title 18, Idaho Code, as amended, and Chapters 6, 8, 12, 13 or 14, Title 49,
Idaho Code, as amended, which are all incorporated herein by reference and
shall apply to operation of ATVs and UTVs in the city of Craigmont, including,
but not limited to, ATVs and UTVs not required to be licensed or registered
under the laws of the state of Idaho.
   D.   Exceptions. This ordinance shall not apply to ATVs or UTV use by any of
the following persons:
      1.   Peace officers, fire ambulance and rescue personnel, and government
officials, employees and agents while acting in the course of their official
duties; or
      2.   Persons and entities otherwise authorized by the City or other
governmental highway agency with jurisdiction within the city.
   E.   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided by this ordinance, any person
violating this shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by a civil penalty
or fine as provided for infractions under Idaho law. Provided, however, any
violation of any provision of the Idaho Code incorporated under division C. of
this section for which the Idaho legislature has provided misdemeanor penalties
shall be a misdemeanor which shall be punishable as provided in the
incorporated Idaho Code provision. (Ord. 431, 4-4-2023)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Streets, Sidewalks And Public Ways   1
Sidewalk Construction And Repair   2
Municipal Airport   3
Airport Zoning   3A
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Excavations
7-1-2: Snow And Ice Removal From Sidewalks
7-1-1: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Open Excavations: No landowner or tenant shall permit an excavation for
a basement, or other excavation hazardous to human life, to remain open on land
owned or occupied by any person, firm or corporation without covering the same
securely to prevent injuries to persons; provided, however, that the same may
remain open during the course of construction or for the purpose of cleaning
the same. (1963 Code § 4-101)
   B.   Warning Signs Required: No excavation hazardous to human life shall be
permitted to remain open unless the same is properly safeguarded at all times
by barricades and warning signs. (1963 Code § 4-102)
   C.   Abandoned Excavations: All excavations, hazardous to human life, which
are no longer in use or have been abandoned shall be filled with earth to the
level of the surrounding ground. An excavation for the basement of a building
shall be deemed to have been abandoned when construction has stopped for a
period of thirty (30) days. (1963 Code § 4-103)
   D.   Hazardous Excavations: Any excavation shall be determined to be prima
facie hazardous to human life if its depth exceeds two feet (2'). (1963 Code §
4-104)
7-1-2: SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL FROM SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Removal By Property Owner: The owner, tenant or occupant of any
premises within the city abutting or adjoining any public sidewalk shall remove
all snow and ice from any such sidewalk. (1963 Code § 9-101)
   B.   Notice To Remove: It shall be the duty of the city to notify any owner,
tenant or occupant of property herein described to remove or otherwise correct
the objectionable matter herein legislated against, which notice shall be sent
by registered mail to the last known address of such owner, tenant or occupant,
notifying him that he has a period of twenty four (24) hours from and after
receipt of such notice within which to correct or otherwise remove the
objections set forth in said notice. (1963 Code § 9-102)
   C.   Failure To Comply; Removal By City: Upon failure of the owner, tenant
or occupant of said premises to comply with the terms and conditions of said
notice, then and in that event the city shall have the right to remove such
snow and ice and assess the cost thereof against the premises abutting the
sidewalk. Such assessment shall be certified to the county assessor or other
proper county officials having charge of the making of the assessment roll, and
such assessment shall be placed on the assessment roll and collected in the
same manner as other municipal taxes are collected. (1963 Code § 9-103)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
SECTION:
7-2-1: Council Determination
7-2-2: Notice To Construct
7-2-3: Failure To Construct
7-2-4: Repairs
7-2-5: Itemized Statement Of Costs
7-2-6: Duties Of City Attorney; Lien
7-2-7: Hearing On Notice To Construct
7-2-1: COUNCIL DETERMINATION:
   A.   Inspection: The city council shall designate one of its members whose
duty it shall be to inspect all sidewalks within the city and report to the
council, where, in his judgment the construction of a new sidewalk is
necessary; and all cases where there is no existing sidewalk, and in his
judgment it is necessary for a sidewalk to be constructed. Said council member
shall report such fact to the council with his recommendation.
   B.   Report; Council Action: After considering such report and
recommendation, the council shall make its determination. Whenever the council,
after considering such report and recommendation, in their judgment shall deem
it necessary to require property owners within the city to construct or repair
sidewalks, they shall take recorded action in an official council meeting,
naming the owner and location of property abutting where it is, in such
meeting, determined sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired. (1963 Code §
9-301)
7-2-2: NOTICE TO CONSTRUCT:
When any sidewalk is ordered to be constructed or reconstructed, under the
provisions of this chapter, the city clerk-treasurer shall, as soon as may be,
serve notice in writing upon the property owner, or any resident agent of the
property owner, directing such sidewalk to be constructed or reconstructed, of
the materials and according to the specifications in force in the district
where such walk is to be constructed or reconstructed, and describing the
premises adjacent to which such construction is to be made. The service of such
notice may be made by delivery of a copy thereof to the owner or his agent, or
if neither is to be found within the city, by mailing a copy thereof to the
owner at his last known post office address, and service by mail shall be
deemed complete upon the expiration of five (5) days from the date of the
mailing of such notice. (1963 Code § 9-302)
7-2-3: FAILURE TO CONSTRUCT:
If the work of building such sidewalk in accordance with the notice served by
the clerk-treasurer is not begun within ten (10) days after the serving of the
such notice, or if, after having been begun, the same is not completed within a
reasonable time thereafter, the mayor shall notify the city clerk-treasurer of
such fact and the clerk-treasurer shall call for bids by publication for two
(2) consecutive weeks issued in some newspaper published in or having a general
circulation in the city, for the construction and completion of such sidewalk.
Such bids shall be returned by the clerk-treasurer to the mayor and council and
opened and considered at the next or any general or special meeting; and after
laying over for not less than one day, the contract for the construction or
completion of such sidewalk shall be let to the lowest and best reasonable
bidder; and the work of construction or reconstruction shall be performed under
the general supervision of the street commissioner. (1963 Code § 9-303; amd.
2010 Code)
7-2-4: REPAIRS:
When any sidewalk within the city is in such condition as in the judgment of
the city council to require repairs thereof to be made, the city clerk-
treasurer shall serve upon the owner or his agent a written notice to make such
repairs, describing the same in general terms, which notice may require the
repairs to be made within such reasonable time, not exceeding ten (10) days
after the service of such notice, as may, in the opinion of the council be
deemed necessary. If such repairs be not made within the time required by such
notice, the same shall thereupon be made by the street commissioner. (1963 Code
§ 9-304; amd. 2010 Code)
7-2-5: ITEMIZED STATEMENT OF COSTS:
Upon completion of the construction or repairs, the costs thereof shall be paid
out of any unappropriated monies in the general fund of the city, or such other
fund as may be designated by the city council. As soon as may be thereafter,
the city clerk- treasurer shall serve upon the owner of such property, or his
agent, in the same manner as the notice to construct sidewalks is authorized to
be served, an itemized statement of the costs of such construction,
reconstruction or repair. If the costs thereof be not paid within five (5) days
after such service, the clerk- treasurer shall deliver a copy of such itemized
statement to the city attorney who shall proceed to collect the same. (1963
Code § 9-305)
7-2-6: DUTIES OF CITY ATTORNEY; LIEN:
   A.   Filing Of Suit For Costs: Upon the receiving of any such statement, the
city attorney shall, as soon as may be, bring suit in any court having
jurisdiction, for the recovery of the monies expended by the city in the
construction, reconstruction or repair of such walk, or shall file a lien upon
the property abutting upon such walk. (1963 Code § 9-306; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Foreclosure Of Lien: Such lien shall be verified and shall be filed and
foreclosed as in the case of other liens under the general laws of the state of
Idaho, and amendments which may hereafter be made thereto, and from the date of
the filing of the same, the costs of such construction, maintenance and repairs
shall be and remain a lien upon the property described as in the case of other
liens. (1963 Code § 9-306)
7-2-7: HEARING ON NOTICE TO CONSTRUCT:
Any time after the services of the notice to construct, reconstruct or repair,
as hereinbefore provided, and before the expiration of the time specified
therein, the owner or agent upon whom such service was made may appear before
the city council at any general or special meeting and show cause why the order
for such construction, reconstruction, or repair should be revoked. The council
shall hear and determine such application informally, and such application
shall not extend the period within which the work is to be begun unless
otherwise ordered by the council. (1963 Code § 9-307)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Airport Operation; Commercial Activities
7-3-3: Use Of Airport; User Fees
7-3-4: Airport Liability
7-3-5: Airport Fees; Liability Insurance
7-3-6: Safety Requirements
7-3-7: Lease Agreements
7-3-8: Animals Prohibited
7-3-9: Requirements For Airport Maintenance
7-3-10: Airport Zoning
7-3-11: Airplane Fuel Requirements
7-3-12: Hazardous Materials, Chemicals And Fertilizers
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ANIMALS: Any domestic pet, or livestock, including dogs, cats, cattle, horses,
pigs and sheep.
BUSINESS OR COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY: Any activity which is conducted for profit or
in which a service is provided to another, or any activity in connection with a
business or commercial activity which may not be located on the airport.
LANDING AREA: The area of the airport used for the landing, taking off, or
taxiing of aircraft.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation or joint
venture including representatives or agents thereof.
USE: Any activity, proposed or actual, which requires airport property
including any building or structure or commercial activity. (Ord. 321, 4-5-
1988)
7-3-2: AIRPORT OPERATION; COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Use Governed By City; Compliance Required: The city owns and operates
an airport for public and private users. All use of the airport shall be
governed by the terms and conditions of this chapter. The use of the airport is
a privilege and shall be regulated as provided for in this chapter.
   B.   Commercial Operations; Application For Approval: No person shall engage
in any business or commercial activity of any nature except in compliance with
this chapter. Any person proposing or desiring to conduct a business or
commercial activity shall first make application to the city clerk-treasurer
and secure the city's approval.
   C.   Minimum Standards For Aeronautical Commercial Activities: Any person
engaging in business or commercial activities shall be required to meet minimum
standards governing the quality and level of service provided in connection
with a particular aeronautical activity at the airport. (Ord. 321, 4-5-1988)
7-3-3: USE OF AIRPORT; USER FEES:
   A.   City Approval; Permit For Construction; Lease: Any use of the airport
shall be approved by the city. Any person proposing to construct any building
or structure shall apply for a permit for such construction and shall have
obtained a lease for such airport property.
   B.   User Fees: Persons proposing to use the airport shall be responsible
for the payment of fees for such use. Such fees may include fuel tax, landing
fees and tie down charges. (Ord. 321, 4-5-1988)
7-3-4: AIRPORT LIABILITY:
   A.   The city shall not be liable for loss, damage, or injury to person or
property arising out of any accident, incident or mishap of any nature
whatsoever to any individual aircraft or property occurring on the airport in
the use of any airport facility.
   B.   Any person engaging in a commercial activity at the airport shall
maintain aircraft, chemical, and premises liability insurance naming the city
as an additional insured. (Ord. 321, 4-5-1988)
7-3-5: AIRPORT FEES; LIABILITY INSURANCE:
   A.   Fees Enumerated; Exception:
      1.   All airplanes operating commercially from the Craigmont Municipal
Airport which are engaged in dry fertilizing and freighting operations shall
pay an annual fee of $4,000.00 per calendar year per operator for the privilege
of using the municipal airport runway.
      2.   Payments of the annual fee shall be made prior to the commencement
of any commercial operation to the City Clerk at her office in Craigmont,
Idaho.
      3.   Provided however, that the fees provided for tin this subsection
shall not apply to any person, firm, partnership, business association or
corporation leasing airport facilities or an airport area from the City of
Craigmont and who maintain a fixed base for their flying operation at the
airport.
   B.   Insurance: Provided, further, that all commercial operations subject to
this section, including those leasing airport facilities from the City, shall
provide the City with a Certificate of Liability Insurance, naming the City as
an additional insured under such policy which shall have a minimum amount of
coverage of at least $1,000,000.00, prior to the commencement of any commercial
operation. (Ord. 362, 5-7-1996; amd. Ord. 426, 2-18-2021)
7-3-6: SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
Any hazardous activity or condition occurring on the airport shall be reported
immediately to the city clerk-treasurer. Any accident involving personal injury
or aircraft damage shall be reported to the city clerk-treasurer. (Ord. 321, 4-
5-1988)
7-3-7: LEASE AGREEMENTS:
The city may enter into a lease of real and personal property at the airport
upon such terms and conditions as the mayor and city council may deem
appropriate. The city may not lease the entire airport or the entirety of
particular area, as designated in the airport zoning map, to any one person but
shall provide for aircraft and motor vehicle access to the landing area from
adjoining areas whether or not they immediately adjoin the landing strip. (Ord.
321, 4-5-1988)
7-3-8: ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
No animals of any kind shall be permitted on the airport. (Ord. 321, 4-5-1988)
7-3-9: REQUIREMENTS FOR AIRPORT MAINTENANCE:
No person shall allow buildings, structures, or leased property to deteriorate
to an unsightly condition. All property shall be maintained in a good state of
repair and appearance. (Ord. 321, 4-5-1988)
7-3-10: AIRPORT ZONING:
The construction or erection of any building, in addition to the provisions of
this chapter, shall conform with the provisions of chapter 3, article A of this
title. (Ord. 321, 4-5-1988)
7-3-11: AIRPLANE FUEL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Storage: All aeronautical fuel or oils shall be stored in underground
containers meeting appropriate federal and state statutes and regulations. The
location of such storage shall be determined according to the rules of the
planning and zoning commission.
   B.   Persons To Exercise Due Care: Persons engaged in fueling activities
shall exercise due care to prevent overflow and spillage of fuel.
   C.   Draining Of Tanks And Sumps: Fuel tanks and oil sumps shall not be
drained on the ground and may only be drained into approved containers. (Ord.
321, 4-5-1988)
7-3-12: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS, CHEMICALS AND FERTILIZERS:
   A.   Spilling Or Discharging Prohibited: Persons engaged in crop dusting,
spraying or fertilizing activities shall not spill, discharge or dispose of any
chemical or fertilizer on airport property.
   B.   Responsibility For Cleanup Expenses: All cleanup expenses and costs
shall be the responsibility of the person utilizing the chemicals and
fertilizers.
   C.   Disposal: All chemicals and fertilizers shall be disposed of off
airport property in a method that complies with applicable federal and state
laws and regulations. (Ord. 321, 4-5-1988)
ARTICLE A. AIRPORT ZONING
SECTION:
7-3A-1: Short Title
7-3A-2: Definitions
7-3A-3: Zones
7-3A-4: Height Limitations
7-3A-5: Use Restrictions
7-3A-6: Nonconforming Uses
7-3A-7: Permit Requirements And Restrictions; Variances
7-3A-8: Conflicting Regulations
7-3A-9: Penalty
7-3A-1: SHORT TITLE:
This article shall be known and may be cited as the AIRPORT ZONING ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 261, 1-9-1973)
7-3A-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section, unless the context otherwise requires:
AIRPORT: The Craigmont airport.
AIRPORT ELEVATION: The established elevation of the highest point on the usable
landing area.
AIRPORT HAZARD: Any structure, tree or use of land, which obstructs the
airspace required for, or is otherwise hazardous to, the flight of aircraft in
landing or taking off at the airport.
AIRPORT REFERENCE POINT: The point established as the approximate geographic
center of the airport landing area and so designated.
BUILDING INSPECTOR: The duly appointed building inspector of the city of
Craigmont or his deputy.
HEIGHT: For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth
in this article and shown on the zoning map, the "datum" shall be mean sea
level elevation unless otherwise specified.
LANDING AREA: The area of the airport used for the landing, taking off or
taxiing of aircraft.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any preexisting structure, tree or natural growth or use of
land, which is inconsistent with the provisions of this article or an amendment
thereto.
RUNWAY: The surfaced portion of an airport landing strip.
STRUCTURE: An object constructed or installed by man, including, but without
limitation to, buildings, towers, smokestacks, and overhead transmission lines.
TREE: Any object of natural growth. (Ord. 261, 1-9-1973; amd. 2010 Code)
7-3A-3: ZONES:
In order to carry out the provisions of this article, there are hereby created
and established certain zones which include all of the land lying within the
approach zones, transition zone, horizontal zone and conical zone. Such areas
and zones are shown on the Craigmont airport zoning map consisting of one
sheet, prepared by Hoffman, Fiske, and Wyatt, Civil Engineers, and dated
October 2, 1972, which is attached to ordinance 261 and made a part hereof by
reference. The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows:
   A.   Visual Approach Zone: A visual approach zone shall have a width of five
hundred feet (500') at a distance of two hundred feet (200') beyond each end of
the runway, widening thereafter uniformly to a width of one thousand four
hundred feet (1,400') at a distance of five thousand feet (5,000') beyond each
end of the runway, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of
the runway, and has a slope of twenty to one (20:1).
   B.   Transitional Zone: These zones extend outward and upward at right
angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope
of seven to one (7:1) from the sides of the primary zone and from the sides of
the approach zones.
   C.   Horizontal Zone: A horizontal plane one hundred fifty feet (150') above
the established airport elevation, the perimeter of which is constructed by
swinging arcs of specified radii from the center of each end of the primary
zone of each runway of each airport and connecting the adjacent arcs by lines
tangent to those arcs. The radius of each arc is five thousand feet (5,000').
   D.   Conical Zone: A zone extending outward and upward from the periphery of
the horizontal zone at a slope of twenty to one (20:1) for a horizontal
distance of four thousand feet (4,000').
   E.   Primary Zone: A zone longitudinally centered on a runway. When the
runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary zone extends two
hundred feet (200') beyond each end of that runway; but when the runway has no
specially prepared hard surface, the primary zone ends at each end of the
runway. The elevation of any point on the primary zone coincides with the
elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline. The width of a primary
zone is five hundred feet (500').
   F.   Approach Zone: A zone longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline and extending outward and upward from each end of the primary zone.
The inner edge of the approach zone is the same width as the primary zone and
it expands uniformly to a width of one thousand four hundred feet (1,400'). The
approach zone extends for a horizontal distance of five thousand feet (5,000')
at a slope of twenty to one (20:1). (Ord. 261, 1-9-1973)
7-3A-4: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Height Limitations Established: Except as otherwise provided in this
article, no structure or tree shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow, or
maintained in any surface created by this article to a height in excess of the
height limit herein established for such zone. Such height limitations are
hereby established for each of the zones in question as follows:
      1.   Visual Approach Zone For Runway: One foot (1') in height for each
twenty feet (20') in horizontal distance beginning at a point two hundred feet
(200') from and at the centerline elevation of the end of the runway and
extending to a point five thousand two hundred feet (5,200') from the end of
the runway.
      2.   Transitional Zone: These zones extend outward and upward at right
angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope
of seven to one (7:1) from the sides of the primary zone and from the sides of
the approach zones.
      3.   Horizontal Zone: A horizontal plane one hundred fifty feet (150')
above the established airport elevation, the perimeter of which is constructed
by swinging arcs of specified radii from the center of each end of the primary
zone of each runway of each airport and connecting the adjacent arcs by lines
tangent to those arcs. The radius of each arc is five thousand feet (5,000').
      4.   Conical Zone: A zone extending outward and upward from the periphery
of the horizontal zone at a slope of twenty to one (20:1) for a horizontal
distance of four thousand feet (4,000').
      5.   Excepted Height Limitations: Nothing in this article shall be
construed as prohibiting the growth, construction or maintenance of any tree or
structure to the height up to thirty feet (30') above the surface of the land.
   B.   More Restrictive Limitations Prevail: Where an area is covered by more
than one height limitation, the more restrictive limitation shall prevail.
(Ord. 261, 1-9-1973)
7-3A-5: USE RESTRICTIONS:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, no use may be made of
land within any zone established by this article in such a manner as to create
electrical interference with radio communication between the airport and
aircraft, make it difficult for flyers to distinguish between airport lights
and others, result in glare in the eyes of flyers using the airport, impair
visibility in the vicinity of the airport or otherwise endanger the landing,
taking off, or maneuvering of aircraft. (Ord. 261, 1-9-1973)
7-3A-6: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Regulations Not Retroactive: The regulations prescribed by this article
shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other changes or
alterations of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of
the effective date hereof, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of any
nonconforming use. Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the
construction, alteration or intended use of any structure, the construction or
alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date hereof, and is
diligently prosecuted. (Ord. 261, 1-9-1973)
   B.   Marking And Lighting: Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of
this section, the owner of any nonconforming structure or tree is hereby
required to permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such
markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the city council to indicate
to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport, the presence of
such airport hazards. Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated, and
maintained at the expense of the Craigmont airport. (Ord. 261, 1-9-1973; amd.
2010 Code)
7-3A-7: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS; VARIANCES:
   A.   Future Uses:
      1.   Except as specifically provided in subsections A1a, A1b, and A1c of
this section, no material change shall be made in the use of land and no
structure or tree shall be erected, altered, planted or otherwise established
in any zone hereby created unless a permit therefor shall have been applied for
and granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which
the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be
determined whether the resulting use, structure or tree would conform to the
regulations herein prescribed. If such determination is in the affirmative, the
permit shall be granted.
         a.   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
the conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less
than seventy five feet (75') of vertical height above the ground, except when,
because of terrain, land contour or topographic features, such tree or
structure would extend above the height limits prescribed for such zone.
         b.   In the areas lying within the limits of the approach zones but at
a horizontal distance of not less than four thousand two hundred feet (4,200')
from each end of the runways, no permit shall be required for any tree or
structure less than seventy five feet (75') of vertical height above the
ground, except when such tree or structure would extend above the height limit
prescribed for such instrument or noninstrument approach zone.
         c.   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones
beyond the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for
any tree or structure less than seventy five feet (75') of vertical height
above the ground, except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land
contour or topographic features would extend above the height limit prescribed
for such transitional zones.
      2.   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be
construed as permitted or intending to permit any construction, alteration or
growth of any structure or tree in excess of any of the height limits
established by this article except as set forth in section
7-3A-4 of this article.
   B.   Existing Uses: No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a nonconforming use,
structure, or tree to be made or become higher, or become a greater hazard to
air navigation, than it was on the effective date hereof or any amendments
thereto, or than it is when the application for a permit is made. Except as
indicated, all applications for such a permit shall be granted.
   C.   Nonconforming Uses Abandoned Or Destroyed: Whenever the building
inspector determines that a nonconforming structure or tree has been abandoned
or more than eighty percent (80%) torn down, physically deteriorated, or
decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree to
exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning
regulations. (Ord. 261, 1-9-1973)
   D.   Variances:
      1.   Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree or use his property not in
accordance with the regulations prescribed in this article must obtain a permit
from the city council authorizing such action. Such variances shall be allowed
where literal application or enforcement of this article would result in
practical difficulty and unnecessary hardship, and the relief granted would not
be contrary to the public interest or create undue hazards to air flight. Any
such special permits may be allowed subject to such reasonable conditions as
the city council may deem necessary to effectuate the purposes of this article,
including the condition that the owners of the structure or tree in question
permit the city to install, operate and maintain at its own expense such
markers and lights as may be necessary to indicate to flyers the presence of an
airport hazard. (Ord. 261, 1-9-1973; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Whenever a permit is required or a variance requested under the
terms of this article, all the procedures, remedies, powers and jurisdiction
set forth in title 10, chapters 2 and 11 of this code shall apply insofar as
they do not conflict with this article. If a permit under this article, and a
permit under the zoning title of this code 1 , are sought simultaneously, the
permits may be treated as one, with only one permit fee necessary. (Ord. 261,
1-9-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10, chapter 2 of this code.
7-3A-8: CONFLICTING REGULATIONS:
Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this article and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structures or
trees, the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or
requirement shall govern and prevail. (Ord. 261, 1-9-1973)
7-3A-9: PENALTY:
Each violation of this article, or of any regulation, order, or ruling
promulgated hereunder shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and each day a violation continues to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 261, 1-9-1973; amd. 2010 Code)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES AND SERVICES
Utility Services   1
Water System Regulations   2
Cross Connection Control   2A
Sewer System Regulations   3
Refuse Collection And Disposal   4
CHAPTER 1
UTILITY SERVICES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Definitions
8-1-2: Utility Service Billings
8-1-3: Monthly Billings; Lien For Nonpayment
8-1-4: Discontinuance Of Service By Utility User
8-1-5: Installation Of Electrical Or Communication Facilities
8-1-6: Penalty
8-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
UTILITY CHARGE: The fee, rental, rate, charge, service charge or assessment
provided for in this title, as reimbursement to the city for the rendering to
the utility user of the services of that particular utility for which the
charge is made.
UTILITY SERVICE: The municipal water service, the municipal refuse service and
the municipal sewage service are each defined as a "utility service" of the
city of Craigmont.
UTILITY SERVICE BILL: The statement containing the combined total amounts of
all utility charges due and payable to the city for utility services furnished
and delinquency charges assessed.
UTILITY USER: The owner of the property to which one or all the utility
services of the city is supplied. (1963 Code § 8-501)
8-1-2: UTILITY SERVICE BILLINGS:
   A.   Joint Liability: The owner and occupant of any premises using the water
system shall be jointly and severally liable for all fees and charges assessed
by the city. (1963 Code § 8-502; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Monthly Billings On Itemized Statement:
      1.   Utility service billings shall be made monthly on an itemized
statement which shall contain the following information: period covered by
billings; water meter reading date; present water meter reading at billing
date; water meter reading at last billing; and a statement as to the amount of
water used or the estimated amount of water used.
      2.   In addition, the utility statement shall contain information in a
monetary amount as to: the water rental due, or estimated rental due; water
rental past due; refuse services due; refuse services past due; sewer rental
due; sewer rental past due; and delinquency or service charges, if any. The
utility service bill shall then contain a total of all utility charges due and
payable to the city. (1963 Code § 8-502)
   C.   Utility Charges Not Prorated: If any utility services are supplied to a
premises for any portion of a calendar month, such utility service shall be
billed to the utility user for the entire month. No utility charge shall be
prorated for a portion of any month. (1963 Code § 8-505)
   D.   Returned Check Charge: Accounts with returned checks will be assessed a
return check charge in such sum as set from time to time by resolution of the
city council. (2010 Code)
8-1-3: MONTHLY BILLINGS; LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT:
   A.   Delinquencies: All utility service bills are due and payable monthly on
the 26th day of the month following the month in which said services are used
and shall be delinquent if unpaid by the 27th day of the month following the
month in which such services were used. If not paid before delinquent, a charge
of $15.00 shall be added to the amount previously due the first month following
the month in which said services are used and an additional charge of $25.00
shall be added each month thereafter.
   B.   Authority to Discontinue Service: The 15th of the month following the
month the charges for utility services become delinquent, the City maintenance
supervisor is hereby authorized and directed to cut off the municipal water
service and the municipal sewer service from the premises to which utility
services were furnished. The City shall assess an additional fee of $25.00 for
turning off the water and an additional fee of $25.00 for turning the water
back on. Said services shall remain cut off until all of the utility service
bill, utility services charges, and delinquency charges have been paid in full.
   C.   Notice of Discontinued Service: Before turning off the municipal water
service, the city shall notify the owner of the property serviced by causing a
written notice of the pending action to be posted on the property at least ten
(10) days before the water service is turned off. (Ord. 341, 2-6-1990; amd.
2010 Code; Ord. 423, 7-7-2020)
8-1-4: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICES BY UTILITY USER:
Utility services may be discontinued by the utility user under certain
conditions by the exercise of one of the following options:
   A.   Option 1:
      1.   Whenever any utility user desires to discontinue such utility
services because the property to which such services are supplied has been
vacated or is uninhabited, or will be unused for a period of time, he shall
notify the city maintenance supervisor that he wishes all such utility services
to be discontinued. The utility user shall exhibit to the city maintenance
supervisor his most recent utility service bill showing that all utility
services, as well as all service charges, have been paid to date. If all
utility services and service charges have been paid in full to date, the city
maintenance supervisor shall immediately disconnect or turn off the municipal
water service from the utility user's premises and shall notify all the
appropriate city departments that all utility services are to be discontinued,
as well as the date of their discontinuance. Whenever a utility user desires to
recommence the utility services discontinued as above provided, the city
maintenance supervisor shall immediately turn on or reconnect the municipal
water service to the utility user's premises. The city maintenance supervisor
shall notify all the appropriate city departments that all utility services are
to be reinstated to the utility user's premises and the date at which utility
services are to commence. No fee or service charge shall be assessed for any of
the above services.
      2.   Pursuant to option 1 outlined in subsection A1 of this section, all
utility service billings shall be abated and discontinued, and all utility
services shall be discontinued until the utility user notifies the city
maintenance supervisor that the utility services should be reinstated.
   B.   Option 2:
      1.   Whenever any utility user desires to discontinue a portion of the
utility services because the property to which such services are supplied has
been vacated, is uninhabited or will be unused for a period of time, he shall
notify the city maintenance supervisor that he wishes to continue the municipal
water service and discontinue the municipal refuse service. The utility user
shall exhibit to the city maintenance supervisor his most recent utility
service bill showing that all utility services, as well as all service charges,
have been paid to date. If all utility services and service charges have been
paid in full to date, the city maintenance supervisor shall notify the
appropriate city department that the municipal refuse service is to be
discontinued and that the municipal water service is to be continued. No
service charge shall be assessed.
      2.   Pursuant to option 2 as outlined in subsection B1 of this section,
that portion of the utility service bill applying to the municipal refuse
service shall be abated and discontinued until the premises is used or
inhabited, or until the utility user has returned to the premises. That portion
of the utility service bill applying to the municipal water service and the
municipal sewage service shall continue to be assessed and billed to the
utility user. (1963 Code § 8-504; amd. 2010 Code)
8-1-5: INSTALLATION OF ELECTRICAL OR COMMUNICATION FACILITIES:
   A.   Scope And Exceptions.
      1.   It is found and determined by the City that the general public
necessity, convenience, health, safety, and welfare require that electrical or
communication facilities be constructed aboveground in an orderly manner in
accordance with the requirements specified in this chapter.
      2.   This section shall apply to everyone who owns electrical facilities
or communication facilities, including but not limited to telephone and cable
television facilities, within the corporate city limits.
   B.   Cost.
      1.   The cost of constructing new facilities aboveground or relocating
existing underground facilities aboveground shall be borne by the serving
utilities, the owners of the real property to be served, or others requesting
such aboveground services in accordance with the applicable rules, regulations,
and policies of the respective utilities furnishing such service.
   C.   Aboveground Requirements.
      1.   The following requirements shall apply to new facilities:
         a.   All major additions of new facilities shall be aboveground.
      2.   The following requirements shall apply to relocations or
rearrangements:
         a.   Relocations or rearrangements of underground facilities
necessitated by, but not limited to, road widening, sewer and water main
projects, shall be moved aboveground, if practicable.
      3.   The following requirements shall apply to service connections:
         a.   Service connections are facilities extending from a distribution
system and terminating on private property to serve a customer or subscriber.
Service connections must be aboveground.
   D.   Design Standards.
      1.   All conductors, switches, transformers, and regulating devices shall
be installed in accordance with the applicable national, state, and local
safety standards. All structural devices shall be designed in accordance with
the provisions of the International Building Code. All aboveground facilities
provided for in this section shall be installed in such manner as to coordinate
with other aboveground facilities.
   E.   Variance Process.
      1.    Any owner of electrical facilities or communication facilities
affected by this ordinance may apply to the City council for a variance from
the provisions of this ordinance. The council may, in its sole discretion,
grant relief from the terms of this ordinance. However, any underground
facilities permitted pursuant to this variance process must be placed in
appropriate conduit and located in compliance with existing city requirements.
(Ord. 421, 9-3-2019)
8-1-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished pursuant to
section
1-4-1  of this code. (1963 Code § 8-506)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Enforcement And Authority
8-2-3: Application For Connection
8-2-4: Notify Maintenance Supervisor At Beginning Of Service
8-2-5: Water Meter Requirements
8-2-6: Meters And Materials Property Of City
8-2-7: Separate Service Connections Required; Exceptions
8-2-8: Location And Maintenance Of Service Pipes
8-2-9: Rates And Charges
8-2-10: Newly Installed Services
8-2-11: Supplying Water To Persons Or Property; Permit
8-2-12: Emergency Cut Off Of Water; Nonliability Of City
8-2-13: Unlawful Connections
8-2-14: Unlawful Use Of Water
8-2-15: Water Use During Fires Prohibited
8-2-16: Unlawful Tampering With Service Pipes Or Water System
8-2-17: Certain Acts Prohibited
8-2-18: Obstructing Fire Hydrant And Other Acts
8-2-19: Refusing Access To Premises; Penalties
8-2-20: Irrigation Water Use
8-2-21: Shortages And Emergencies
8-2-22: Private Water Systems Prohibited
8-2-23: Services Outside City Limits Prohibited; Exceptions
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
PERSON OR CONSUMER: Any individual, firm, company, association, society,
corporation or group.
PREMISES OR PROPERTY: The real property or buildings served or proposed to be
served by the city water system.
PUBLIC COMMISSIONER OF UTILITIES: The enforcement official for this chapter,
his agent or representative.
SHALL; MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
SUPERVISOR: The maintenance supervisor of Craigmont, his authorized agent or
representative.
WATER MAIN: A pipe or conduit for carrying domestic water.
WATER SYSTEM: All facilities for storing, pumping, treating and distributing of
water. (1963 Code § 3-341; amd. 2010 Code)
8-2-2: ENFORCEMENT AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Water Division Established: The water division of the department of
public utilities of the city is hereby established. (1963 Code § 3-301)
   B.   Authority Of Commissioner Of Public Utilities: The commissioner of
public utilities shall have full supervision, charge and control of the water
division. He shall make and enforce such rules as he may deem necessary for the
efficient administration and regulation of the division. The maintenance
supervisor shall, subject to the direction and authority of the commissioner of
public utilities, have direct charge of the municipal water supply system of
the city. (1963 Code § 3-302; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Utility Account Collector: The city clerk-treasurer shall be
responsible to collect the water accounts and other utility accounts of the
city. (1963 Code § 3-339; amd. 2010 Code)
8-2-3: APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION:
   A.   Application: Any person, firm or corporation desiring to have property
connected with the water supply system of the city shall make an application
therefor to the superintendent of water on a printed form to be furnished by
the water division. (1963 Code § 3-303)
   B.   Form And Contents Of Application:
      1.   The application shall be made and signed by the owner or lessee of
the property, or the authorized agent of such owner or lessee and shall fully
state:
         a.   All the purposes for which the water shall be used.
         b.   The number of service pipes desired.
         c.   Whether there is to be more than one building or more than one
separate property supplied by the one service connection with the city main.
         d.   The number and kind of buildings and properties so supplied.
         e.   Probable consumption.
         f.   The size of service pipe or connection believed to be necessary
therefor.
         g.   The name of the applicant, and whether owner, authorized agent or
renter.
      2.   Such application shall contain an agreement that the applicant will
at all times conform to and be governed by the rules and regulations of the
water division and provisions of this chapter, and that he will pay for all
water used on the premises, at the rate supplied in said rules. (1963 Code § 3-
304)
8-2-4: NOTIFY MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR AT BEGINNING OF SERVICE:
Any person occupying any premises and using water therein from the city water
system shall notify the supervisor at the time of beginning such service,
whether or not the water is turned on at said premises. If any person uses
water from the city water system without first notifying the supervisor, it
will be assumed that he has used such service since service was last
discontinued at such premises, and he shall be charged accordingly. (1963 Code
§ 3-319; amd. 2010 Code)
8-2-5: WATER METER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Installation Of Meters:
      1.   New Services: Whenever any new service shall be installed connecting
any property with the water supply system of the city, a meter shall be
installed with the service and water will be supplied to the property through
such meter only. (1963 Code § 3-305)
      2.   Any Premises: Meters shall be installed on any premises whatsoever
when, in the opinion of the water division, the installation of a meter may for
any just reason be deemed necessary. (1963 Code § 3-306)
   B.   Meter Supplied By City: Five-eighths inch (5/8") meters shall be
supplied by the city at no charge to the consumer; however, in the event a
consumer wishes to have a meter larger than five- eighths inch (5/8")
installed, then such consumer shall pay to the city the difference in the cost
of such meter and the cost of a five-eighths inch (5/8") meter. (Ord. 284, 1-3-
1978)
   C.   Size And Design Of Meters: All meters shall be of a standard size and
design approved by the maintenance supervisor and each meter shall, before it
is installed, be separately examined, tested and approved by him. (1963 Code §
3-309; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Testing Accuracy Of Meters: When the accuracy of the record of a water
meter is questioned by a consumer, the meter shall be removed at his request
and shall be tested by the supervisor in the presence of the consumer and
record kept thereof. Both parties shall accept the findings so made. Before
making such tests, the consumer, at the time of filing his request, shall
deposit with the supervisor such sum as set by resolution of the city council.
If a test so made discloses an error against the consumer of more than three
percent (3%) in the meter register, the excess of such reading as applied to
the three (3) readings next preceding the test shall be calculated and the
amount of money due the consumer thereon credited to his meter account. The
water division shall bear the entire expense of the test and the deposit of the
consumer shall be returned to him. If no error in excess of three percent (3%)
against the consumer is found, the consumer shall pay the cost of the test out
of his deposit. No meter shall be removed or in any way disturbed nor the seal
broken except in the presence, and under the supervision of, the supervisor.
(1963 Code § 3-310; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Inspection And Examination Of Premises: The water division reserves the
right to enter at any reasonable time any premises where city water is used,
for the purpose of making an examination of the premises, or a test of the
meter, and it also reserves the right to remove the meter from the premises for
examination and test when necessary. (1963 Code § 3-311)
   F.   Meters Property Of City: All meters shall be and remain the property of
the city and shall not be removed from the service except for tests or repair,
replacement or on abandonment or discontinuance of the service. All meters
shall be so located and maintained as to be readily accessible at all
reasonable hours for reading, inspection and repairs. (1963 Code § 3-312)
   G.   Lost, Damaged Or Broken Meters: In cases where a meter has been lost,
damaged or broken, by or through the carelessness or negligence of the owner or
the occupant of the premises served, such meter shall be properly repaired and
restored under the direction of the supervisor and the cost thereof shall be
charged against the owner or occupant of the premises. In cases of nonpayment
of such charges, the water shall be turned off and not again turned on until
the cost of repairs and the penalty for shutting off and turning on the water
has been paid. (1963 Code § 3-313; amd. 2010 Code)
   H.   Meter Out Of Order; Estimate Of Charges: In the event of a water meter
getting out of order or failing to register properly, the consumer shall be
charged on an estimate made from the most reliable data in the possession of
the water division. (1963 Code § 3-314)
8-2-6: METERS AND MATERIALS PROPERTY OF CITY:
All meters furnished and all materials supplied by the water department in the
installation or repair of any meter or meters, and all materials supplied in
the installation of any service connection with the city mains, or tapping any
city main, shall remain the property of the city and may be removed by the
water department at any time for the nonpayment of any charges or installment
due. (1963 Code § 3-334)
8-2-7: SEPARATE SERVICE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
Every separate building supplied with city water must have its own separate
service connection with the city mains, except that two (2) or more buildings
located on the same lot, or on contiguous lots under a single ownership, may
be, upon written permission granted by the supervisor, supplied through the
same connection with the city main in cases where a water meter is installed in
the service, as long as said single ownership continues. Upon change from
single ownership, a new and separate connection shall be immediately made for
the building or premises theretofor having the indirect connection. (1963 Code
§ 3-315; amd. 2010 Code)
8-2-8: LOCATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE PIPES:
All service pipes from the city mains or from other service pipes to the
property line, including a service cock, shall be placed one foot (1') inside
the curb line, and shall be installed and maintained by the city. The property
owner must install and maintain at his own expense, all service pipes and all
plumbing within his own premises. Every service pipe shall be provided with a
stop and waste cock for each consumer, easily accessible and placed in such a
location that it will not be damaged by frost or freezing, and so situated that
the water can be conveniently shut off and drained from the pipes. All water in
buildings shall be so arranged as to drain toward the stop and waste cock
fixtures or drain cocks placed for that purpose. All water pipes shall be
either galvanized iron, brass or lead. All service pipes inside property lines
shall be laid to a depth of not less than two feet (2') so that they will not
be affected by frost or freezing. (1963 Code § 3-316)
8-2-9: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Service Charges: Charges for water supplied by the city water system
shall be as set by resolution of the city council from time to time, as listed
on the "City Water Rate Schedule". (1963 Code § 3-335; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Deposit Required From Nonowner Residential Customers: An advance
deposit in such amount as set by resolution of the city council shall be
required from all nonowner residential customers before the city water will be
supplied in such customer's name. In the event, however, that the owner/
landlord of such residential property shall file with the city clerk-treasurer
a written statement guaranteeing payment of such account, then said deposit
shall be waived. (Ord. 359, 11-7-1995; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Charge For Turning Water Off Or On: Whenever water is turned off or on
by the city, the fee for the service shall be such sum as set by resolution of
the city council. (Ord. 402, 10-9-2007; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Installation Of Meters And Charge: The actual installation of all
meters shall be done by the water division. The City of Craigmont shall assess
and collect from each and every new consumer of water, a fee of two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00), plus the actual cost to the City to repair any damage to
any street or alleyway, for the installation of the water meter and connecting
water to the consumer’s premises to be paid prior to such service connection.
   E.   Determination Of Summer Irrigation Rates: The commissioner of public
utilities shall designate any continuous ninety (90) day period during the
months of June, July, August and September of each year during which period
summer irrigation rates shall be applied to all residential property, or
property in no way used for commercial purposes. (1963 Code § 3-336)
   F.   Surcharge On Nonresident Consumption: All water used by consumers on
premises located outside the city limits shall pay double that rate paid for
water by residents of the city. This charge is made to partially compensate the
city for not obtaining tax money from the premises served for use on the water
system. (Ord. 269, 7-9-1974; amd. 2010 Code)
   G.   Credit Allowed Fire Department Members: All active members in good
standing of the Craigmont volunteer fire department shall be allowed a maximum
credit in such amount as set by resolution of the city council per month
against their water accounts. This credit shall not be cumulative but shall be
used in full each month, nor shall this credit be in any way applied against
the sewer accounts. This sum is granted to them as partial consideration for
their services. The fire chief shall quarterly submit to the supervisor or to
the city clerk-treasurer a list of all active members of the volunteer fire
department. (1963 Code §§ 3-336, 3-338; amd. Ord. 269, 7-9-1974; Ord. 401, 10-
9-2007; 2010 Code; Ord. 430, 11-2-2021)
8-2-10: NEWLY INSTALLED SERVICES:
In all cases where a water service has been newly installed connecting any
premises or building with city mains, and in all cases of reconstruction,
alteration or repair of any building where new or additional water service or
fixtures have been installed, city water shall not be turned into such service
until all charges for water used on the premises for any purpose shall have
been paid. (1963 Code § 3-322)
8-2-11: SUPPLYING WATER TO PERSONS OR PROPERTY; PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required:
      1.   No owner or lessee of property supplied with water from the city
mains shall furnish water to any other person or property without first
obtaining a written permit to do so from the maintenance supervisor.
      2.   No permit will be issued until the person desiring to use the water
has obtained and filed with the supervisor the written consent of the owner or
lessee of the property from which the water is to be taken, stating the
location of such property by street and number, and the location by street and
number of the property to be supplied with water, and stating the purpose for
which the water is to be used.
      3.   Upon receipt of a proper permit as above provided, from the owner or
lessee of the property from which the water is to be taken, and where water is
taken from premises paying a flat rate, upon payment in advance for the water
for the whole term for which the permit is issued, the supervisor may issue a
temporary permit allowing water to be supplied to other persons or property for
domestic and for other purposes, but no permit shall be issued for a longer
time than three (3) months.
   B.   Violation: Any person allowing water to be taken from the premises
owned or occupied by him by any person without such person having a permit from
the supervisor shall be in violation of this chapter. (1963 Code § 3-323; amd.
2010 Code)
8-2-12: EMERGENCY CUT OFF OF WATER; NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
   A.   City Authority: The maintenance supervisor may, in an emergency, order
the water cut off from any premises connected with the city mains, without
notice, for repairs or other necessary purposes.
   B.   Nonliability Of City: The city will not be liable for any damage that
may occur on account of the water being cut off for any of the above purposes,
or on account of the breaking of any pipe or fixture by pressure of the water
from the city mains. (1963 Code § 3-324; amd. 2010 Code)
8-2-13: UNLAWFUL CONNECTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person except a competent person authorized by the
supervisor to make any connection with a city service pipe or with any part of
the city water system. (1963 Code § 3-317; amd. 2010 Code)
8-2-14: UNLAWFUL USE OF WATER:
When water has been shut off from any premises, either upon the application of
the owner or occupant thereof, or for nonpayment of water charges, or for any
other cause, it shall be a misdemeanor for any person to again connect such
premises with the city water supply system except when specifically authorized
so to do by the supervisor; and the supervisor may cause the water to be shut
off at the main, or may remove a portion of the service connection in the
street. In addition to the penalty in this chapter provided for violation of
its provisions, the water department may also charge to and collect from the
owner or occupant of the premises so illegally connected, the whole cost of the
disconnection and reconnection, and a fee for shutting off the water, and a fee
for turning on the water, in such total amount as set by resolution of the city
council, the whole of such fees and charges to be paid before the water is
again turned on. (1963 Code § 3-320; amd. 2010 Code)
8-2-15: WATER USE DURING FIRES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use water for irrigation or sprinkling
during the progress of any fire in the city except for protection from fire,
and all such irrigation and sprinkling shall be immediately stopped when the
fire alarm is sounded and not resumed until the fire is extinguished. (1963
Code § 3-333)
8-2-16: UNLAWFUL TAMPERING WITH SERVICE PIPES OR WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   City Service Pipes: No person, other than the maintenance supervisor or
his authorized agent, shall use any street key or other device for the purpose
of shutting off water or turning on same outside of his property line; nor
shall any person uncover or attempt to uncover, or tamper with any pipe, valve,
meter, meter box, curb stop or curb stop box of a city service connection
without authority from the supervisor. (1963 Code § 3-318; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Water System: It shall be unlawful for any person to open or shut any
street cock or to in any way tamper with or injure any meter, valve or service
pipe connecting any premises or building with the city water supply, or to tap
or in any manner to tamper with any fire line, unless such person be a regular
employee of the water division. (1963 Code § 3-325)
8-2-17: CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, with intent to injure or defraud, to:
   A.   Break or deface any water meter.
   B.   Obstruct, alter, injure or prevent the action of any meter or other
instrument used to measure or register the quantity of water supplied to a
consumer.
   C.   Make any connection by means of a pipe, or otherwise, with any main or
pipe used for a delivery of water to a consumer thereof, in such manner as to
take water from said main or pipe without its passage through the meter or
other instrument provided for registering the amount or quantity consumed, or
use any water so obtained.
   D.   Make any connection or reconnection with such main or pipe, or turn on
or off, or in any manner interfere with any valve, stopcock or other appliance
connected therewith.
   E.   Prevent by the erection of any device or construction, or by any other
means, free access to any meter or other instrument for registering or
measuring the amount of water consumed, or interfere with, obstruct or prevent
by any means, the reading or inspection of such meter or instrument, by any of
the officers or authorized employees of the city. (1963 Code § 3-326)
8-2-18: OBSTRUCTING FIRE HYDRANT AND OTHER ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the access to any fire hydrant
by placing around, thereon, or within twenty feet (20') thereof any stone,
brick, lumber, dirt, rubbish or other material, or to open or separate any fire
hydrant, or to draw or attempt to draw water therefrom, or to wilfully or
carelessly injure the same, or to fill up or cover over any curb box, or in any
manner to tamper with or injure the same. In the event that any person shall
wilfully, carelessly or otherwise injure or break any fire hydrant, street
standpipe, public drinking fountain, or other device or thing connected with
the city water supply system, he shall at once report the occurrence to the
supervisor or to the law enforcement officer, and shall give such undertaking
as may be required of him that he will pay the costs of the repairs or
replacement thereto made necessary. Failure to so report and accept
responsibility for such damage shall also result in the offender being deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and punished accordingly. (1963 Code § 3-327; amd. 2010
Code)
8-2-19: REFUSING ACCESS TO PREMISES; PENALTIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, neglect or fail to afford any
duly authorized representative of the water department free access at all
reasonable hours to any and all parts of buildings or premises supplied with
water from the city water supply system. For the purpose of making records,
readings and inspection of the location, condition and sufficiency of pipes,
fittings, values, cocks, fixtures and appliances, and noting the amount of
water used and the manner in which it is used. Violation of this provision, or
the abuse, threatening or attempted intimidation of any officer of the water
department, may result in the shutting off of the water and the imposition of
the usual penalties in addition to punishment for violation of this chapter as
elsewhere herein provided. (1963 Code § 3-328)
8-2-20: IRRIGATION WATER USE:
   A.   Irrigation With Unmetered Services: On unmetered service, a moderate
amount of water for irrigation may be used, which privilege may be cancelled by
the supervisor if water is used beyond a reasonable amount. (1963 Code § 3-329;
amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Irrigation Regulations: No water shall be used for irrigation except
through a nozzle, spray nozzle, or other sprinkling device; and no hose or
sprinkling device shall be left running unattended. (1963 Code § 3-330)
   C.   Authority To Prohibit Use: In case of shortage of water, the use for
irrigation may be prohibited by the maintenance supervisor. (1963 Code § 3-331;
amd. 2010 Code)
8-2-21: SHORTAGES AND EMERGENCIES:
If any person refuses to comply with the request of any employee of the water
department to conserve water during a shortage or emergency, water service may
be discontinued. (1963 Code § 3-332)
8-2-22: PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to own, operate, or
maintain a private water well or system within the limits of the city. This
section shall not affect those private water systems which are in use on the
effective date hereof. (Ord. 269, 7-9-1974; amd. 2010 Code)
8-2-23: SERVICES OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
No water mains shall be constructed or laid by the city outside of the city
limits to any premises. Provided however, mains may be laid to properties
belonging to the city. All proposed consumers who have property outside the
city limits and who desire to obtain city water shall construct their own mains
from the city limits to their property at their own expense. All city meters in
such cases shall be placed as near as practicable to the city limits. (1963
Code § 3-340)
ARTICLE A. CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-2A-1: Purpose And Scope
8-2A-2: Definitions
8-2A-3: Cross Connections
8-2A-4: Use Of Backflow Prevention Devices
8-2A-5: Cross Connection Inspection
8-2A-6: Installation Permits
8-2A-7: Additional Remedies
8-2A-8: Civil Action
8-2A-9: Misdemeanor
8-2A-10: Liability
8-2A-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
The purpose of this article is to protect the public health of water consumers
of the city of Craigmont by the control of actual and/or potential cross
connections. (Ord. 2011-409, 5-3-2011)
8-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
BACKFLOW: The flow, other than the intended direction of flow, of any foreign
liquids, gases, or substances into the distribution system of the city water
supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device to counteract back pressure or prevent
back siphonage.
CITY: The city of Craigmont and its designated representatives.
CONTAMINATION: The entry into or presence in a city water supply of any
substance which may be deleterious to health and/or quality of the water.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical arrangement whereby the city water supply is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water supply system, sewer,
drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture, or other device
which contains or may contain contaminated water, sewage or other waste or
liquids of unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of imparting
contamination to the city water supply as a result of backflow. (Ord. 2011-409,
5-3-2011)
8-2A-3: CROSS CONNECTIONS:
No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or continued in
the city unless the water supply is protected by backflow prevention devices as
may be required by this article, Idaho Code, and all standards, rules, and
regulations of the state of Idaho, the Idaho department of health and welfare,
and any other federal, state, county, or city authority or agency thereof. The
installation or maintenance of a cross connection which will endanger the water
quality of the potable water supply of the city of Craigmont shall be unlawful
and is prohibited. Any such cross connection now existing or hereafter
installed is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and the same shall be
abated. The control or elimination of cross connections shall be in accordance
with this article, Idaho Code, and all standards, rules, and regulations of the
state of Idaho, the Idaho department of health and welfare, and any other
federal, state, county, or city authority or agency thereof, together with the
latest addition of appropriate manuals of standard practice pertaining to cross
connection control enacted by the city and any applicable county, state, and
federal authorities and agencies. The city shall have the authority to
establish requirements more stringent than state regulations if it deems that
the conditions so dictate. (Ord. 2011-409, 5-3-2011)
8-2A-4: USE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   Backflow prevention devices shall be installed in connection with water
service connections or within any premises where, in the judgment of the city,
the nature and extent of the activities, or the materials stored on the
premises, would present an immediate and dangerous hazard to health and/or be
deleterious to the quality of the water should a cross connection occur; even
though such cross connection does not exist at the time the backflow prevention
devices shall be installed under circumstances including, but not limited to,
the following:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of the
auxiliary supply is in compliance with Idaho Code, and all standards, rules,
and regulations of the state of Idaho, the Idaho department of health and
welfare, and any other federal, state, county, or city authority or agency
thereof and is acceptable to the city.
      2.   Premises having internal cross connections that are not correctable,
or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impracticable to ascertain
whether or not cross connections exist.
      3.   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to ensure that cross connections are not being established or
reestablished.
      4.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
      5.   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the city water supply, or where a cross connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters.
      6.   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
in such a way that if back siphonage should occur, a serious health hazard
might result.
      7.   The following types of facilities will fall into one of the above
categories where a backflow prevention device is required to protect the city
water supply. A backflow prevention device shall be installed at these
facilities unless the city and applicable state, county, and federal
authorities and agencies determine that no hazard exists:
         a.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics.
         b.   Laboratories, including school laboratories.
         c.   Metal plating industries.
         d.   Sewage treatment plants.
         e.   Food or beverage processing plants.
         f.   Chemical plants using a water process.
         g.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
         h.   Dry cleaners.
Other premises as specified by the city, where backflow prevention devices are
required to protect the city water supply.
   B.   The type of protective device required shall depend on the degree of
hazard which exists:
      1.   An air gap separation or a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed where the city water supply may be
contaminated with sewage, industrial waste of a toxic nature, or other
contaminant which could cause a health or system hazard.
      2.   In the case of a substance which may be objectionable but not
hazardous to health, a double check valve assembly, air prevention device shall
be installed.
      3.   Backflow prevention devices required by this article shall be
installed at the meter, at the property line of the premises when meters are
not used, or at a location designated by the city. The device shall be located
so as to be readily accessible for maintenance and testing, and furthermore,
where no part of the device will be submerged.
   C.   Backflow prevention devices required by this article shall be installed
under the supervision of, and with the approval of, the city.
   D.   Any protective device required by this article shall be approved by the
city, applicable state, county, and federal authorities and agencies. These
devices shall be furnished and installed by and at the expense of the customer.
   E.   Backflow prevention devices installed pursuant to this article, shall
be inspected and tested annually, or more often if necessary. Inspections,
tests, and maintenance shall be at the customer's expense, and, if requested by
the city, by a certified tester retained and paid by the customer. Whenever the
devices are found to be defective, they shall be repaired, overhauled, or
replaced at the customer's expense. Inspections, tests, repairs and records
thereof shall be accomplished in accordance with all standards, rules and
regulations of this article, Idaho Code, and all standards, rules, and
regulations of the state of Idaho, the Idaho department of health and welfare,
and any other federal, state, county, or city authority or agency thereof by
certified testers retained and paid by the customer.
   F.   No underground sprinkling device will be installed without adequate
backflow prevention devices at the point from which the water for irrigation is
taken from the city water supply.
   G.   Failure of the customer to cooperate in the installation, maintenance,
testing, or inspection of backflow prevention devices required by this article,
Idaho Code, and all standards, rules and regulations of the state of Idaho, the
Idaho department of health and welfare, and any other federal, state, county,
or city authority or agency thereof shall be grounds for the termination of
water service to the premises, or, in the alternative, the installation of an
air gap separation at the customer's expense. (Ord. 2011-409, 5-3-2011)
8-2A-5: CROSS CONNECTION INSPECTION:
   A.   No water shall be delivered to any structure hereafter built within the
city or within areas served by city water until the same shall have been
inspected by the city for possible cross connections and been approved as being
free of the same.
   B.   Any construction for industrial or other purposes which is classified
as hazardous facilities pursuant to subsection
8-2A-4A of this article, where it is reasonable to anticipate cross
connections, or as determined by the city, shall be protected by the
installation of one or more backflow prevention devices at the point of service
from the city water supply or any other location designated by the city, and
applicable county, state, and federal authorities and agencies.
   C.   Inspections may be made periodically of all buildings, structures, or
improvements of any nature now receiving water through the city's system, for
the purpose of ascertaining whether cross connections exist. Such inspections
shall be made by the city or applicable county, state, and federal authorities
and agencies. (Ord. 2011-409, 5-3-2011)
8-2A-6: INSTALLATION PERMITS:
If cross connection control device(s) are found to be necessary, the owner of
the property served must apply to the city for a specific installation permit.
(Ord. 2011-409, 5-3-2011)
8-2A-7: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
In the event an improper cross connection is not corrected within the time
limits set by the city, or, in the event the city is refused access to any
property for the purpose of determining whether or not cross connections exist,
the city may cease delivery of water to the property until the deficiency is
corrected to the city's satisfaction. In addition, the city without waiving any
terms of this article may, but shall not be required to, effect the necessary
repairs or installations at the expense of the property owner and refuse
delivery of water to the property until the cost thereof shall have been paid.
Violations of this article are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and the city,
after notice to the customer or property owner to remove or correct the
violation, may prevent, remove, and abate the same at the expense of the party
creating or maintaining the same, in which event the city may levy a special
assessment as provided in Idaho Code 50-1008 on the land or premises whereon
the nuisance is situated to defray the cost or to reimburse the city for the
cost of abating the same. (Ord. 2011-409, 5-3-2011)
8-2A-8: CIVIL ACTION:
In addition to, or in lieu of the foregoing, the city may bring any appropriate
civil action, including abatement, injunction, and/or damages in which event
the city shall be entitled to all costs including attorney fees in the
prosecution of such action. (Ord. 2011-409, 5-3-2011)
8-2A-9: MISDEMEANOR:
In addition to the foregoing, any person violating the provisions of this
article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be subject to the penalties as provided by law. (Ord. 2011-409, 5-3-2011)
8-2A-10: LIABILITY:
This article shall not be construed to hold the city responsible for any damage
to persons or property by reason of the inspection or testing herein, or the
failure to inspect or test or by reason of approval of any cross connections.
(Ord. 2011-409, 5-3-2011)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-3-3: Private Sewage Disposal
8-3-4: Building Sewers And Connections
8-3-5: Restrictions On Use Of Public Sewers
8-3-6: Protection From Damage
8-3-7: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
8-3-8: Repairs And Connections; Assessment And Lien
8-3-9: User Rates And Charges
8-3-10: Privies And Cesspools Prohibited
8-3-11:    Prohibited Discharge Standards
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
 
                That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
                which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other
BUILDING DRAIN: drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it
                to the building sewer, beginning five feet (5') outside the
                inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
                other place of disposal.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
GARBAGE:        Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of
                food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
 
INDUSTRIAL WASTES:          The liquid wastes from industrial processes as
                            distinct from sanitary sewage.
NATURAL OUTLET:             Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or
                            other body of surface water or groundwater.
PERSON:                     Any individual, firm, company, association,
                            society, corporation or group.
                            The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
                            dispensing of food that have been shredded to such
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE:  degree that all particles will be carried freely
                            under the flow conditions normally prevailing in
                            public sewers, with no particle greater than one-
                            fourth inch ( 1/4") in any dimension.
                            A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties
PUBLIC SEWER:               have equal rights, and is controlled by public
                            authority.
                            A sewer which carries sewage and to which
SANITARY SEWER:             stormwater, surface water and groundwater are not
                            intentionally admitted.
                            A combination of the water carried wastes from
                            residences, business buildings, institutions and
SEWAGE:                     industrial establishments, together with such
                            groundwater, surface water and stormwater which may
                            be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT:     Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
                            treating sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS:               All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating
                            and disposing of sewage.
SEWER:                      A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SHALL; MAY:                 “Shall” is mandatory; “may” is permissive.
                            A sewer which carries stormwater and surface water
STORM SEWER OR STORM DRAIN: and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted
                            industrial wastes.
 
SUPERVISOR:  The maintenance supervisor of the city of Craigmont, or his
             authorized deputy, agent or representative.
SUSPENDED    Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
SOLIDS:      suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids, and which are
             removable by laboratory filtering.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
             or intermittently. (1963 Code § 8-201; amd. 2010 Code)
 
8-3-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Garbage Deposits: It shall be unlawful for any person to place,
deposit, or permit to be deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or
private property within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
city, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   Discharge Of Polluted Waters: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any
natural outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
city, any sanitary sewage, industrial sewage, industrial wastes or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Privies, Septic Tanks Prohibited: Except as hereinafter provided, it
shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   Connection To Public Sewer Required: The owner of all houses, buildings
or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other
purpose, situated within the city and abutting on any street, alley or right of
way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a public
sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is hereby required at his expense to
install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, within ninety (90) days after date of official notice to do so;
provided, that said public sewer is within two hundred feet (200') of the
property line, and in an area physically capable of connecting to the public
sewer. (1963 Code § 8-202)
8-3-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Private System Allowed: Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is
not available under the provisions of section 8-3-2 of this chapter, the
building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying
with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Before commencement or construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the supervisor.
The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as are deemed necessary by the supervisor.
      2.   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
supervisor. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
supervisor when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within forty
eight (48) hours of the receipt of notice of the supervisor. (1963 Code § 8-
203; amd. 2010 Code)
      3.   No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet. No septic tank or cesspool
shall be permitted to discharge to any public sewer or natural outlet.
   C.   Connection To Public Sewer When Available: At such time as a public
sewer becomes available to a property served by a private sewage disposal
system, as provided in this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the
public sewer in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools,
and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled
with suitable material.
   D.   Sanitary Operation: The owner shall operate and maintain the private
sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to
the city.
   E.   Additional Requirements: No statement contained in this section shall
be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed
by the health officer. (1963 Code § 8-203)
8-3-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
supervisor.
   B.   Classes Of Permits; Application: There shall be two (2) classes of
buildings sewer permits: 1) for residential and commercial service; and 2) for
service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the
owner or his agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the
city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the supervisor.
   C.   Costs Borne By Owner: All costs and expenses incident to the
installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   D.   Separate Connections: A separate and independent building sewer shall
be provided for every building; except, where one building stands at the rear
of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
   E.   Old Building Sewers Used With New Buildings: Old building sewers may be
used in connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination
and test by the supervisor, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   F.   Laying Of Building Sewer: Whenever possible, the building sewer shall
be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. No
building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three feet (3') of any
bearing wall, which might thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to
afford protection from frost. The building sewer shall be laid a uniform grade
and in straight alignment insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be
made only with properly curved pipe and fittings.
   G.   Drainage Requirements:
      1.   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.
Drainage piping serving fixtures within a building located below the crown
level of the main sewer shall discharge into an approved watertight sump or
receiving tank, so located as to receive the sewage or wastes by gravity. From
such sump or receiving tank, the sewage or other liquid wastes shall be lifted
and discharged into the house drain or house sewer or ejectors, pumps or other
equally efficient approved mechanical device.
      2.   The discharge line from such ejector, pump, or other mechanical
device shall be provided with an accessible backwater valve and gate valve, and
if the gravity drainage line to which such discharge line connects is
horizontal, the method of connection shall be from the top through a "Y" branch
fitting.
      3.   All backwater valves, gate valves, motors, compressors, air tanks,
or other mechanical devices shall be located where they will be accessible for
inspection and repair at all times, and unless continuously exposed, shall be
enclosed in a watertight masonry pit, fitted with a removable cover. The pipe
leading to an ejector or other appliance for raising sewage or other waste
matter to the street sewer shall, where a water closet or closets are
installed, be provided with a vent pipe not less than four inches (4") in
diameter, and where fixtures other than water closets are installed, the waste
vent pipe shall be the same diameter as the waste pipe.
      4.   All sumps and receiving tanks shall be constructed of concrete,
metal or vitrified clay pipe. If constructed of concrete, the walls and bottom
shall be not less than six inches (6") thick. Metal sumps and receiving tanks
shall be of such thickness as to serve the purpose for which they are intended,
and shall be painted inside and outside with corrosion resisting paint. All
such sumps and receiving tanks shall be provided with substantial and tight
covers having a manhole that will permit access to the tank for repairs and
cleaning. Air tanks shall be so proportioned as to be of equal cubical capacity
to the ejectors connected therewith in which there shall be maintained an air
pressure of not less than two (2) pounds for each foot of height the sewage is
to be raised. No water operated ejectors shall be permitted.
      5.   When subsoil drainage systems are installed, they shall discharge
into an approved sump or receiving tank entirely separate and independent of
any other drainage piping. Automatic mechanical ejectors or pumps shall be used
to lift the drainage from such sump or receiving tank, and the discharge
therefrom shall terminate over a properly trapped and vented fixture of such
capacity as to prevent flooding. No water operated ejectors shall be permitted.
   H.   Excavations; Backfill: All excavations required for the installation of
a building sewer shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the
supervisor. Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM
specification (C12-19) except that no backfill shall be placed until the work
has been inspected and approved. All backfills across streets or alleys must be
properly tamped.
   I.   Jointing Materials And Methods: Jointing materials and methods not
covered by building code requirements may be used only by approval of the
supervisor.
   J.   Connecting Building Sewer To Public Sewers:
      1.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the "Y" branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location.
When a "Y" branch is not properly located or available, a neat hole may be cut
into the public sewer to receive the building sewer, with entry in the
downstream direction at an angle of about forty five degrees (45°). The
building sewer shall enter or be connected to the public sewer in the top one-
half (1/2) of the public sewer. The connection is to be made through a special
fitting which shall be the hub end of a section of the house sewer pipe cut off
or a V saddle type of connection, inserted into the tap opening of the main;
either type thoroughly caulked and cemented so as to make a tight and secure
joint.
      2.   In attaching the hub fitting to the main, the hub end of pipe shall
be cut short enough so that the shoulder of the hub shall rest flush on the
main with the end of the pipe to extend into the immediate wall of the main so
that the end thereof shall be flush with the inner face of the said wall. Each
system of piping shall be laid in a separate trench when practicable. If water
piping is laid in the same trench as a sewer, it shall be at least one foot
(1') above the top edge of the sewer and offset at least eighteen inches (18")
from the central line of the sewer, and such sewer shall be constructed of cast
iron soil pipe with approved leaded and caulked joints.
   K.   Cleanouts: Cleanouts shall be placed in every house connection sewer
when conditions are such that in the opinion of the supervisor the house sewer
line could not be readily cleared of obstructions with approved sewer cleaning
equipment applied from the nearest cleanout located in the sanitary building
drain connecting therewith. Cleanout fitting shall be of the same nominal size
as the pipes they serve, up to and including four inch (4") pipe, and not less
than four inches (4") for larger pipes.
   L.   Inspection And Supervision: The applicant for the building sewer permit
shall notify the supervisor when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the supervisor or his representative.
   M.   Guarding Of Excavations; Restoration Of Streets: All excavations for
building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and
lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways
and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored
in a manner satisfactory to the city. (1963 Code § 8-204; amd. 2010 Code)
8-3-5: RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   Stormwater, Other Drainage: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary
sewer.
   B.   Prohibited Waters And Wastes: Except as hereinafter provided, no person
shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described waters
or wastes to any public sewer:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F).
      2.   Any water or waste which may contain more than one hundred (100)
parts per million, by weight, of fat, oil, or grease.
      3.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      4.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
      5.   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      7.   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such
materials at the sewage treatment plant.
      8.   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance. (1963 Code § 8-205)
   C.   Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors:
      1.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the supervisor, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand,
and other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the supervisor, and shall be located as
to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Grease and oil
interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of
substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily removable covers
which when bolted in place shall be gastight and watertight. (1963 Code § 8-
205; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at
all times.
   D.   Preliminary Treatment Facilities: Where preliminary treatment
facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his
expense.
   E.   Special Agreements With Industrial Dischargers: No statement contained
in this article shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or
arrangement between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial
waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for
treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern. (1963 Code §
8-205)
8-3-6: PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct. (1963 Code § 8-206)
8-3-7: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
The supervisor and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon all properties
for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing,
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (1963 Code § 8-207)
8-3-8: REPAIRS AND CONNECTIONS; ASSESSMENT AND LIEN:
If any connection or any needed repair to an existing condition shall not be
made within the time herein provided, the city council is hereby authorized and
directed to cause the same to be made and to file a statement of the costs
thereof with the city clerk-treasurer, and thereupon a warrant shall be issued
under the direction of the city council by the city clerk-treasurer and against
the sewer revenue special fund of 1953, created by ordinance 172 for the
payment of such cost. The amount of such cost, together with a penalty of ten
dollars ($10.00), plus interest at eight percent (8%) per annum upon the total
amount of such costs and penalty, shall be assessed against the property upon
which said building or structure is situate and shall become a lien thereon as
hereafter provided. (1963 Code § 8-208)
8-3-9: USER RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Rates And Charges Established: The rates and charges for sewage
services provided by the city to individual properties served by the city sewer
system, which rates are expressed on the basis of use for each calendar month
and listed on a rate schedule, shall be set from time to time by resolution of
the city council, and shall be billed and paid accordingly. (1963 Code § 8-209;
amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Sewer Line Connection Fees/Costs: The city council may by resolution
establish and from time to time amend the fees charged by the city for
connecting a property to the city sewer system. In addition to any such
connection fees charged by the city, the city may charge and recover from the
applicant the actual costs incurred by the city to repair any damage to any and
all public property, streets, sidewalks, alleyways, or other public ways or
improvements resulting from making such connection. All said fees and costs
shall be paid by the applicant to the city prior to the city completing said
connection unless otherwise agreed by the city. (Ord. 400, 10-9-2007; amd. 2010
Code; Ord. 434, 6-6-2023)
   C.   Council Authority To Modify Or Revise Rates; Procedure:
      1.   Modify: Upon application being made or upon its own motion, the city
council shall have the authority, but not be obligated, to modify rates other
than those on the schedule referred to in subsection A of this section for
circumstances not adequately described in said schedule, or due to special
circumstances, after due notice to owners of property affected if it be shown
that such rates as applied to individual circumstances be at great variance
with similar equivalent usages as compared to uses on the schedule. Seasonal
usage, lot size, or number of persons using a particular business shall not
alone be considered special circumstances. Individual living units, whether
trailers, mobile homes or apartment units shall each be considered as an
individual residence whether or not connected to the city system by one or more
than one physical connection. (Ord. 400, 10-9-2007)
      2.   Revise: The city council hereby expressly reserves the right to
change or revise rates by council resolution adopted from time to time. (1963
Code § 8-210; amd. 2010 Code)
8-3-10: PRIVIES AND CESSPOOLS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to dig, or use, or
cause to be dug, or used, any privy vault, or cesspool, or connect any plumbing
with a cesspool, or build, or cause to be built, any building within the limits
of the city. (1963 Code § 8-211)
   B.   Violation; Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section
shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1963 Code § 8-211; amd. 2010 Code)
8-3-11: PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS:
   A.   General prohibitions. No discharger shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all dischargers to the
POTW whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or
any other national, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   B.   Specific prohibitions. No discharger shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      1.   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. In addition, waste streams with a close
cup flashpoint of less than one hundred forty (140) degrees Fahrenheit or sixty
(60) degrees Celsius using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21 of the
Code of Federal Regulations.
      2.   Any solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the
flow in a wastewater line or other interference with the operation of the
wastewater treatment facilities, such as, but not limited to: grease, garbage,
animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings,
entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or
marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent
grains, spent hops, wastepaper, wood, plastics, gas, tar, asphalt residues,
residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud or glass
grinding or polishing wastes.
      3.   Any wastewater having a pH less than five (5) or greater than ten
(10), or wastewater having any corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment and/or personnel of the city.
      4.   pH effluent limitations under continuous monitoring.
         a.   Where a permittee continuously measures the pH of wastewater
pursuant to a requirement of a wastewater discharge permit issued by the city,
the permittee shall maintain the pH of such waste water within the range set
forth in the permit, except excursions above ten (10) pH are permitted subject
to the following limitations:
            (1)   The total time during which the pH values are above ten (10)
pH shall not exceed seven (7) hours and twenty-six (26) minutes in any calendar
month; and
            (2)   No individual excursion above ten (10) pH shall exceed sixty
(60) minutes.
         b.   The city may adjust the requirements set forth above, with
respect to the length of individual excursions from the permitted range, if a
different period of time is appropriate based upon treatment systems, plant
configurations or other technical factors.
         c.   For purposes of this section, an ‘’excursion” is an unintentional
and temporary incident in which the pH value of discharge wastewater exceeds
the range set forth in a wastewater discharge permit.
      5.   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through.
      6.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the wastewater system in a quantity that may cause acute worker
health and safety problems.
      7.   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes.
      8.   Medical waste, except as specifically authorized by the city in a
wastewater discharge permit.
      9.   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources, the
treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test.
      10.   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in the POTW.
      11.   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction, to injure or interfere with any wastewater
treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or to exceed the
limitation set forth in the categorical pretreatment standards.
      12.   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which, either
singly or by interaction, are capable of creating a public nuisance or hazard
to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the city wastewater lines for
the purpose of maintenance and repair.
      13.   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or treatment
residues, biosolids or scums to be unsuitable for reclamation and reuse or to
interfere with the reclamation process. In no case shall a substance discharged
to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance with biosolids use or
disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under Section 405 of the
Act; any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting biosolids use or
disposal developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act,
the Toxic Substances Control Act or state standards applicable to the biosolids
management method being used.
      14.   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES/IPDES
and/or other disposal system permits.
      15.   Any substance with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
      16.   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment 19plant resulting in interference but, in no
case, wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW which
exceeds forty (40) degrees Celsius (one hundred four (104) degrees Fahrenheit),
unless the POTW treatment plant is designed to accommodate such temperature.
If, in the opinion of the city, lower temperatures of such wastes could harm
either the wastewater lines, wastewater treatment processes or equipment; have
an adverse effect on the receiving streams or otherwise endanger life, health
or property; or constitute a nuisance, the city may prohibit such discharges.
      17.   Any slug load, which shall mean any pollutant, including oxygen-
demanding pollutants (e.g., BOD) released in a single, extraordinary discharge
episode of such volume or strength as to cause interference to the POTW. In no
case shall a slug load contain concentrations or qualities of pollutants that
exceed for any time period longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5)
times the average twenty-four-hour concentration, quantities or flow during
normal operation.
      18.   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, condensate, deionized water, noncontact cooling
water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically authorized by the city.
      19.   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half-life or concentration that it exceed limits established by the city
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      20.   Any wastewater which, in the opinion of the city, can cause harm
either to the wastewater lines, wastewater treatment process or equipment; have
an adverse effect on the receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life,
limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance, unless permitted under special
agreement by the city. No special waiver shall be given from categorical
pretreatment standards.
      21.   Wastewater containing substances not amenable to treatment or
reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or is amenable to
treatment only to such a degree that the wastewater treatment plant effluent
cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over the
discharge to the receiving waters.
      22.   Any wastewater from septic tanks except as provided in sections of
this code.
      23.   Any trucked or hauled pollutants or wastes, except at discharge
points designated by the city.
   C.   Bypass of treatment facilities.
      1.   Definitions.
 
BYPASS:  The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a discharger’s
         treatment facility.
         Substantial physical damage to property, damage to the treatment facilities
SEVERE   which causes them to become inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of
PROPERTY natural resources which can reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a
DAMAGE:  bypass. Severe property damage does not mean economic loss caused by delays in
         production.
 
      2.   Bypass not violating applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements. The discharger may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if
it is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation.
      3.   Notice.
         a.   If the discharger knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it
shall submit prior notice in writing to the city, if possible, at least ten
(10) calendar days before the date of the bypass.
         b.   The discharger shall submit oral notice of an unanticipated
bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards to the city within
twenty-four (24) hours from the time the discharger becomes aware of the
bypass. A written submission shall also be provided within five (5) calendar
days of the time the discharger becomes aware of the bypass. The written
submission shall contain a description of the bypass and its cause; the
duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and if the bypass has
not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps
taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent recurrence of the bypass.
The city may waive the written report on a case-by-case basis if the oral
report has been received within twenty-four (24) hours.
      4.   Prohibition of bypass.
         a.   Bypass is prohibited, and the city may take enforcement action
against the permittee for a bypass, unless:
            (1)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury, or severe property damage;
            (2)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as
the use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal equipment downtime or preventative maintenance; and
            (3)   The discharger submitted notices as required under
subsections C.3.a. and b. of this section.
         b.   The city may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering its
adverse effects, if the city determines that it will meet the three (3)
conditions listed in subsection (c)(4)(a) of this section. (Ord. 425, 9-8-2020)
CHAPTER 4
REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
8-4-1: Purpose
8-4-2: Definitions
8-4-3: System Established
8-4-4: Compulsory Use
8-4-5: Means Of Collection
8-4-6: Refuse Containers
8-4-7: Special Handling Of Rubbish
8-4-8: Collection Period
8-4-9: Collection Fees
8-4-10: Burning And Dumping
8-4-11: Vacated Premises
8-4-12: Inspection
8-4-13: Materials Not Acceptable For Collection
8-4-14: Garbage Hauling Vehicles
8-4-15: Penalty
8-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to eliminate unhealthy, unsanitary and unsightly
conditions in the city caused by the deposit and accumulation of refuse. (1963
Code § 8-401)
8-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
Words not defined in this section shall be defined as provided in
title 1, chapter 3 of this code. All other words shall be given the meanings
ordinarily applied to such words.
For the use of this chapter, the following terms are hereby defined:
COLLECTOR: The person holding a contract with the city of Craigmont for the
collection of garbage and refuse, or the persons employed by the city of
Craigmont and thereby authorized and designated by the city to collect, handle,
transport and dispose of refuse and waste.
GARBAGE: Shall include all putrescent waste, including waste accumulation of
animal, food or vegetable matter, and including waste that attends the
preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit and
vegetables, and shall include all of such wastes or accumulations of vegetable
matter of residences, restaurants, hotels and places where food is prepared for
human consumption. "Garbage" shall not include sewage and human body waste or
recognized industrial byproducts.
INSPECTOR: The authorized employee or employees of the city of Craigmont, or
some individual designated by the city council as having the duty of the
enforcement of this chapter.
REFUSE: Solid wastes, including garbage and rubbish.
RUBBISH: Refuse other than garbage (such as: tin cans, bottles, ashes, paper,
pasteboard, cardboard or wooden boxes, brush, leaves, weeds and cuttings from
trees, lawns, gardens and shrubs) produced in the normal course of doing
business or everyday living.
WASTE: Unwanted solid, liquid or gaseous materials. (1963 Code § 8-402)
8-4-3: SYSTEM ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a system of refuse collection, transportation and
disposal. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
collecting, transporting, hauling or conveying any refuse over the streets or
alleys, or to dump or dispose of the same unless and until such person has a
contract therefor as an authorized representative of the city. This regulation
does not prohibit a person from hauling or transporting extra loads or
accumulations of rubbish from the premises owned or occupied by said person to
one of the official disposal sites of the city that may be hereafter
established. (1963 Code § 8-403)
8-4-4: COMPULSORY USE:
   A.   Use Required: Every owner or occupant of the premises within the
prescribed limits of the city shall use the refuse collection and disposal
system herein provided, and shall deposit or cause to be deposited in
accordance with this chapter, all rubbish and garbage.
   B.   Failure To Use System; Payment Of Charges Required: The failure of any
person to use the collection and disposal system hereby provided shall not
exempt such person from the payment of the charges as set forth in the rules
and regulations on refuse control, save and except for the provisions as set
forth in this chapter. (1963 Code § 8-404)
8-4-5: MEANS OF COLLECTION:
   A.   Collection By City Or Contractor: It shall be optional whether the city
collects garbage and rubbish with its own equipment and employees, or makes a
contract with a person to collect garbage and rubbish. The city council shall,
by resolution, elect the method or methods to be used in the collection of
garbage and rubbish. The mayor and council shall be the sole authority to
contract or perform all services pertaining to sanitary collection and
disposal, and is hereby authorized to enter into contracts with one or more
contractors and establish reasonable rules and regulations governing the
conduct and operation of such contracts.
   B.   Bond Of Contractor: The city council may require of any such contractor
a bond in a reasonable amount, the condition of which shall be the satisfactory
performance of the contract. (1963 Code § 8-412)
8-4-6: REFUSE CONTAINERS:
   A.   Container Provided By Contractor: Refuse containers shall be provided
by the refuse contractor and shall be used by residents and property owners as
may be required by the refuse contractor.
   B.   Care Of Garbage: All garbage shall, before deposit in such container,
be wrapped in paper or other material so as to prevent the escape of liquids
therefrom.
   C.   Placement For Collection: All garbage or refuse containers shall be
placed in a place accessible to the collector; provided, that in the case of
isolated dwellings or places of business or where reasonable access cannot be
had by a truck, the containers may be kept in such places as may be agreed upon
by the owner and collector, or at such place as may be designated by the
inspector. Where there is no alley entrance, such containers shall be placed
adjacent to street curbs on collection days. (1963 Code § 8-406; amd. 2010
Code)
8-4-7: SPECIAL HANDLING OF RUBBISH:
Rubbish consisting only of cardboard or wooden boxes, brush, leaves, weeds and
cuttings from trees, lawns, shrubs and gardens may be kept separately without
disposing in such containers; provided, that bulk materials such as leaves
shall be in a container, box, sack or receptacle for ease of loading and that
brush, etc., shall be cut in lengths not more than four feet (4') long, and
tied in bundles. Compost piles may be maintained for fertilization purposes,
and matter used for fertilization purposes only may be transported, kept and
used. Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to permit the violation
of any ordinance or any rule or regulation of the fire department of the city.
(1963 Code § 8-407)
8-4-8: COLLECTION PERIOD:
Collectors shall collect rubbish and garbage from each customer at least once
each week, or as may otherwise be provided by the rules and regulations of the
city council. (1963 Code § 8-409)
8-4-9: COLLECTION FEES:
   A.   Commercial: Commercial container rates shall be negotiated between the
contractor and the commercial business.
   B.   Residential: Residential refuse collection rates shall be in such
amounts as set by resolution of the city council. (1963 Code § 8-410; amd. 2010
Code)
   C.   Fee For Collection From Cart: For the fees and rates hereby
established, there shall be collected from each residence, a ninety five (95)
gallon cart.
   D.   Financial Hardship; Special Permit And Fees: Provided, however, that
where the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter will work a financial
hardship, or where the garbage and refuse is of such small amounts as not to
warrant the collection of the full fees and charges as provided by this
section, the city council may issue a special permit altering the provisions of
this chapter and the fees and rates herein established. (Ord. 399, 10-9-2007)
8-4-10: BURNING AND DUMPING:
No person shall burn, incinerate, bury, dump, collect, remove or in any other
manner dispose of rubbish or garbage except as hereinafter provided.
   A.   Interior Incinerator: Any person, firm or corporation may use an
incinerator in the interior of a building between the hours of seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., for rubbish, provided such
incinerator meets the requirements of the building code.
   B.   Exterior Incinerator: Burning of rubbish will be allowed in exterior
incinerators between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:
00) P.M. Such incinerators shall be built of noncombustible material of not
lighter than one-eighth inch (1/8") metal, block or brick, covered by a one
inch (1") wire mesh screen. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to
prohibit the use of outdoor fireplaces, barbecue pits or grills, in preparing
food or for recreational purposes. (1963 Code § 8-405)
   C.   Open Burning: Burning of rubbish may be done in vacant lots by the
owner thereof upon obtaining a permit from the EPA through the Nez Perce Tribe
in Lapwai, Idaho, for such burning. (1963 Code § 8-405; amd. 2010 Code)
8-4-11: VACATED PREMISES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, upon vacating or removing from dwellings,
storerooms or any other building situated in the city, to fail to remove all
garbage and rubbish from such buildings and premises and also the grounds
appurtenant thereto, or to fail to place the same in a thoroughly sanitary
condition within twenty four (24) hours after the said premises shall be
vacated. (1963 Code § 8-408)
8-4-12: INSPECTION:
The law enforcement officer or such other person as may be designated as
sanitary inspector, or any other person concerned with the enforcement of laws,
shall have the right of ingress and egress to any premises for the purpose of
inspection of places and containers where rubbish or garbage is accumulated or
kept. (1963 Code § 8-411)
8-4-13: MATERIALS NOT ACCEPTABLE FOR COLLECTION:
Dirt or earth debris for construction or lawn renovation, rocks, stones,
automobile bodies and parts, dead animals, building materials such as masonry,
plaster, scrap lumber and wood shavings are not acceptable for collection, and
such items shall be collected and disposed of by the building contractor, owner
or occupant of the premises. (1963 Code § 8-413)
8-4-14: GARBAGE HAULING VEHICLES:
All collectors shall furnish vehicles designed for the collection and hauling
of garbage and rubbish. The collectors shall keep such vehicles clean,
sanitary, neatly painted and in good running order, and shall wash, clean and
disinfect all such vehicles at least once a week. Each vehicle shall be
equipped with a tight metal body, or, if a wooden body, shall be metal lined so
as to be watertight, and each vehicle shall at all times be provided with a
suitable cover securely fastened in such a manner as to retain dust and prevent
the scattering or dropping of rubbish or garbage upon public or private
property. (1963 Code § 8-414)
8-4-15: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished pursuant to
section 1-4-1 of this code. (1963 Code § 8-415)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
Building Codes And Regulations   1
Numbering Buildings   2
Fences   3
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Codes Adopted
9-1-2: Certificates Of Occupancy
9-1-3: Building Permits
9-1-1: BUILDING CODES ADOPTED 1 :
   A.   It is hereby adopted for use by the City of Craigmont the most current
version of The International Building Code, The International Residential Code,
The Idaho State Plumbing Code, and the National Electrical Code, all as adopted
by the State of Idaho, including all appendices thereto, and the same is hereby
adopted and incorporated as though fully set forth at length herein. The
adopted versions of the foregoing codes shall be deemed superseded by
successive versions of such codes as they are adopted or approved by the Idaho
Building Code Board effective on any date such codes are made effective by the
Idaho Building Code Board.
   B.   The City Clerk shall maintain not less than one (1) duly certified copy
of the most current version of The International Building Code, The
International Residential Code, The Idaho State Plumbing Code, and The National
Electrical Code at the office of the City Clerk for use and examination by the
public during normal business hours, in accordance with Idaho Code Section 50-
901. (2010 Code; amd. Ord. 418, 2-6-2018, eff. 2-6-2018; Res. 1058, - - )
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§ 39-4101, 39-4116.
9-1-2: CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Certificate Required: It is unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use
or occupancy of any building or premises, or both, or part thereof hereafter
created, erected, changed, converted or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in
its use or structure, until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued
therefor by the City building inspector stating: that the proposed use of the
building or land conforms to the requirements of this chapter; that a stamped
certification from a licensed design professional has been submitted to the
City Clerk-Treasurer stating that the stormwater system was constructed in
accordance with the approved design and is functioning properly; and that the
building, proposed use of the building and land conforms to all other
conditional provisions that may have been imposed.
   B.   Temporary Certificate: A temporary certificate of occupancy may be
issued by the building inspector for a period not exceeding six (6) months
during alterations or partial occupancy of a building pending its completion.
   C.   Fees And Charges: The City Council shall establish by resolution a
schedule of fees and charges for occupancy permits.
   D.   Records Kept: The City Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a record of all
certificates of occupancy, and copies shall be furnished upon request to any
person as provided by law.
   E.   Limitations And Restrictions:
      1.   Failure to obtain a certificate of occupancy shall be a violation of
this section.
      2.   Certificates issued on the basis of plans and applications approved
by the building inspector authorize only the use and arrangement set forth in
such approved plans and applications or amendments thereto, and no other use,
arrangement or construction. Use, arrangement or construction contrary to that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this section.
   F.   Violation And Penalty: In addition to taking whatever criminal action
allowed by law, the City Attorney may take steps to civilly enjoin any
violation of this section. Penalties for failure to comply with or violations
of the provisions of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable by
fine or imprisonment as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. The landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder, public official
or any other person who commits, participates in, assists in or maintains such
violation may be found guilty of a separate offense. Nothing contained in this
section shall prevent the City Council or any other public official or private
citizen from taking such lawful action as is necessary to restrain or prevent
any violation of this section or of the Idaho Code. (2010 Code)
9-1-3: BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to construct, alter, or demolish,
or use any building or structure, including fences, within the City, nor shall
any excavation commence or be completed, nor shall any foundation, footing or
other base or arrangement be made preliminary to any contemplated construction
without first having obtained a permit to do so from the City.
   B.   Time Limit For Commencement Of Work: All permits for construction,
demolition, or alteration, including fences, must have work commenced within
sixty (60) days of the date of issuance of the permit, or the permit becomes
null and void. All permits expire after a period of one year unless a request
is made in writing to the City Council and the City Council, upon payment of
applicable fees, may grant six (6) month extensions.
   C.   Fees And Penalties Set By Resolution: If fees for building permits are
established independently from the fees provided in the adopted Building Code,
such fees for building permits shall be established by resolution of the City
Council. The City Council may also establish by resolution penalty fees for
constructing (or starting construction of) a building without an approved
building permit.
   D.   Time Limit For City Review And Decision: The City Council shall fix by
resolution the minimum number of days required by the City to review and issue
or deny a building permit.
   E.   Scale Map: A request for a building permit shall be accompanied by a
scale map or drawing showing actual dimensions of the lot or parcel, the
location and size of any building and such other information as may be
requested by the City.
   F.   Proof Of Compliance: A request for a building permit shall be
accompanied by proof in writing that all required fees imposed by other public
agencies have been paid and other conditions imposed by other public agencies
with jurisdiction have been met. (2010 Code)
CHAPTER 2
NUMBERING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Numbering Required; Procedure
9-2-2: Method Of Assigning Numbers
9-2-3: Plat And Schedule Of Numbers
9-2-1: NUMBERING REQUIRED; PROCEDURE:
All buildings fronting on all streets in the territorial limits of the city
shall be numbered with plain, distinct figures not less than three inches (3")
in length, placed at some conspicuous portion on the front of such buildings;
such numbering to be as follows:
   A.   Former Towns Of Ilo And Vollmer: In that portion of the city comprising
the former town of Ilo and additions, and that portion of the former town of
Vollmer lying southeast of the Camas Prairie Railroad, and that portion of the
town of Vollmer fronting on the main street of the former town of Ilo as
extended to the intersection of the same with Prairie Avenue, and Main Street
of the former town of Vollmer, numbering shall be a follows:
      1.   The intersection of Main Street and Division Street in the former
town of Ilo shall be the place of beginning. On all streets running north and
south from Main Street, the first number on each street shall be 100 and up
through the first block, 200 and up through the second block, and so on
consecutively therefrom, north and south to the city limits as the same are now
or may hereinafter be constituted and laid out; even numbers to be on the west
side of the street, and odd numbers on the east side thereof. On all streets
running east and west from Division Street, the first number shall be 010 and
up through the first block, 100 and up through the second block, and so on,
numbered consecutively to the city limits as the same are now or may
hereinafter be constituted and laid out; even numbers to be on the north side
of the street, and odd numbers to be on the south side thereof.
      2.   All streets running north from Main Street shall have the word
"North" prefixed to their names, and all streets running south from Main Street
shall have the word "South" prefixed to their names. All streets running east
from Division Street shall have the word "East" prefixed to their names, and
all streets running west from Division Street shall have the word "West"
prefixed to their names.
   B.   Portion Of Former Town Of Vollmer: In that portion of the city
comprising that part of the former town of Vollmer lying south of the south
line of Boulevard Avenue and west of the west line of Ransdell Road, and north
to the south line of Front Street, numbering shall be as follows:
      1.   The main street of the former town of Vollmer shall be known as East
Main Street.
      2.   Commencing in block 36 of the former town of Vollmer fronting on
Prairie Avenue and fronting on Front Street, and block 23 of the former town of
Vollmer fronting on Villard Avenue and running southeast therefrom, the first
number on each street shall be 200 and up through the first block, 300 and up
through the second block, and so on consecutively therefrom southeasterly to
the intersection of said streets and avenues with Ransdell Road. Commencing in
block 21 of Vollmer fronting on Florence Avenue, the first number on the street
shall be 400 and up through the first block, 500 and up through the second
block, and so on consecutively therefrom southeast to the intersection of
Florence Avenue with Ransdell Road. Commencing in block 15 of the former town
of Vollmer fronting on Eaves Avenue, the first number on the street shall be
500 and up through the first block, 600 and up through the second block, and so
on consecutively therefrom southeasterly to the intersection of Eaves Avenue
with Ransdell Road; even numbers shall to on the northeast side of the street,
and odd numbers to be on the southwest side thereof.
      3.   On all streets running northeast from Front Street, the first number
on each street shall be 400 and up through the first block, 500 and up through
the second block, and so on consecutively northeast to their intersection with
Ransdell Road or Boulevard Avenue; even numbers to be on the northwest side of
the street, and odd numbers to be on the southeast side thereof.
   C.   Vollmer's First Addition:
      1.   In that portion of the city of Vollmer known as Vollmer's first
addition, the streets running east and west and connecting as continuations of
Eaves Avenue, Florence Avenue, Villard Avenue and Norma Avenue shall be
numbered as continued blocks of the avenues with which they connect.
      2.   Commencing at the intersection of Boulevard Avenue and Ransdell
Road, Ransdell Road running north and south from Boulevard Avenue, the first
number on Ransdell Road shall be 100 and up through the first block, 200 and up
through the second block, and so on consecutively from north and south to the
city limits as the same are now or may hereinafter be constituted and laid out;
even numbers to be on the west side of the street, and odd numbers to be on the
east side thereof. That portion of Ransdell Road lying north of Boulevard
Avenue shall have the word "North" prefixed of its name, and that portion of
Ransdell Road running south from Boulevard Avenue shall have the word "South"
prefixed to its name.
   D.   Farris Addition And Laufer Subdivision: In that portion of the town of
Vollmer lying north of Boulevard Avenue and including Boulevard Avenue, the
Farris addition and the Laufer subdivision to the city of Craigmont, each
street running east from Division shall be numbered 100 and up through the
first block, 200 and up through the second block, and so numbered consecutively
east to the city limits as the same are now or may hereinafter be constituted
and laid out; even numbers to be on the north side of the street, and odd
numbers to be on the south side thereof. Each street running north from
Boulevard Avenue shall be numbered 100 and up through the first block, 200 and
up through the second block, and so on consecutively north to the city limits
as the same are now or may hereinafter be constituted and laid out; even
numbers to be on the west side of the street, and odd numbers to be on the east
side thereof. (1963 Code § 9-701)
9-2-2: METHOD OF ASSIGNING NUMBERS:
From the intersection of Second Avenue and Main Street of the former town of
Ilo, east to and including that portion of the town of Vollmer fronting on the
main street of the former town of Ilo as extended to the intersection of the
same with Prairie Avenue and the main street of the former town of Vollmer, a
number shall be assigned to every twelve and one-half feet (121/2'), but less
than fifty feet (50'), the lowest designated number shall be assigned to the
building. In the instance of a building or a residence and yard covering
seventy five feet (75') and thus having three (3) numbers designated, the
middle number shall be assigned to the building or residence. (1963 Code § 9-
702)
9-2-3: PLAT AND SCHEDULE OF NUMBERS:
It shall be the duty of the person designated by the city council for such
purpose to assign a number to each and every tract, piece and parcel of land
within the limits of the city and to make a plat of all the streets of the city
on which the numbers so assigned shall be shown; and when said plat and
schedule of numbers have been made, and the same shall be filed with the clerk-
treasurer for a permanent record; then it shall be the duty of the clerk-
treasurer to furnish the owner or occupant of any premises bearing a number in
accordance herewith a certificate designating such number. (1963 Code § 9-703)
CHAPTER 1
FENCES
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: Fence Standards; Penalties
9-3-3: Conflicts Between This Chapter And Land Use Planning Ordinances
9-3-1:   DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall have the following meanings as used in this chapter:
 
CORNER LOT:                         A lot adjacent to an intersection of two
                                    (2) or more public streets.
                                    A barrier, railing, wall, lattice or other
                                    upright exterior structure more than
                                    eighteen inches (18") in height constructed
                                    for the purpose or with the effect of
                                    enclosing, screening, or restricting access
                                    or egress to any lot or any portion
                                    thereof. Except where otherwise provided in
                                    this chapter, regulations governing the
                                    height, location and opacity of fences
                                    shall apply to hedges, plantings,
                                    vegetation or landscaping placed,
                                    maintained or used in lieu of a fence or in
                                    combination with a fence. The term fence
                                    shall also include, but is not limited to,
FENCE, OPEN FENCING, SOLID FENCING: any and all component parts and portions of
                                    a fence, including but not limited to the
                                    base, footings, supporting columns, posts,
                                    braces, gates, structural members,
                                    fixtures, extensions or any other of its
                                    appurtenances. "Open fencing" means fencing
                                    that is constructed in such a way that no
                                    more than twenty percent (20%) of the
                                    surface area of the fence obstructs a view
                                    through the fence from a position
                                    perpendicular to the fence. "Solid fencing"
                                    means fencing that is constructed in such a
                                    way that more than twenty percent (20%) of
                                    the surface area of the fence obstructs a
                                    view through the fence from a position
                                    perpendicular to the fence.
 
 
              An open, unoccupied space on a lot facing or abutting a public
FRONT YARD:   street and extending from the front of the lot to the front of
              the principal building, between the side lot lines.
INTERIOR LOT: A lot other than a corner lot.
              Any platted lot, tract or other parcel of land held under private
LOT:          ownership situated in whole or in part within the city of
              Craigmont. The term lot shall exclude all lands owned by the city
              or by any governmental entity.
MAINTAIN:     To cause or enable a condition or thing to continue or to remain
              unchanged from its current condition or status.
              A space unoccupied by the principal structure on a lot extending
REAR YARD:    for the full width of the lot between a principal structure and
              the rear lot line.
              An open unoccupied space on the same lot with the building,
SIDE YARD:    situated between the building and a side line of the lot, and
              extending from the front yard to the rear yard. (Ord. 446, 5-7-
              2024)
 
9-3-2:   FENCE STANDARDS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Compliance With Chapter: No fence may be placed, erected, constructed,
or maintained in whole or in part on any lot in any zoning district except in
compliance with this chapter..
   B.   Fences Encroaching On Public Property Prohibited: No fence, or any
portion thereof, may be placed, erected, constructed, or maintained such that
any portion of thereof encroaches upon any public property, street, sidewalk,
alley or right-of-way unless authorized by the city or applicable governmental
agency with jurisdiction.
   C.   General Standards: The owner of a lot whereupon any fence is located:
1) shall cause such fence to be placed, erected, constructed and maintained in
a structurally sound and safe condition so as to not endanger life or property;
and b) shall not allow such fence to become a nuisance.
   D.   Limitations On Fencing Within Traffic Vision Triangle: Fencing over
three feet (3') in height shall not be placed, erected, constructed or
maintained in any vision triangle, said height being measured from the existing
center line street elevation within the vision triangle. The term "vision
triangle" is defined as the triangular area at the intersection of two (2)
streets adjacent to any lot, including a corner lot, in which the placement,
erection, construction or maintenance of fencing or other improvements therein
may cause a traffic hazard by limiting or obstructing the sight distance of
motorists entering or leaving the intersection, said triangular area being
measured from the intersection of the edges of said two (2) adjacent streets
forty feet (40') along each street and connecting the two (2) points with a
straight line. The edge of the street shall be defined as the curb or the outer
edge of the maintained roadway if no curb is installed. Driveways are not
considered roadways for this definition.
   E.   Compliance With Other Laws; Building Permits: In addition to the
provisions of this chapter, all fences are subject to and shall be placed,
erected, constructed and maintained in compliance with all other applicable
laws, regulations, codes and ordinances, including but not limited to all
applicable city building codes and permitting requirements.
   F.   Removal Of Fencing Encroaching On Public Property Or Visual Triangle:
In addition to all other remedies of the city provided in this chapter or as
otherwise provided by law, which shall be cumulative, the city may remove any
fencing placed, erected, constructed or maintained in violation of sections (B)
or (D) of this section at the lot owner's expense and without any compensation
to the lot owner if the lot owner fails to remove said non-compliant fence
within seven (7) days after the city's service of a written notice on the lot
owner ordering removal of the non-compliant fence. Service of any such written
notice on the lot owner may be accomplished by personal service, in which case
service is effective on the date of personal service, or by certified mail
addressed to the lot owner at the lot owner's mailing address as shown on the
records of Lewis County Assessor for mailing of real property tax notices for
said lot, in which case service is effective as of the date of the city's
deposit of the written notice in the US Mail. Provided, however, that nothing
herein is intended to, nor shall it, affect the city's right to remove any such
non-compliant fence in the event of an emergency or imminent danger or threat
to persons or property.
   G.   Prohibited Fencing Materials:
      1.   Electric, concertina, barbed or razor wire fences in all zoning
districts shall be prohibited excepting:
         a.   Livestock containment areas for horses or other permitted farm
animals permitted in the applicable zoning district may utilize electric or
barbed wire fences.
         b.   Commercial and industrial zoning districts may utilize electric,
concertina, barbed or razor wire fencing, but only as the top section of the
fence. The beginning of said top section must be at least six feet (6') above
grade. This exclusion shall not apply along the front property line and the
side property lines within twenty feet (20') of the front property line for all
properties fronting a minor or major arterial roadway.
         c.   Public detention, correctional or penal facilities are exempted
from the prohibitions of this section (E)(1) regardless of the zoning district
in which they are situated.
      2.   The following materials shall not be utilized as component parts for
any fence:
         a.   Boxes or cardboard.
         b.   Sheet or corrugated metal.
         c.   Broken or decayed wood.
         d.   Broken masonry blocks.
         e.   Plywood.
         f.   Cinder or concrete blocks.
         g.   Hubcaps.
         h.   Hazardous materials.
         i.   Loose or unaffixed materials that cause or allow any portion of
the fence to move or shift due to natural forces or physical contact.
         j.   Other materials not designed or intended for use in fencing.
   H.   Additional Fence Standards/Setbacks: Fences shall be placed, erected,
constructed and maintained in compliance with the following additional
standards as applicable:
      1.   Residential District Zones: The following standards shall apply to
fences in all residential zoning districts (Zoning Districts R-1 and R-2):
         a.   Interior Lots:
            (1)   Front Yard Property Line And Setback Area:
               Open Fencing Height: Maximum four feet (4'), unless otherwise
limited to a maximum of three feet (3') in vision triangle areas.
               Solid Fencing Height: Maximum three feet (3').
               Setback: Five feet (5') from an existing curb with no sidewalk
or flush along the edge of an existing sidewalk.
            (2)   Interior Side And Rear Property Line And Setback Area:
               Open Fencing Height: Maximum six feet (6') along the rear
property line and the side property line. Except that, as the fence runs along
the side property line, once it reaches twenty feet (20') from the front
property line, the maximum height is four feet (4'), unless otherwise limited
to a maximum of three feet (3') in vision triangle areas.
               Solid Fencing Height: Maximum six feet (6') along the rear
property line and the side property line. Except that, as the fence runs along
the side property line, once it reaches twenty feet (20') from the front
property line, the maximum height is three feet (3').
               Setback: No setback from either the side or the rear property
line.
         b.   Corner Lots:
            (1)   Front Yard Property Line And Setback Area:   
               Open Fencing Height: Maximum four feet (4'), unless otherwise
limited to a maximum of three feet (3') in vision triangle areas.
               Solid Fencing Height: Maximum three feet (3').
               Setback: Five feet (5') from an existing curb with no sidewalk
or flush along the edge of an existing sidewalk.
            (2)   Interior Side And Rear Property Line And Setback Area:
               Open Fencing Height: Maximum six feet (6') along the rear
property line and the interior side property line. Except that, as the fence
runs along the side property line, once it reaches twenty feet (20') from the
front property line, the maximum height is four feet (4'), unless otherwise
limited to a maximum of three feet (3') in vision triangle areas.
               Solid Fencing Height: Maximum six feet (6') along the rear
property line and the interior side property line. Except that, as the fence
runs along the interior side property line, once it reaches twenty feet (20')
from the front property line, the maximum height is three feet (3').
               Setback: No setback from either the side or the rear property
line.
            (3)   Side Yard Line And Setback Area Adjoining A Street:
               Open And Solid Fencing Height: Maximum four feet (4') along the
side property line, unless otherwise limited to a maximum of three feet (3') in
vision triangle areas.
               Setback: Five feet (5') from an existing curb with no sidewalk
or flush along the edge of an existing sidewalk.
         c.   Maximum Height: For purposes of this section (H), the term
maximum height shall mean the maximum height of the fence above the grade as
measured at the point/line upon which the fence shall sit, and includes
lattices and berms. Additional height shall be allowed for arbors, arches and/
or other architectural appurtenances extending over gates and/or other
entryways, as well as gateposts, said appurtenances and gateposts not exceeding
six feet (6') maximum height.
      2.   Commercial And Industrial Zones: The following standards shall apply
to fences in all commercial, commercial-industrial and industrial zoning
districts (Zoning Districts C, l-C, and I):
         a.   Interior And Corner Lots - All Yard Property Lines And Setback
Areas - Open Or Solid Fencing Height: Maximum eight feet (8'), unless otherwise
limited to a maximum of three feet (3') in vision triangle areas. No setbacks
are required.
   I.   Nonconforming Fences ; Removal of Noncompliant Fences ; Variances:
      1.   Nonconforming Fences. Except as provided in this subsection (I)(1),
fences that are nonconforming for any reason, but which were in place prior to
the adoption date of this chapter, may continue to be maintained in their
present location if maintained in good condition and repair and provided they
do not impede the safety of motorists or otherwise present a hazard. Safety
and/or hazardous issues shall be remedied immediately. Provided, however, that
any such nonconforming fence shall be brought into compliance with this chapter
in the event more than a total of twenty five horizontal lineal feet (25') of
the fence is replaced or reconstructed at any time after the adoption date of
this chapter.
      2.   Removal Of Noncompliant Fences: Fences placed, erected or
constructed after the adoption date of this chapter, or nonconforming fences
required to be in compliance with this chapter under subsection (l)(1) of this
section after the adoption date of this chapter, that do not comply with this
chapter shall immediately be removed by the lot owner at the lot owner's
expense. Prior to any removal, the affected lot owner shall be afforded an
opportunity for a hearing before the city council; said hearing must be
requested within ten (10) days of service of an order to remove a fence by the
city on the lot owner, which shall be served as provided in subsection (F) of
this section. Failure to request such a hearing will result in the lot owner
being required to immediately remove the noncompliant fence.
      3.   Variances: A lot owner who desires to place, erect or construct a
new fence, or who desires to replace or reconstruct any portion of any
nonconforming fence required to be compliance with this chapter under
subsection (l)(1) of this section, may request a variance from the city by
filing a written application for a variance with the city under the provisions
of Chapter 11, Title 10, Craigmont City Code, as amended, which shall apply to
any such request for variance, including but not limited to any appeal from any
decision of the city with respect the requested variance.
   J.   Violations; Penalties; Civil Remedies:
      1.   Violations; Penalties: Any person or corporation, whether owner,
lessee, principal agent, employee or otherwise, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter or fails to comply with any lawful order of the city
issued under this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a
fine or jail, or both, as provided for misdemeanors under Idaho Code § 18-113,
as amended.
      2.   Civil Remedies; Public Nuisance: Any violation of this chapter by
any person or lot owner, or any fence maintained in violation of this chapter,
is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. The city reserves the right and may
pursue all civil remedies to abate said nuisance as provided under the laws of
the state of Idaho, including but not limited to institution of abatement
proceeding and the levy of special assessments against any lot whereon the
nuisance is situated to defray the cost or to reimburse the city for the cost
of abating said nuisance as provided under Chapters 3 and 10, Title 50, Idaho
Code, as amended. (Ord. 446, 5-7-2024)
9-3-3:   CONFLICTS BETWEEN THIS CHAPTER AND LAND USE PLANNING ORDINANCES:
In the event any portion of this chapter conflicts with any provision or
standards of any zoning ordinance, subdivision ordinance, building code or
other land use planning ordinance adopted by the city as related to
construction and maintenance of fences, the most restrictive provision or
standard shall control and govern with respect to the conflicting issue. (Ord.
446, 5-7-2024)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
Title, Purpose And Definitions   1
Administration And Enforcement   2
Zoning Districts And Map   3
Residential Districts   4
R-1 Single- And Two-Family Residential District   4A
R-2 Multiple-Family Residential District   4B
Commercial And Industrial Districts   5
C Commercial District   5A
I-C Industrial-Commercial District   5B
I Industrial District   5C
T-A Transitional-Agricultural District   6
Performance Standards   7
Special Uses   8
Planned Unit Developments   9
Nonconforming Uses   10
Appeals, Variances And Hearings   11
Amendments   12
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Authority
10-1-3: General Purposes
10-1-4: Interpretation; Minimum Standards
10-1-5: Severability
10-1-6: Definitions
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF CITY OF CRAIGMONT, IDAHO.
It shall consist of the text contained in this title and a "zoning map" which
readily identifies the location of districts and subdistricts. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-
1981)
10-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This zoning title is adopted pursuant to authority granted by Idaho Code title
67, chapter 65, and article XII, section 2 of the Idaho constitution, as
amended and codified. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-1-3: GENERAL PURPOSES:
It is the intent of the city council to provide uniform, equitable and
reasonable standards to govern the usage of land and structures. In order to
promote the health, safety, and general welfare, the city seeks:
   A.   To ensure that adequate public facilities and services are provided to
persons at a reasonable cost.
   B.   To protect against fire, nuisances, and other hazards.
   C.   To conserve and stabilize property values.
   D.   To avoid air and water pollution.
   E.   To ensure that the development of land is commensurate with the
physical characteristics of the land.
   F.   To stabilize expectations regarding future development. (Ord. 297A, 5-
5-1981)
10-1-4: INTERPRETATION; MINIMUM STANDARDS:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title are held
to be minimum requirements. Whenever the requirements of this title conflict
with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations,
ordinances or resolutions, that imposing the higher standards shall govern.
(Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-1-5: SEVERABILITY:
Should any section of this title be declared by the courts to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
title as a whole or any other part. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-1-6: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Words not defined herein shall be given the meanings ordinarily applied
to such words.
   B.   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural and the plural number includes the singular.
   C.   The word "shall" is a mandatory requirement; the word "may" is a
permissive requirement; and the word "should" is a preferred requirement.
For the purpose of this title, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ACCESSORY USE OR BUILDING: A subordinate use or building customarily incident
to and located upon the same lot occupied by the main building or utilized for
the main purpose.
ACREAGE: Any tract or parcel of land which has not been subdivided or platted.
AGRICULTURE: The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture,
livestock, farming, dairying or animal husbandry, including all uses
customarily accessory and incidental thereto, but not including
slaughterhouses, fertilizer works, boneyards or plants for the reduction of
animal matter.
ALLEY: A street or way shown on the official plat of the city or its additions
and designated therein as an alley.
ALTER; ALTERATION: Any change, addition or modification in construction or
occupancy.
APARTMENT HOUSE: A building or portion thereof used or intended to be used as
the home of three (3) or more families or households living independently of
each other.
AUTO WRECKING OR JUNKYARD: Any place where two (2) or more motor vehicles not
in running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not
being restored to operation; any land, building or structure used for wrecking
or storing of such motor vehicles or parts thereof and including any farm
vehicles or farm machinery or parts thereof, stored in the open and not being
restored to operating condition; and including the commercial salvaging and
scavenging of any other goods, articles or merchandise.
AUTOMOBILE: A passenger vehicle.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: Any premises used for supplying gasoline and oil at
retail direct to the customer, including accessories and services for
automobiles.
BASEMENT: A story partly or wholly underground. Where more than one-half (1/2)
of its height is above the average level of the adjoining ground, a basement
shall be counted as a story for the purpose of height measurement.
BILLBOARD: Any structure or portion thereof upon which are placed signs or
advertisements used as an outdoor display. This definition does not include any
bulletin boards used to display official court or public office notices, or a
sign advertising the sale or lease of the premises on which the sign is
located.
BLOCK: That property so designated on an official map of the city or part of
the city or bounded by a street or streets, and railroad right of way, or
unsubdivided acreage.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building or portion thereof, other than a hotel or barracks,
where meals and lodging for three (3) or more persons are provided for
compensation.
BREEZEWAY: A covered passageway between buildings which does not exceed ten
feet (10') in width and which has at least one side open, except for necessary
supporting columns.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, and
designed or intended for the shelter, support, enclosure or protection of
persons, animals or chattels.
BUILDING AREA: The buildable area of a lot is the space remaining after
adherence to the minimum open space requirements.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance at the center of a building's principal
front measured from the established grade to the highest point of the roof,
beams, or in case of a flat roof, to the deckline or mansard, or to the center
height between eaves and ridges for gable, hip or gambrel rooflines. The height
may be measured from the average elevation of the finished sidewalk grade along
the front of the building.
BUILDING INSPECTOR: State certified building code inspector.
BUILDING LINE: For the purpose of this title, the building line is the same as
a front yard setback line.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which is conducted the main use of the lot
in which it is situated.
CARPORT: A structure attached or made a part of the main structure which is
open to the weather on at least two (2) sides, intended for the use of
sheltering not more than two (2) motor driven vehicles.
CLUB OR LODGE: An association of persons for the promotion of some common
object, members to which are admitted only on invitation and the chief activity
of which is not conducted for profit.
COMMISSION: Whenever the word "commission" is used herein, it shall be deemed
to refer to the planning and zoning commission of the city.
CONDITIONAL USE: See definition of Special Use.
CONVALESCENT HOME: A building and premises in and on which two (2) or more
sick, injured or infirm persons are housed or intended to be housed for
compensation.
COURT: An open, unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building, and bounded on two (2) or more sides by a building, or buildings,
including the open space in a dwelling group providing access to the units
thereof.
CURB GRADE: The established elevation of the curb measured at the center of the
front of a building. Where no curb grade has been established, the city shall
establish such curb level or its equivalent for the purpose of this title.
DISTRICT: A section or sections of the incorporated area of the city for which
the regulations and provisions governing the use of buildings and land are
uniform for each class of use permitted therein.
DUPLEX: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two (2) families.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, but not an automobile house trailer
designed exclusively for residential occupancy, including one-family, two-
family and multiple-family dwellings, but not including hotels, boarding and
lodging houses.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE: A building or portion thereof designed for occupancy by
three (3) or more families living independently of each other.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof designed for occupancy by
two (2) families living independently of each other.
DWELLING UNIT: Two (2) or more rooms in a dwelling or apartment hotel designed
for occupancy by one family for living purposes and having only one kitchen.
EASEMENT: Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for a
specified purpose, of any designated part of his/her property.
ESTABLISHED GRADE: The sidewalk line grade at the front lot line as established
by the engineer or otherwise as given and established under the direction of
the city council.
EXISTING BUILDING: A building or structure or portion thereof lawfully existing
at the effective date hereof.
EXISTING USE: A use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the effective
date hereof.
FAMILY: Any number of individuals living together as a single housekeeping
unit.
FRONT PROPERTY LINE: The front lot line as shown upon the official plat of the
property in question.
FRONT YARD: Any open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building between
the front line of the building (exclusive of steps) and the front property
line.
FRONTAGE: All the property fronting on one side of a street between
intersecting or intercepting streets, or between a street and a right of way,
waterway, end of a dead end street, or city boundary, measured along the street
line. An intercepting street shall determine only the boundary of the frontage
on the side of the street which it intercepts.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building for the storage of not more than three
(3) motor driven vehicles, of which not more than one shall be a commercial
vehicle of not more than two (2) ton capacity.
GRADE: The average of the finished ground level at the center of all walls of a
building. In case walls are parallel to, and within five feet (5') of, the
sidewalk, the ground level shall be measured at the sidewalk.
HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation carried on by the resident of a dwelling as a
secondary use within the same dwelling, and in connection with which there is
no display, no advertising and no selling of a commodity upon the premises.
HOTEL: A building designed for occupancy as the more or less temporary abiding
place of individuals who are lodged with or without meals, in which there are
six (6) or more guestrooms; and in which no provisions are made for cooking in
any individual room or suite.
INSTITUTION: An organization or society for some public or social purpose.
JUNKYARD: Any land, property, building, structure or combination thereof used
for the storage of junk, including scrap materials and metals, or wrecked
vehicles and machinery, whether or not the sale of such junk is made or
proposed.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which four (4) or more dogs more than four (4)
months of age are kept.
LABORATORY: A place devoted to experimental study such as testing and
analyzing. Manufacturing of a product or products is not to be permitted within
this definition.
LOADING AREA: An open area, other than a street or alley, used for the loading
or unloading of vehicles.
LODGING HOUSE: A building with not more than five (5) guestrooms where lodging
is provided for compensation pursuant to previous arrangement, but not open to
the public or transients.
LOT: Land occupied or to be occupied by a principal building and accessory
buildings including such open space as is required under this title and having
a frontage upon a street or alley, where not appearing on any dedicated plat by
number. But, where appearing on a dedicated official plat by a number, a lot
near the area and surface as shown on said plat and given a prescribed number
excepting whereby any lot is subdivided and occupied by separate buildings or
units, then the term "lot" shall include each subdivision of the dedicated lot.
LOT AREA: The total area of a lot computed exclusive of any portion of the
right of way of any public or private street.
LOT, CORNER: A lot on a corner fronting on two (2) intersecting streets.
LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured along the median between the two (2) side lot lines.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINES: The established division lines between parcels of land, public or
private.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot having frontage on two (2) parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at right
angles to the lot depth at a point midway between the front and rear lot lines.
MANUFACTURE: Preparation, making, treatment, or processing of articles as
merchandise.
MOBILE HOME: A detached single-family dwelling unit with the following
characteristics:
   A.   Designed for long term occupancy and containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, tub or shower, and kitchen facilities with
plumbing and electrical connections; and
   B.   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels, or on a
flatbed; and
   C.   Arriving on the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling complete,
including major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy except for
minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on foundation
supports, and connection to utilities.
MOTEL: A tourist court.
MOTOR HOME: A vehicle designed to be driven and used for human habitation.
NONCONFORMING USE: A building or land occupied by a use which does not conform
with the regulations of the use district in which it is situated.
NURSERY SCHOOL: A school used exclusively for the daytime care of preschool age
children.
NURSING HOME OR REST HOME: A private hospital for the care of children, the
aged or infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders, but
not including facilities for the treatment of sickness or injuries or for
surgical care.
PARKING AREA, PRIVATE: An open area, other than a street or alley, used for the
parking of the automobiles or unoccupied camping trailer of an occupant of a
dwelling.
PARKING AREA, PUBLIC: An open area, other than street, used for the temporary
parking of more than four (4) automobiles and available for public use, whether
free, for compensation or as an accommodation for client or customers.
PARKING LOT: An open lot or parcel of land used for the storage of motor
vehicles capable of being moved under their own power and exclusive of lots or
parcels of land used for the purpose of dead storage, auto wrecking or
exhibition for sale.
PARKING, OFF STREET: An area adequate for parking an automobile with room for
opening doors on both sides, together with property related access to a public
street or alley and maneuvering room; but shall be located totally outside any
street or alley right of way.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: An area of land in which a variety of residential,
commercial, industrial, and/or other land uses are provided for under single
ownership and control, and are accommodated in a preplanned environment with
more flexible standards, such as lot sizes and setbacks, than those
restrictions that would normally apply under this title.
PORCH: A roofed entrance to a building, projecting out from the wall or walls
at the main structure and commonly open in part to the weather.
PREMISES: Land and/or buildings or other improvements thereon.
PUBLIC BUILDING: A building owned or used by the federal, state, county or city
government or any political subdivision thereof.
PUBLIC GARAGE: Any premises used for the storage or use of more than three (3)
motor vehicles, or where such vehicles are repaired or kept for hire, use or
sale.
REAR YARD: An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building between the
rear line of the building and the rear line of the lot.
SCHOOL, ELEMENTARY OR HIGH: An institution which offers instructions in the
several branches of learning and study required to be taught in the public
schools by the educational code of the state of Idaho. High schools include
junior and senior.
SETBACK LINE: A line within a lot paralleling the street line, between which
lines the construction of buildings is prohibited.
SIDE YARD: An open unoccupied space on the same lot as the building between the
side wall line of the buildings and the side lines of the same lot.
SIGN, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING: A sign of any type or material, installed and placed
for outdoor advertising purposes.
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by not
more than one family.
SPECIAL USE: An activity specified by this title as a principal or an accessory
use, permitted when authorized by the city council and subject to certain
conditions.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building for the keeping of horses owned
by the occupants of the premises and not kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it, then
the space between such floor and ceiling next above it.
STORY, HALF: A story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall plates of
which, on at least two (2) opposite exterior walls, are not more than four feet
(4') above the floor of such story.
STREET LINE: The property line or boundary between a street and abutting
property.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, except fences, the use of which
requires permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a
permanent location on the ground.
TERRACE, OPEN: A level and rather narrow plane or platform which, for purposes
of this title, is located adjacent to one or more faces of the main structure
and which is constructed not more than four feet (4') in height above the
average level of the adjoining ground.
THIS TITLE: Wherever the term "this title" is used herein, it shall be deemed
to include not only the provisions of this title, but all amendments to this
title as the same may hereafter from time to time be adopted.
TOURIST COURT: A group of attached or detached buildings, including auto
courts, motels or motor lodges, containing individual sleeping or living units,
designed for or used by tourists or transients, with garage attached or parking
space conveniently located to each unit.
TRAILER: A vehicle without motive power used for human habitation, including a
trailer coach or house trailer designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle.
TRAILER CAMP, AUTOMOBILE: Any premises occupied or designed to accommodate more
than one automobile house trailer.
TRAILER COACH AND MOBILE HOME PARK: Any plot of ground which is prepared for
occupancy by more than one trailer coach or mobile home, to be occupied for
dwelling purposes and located thereon regardless of whether or not a charge is
made for such accommodations.
TRAILER COACH AND MOBILE HOME SPACE: A plot of ground within a trailer coach
park.
VARIANCE: A modification of the regulations of this title where application of
the provisions of this title would cause undue and unnecessary hardship in view
of certain facts and conditions applying to a specific parcel of property. A
variance is not to be considered a right and is not to conflict with the public
interest. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-2-1: Permits Required
10-2-2: Contents Of Application
10-2-3: Approval Of Zoning Permit
10-2-4: Expiration Of Permit
10-2-5: Certificates Of Occupancy
10-2-6: Record Of Permits And Certificates
10-2-7: Failure To Obtain Permit Or Certificate
10-2-8: Schedule Of Fees, Charges And Expenses
10-2-9: Construction And Use, Compliance With Provisions
10-2-10: Complaints Regarding Violations
10-2-11: Penalties
10-2-1: PERMITS REQUIRED:
No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to or
structurally altered, nor shall any building, structure or land be established
or changed in use without a permit therefor issued by the city clerk-treasurer.
Permits shall be issued only in conformity with the provisions of this title.
(Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-2-2: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
Every application for a permit shall be filed in duplicate on a form provided
by the city clerk-treasurer. The application shall be signed by the owner or
applicant attesting to the truth and exactness of all information supplied on
the application. Each application shall clearly state that the permit shall
expire and may be revoked if work has not begun or is not substantially
completed within one year. At a minimum, the application shall contain the
following information: (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981; amd. 2010 Code)
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
   B.   Legal description of property;
   C.   Existing use;
   D.   Proposed use;
   E.   Zoning district;
   F.   Plan, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and the shape of
the lot to be built upon; the exact size and location of existing buildings on
the lot, if any; and the location and dimensions of the proposed building(s) or
alteration;
   G.   Building heights;
   H.   Number of off street parking spaces or loading berths;
   I.   Number of dwelling units;
   J.   Proposed sewer and water facilities; and
   K.   Such other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance with,
and provide for, the enforcement of this title. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-2-3: APPROVAL OF ZONING PERMIT:
The city council shall act upon the application at its next regularly scheduled
meeting to deny or approve with or without conditions. Any conditions imposed
shall be transmitted to the applicant, in writing, within five (5) working days
of approval. All permits shall, however, be conditional upon the commencement
of work within one year. One copy of the plans shall be returned to the
applicant by the city clerk-treasurer after the building inspector shall have
marked such a copy either as approved or disapproved and attested to same by
his signature on such copy. One copy of plans, similarly marked, shall be
retained by the city clerk-treasurer. The city clerk-treasurer shall issue a
placard, to be posted in a conspicuous place on the property in question,
attesting to the fact that the use or alteration is in conformance with the
provisions of this title. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981; amd. 2010 Code)
10-2-4: EXPIRATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Three Months: If the work for which a permit has been issued is not
commenced within three (3) months after the date of issuance, or such longer
period as the building inspector may authorize in writing, because of the
occurrence of conditions unforeseen at the time of the issuance, such permit
shall expire. A new permit shall be obtained before such work is commenced.
   B.   One Year: If the work for which a permit was issued is not completed
within one year from the date of issuance of the permit, or such longer period
as the building inspector shall authorize in writing, said permit shall expire.
No further work shall be undertaken until a new building permit has been
obtained. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-2-5: CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
See section
9-1-2 of this code for requirements regarding certificates of occupancy. (Ord.
297A, 5-5-1981; amd. 2010 Code)
10-2-6: RECORD OF PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES:
The city clerk-treasurer shall maintain a record of all permits and
certificates of occupancy, and copies shall be furnished upon request to any
person. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-2-7: FAILURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT OR CERTIFICATE:
Failure to obtain a permit or certificate of occupancy shall be a violation of
this title. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-2-8: SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES:
The city council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges and expenses and a
collection procedure for permits, amendments, appeals, variances, special use
permits, plan approvals and other matters pertaining to the administration and
enforcement of this title requiring investigations, inspections, legal
advertising, postage and other expenses. The schedule of fees shall be posted
in the office of the city clerk-treasurer and may be altered or amended only by
the city council. Until all applicable fees, charges and expenses have been
paid in full, no action shall be taken on any application or appeal. (Ord.
297A, 5-5-1981)
10-2-9: CONSTRUCTION AND USE, COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
Permits or certificates of occupancy issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the building inspector authorize only the use, and
arrangement, set forth in such approved plans and applications or amendments
thereto, and no other use, arrangement or construction. Use, arrangement or
construction contrary to that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this
title. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-2-10: COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS:
Whenever a violation of this title occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any
person may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating fully the causes
and basis thereof shall be filed with the city clerk-treasurer. The city clerk-
treasurer and building inspector shall properly record such complaint,
immediately investigate, and take action thereon as provided by this title.
(Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-2-11: PENALTIES:
The city attorney shall, in addition to taking whatever criminal action deemed
necessary, take steps to civilly enjoin any violation of this title. Penalties
for failure to comply with, or violations of, the provisions of this title
shall be as follows:
   Violation of any of the provisions of this title or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. The landowner, tenant,
subdivider, builder, public official or any other person who commits,
participates in, assists in or maintains such violation may be found guilty of
a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city council or
any other public official or private citizen from taking such lawful action as
is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this title or of the Idaho
Code. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
10-3-1: Districts Established
10-3-2: Subdistricts
10-3-3: Boundaries Established On Zoning Map
10-3-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose of this title, lands within the incorporated area of the city
are hereby classified into categories termed "zoning districts", as follows:
 
R-1 Single- and two-family residential
R-2 Multiple-family residential
C   Commercial
I-C Light industrial-commercial
I   Industrial
T-A Transitional-agricultural
 
 
(Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-3-2: SUBDISTRICTS:
A subdistrict of any district may be created within planned unit development
boundaries, provided a planned unit development permit has been issued for said
development pursuant to chapter 9 of this title. The subdistrict shall be
designated by the suffix "PUD" added to the symbol of the parent district.
(Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-3-3: BOUNDARIES ESTABLISHED ON ZONING MAP:
   A.   Map Adopted: The boundaries of the districts and subdistricts shall be
shown on the "zoning map" as adopted by this title.
   B.   Changes; Notice And Hearing: Changes in boundaries of districts or
subdistricts shall be made by ordinance which amends the provisions of this
title and amends the "zoning map". Such changes shall come only upon public
notice and hearing as defined by Idaho Code section 67-6509. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-
1981)
CHAPTER 4
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. R-1 SINGLE- AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4A-1: Description And Purpose
10-4A-2: Permitted Buildings And Uses
10-4A-3: Special Uses Permitted
10-4A-4: Density Standards
10-4A-1: DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE:
The R-1 single- and two-family residential district is intended for low density
urban residential use. A stable, healthful environment combined with the full
range of urban services is the goal of this district. Central water and sewer
are required. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-4A-2: PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES:
In an R-1 district, the following buildings and uses are permitted, subject to
general provisions and exceptions set forth in this article, and regulations
set forth in
chapter 7 of this title:
   Accessory uses customarily incidental to a permitted use, such as private
garages or parking areas for noncommercial vehicles.
   Home occupations. Offices of professional persons and, customarily, home
occupants, if carried on in a part of the residence. The occupation must not
occupy over fifty percent (50%) of such residence building. Adequate off street
parking shall be provided. Signs for identification are limited to one, not to
exceed twelve (12) square feet. Signs may not be lighted.
   Mobile homes are to be converted to a permanent dwelling by being set on a
permanent type foundation adequate to permanently support the home, with
concrete footings the width of the mobile home at least every fifteen feet
(15') of the trailer's length. All wheels and other mechanisms necessary for
the mobility of the home shall be removed. When the foundation is not solidly
around the exterior walls of the mobile home, the area between the mobile home
and the ground must be skirted. The mobile home must have a minimum of five
hundred (500) square feet of floor space.
   One-family detached dwelling structures.
   Renting of rooms for lodging purposes; not more than two (2) rooms are to be
permitted per dwelling.
   Subsistence or hobby type gardening and horticultural activities. Also
related structures of less than eight hundred (800) square feet total area and
used solely for noncommercial purposes.
   Two-family attached dwellings (duplexes). (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-4A-3: SPECIAL USES PERMITTED:
The following uses may be authorized by the planning and zoning commission and/
or city council as special exceptions in residential areas:
   Churches and other religious or charitable organizations.
   Franchised and public utility and communication facilities.
   Hospitals, provided ambulance and delivery areas are obscured from area
residential view with a wall and/or comparable shrubbery six feet (6') in
height.
   Keeping of livestock and/or domestic poultry by a student as part of the
student’s membership or enrollment in 4-H, Future Farmers of America, or
similar nonprofit or school-sponsored agricultural education program subject to
all standards and conditions for such use established by the city.
   Nursery schools, daycare centers, private kindergartens, orphanages or
similar facilities, provided there is established and maintained in connection
therewith a fenced yard and screened playlot on or adjoining the premises with
a minimum of four hundred (400) square feet for each child.
   Parks and playgrounds.
   Private clubs or lodges and community assembly halls; provided, that any
building used for such purpose shall be at least fifty feet (50') from an
adjoining residentially used lot.
   Professional offices to the extent of one professional person per five
thousand (5,000) square feet of lot area.
   Public and governmental buildings serving as administrative offices.
   Public, private, and parochial schools, provided playfields (exclusive of
the building site) are provided at a minimum ratio of one acre per one hundred
(100) elementary school students.
   Railroad right of way, but not yards or other similar facilities.
   Rest, convalescent, or retirement homes.
   A.   Site development is to include adequate off street parking for
visitors, employees, loading and other services.
   B.   Open space is to be provided which creates a ratio of one thousand
(1,000) square feet for each bed in the facility.
   C.   No building shall be closer than forty feet (40') from any property
line. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981; amd. Ord. 448, 6-4-2024)
10-4A-4: DENSITY STANDARDS:
   A.   Building Height: Two (2) stories, but not over thirty five feet (35').
   B.   Lots:
      1.   Minimum Lot Area: Ten thousand five hundred (10,500) square feet for
a single detached dwelling, plus three hundred (300) square feet for each
additional dwelling unit.
      2.   Minimum Lot Depth: One hundred forty feet (140').
      3.   Minimum Lot Width: Seventy five feet (75').
      4.   Maximum Percent Of Lot Coverage: Forty percent (40%).
   C.   Yards:
      1.   Minimum Front Yard Depth: Twenty feet (20').
      2.   Minimum Side Yard Width:
         a.   Minimum side yard width shall be five feet (5') for a single-
family detached dwelling or six feet (6') in the case of a two- family attached
unit.
         b.   Minimum side yard width along the street side of a corner lot
shall be ten feet (10').
      3.   Minimum Rear Yard: Twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
ARTICLE B. R-2 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4B-1: Description And Purpose
10-4B-2: Permitted Buildings And Uses
10-4B-3: Special Uses
10-4B-4: Density Standards
10-4B-1: DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE:
The R-2 multiple-family residential districts are designed to provide sites for
multiple-family dwelling structures, and related uses, which will generally
serve as zones of transition between the nonresidential districts and the lower
density district. The R-2 district is provided to serve the limited need for
higher density residential buildings in an otherwise low density, single-family
community. Central water and sewer is required. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-4B-2: PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES:
In the R-2 district, the following uses are permitted, subject to the general
provisions set forth in this article and the regulations set forth in
chapter 7 of this title:
   Accessory uses permitted in an R-1 district.
   Multiple dwelling structures or groups of structures including triplex and
fourplex family dwelling structures and multiple unit apartments in which units
are rented on a permanent basis. Exception: Not including motels or other
facilities offered on a transient tenancy basis.
   Principal uses permitted in an R-1 district. See section
10-4A-2 of this title. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-4B-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be authorized by the planning and zoning commission and/
or city council as special exceptions:
   Any special use permitted in an R-1 district.
   Keeping of livestock and/or domestic poultry by a student as part of the
student’s membership or enrollment in 4-H, Future Farmers of America, or
similar nonprofit or school-sponsored agricultural education program subject to
all standards and conditions for such use established by the city.
   Mobile homes or trailer courts may be permitted. Each unit is considered a
separate dwelling under the laws of the city. All single mobile homes on lots
are to meet yard requirements of section
10-4A-4 of this title. Placement and use of trailers occupied by any person in
other than an approved trailer court must be so arranged as not to interfere
with the rights and privileges of adjacent property owners. Mobile homes in
this district must be of at least five hundred (500) square feet, set in
accordance with the international building code, as adopted by the city, or
placed on a permanent foundation and declared real estate; and a statement of
intent to declare the same real estate, recorded in the public records,
pursuant to Idaho Code.
   Two (2) horses may be maintained in buildings or enclosures, when the
facilities are approved by the city council, and the planning and zoning
commission, and the keeping of the horses does not cause offensive odors or
disturbances to people in the neighborhood. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981; amd. 2010
Code; Ord. 448, 6-4-2024)
10-4B-4: DENSITY STANDARDS:
   A.   Building Height: Two and one-half (21/2) stories, but not to exceed
thirty five feet (35').
   B.   Lots:
      1.   Minimum Lot Area: Three thousand (3,000) square feet per family
dwelling unit for the first four (4) dwelling units; for additional dwelling
units, two thousand (2,000) square feet.
      2.   Minimum Lot Depth: One hundred forty feet (140').
      3.   Minimum Lot Width: Seventy five feet (75') for a single-family
detached or two-family attached dwelling; one hundred feet (100') for triplex
or larger unit.
      4.   Lot Coverage: Maximum percent of lot covered is to be forty percent
(40%).
   C.   Yard Requirements: Same as for the R-1 district. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
CHAPTER 5
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. C COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5A-1: Description And Purpose
10-5A-2: Permitted Buildings And Uses
10-5A-3: Special Uses
10-5A-4: Prohibited Uses
10-5A-5: Standards
10-5A-1: DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE:
The purpose of the C commercial district is to permit the establishment of
business uses which meet the daily needs of the residents as well as to
encourage the renewal of the historical business area of the community. (Ord.
297A, 5-5-1981)
10-5A-2: PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES:
In the C commercial zone, the following buildings and uses are permitted
subject to general provisions and exceptions set forth in this article and
regulations set forth in
chapter 7 of this title:
   All retail and customer services, unless allowed only on condition under
section
10-5A-3 of this article, or prohibited under section
10-5A-4 of this article. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-5A-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be authorized by the planning and zoning commission and/
or city council as special uses:
   Auction shop, merchandise liquidation, surplus or salvage outlet or store,
secondhand or close out store, or similar business.
   Bus transportation terminal.
   Gasoline service station.
   Keeping of livestock and/or domestic poultry by a student as part of the
student’s membership or enrollment in 4-H, Future Farmers of America, or
similar nonprofit or school-sponsored agricultural education program subject to
all standards and conditions for such use established by the city.
   Mortuary.
   Special uses permitted in R-1 and R-2 districts. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981; amd.
Ord. 448, 6-4-2024)
10-5A-4: PROHIBITED USES:
The following uses are prohibited in commercial areas:
   Any use which may be determined by the city council, after notice and a
hearing as described in section
10-8-5 of this title, to be obnoxious, offensive, or as having a detrimental
effect on retail trade or on other permissible adjacent uses.
   Industrial uses that are not enclosed in a building.
   Junkyard and automobile wrecking establishments. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-5A-5: STANDARDS:
The following standards shall be required in commercial districts.
   A.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: None.
      2.   Rear Yard: At least one loading space on the same lot. "Space" shall
include adequate area for standing, loading and unloading services in order to
avoid interference with the public use of streets and alleys.
   B.   Off Street Parking: One parking space for every four (4) employees. For
the remaining uses permitted in this zone, one parking space for each four
hundred (400) square feet of floor area devoted to retail sales.
   C.   Outdoor Storage: Storage area shall be at least gravel covered. (Ord.
297A, 5-5-1981)
ARTICLE B. I-C INDUSTRIAL-COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5B-1: Description And Purpose
10-5B-2: Permitted Buildings And Uses
10-5B-3: Special Uses
10-5B-4: Standards
10-5B-1: DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of the I-C light industrial-commercial district is to
encourage the development of manufacturing and other business establishments
which are clean, quiet and free of hazardous or objectionable elements such as
noise, odor, dust, smoke or glare. These businesses are to be primarily within
enclosed structures. It is the city's intent that this district fill the demand
for strip development by confining anticipated highway services to the urban
area.
   B.   The city also seeks to provide a transitional area between commercial
and industrial districts.
   C.   While the city intends to accommodate the motoring public, new business
is encouraged to develop near the established business rather than leaving
vacant property gaps. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-5B-2: PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES:
The following uses shall be permitted subject to general provisions and
exceptions set forth in this article, and regulations set forth in
chapter 7 of this title:
   Any permitted use in the commercial district.
   Automotive sales and service, including body repair, rebuilding and
painting, provided auto body servicing be done only within an enclosed
structure.
   Hotels and motels.
   Manufacturing uses which are conducted in a completely enclosed building or
within an area enclosed on all sides by a solid wall or fence at least six feet
(6') high.
   Membership organizations.
   Offices.
   Plant nurseries and greenhouses.
   Preparation and sale of food or drink for consumption on the premises or
elsewhere.
   Repair or servicing of consumer products within an enclosed building.
   Theaters, except drive-in theaters. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-5B-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be authorized by the planning and zoning commission and/
or city council as a special use subject to the provisions of
chapter 7  of this title:
   Keeping of livestock and/or domestic poultry by a student as part of the
student’s membership or enrollment in 4-H, Future Farmers of America, or
similar nonprofit or school-sponsored agricultural education program subject to
all standards and conditions for such use established by the city.
   Machinery and transportation equipment sales and service.
   Special uses in a commercial district.
   Uses permitted or subject to special use permit of a residential or
transitional-agricultural zone.
   Wholesale and warehouses. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981; amd. Ord. 448, 6-4-2024)
10-5B-4: STANDARDS:
The following standards may be required:
   A.   Lot Area: None specified.
   B.   Lot Width: None specified.
   C.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: None specified.
      2.   Rear And Side Yards: None specified.
   D.   Off Street Parking: Adequate off-street parking shall be provided.
   E.   Outdoor Storage: None specified. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981; amd. Ord. 447,
6-4-2024)
ARTICLE C. I INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5C-1: Description And Purpose
10-5C-2: Permitted Uses
10-5C-3: Special Uses
10-5C-4: Standards
10-5C-1: DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE:
The I industrial district is to provide a suitable area in which manufacturing
can be conducted. It is the city's intent to encourage industrial development
near access to arterial throughways and to community facilities. The city seeks
to accommodate diverse economic developments which comply with the performance
standards of
chapter 7 of this title. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-5C-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted, subject to general provisions and
exceptions set forth in this article, and regulations set forth in
chapter 7 of this title:
   Any permitted use under article B of this chapter and
chapter 6 of this title.
   Automobile junkyard, provided:
   A.   All activities are conducted within a completely enclosed building or
within an area enclosed on all sides by a solid wall or fence six feet (6')
high.
   B.   Inoperative automobile bodies may not be stacked above the plane
established by the top of the required surrounding wall.
   Machinery and transportation equipment sales and service.
   Machinery and transportation facilities sales and services.
   Public utilities.
   Wholesale establishments and warehouse. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-5C-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be authorized by the planning and zoning commission and/
or city council subject to the provisions of
chapter 7  of this title:
   Keeping of livestock and/or domestic poultry by a student as part of the
student’s membership or enrollment in 4-H, Future Farmers of America, or
similar nonprofit or school-sponsored agricultural education program subject to
all standards and conditions for such use established by the city.
   Special uses of a C commercial district.
   Special uses of an I-C industrial-commercial district. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981;
amd. Ord. 448, 6-4-2024)
10-5C-4: STANDARDS:
The following standards may be required:
   A.   Lots:
      1.   Lot Area: None specified.
      2.   Lot Width: None specified.
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: None specified.
      .   Rear And Side Yards: All lots or development sites in the industrial
district which abut property lines of commercially or industrially zoned
property are not required to have rear or side yards. When rear or side lot
lines of said district are common with property zoned residential, rear and
side yards of not less than fifteen feet (15') shall be required. (Ord. 297A,
5-5-1981)
   C.   Off Street Parking: Adequate off street parking shall be provided.
   D.   Outdoor Storage: None specified. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
CHAPTER 6
T-A TRANSITIONAL-AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6-1: Description And Purpose
10-6-2: Permitted Buildings And Uses
10-6-3: Special Uses
10-6-1: DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE:
The T-A or A-T transitional-agriculture district is designed to create a
semirural environment within which certain limited agricultural pursuits are
carried on in conjunction with or in close proximity to residential and
commercial areas. The city's intent is to maximize open space while providing a
transitional classification between the city's residential zones and the
county's agricultural categories. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-6-2: PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES:
In the T-A district, the following buildings and uses are permitted, subject to
general provisions and exceptions set forth in this article, and regulations
set forth in
chapter 7 of this title:
   Accessory building and uses normal and incidental to uses permitted by this
article.
   Hatching and raising of poultry and fowl, the raising of rabbits, bees and
grazing or raising of domestic farm animals, except that pigs, cows, horses,
sheep and goats may be kept, provided the lots on which said animals are kept
have an area of thirty thousand (30,000) square feet. No animal raising or
breeding enterprise shall be conducted on a commercial basis. The total number
of all such animals (other than their young under 6 months) shall not exceed
fifty (50) rabbits; fifty (50) chickens; one cow; two (2) horses, mules or
ponies for the first one acre. No more than one additional animal will be
permitted per each ten thousand (10,000) additional square feet.
   Orchards, tree crops, flower gardening, berry and bush crops, truck
gardening, nurseries for raising and sales confined to plant materials.
   Principal and accessory uses permitted in R-1 and R-2 zones.
   Similar enterprises carried on in horticulture. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-6-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be authorized by the planning and zoning commission and/
or city council as a special use:
   Any conditional use permitted in an R1 zone.
   Keeping of livestock and/or domestic poultry by a student as part of the
student’s membership or enrollment in 4-H, Future Farmers of America, or
similar nonprofit or school-sponsored agricultural education program subject to
all standards and conditions for such use established by the city.
   Mobile home or trailer courts may be permitted. Each unit is considered a
separate dwelling under the laws of the city. All single mobile homes on lots
are to meet yard requirements of section
10-4A-4 of this title. Placement and use of trailers occupied by any person on
other than an approved trailer court must be so arranged as not to interfere
with the rights and privileges of adjacent property owners. Mobile homes in
this zone must be of at least five hundred (500) square feet, set in accordance
with the international building code, as adopted by the city, or placed on a
permanent foundation and declared real estate; and a statement of intent to
declare the same real estate, recorded in the public records, pursuant to Idaho
Code.
   Permitted uses delineated in section
10-5B-2 of this title.
   Rifle, pistol and archery ranges.
   Stables and kennels.
   Swimming pools, tennis courts and similar recreational facilities. (Ord.
297A, 5-5-1981; amd. Ord. 448, 6-4-2024)
CHAPTER 7
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Purpose
10-7-2: Environmental Safeguards
10-7-3: Supplementary Provisions
10-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of performance standards is to set specific conditions for areas
where problems are frequently encountered. No land or building in any district
shall be used or occupied in any manner creating dangerous, noxious, or
otherwise objectionable conditions which could adversely affect the surrounding
areas or adjoining premises. However, any use permitted by this title may be
undertaken and maintained if acceptable measures and safeguards to reduce
dangerous and objectionable conditions to acceptable levels as established by
the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-7-2: ENVIRONMENTAL SAFEGUARDS:
The following standards shall be met within the city limits:
   A.   Fire Hazards: Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable or
explosive materials shall be protected by adequate firefighting and fire
prevention equipment and by such safety devices as are normally used in the
handling of any such material. Such activities shall be kept removed from
adjacent activities to a distance which is compatible with the potential danger
involved, as specified by the state uniform fire code.
   B.   Radioactivity And Electrical Disturbance: No activity shall emit
harmful radioactivity adversely affecting the operation of any equipment at any
point other than that of the creation of the disturbance. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
   C.   Noise: No use shall generate objectionable noise which is due to volume
or frequency. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Vibration: No vibration shall be permitted which is discernible without
instruments beyond the property lines of the lot upon which the use is located.
   E.   Air Pollution: Air pollution shall be subject to the requirements and
regulations established by the environmental protection agency and the Idaho
department of health and welfare.
   F.   Glare: No direct or reflected glare shall be permitted which is visible
outside a manufacturing district or from any street.
   G.   Erosion: No erosion by man, wind, or water, shall be permitted which
will carry objectionable substances onto neighboring properties.
   H.   Water Pollution: Water pollution shall be subject to the requirements
and regulations established by the environmental protection agency and the
Idaho department of health and welfare.
   I.   Measurement Procedures: Methods for the determination of the existence
of any dangerous and objectionable elements shall conform to applicable
standard procedures published by the American Standards Institutes, New York;
the Manufacturing Chemists Association, Inc., Washington, D.C.; the U.S. bureau
of mines and the Idaho department of health and welfare.
   J.   Enforcement: Prior to the issuance of a permit, the commission may
require the submission of statements and plans indicating the manner in which
objectionable elements are to be eliminated, reduced to acceptable limits or
found to not exist. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-7-3: SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS:
In addition to all other regulations as specified in this title, the following
provisions shall be adhered to:
   A.   Conversion Of Dwellings To More Units: A residence may not be converted
to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units unless:
      1.   The yard dimensions still meet the yard dimensions required by the
zoning regulations for new structures in that district;
      2.   The lot area per family equals the lot area requirement for new
structures in that district;
      3.   The floor area per dwelling unit is not reduced to less than that
which is required for new construction in that district; and
      4.   The conversion is in compliance with all other relevant codes and
ordinances.
   B.   Temporary Buildings: Temporary buildings, construction trailers,
equipment and materials used in conjunction with construction work only may be
permitted in any district during the period construction work is in progress,
but such temporary facilities shall be removed upon completion of the
construction work. Storage of such facilities or equipment beyond the
completion date of the project shall require a zoning permit authorized by the
commission.
   C.   Parking And Storage Of Certain Vehicles: Automotive vehicles or
trailers of any kind or type without current license plates shall not be parked
or stored on any residentially zoned property other than in a completely
enclosed building or carport. However, one boat and one travel trailer may be
stored in the side or rear yard. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
   D.   Garbage Collection Areas: All trash and/or garbage collection areas for
commercial, industrial, and multi-family residential uses shall be enclosed on
at least three (3) sides by a solid wall or fence of at least four feet (4') in
height or within an enclosed building or structure. Adequate vehicular access
to and from such area or areas for collection of trash and/or garbage as
determined by the city council shall be provided. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981; amd.
2010 Code)
   E.   Development Near Airport: The location, building height and lighting of
residential and commercial development shall be restricted within airport
approach areas as required by the state department of transportation, division
of aeronautics and public transportation and federal aviation administration.
   F.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   Will not be located in any required front yard area.
      2.   Will not be located closer than five feet (5') from any side or rear
property line. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
CHAPTER 8
SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
10-8-1: Intent And Purpose
10-8-2: Contents Of Application
10-8-3: General Standards Applicable To All Special Uses
10-8-4: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
10-8-5: Procedure For Hearing; Notice
10-8-6: Action By Commission
10-8-7: Notification To Applicant
10-8-8: Appeal To City Council
10-8-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   It is recognized that an increasing number of new kinds of uses are
appearing daily, and that many of these and some other more conventional uses
possess characteristics of such a unique and special nature relative to
location, design, size, method of operation, circulation and public facilities
that each specific use must be considered individually.
   B.   The planning and zoning commission shall hold a public hearing on each
special use permit application as specified in section 10-8-5 of this chapter.
The commission may approve, conditionally approve or deny a special use permit
under the conditions as herein specified and consider such additional
safeguards as will uphold the intent of this title. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-8-2: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
An application for special use permit shall be filed in duplicate with the city
clerk-treasurer by at least one owner or lessee of property for which such
special use is proposed. At a minimum, the application shall contain the
following information:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
   B.   Legal description of property;
   C.   Description of existing use;
   D.   Zoning district;
   E.   Description of proposed special use;
   F.   A plan of the proposed site for the special use showing the location of
all buildings, parking and loading area, traffic access and traffic
circulation, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service areas, utilities,
signs, yards and such other information as the commission may require to
determine if the proposed special use meets the intent and requirements of this
title; and
   G.   A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining property; the
effect of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes and vibration on adjoining
property; a discussion of the general compatibility with adjacent and other
properties in the district; and the relationship of the proposed use to the
comprehensive plan.
   H.   Applications - Student Livestock Special Use Permits: The following
additional conditions shall apply to all applications for special use permits
for the keeping of livestock and/or domestic poultry by a student as part of
the student's membership or enrollment in 4-H, Future Farmers of America, or
similar nonprofit or school-sponsored agricultural education program (hereafter
"student livestock special use permits") in any zoning district:
      1.   Applicants/Applications: Each application for a student livestock
special use permit filed with the city must be completed and signed by the
student and all owners of the subject property upon which the livestock and/or
domestic poultry will be kept as co-applicants. If the student is a minor, the
application must also be signed by the minor's parents or legal guardians as
additional co-applicants. In addition:
      2.   Permit Fees/Costs: The city may by resolution adopt and from time to
time amend a schedule of fees for processing and issuance of student livestock
special use permits. In addition to said permit fees, the applicant shall pay
the city for the actual costs incurred by the city for making or giving any and
all necessary publications and public notices required with respect to the
application. The applicant shall pay the applicable permit fee and the
anticipated cost of publication or public notice related to the application in
full to the city at the time the application is filed with the city. If the
actual cost incurred by the city for said publications or public notices is
less than the anticipated amount paid to the city by the applicant, the city
shall reimburse the excess amount deposited to the applicant.
      3.   Applications - Contents: The city may by resolution adopt and from
time to time amend a standard form application for student livestock special
use permits. The applicant shall provide the city with all information,
consents, records and other things: 1) requested in the application form; and
2) required under this section, at the time the application is filed with the
city.
      4.   Additional Information/Consents/Records Required: The applicant
shall also provide the city with all of the following at the time the applicant
files the application with the city:
         a.   Written consents signed by all owners and adult occupants of all
properties within three hundred (300) feet of the subject property. If any of
said properties includes a multi-dwelling unit, written consent is required
from all adult residents thereof.
         b.   Written verification from the supervising instructor, teacher,
advisor or adult sponsor for the agricultural education program certifying
that: i) the student is a member or is a duly enrolled participant in the
agricultural education program; and ii) the keeping of livestock and/or
domestic poultry by the student as proposed under the application is a
necessary part of and undertaken pursuant to the student's participation in
said program.
      5.   Incomplete Applications: The city shall have no obligation, to
process or consider applications that fail to comply with any requirements
under §
10-8-2 (H)(1) of this code, including but not limited to due to the failure to
pay all permit fees and costs required by this section at the time the
application is filed with the city. In addition, failure to comply with the
provisions of §
10-8-2 (H)(1) of this code shall constitute grounds for denial of the
application. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981; amd. Ord. 448, 6-4-2024)
10-8-3: GENERAL STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL SPECIAL USES:
The commission shall review the particular facts and circumstances of each
proposed special use in terms of the following standards and shall find
adequate evidence showing that such use at the proposed location:
   A.   Will, in fact, constitute a special use as established on the official
schedule of district regulations for the zoning district involved;
   B.   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general objectives
or with any specific objective of the comprehensive plan and/or the zoning
ordinance;
   C.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained in a manner
harmonious and appropriate with the existing or intended character of the
general vicinity and that such use will not change the essential character of
the area;
   D.   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring
uses;
   E.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures,
refuse disposal, water and sewer and schools; or that the persons or agencies
responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide
adequately any such services;
   F.   Will not create excessive additional requirements, at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community;
   G.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment and
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property or
the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare, or odors;
   H.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be designed
as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares; and
   I.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural, scenic
or historic feature of major importance. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-8-4: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
   A.   General Supplementary Conditions: In granting any special use, the city
council may prescribe appropriate conditions, bonds and safeguards in
conformity with this title. Violations of such conditions, bonds or safeguards,
when made a part of the terms under which the special use is granted, shall be
deemed a violation of this title.
   B.   Additional Conditions For Student Livestock Special Use Permits: The
following additional terms and conditions shall apply to all student livestock
special permits issued by the city, which shall be addition to any other or
further terms and conditions imposed by city council or pursuant to Chapter 8,
Title 10, Cottonwood Municipal Code, as amended:
      1.   Each permit shall be issued in the name of all co-applicants for the
permit as permittees under the permit. Each permittee shall be jointly and
severally obligated and liable for compliance with all terms and conditions of
the permit.
      2.   The student must register all livestock or poultry to be kept by the
student on the subject property pursuant to permit with city Animal Control.
Only livestock or poultry duly registered with city Animal Control may be kept
on the subject property pursuant to the permit,
      3.   The permittee shall, at permittee's sole expense, keep all livestock
and poultry authorized to be kept on the subject property pursuant to the
permit in a safe, healthy, humane and sanitary condition at all times,
including but not limited to by providing said animals adequate feed, water,
shelter and veterinary care.
      4.   Animal feed stored on the subject property must be kept in a rodent
and predator-proof container or enclosure.
      5.   No permittee shall cause, allow, permit or suffer any livestock or
poultry kept on the subject property pursuant to the permit to run at large off
the subject property. All livestock and poultry kept on the subject property
pursuant to the permit shall be adequately secured or restrained within the
subject property in a humane manner so as to prevent them from running at large
off the subject property. In addition, if the Animal Control officer or city
council finds that any special pen or enclosure is necessary for keeping said
animals in a safe, healthy, humane or sanitary condition, or otherwise secured
within the subject property, the permittee, at permittee's sole expense, shall
furnish a covered, predator-proof enclosure that is:
         a.   Adequately and thoroughly ventilated;
         b.   Designed and constructed to be easily accessed, cleaned and
maintained;
         c.   Kept cleaned and maintained; and
         d.   Large enough to permit humane and free movement of the animals
consistent with good animal husbandry practices.
      6.   The permittee shall periodically collect, remove and lawfully
dispose of all animal waste generated on the subject property from the
livestock and poultry kept on thereon pursuant to the permit before the same
becomes an eyesore, nuisance or health hazard. The permittee shall not cause,
allow, permit or suffer any such animal wasted generated on the subject
property to become an eyesore, nuisance or health hazard, or to flow off of the
subject property.
      7.   It shall be unlawful for any permittee to cause, allow, permit or
suffer any livestock or poultry kept on the subject property pursuant to the
permit to disturb the peace and quiet of any neighborhood or neighboring
property, or become or constitute a nuisance, including but not limited to by
reason of noxious fumes or odors; inhumane, unsafe or unsanitary conditions or
activities existing or occurring on the subject property; loud, obnoxious,
unusual or persistent noise. Animal Control will determine whether or not a
nuisance exists on a case-by-case basis.
      8.   All student livestock special use permits are subject to all other
applicable federal, state, county and city laws, regulations, codes and
ordinances, including but not limited to: a) the provisions of
Chapter 8, Title 10 , Craigmont City Code, as amended, pertaining to issuance
of special use permits those regulating the harboring and keeping of livestock
or other animals, and all health, safety and sanitation laws, regulations,
codes and ordinances.
      9.   All student livestock special use permits: a) shall be in effect for
a term one (1) calendar year unless otherwise expressly stated in the permit
and shall automatically terminate upon expiration of the permit's term without
further notice to the permittee(s); b) shall apply only to the subject
property; and c) shall not non-assignable and non-transferrable. Issuance of
any prior student livestock special use permit shall not require nor guarantee
issuance of any renewal or future permits.
      10.   The city council may suspend or revoke any student livestock
special use permit in the event of any violation of any term or condition of
the permit or as otherwise deemed in the best interest of the city. (Ord. 297A,
5-5-1981; amd. Ord. 448, 6-4-2024)
10-8-5: PROCEDURE FOR HEARING; NOTICE:
Prior to granting a special use permit, at least one public hearing in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard shall be held. At
least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time and place and
a summary of the proposal shall be published in the official newspaper or paper
of general circulation within the jurisdiction. Notice may also be made
available to other newspapers, radio and television stations serving the
jurisdiction for use as a public service announcement. Notice shall be posted
on the premises not less than one week prior to the hearing. Notwithstanding
jurisdictional boundaries, notice shall also be provided to property owners and
purchasers of record within the land being considered, three hundred feet
(300') of the external boundaries of the land being considered, and any
additional area that may be substantially impacted by the proposed special use
as determined by the council. Any property owner entitled to specific notice
pursuant to the provisions of this section shall have a right to participate in
public hearings before the city council. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981; amd. 2010 Code)
10-8-6: ACTION BY COMMISSION:
   A.   Commission Authority: Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing,
the commission shall either approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the
application as presented. If the application is approved or approved with
modifications, the commission shall issue a special use permit listing the
specific conditions specified by the commission for approval.
   B.   Attaching Conditions: Upon granting of a special use permit, conditions
may be attached to a special use permit including, but not limited to, those:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on other development;
      2.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development;
      3.   Controlling the duration of development;
      4.   Assuring that development is maintained properly;
      5.   Designating the exact location and nature of development;
      6.   Requiring the provision for on site or off site public facilities or
services; and
      7.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in an ordinance.
   C.   Permit Provisions: Prior to granting a special use permit, the
commission may request studies concerning social, economic, fiscal and
environmental effects of the proposed special use. A special use permit shall
not be considered as establishing a binding precedent to grant other special
use permits. A use permit is not transferrable from one parcel of land to
another.
   D.   Written Report: Upon granting or denying an application, the commission
shall specify in a written report:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   E.   Right To Appeal: The applicant or any affected person who appeared in
person or in writing before the commission may appeal the decision of the
commission to the city council, provided the appeal is submitted to the city
council within fifteen (15) days from the commission action. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-
1981)
10-8-7: NOTIFICATION TO APPLICANT:
Within ten (10) days after a decision has been rendered, the city clerk-
treasurer shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on the
request. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-8-8: APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Council Action: Upon receipt of an appeal from the action of the
commission, the council shall set a hearing date to consider all information,
testimony and commission minutes of the public hearing to reach a decision to
uphold, conditionally uphold or overrule the decision of the commission. The
city council shall only overrule the commission by a majority vote.
   B.   Written Report: Upon granting or denying an application, the city
council shall specify in a written report:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
CHAPTER 9
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Policy And Purpose
10-9-2: Governing Provisions
10-9-3: Uses Permitted
10-9-4: Ownership Requirements
10-9-5: Common Open Space
10-9-6: Utility Requirements
10-9-7: Increased Residential Density
10-9-8: Arrangement Of Commercial Uses
10-9-9: Arrangement Of Industrial Uses
10-9-10: Procedure For Approval Of PUD
10-9-11: Preapplication Meeting
10-9-12: Contents Of Application; Preliminary Development Plan
10-9-13: Procedure For Public Notice
10-9-14: Approval In Principle By Commission
10-9-15: Contents Of Application; Final Development Plan
10-9-16: Recommendation By Commission
10-9-17: Action By City Council
10-9-18: Expiration And Extension Of Approval Period
10-9-1: POLICY AND PURPOSE:
It shall be the policy to guide a major development of land and construction by
encouraging planned unit developments (PUD) to achieve the following:
   A.   A maximum choice of living environments by allowing a variety of
housing and building types and permitting an increased density per acre and a
reduction in lot dimensions, yards, building setbacks and area requirements;
   B.   A more useful pattern of open space and recreation areas and, if
permitted as part of the project, more convenience in the location of accessory
commercial uses, industrial uses and services;
   C.   A development pattern which preserves and utilizes natural topography
and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees, and other vegetation and prevents
the disruption of natural drainage patterns;
   D.   A more efficient use of land than is generally achieved through
conventional development resulting in substantial savings through shorter
utilities and streets; and
   E.   A development pattern in harmony with land use density, transportation
and community facilities objectives of the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-
1981)
10-9-2: GOVERNING PROVISIONS:
Whenever there is a conflict or difference between the provisions of this
chapter and those of the other chapters and/or articles of this title, the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail. Subjects not covered by this chapter
shall be governed by the respective provisions found elsewhere in this title.
(Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-9-3: USES PERMITTED:
All uses that may be allowed within the land use district are permitted within
a PUD. Also, up to ten percent (10%) of the gross land area may be directed to
other commercial, industrial, public and quasi-public uses that are not allowed
within the land use district; provided, there is favorable finding by the
commission:
   A.   That the uses are appropriate with the residential uses;
   B.   That the uses are intended to serve principally the residents of the
PUD;
   C.   That the uses are planned as an integral part of the PUD;
   D.   That the uses be located and so designed as to provide direct access to
a collector or an arterial street without creating congestion or traffic
hazards; and
   E.   That a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the residential development
occur prior to the development of the related commercial or industrial land
uses. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-9-4: OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Filing Of Application: An application for approval of a PUD may be
filed by a property owner or a person having an existing interest in the
property to be included in the PUD. The PUD application shall be filed in the
name of the recorded owner of the property included in the development.
However, the application may be filed by the holder of an equitable interest in
such property.
   B.   Single Ownership Or Control: Before approval is granted to the final
development plan, the entire project shall be under single ownership or control
and legal title must be presented with the final development plan. (Ord. 297A,
5-5-1981)
10-9-5: COMMON OPEN SPACE:
   A.   Minimum Area: A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the gross land area
developed in any residential PUD project shall be reserved for common open
space and recreational facilities for the residents or users of the area being
developed.
   B.   Use Of Space:
      1.   The required amount of common open space land reserved under a PUD
shall either be held in corporate ownership by owners of the project area for
the use of each owner who buys property within the development or be dedicated
to the public and retained as common open space for parks, recreation and
related uses.
      2.   Public utility and similar easements and rights of way for
watercourses and other similar channels are not acceptable for common open
space dedication unless such land or right of way is usable as a trail or other
similar purpose and approved by the commission.
   C.   Maintenance: The responsibility for the maintenance of all open spaces
shall be specified by the developer before approval of the final development
plan.
   D.   Design: Every property developed under the PUD approach should be
designed to abut upon common open space or similar areas. A clustering of
dwellings is encouraged. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-9-6: UTILITY REQUIREMENTS:
Underground utilities, including telephone and electrical systems, are required
within the limits of all PUDs. Appurtenances to these systems which can be
effectively screened may be excepted from this requirement if the commission
finds that such exemption will not violate the intent or character of the
proposed PUD. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-9-7: INCREASED RESIDENTIAL DENSITY:
To provide for an incentive for quality PUD, the commission may authorize an
increased residential density of up to fifteen percent (15%) of the allowable
number of dwelling units. Character, identity and architectural and siting
variation incorporated in a development shall be considered cause for density
increases, provided these factors make a substantial contribution to the
objectives of the PUD, which are as follows:
   A.   Landscaping (a maximum increase of 5 percent), streetscape, open spaces
and plazas, use of existing landscaping, pedestrianway treatment and
recreational areas;
   B.   Siting (a maximum increase of 5 percent), visual focal points, use of
existing physical features such as topography, view, sun and wind orientation,
circulation pattern, physical environment, variation in building setbacks and
building grouping (such as clustering); and
   C.   Design features (a maximum increase of 5 percent), street sections,
architectural styles, harmonious use of materials, parking areas broken by
landscaping features and varied use of housing types. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-9-8: ARRANGEMENT OF COMMERCIAL USES:
   A.   When PUDs include commercial uses, commercial buildings and
establishments shall be planned as groups having common parking areas and
common ingress and egress points in order to reduce the number of potential
accident locations at intersections. Planting screens or fences shall be
provided on the perimeter of the commercial areas abutting residential areas.
   B.   The plan of the project shall provide for the integrated and harmonious
design of buildings, and for adequate and properly arranged facilities for
internal traffic circulation, landscaping and such other features and
facilities as may be necessary to make the project attractive and efficient
from the standpoint of the adjoining and surrounding noncommercial areas.
   C.   All areas designed for future expansion or not intended for immediate
improvement or development shall be landscaped or otherwise maintained in a
neat and orderly manner. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-9-9: ARRANGEMENT OF INDUSTRIAL USES:
   A.   PUDs may include industrial uses if it can be shown that the
development results in a more efficient and desirable use of land.
   B.   Industrial uses and parcels shall be developed in parklike surroundings
utilizing landscaping and natural conditions as buffers to screen lighting,
parking areas, loading areas or docks and/or outdoor storage of raw materials
or products.
   C.   A planned industrial area shall provide for the harmony of buildings
and a compact grouping in order to economize in the provision of such utility
services as are required. Thoroughfares shall be kept to a minimum throughout a
planned industrial area in order to reduce through traffic.
   D.   Project side yards of forty feet (40') and a rear yard of fifty feet
(50') shall be required if the project is located adjacent to any residential
uses. All intervening spaces between the right of way line and project building
line and intervening spaces between buildings, drives, parking areas and
improved areas shall be landscaped with trees and plantings and properly
maintained at all times. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-9-10: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF PUD:
When the PUD also qualifies as a subdivision, the processing of the special use
permit and subdivision application shall occur at the same time. The granting
of a special use permit for a PUD shall require a preapplication, the
submission of a preliminary development plan and approval by the city council
of a final development plan as specified within this title. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-
1981)
10-9-11: PREAPPLICATION MEETING:
The developer shall meet with the city clerk-treasurer prior to the submission
of the preliminary development plan. The purpose of this meeting is to discuss
early and informally the purpose and effect of this title and the criteria and
standards contained herein, and to familiarize the developer with the
comprehensive plan, zoning ordinance, subdivision ordinance and such other
plans and ordinances as deemed appropriate. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-9-12: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION; PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Filing And Contents Of Application: An application for preliminary PUD
shall be filed with the city clerk-treasurer by a property owner or person
having existing interest in the property for which the PUD is proposed. At a
minimum, the application shall contain the following information filed in
triplicate:
      1.   Name, address, and phone number of applicant;
      2.   Name, address, and phone number of registered surveyor, registered
engineer and/or urban planner assisting in the preparation of the preliminary
development plan;
      3.   Legal description of property;
      4.   Description of existing use;
      5.   Zoning districts;
      6.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the commission, showing
property lines, streets, existing and proposed zoning and such other items as
the commission may require to show the relationship of the PUD to the
comprehensive plan and to existing schools and other community facilities and
services;
      7.   A preliminary development plan at a scale approved by the commission
showing topography at two foot (2') intervals; location and type of
residential, commercial and industrial land uses; layout, dimensions and names
of existing and proposed streets; rights of way; utility easements; parks and
community spaces; layout and dimensions of lots and building setback lines;
preliminary improvement drawings showing water, sewer, drainage, electricity,
telephone, and natural gas and such other characteristics as the commission
deems necessary;
      8.   Proposed schedule for the development of the site; and
      9.   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the land in
question to initiate the proposed development plan within two (2) years.
   B.   Statement As To Reason For PUD: The application for preliminary PUD
shall be accompanied by a written statement by the developer setting forth the
reasons why, in his opinion, the PUD would be in the public interest. (Ord.
297A, 5-5-1981)
10-9-13: PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC NOTICE:
The same provision for public hearing and legal notification as required for
special use permits shall be followed 1 . (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 10-8-5 of this title.
10-9-14: APPROVAL IN PRINCIPLE BY COMMISSION:
   A.   Review And Determination: Within ten (10) days after the public
hearing, the commission shall review the preliminary development plan to
determine if it is consistent with the intent and purpose of this title;
whether the proposed development advances the general welfare of the community
and neighborhood and whether the benefits, combination of various land uses and
the interrelationship with the land uses in the surrounding area justify the
deviation from standard district regulations. The commission's approval in
principle of the preliminary development plan shall be necessary before an
applicant may submit a final development plan. Approval in principle shall not
be construed to endorse a precise location of uses, configuration of parcels or
engineering feasibility.
   B.   Consideration Of General Standards: The commission shall consider the
general standards applicable to special use permits and criteria for special
uses before approving in principle a preliminary development plan 2 . (Ord.
297A, 5-5-1981)
 
Notes
2 2. See section 10-8-3 of this title.
10-9-15: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION; FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
Upon approval in principle of a preliminary development plan, an application
for approval of the final development plan may be filed with the city clerk-
treasurer by at least one property owner or person having a presently existing
interest in the property for which the PUD is proposed. Each application shall
be signed by the owner or lessee, attesting to the truth and exactness of all
information supplied on the application for final development plan. Each
application shall clearly state that the approval shall expire and may be
revoked if construction of the project has not begun within two (2) years from
the date of issuance of the approval. At a minimum, the application shall
contain the following information:
   A.   A survey of the proposed development site, showing the dimensions and
bearings of the property lines, area in acres, topography, existing features of
the development site; including major wooded areas, structures, streets,
easements, utility lines and land uses;
   B.   All the information required on the preliminary development plan; the
location and sizes of lots, location and proposed density of dwelling units,
nonresidential building intensity and land use considered suitable for adjacent
properties;
   C.   A schedule for the development of units to be constructed in
progression and a description of the design principles for buildings and
streetscapes; tabulation of the number of acres in the proposed project for
various uses; the number of housing units proposed by type; estimated
residential population density and public improvements proposed for each unit
of the development whenever the applicant proposes an exception from standard
zoning districts or other ordinances governing development;
   D.   Engineering feasibility studies and plans showing, as necessary, water,
sewer, drainage, electricity, telephone and natural gas installations; waste
disposal facilities; street improvements and nature and extent of earthwork
required for site preparation and development;
   E.   Site plan showing building(s), various functional use areas,
circulation and their relationship;
   F.   Preliminary building plans, including floor plans and exterior
elevations;
   G.   Landscaping plans; and
   H.   Deed restrictions, protective covenants and other legal statements or
devices to be used to control the use; development and maintenance of the land,
and the improvements thereon, including those areas which are to be commonly
owned and maintained. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-9-16: RECOMMENDATION BY COMMISSION:
   A.   Recommendations To Council: Within thirty (30) days after receipt of
the final development plan, the commission shall recommend to the city council
that the final development plan be approved as presented, approved with
supplementary conditions or disapproved. The commission shall then transmit all
papers constituting the record and the recommendations to the council.
   B.   Findings: The commission shall find that the facts submitted with the
application and presented to them establish that:
      1.   The proposed development can be initiated within two (2) years of
the date of approval;
      2.   Each individual unit of the development, as well as the total
development, can exist as an independent unit capable of creating an
environment of sustained desirability and stability or that adequate assurance
will be provided that such objective will be attained; the uses proposed will
not be detrimental to present and potential surrounding uses, but will have a
beneficial effect which would not be achieved under standard district
regulations;
      3.   The streets and thoroughfares proposed are suitable and adequate to
carry anticipated traffic, and increased densities will not generate traffic in
such amounts as to overload the street network outside the PUD;
      4.   Any proposed commercial development can be justified at the
locations proposed;
      5.   Any exception from standard district requirements is warranted by
the design and other amenities incorporated in the final development plan, in
accordance with the PUD and the adopted policy of the council;
      6.   The area surrounding said development can be planned and zoned in
coordination and substantial compatibility with the proposed development;
      7.   The PUD is in general conformance with the comprehensive plan; and
      8.   The existing and proposed utility services are adequate for the
population densities and nonresidential uses proposed. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-9-17: ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Council Specifications: Within ten (10) days after receipt of the final
recommendation of the commission, the city council shall either approve,
approve with supplementary conditions or disapprove the application as
presented. Upon granting or denying the application, the city council shall
specify in a written report:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   B.   Zoning Permit Issuance: If the application is either approved or
approved with conditions, the council shall direct the building inspector to
issue zoning permits only in accordance with the approved final development
plan and the supplementary conditions attached thereto. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-9-18: EXPIRATION AND EXTENSION OF APPROVAL PERIOD:
The approval of a final development plan for a PUD shall be for a period not to
exceed two (2) years to allow for preparation and recording of the required
subdivision plat and the development of the project. If no construction has
begun within two (2) years after approval is granted, the approved final
development plan shall be void. An extension of the time limit or modification
of the approved final development plan may be approved if the commission finds
that such extension or modification is not in conflict with the public
interest. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
CHAPTER 10
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
10-10-1: Intent
10-10-2: Alterations
10-10-3: Application Of Provisions
10-10-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this title that present nonconforming uses or occupancies
be continued until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is
further the intent of this title that nonconforming uses shall not be enlarged
upon, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited in
the same district. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-10-2: ALTERATIONS:
   A.   Reconstruction: A nonconforming use or occupancy at the time of the
effective date hereof may not be reconstructed or structurally altered to an
extent exceeding an aggregate cost of fifty percent (50%) of the assessed value
as shown on the records of the county assessor, unless such building is changed
to conform to the provisions of this title.
   B.   Changed To Higher Use: A nonconforming use may not be changed unless
changed to a higher use.
   C.   Removal Or Destruction: Removal or destruction of a nonconforming
structure eliminates the nonconforming status of the property. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-
1981)
10-10-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this title in
the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed,
reconstructed, moved or structurally altered, except in changing the use of the
structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is located.
   B.   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the principal
construction or designated use of a structure for which a permit has been
issued and on which construction has begun at the time of the effective date
hereof. If an area in a particular zone is transferred to another zone by
change in zone boundaries, the provisions of this chapter shall apply. (Ord.
297A, 5-5-1981)
CHAPTER 11
APPEALS, VARIANCES AND HEARINGS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Administrative Appeals
10-11-2: Stay Of Proceedings
10-11-3: Variances Authorized
10-11-4: Application And Standards For Variances
10-11-5: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
10-11-6: Public Hearing
10-11-7: Action By Commission
10-11-8: Notification To Applicant
10-11-9: Appeal To City Council
10-11-10: Request For Hearing
10-11-1: ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS:
Appeals to the planning and zoning commission concerning interpretation or
administration of this title may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer or bureau of the legislative authority affected by any decision of the
building inspector. Such appeal shall be taken within twenty (20) days after
the decision of the building inspector by filing with the building inspector
and with the commission a notice of appeal specifying the grounds upon which
the appeal is being taken. The building inspector shall transmit to the
commission all the papers constituting the record upon which the appeal is
based. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-11-2: STAY OF PROCEEDINGS:
An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action taken unless the
building inspector certifies to the commission after the notice of appeal is
filed with him that by reason of facts stated in the application, a stay would,
in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order which may be
granted by the commission or by a court based upon an application, with notice
to the building inspector showing due cause. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-11-3: VARIANCES AUTHORIZED:
The city council may authorize in specific cases such variance from the terms
of this title as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this title would
result in unnecessary hardship. No nonconforming use of neighboring lands,
structures or buildings in the same district and no permitted or nonconforming
use of lands, structures, or buildings in other districts shall be considered
grounds for issuance of a variance. Variances shall not be granted on the
grounds of convenience or profit, but only where strict application of the
provisions of this title would result in unnecessary hardship. Variances are to
be consistent with the comprehensive plan and in the public interest. (Ord.
297A, 5-5-1981)
10-11-4: APPLICATION AND STANDARDS FOR VARIANCES:
   A.   Contents Of Application: A variance from the terms of this title shall
not be granted by the city council unless and until a written application for a
variance is submitted to the city clerk-treasurer containing:
      1.   Name, address, and phone number of applicant(s);
      2.   Legal description of property;
      3.   Description of nature of variance requested; and
      4.   A narrative statement demonstrating that the requested variance
conforms to the following standards:
         a.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are
peculiar to the land, structure, or building involved and which are not
applicable to other lands, structures or buildings in the same district;
         b.   That a literal interpretation of the provisions of this title
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same district under the terms of this title;
         c.   That special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant;
         d.   That the requested use, if established, will not be of a general
classification different from the district in which the land or structure is
located;
         e.   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this title to other lands,
structures or buildings in the same district; and
         f.   That granting the variance is not contrary to public interest or
the comprehensive plan.
   B.   Written Findings Of Fact: A variance shall not be granted unless the
commission makes specific written findings of fact based directly on the
particular evidence presented to it which support conclusions that the above
mentioned standards and conditions have been met by the applicant. (Ord. 297A,
5-5-1981)
10-11-5: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
Under no circumstances shall the commission grant an appeal or variance to
allow a use not permissible under the terms of this title in the district
involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of
this title in said district. In granting any appeal or variance, the commission
may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this
title. Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the
terms under which the appeal or variance is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of this title. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-11-6: PUBLIC HEARING:
Upon receipt of the application for appeal or variance, the commission shall
hold a public hearing, publish notice in a newspaper and give written notice to
all adjoining property owners as described in section 10-8-5 of this title.
(Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-11-7: ACTION BY COMMISSION:
   A.   Time Limit For Decision: Within ten (10) days after the public hearing,
the commission shall either approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the
request for appeal or variance.
   B.   Written Specifications: Upon granting or denying an application, the
commission shall specify in written form:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   C.   Right To Appeal: The applicant or any affected person who appeared in
person or in writing before the commission may appeal the decision of the
commission to the city council, provided the appeal is submitted to the city
council within fifteen (15) days from the commission's action. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-
1981)
10-11-8: NOTIFICATION TO APPLICANT:
Within ten (10) days after a decision has been rendered, the building inspector
shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on the request.
(Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-11-9: APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL:
Upon receipt of an appeal from the action of the commission, the city council
shall set a hearing date to consider all information, testimony and commission
minutes of the public hearing to reach a decision to uphold, conditionally
uphold or overrule the decision. The city council shall only overrule the
commission by a majority vote of the city council. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-11-10: REQUEST FOR HEARING:
   A.   Definition: An "affected person" shall mean one having an interest in
real property which may be adversely affected by the issuance or denial of a
permit authorizing the development.
   B.   Petition For Hearing: Any affected person may, at any time prior to
final action on rezone, special use, or variance permit, if no hearing has been
held on the application, petition the commission or council in writing to hold
a hearing as required in this chapter; provided, however, that if twenty (20)
affected persons petition for a hearing, the hearing shall be held.
   C.   City Action Following Hearing: After a hearing, the commission or city
council may:
      1.   Grant or deny a permit; or
      2.   Delay such a decision for a definite period of time for further
study or hearing. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
   D.   Request For Judicial Review: An affected person aggrieved by a decision
may, within sixty (60) days after all remedies have been exhausted under local
ordinances, seek judicial review under the procedures provided by Idaho Code.
(Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 12
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
10-12-1: Council Authority
10-12-2: Initiation Of Zoning Amendments
10-12-3: Contents Of Application
10-12-4: Transmittal To Commission
10-12-5: Public Hearing By Commission
10-12-6: Recommendation By Commission
10-12-7: Action By City Council
10-12-8: Resubmission Of Application
10-12-9: Zoning Upon Annexation
10-12-1: COUNCIL AUTHORITY:
Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare or good zoning
practices require, the city council may, by ordinance after receipt of
recommendation thereon from the planning and zoning commission and subject to
procedures provided by law, amend, supplement, change or repeal the
regulations, restrictions and boundaries or classification of property. (Ord.
297A, 5-5-1981)
10-12-2: INITIATION OF ZONING AMENDMENTS:
Amendments to this title may be initiated in one of the following ways:
   A.   By adoption of a motion by the commission;
   B.   By adoption of a motion by the city council; and
   C.   By the filing of an application by a property owner or a person who has
existing interest in property within the area proposed to be changed or
affected by said amendment. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-12-3: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
Applications for amendments to the official zoning map adopted as part of this
title shall contain at least the following information:
   A.   Name, address, and phone number of applicant;
   B.   Proposed amending ordinance, approved as to form by the council;
   C.   Present land use;
   D.   Present zoning district;
   E.   Proposed use;
   F.   Proposed zoning district;
   G.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the city clerk-treasurer showing
property lines, thoroughfares, existing and proposed zoning and such other
items as the city clerk-treasurer may require;
   H.   A list of all property owners and their mailing addresses who are
within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being
considered;
   I.   A statement on how the proposed amendment relates to the comprehensive
plan, availability of public facilities and compatibility with the surrounding
area; and
   J.   A fee as established by council. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-12-4: TRANSMITTAL TO COMMISSION:
Zoning districts shall be amended in the following manner:
   A.   Requests for an amendment to the zoning ordinance shall be submitted to
the commission which shall evaluate the request to determine the extent and
nature of the amendment requested;
   B.   If the request is in accordance with the adopted comprehensive plan,
the commission may recommend, and the city council may adopt or reject, the
ordinance amendment under the notice and hearing procedures as herein provided;
and
   C.   If the request is not in accordance with the adopted comprehensive
plan, the request shall be submitted to the planning and zoning commission or,
in its absence, the city council, which shall recommend and the city council
may adopt or reject an amendment to the comprehensive plan under the notice and
hearing procedures provided in Idaho Code section 67-6509. After the
comprehensive plan has been amended, the zoning ordinance may then be amended
as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-12-5: PUBLIC HEARING BY COMMISSION:
The commission shall hold a public hearing and make recommendations on proposed
zoning amendments. Zoning amendments may consist of text or map revisions.
   A.   Zoning Ordinance Text Amendment: The commission, prior to recommending
a zoning ordinance text amendment to the city council, shall conduct at least
one public hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be
heard. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of time and
place and the amendment shall be published in the official newspaper or paper
of general circulation within the jurisdiction. Following the commission's
hearing, if the commission makes a material change from what was presented at
the public hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided before the
commission forwards the amendment with its recommendation to the city council.
   B.   Zoning Ordinance Map Amendment: The commission, prior to recommending a
zoning ordinance map amendment that is in accordance with the comprehensive
plan to the city council, shall conduct at least one public hearing in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard. At least fifteen (15)
days prior to the hearing, notice of time and place and the amendment shall be
published in the official newspaper or newspaper of general circulation within
the jurisdiction. Additional notice shall be provided by mail to property
owners and residents within the land being considered, three hundred feet
(300') of the external boundaries of the land being considered, and any
additional area that may be impacted by the proposed change as determined by
the commission. When notice is required to two hundred (200) or more property
owners or residents, in lieu of the mail notification, three (3) notices in the
official newspaper or paper of general circulation is sufficient; provided
that, the third notice appears ten (10) days prior to the public hearing.
Following the commission's hearing, if the commission makes a material change
from what was presented at the public hearing, further notice and hearing shall
be provided before the commission forwards the amendment with its
recommendation to the council. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-12-6: RECOMMENDATION BY COMMISSION:
Within sixty (60) days from the receipt of the proposed amendment, the
commission shall transmit its recommendation to the city council. The
commission may recommend that the amendment be granted as requested, or it may
recommend a modification of the amendment requested, or it may recommend that
the amendment be denied. The commission shall ensure that any favorable
recommendations for amendments are in accordance with the comprehensive plan
and established goals and objectives. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-12-7: ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Conduct Of Hearing: The city council, prior to adopting, revising or
rejecting the amendment to the zoning ordinance as recommended by the
commission, shall conduct at least one public hearing using the same notice and
hearing procedures as the commission. Following the city council hearing, if
the city council makes a material change from what was presented at the public
hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided before the city council
adopts the amendment.
   B.   Acceptance Or Rejection Of Commission Recommendation: The council shall
accept the recommendation of the commission report unless rejected by a vote of
one-half (1/2) plus one of the members.
   C.   Council Specifications: Upon granting or denying an application to
amend the zoning ordinance, the city council shall specify in writing:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   D.   Approval Of Amendment: In the event the city council shall approve an
amendment, such amendment shall thereafter be made a part of this title upon
the preparation and passage of an ordinance. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-12-8: RESUBMISSION OF APPLICATION:
No application for a reclassification of any property which has been denied by
the city council shall be resubmitted in either substantially the same form or
with reference to substantially the same premises for the same purposes within
a period of one year from the date of such final action, unless there is an
amendment in the comprehensive plan which resulted from a change in conditions
as applying to the specific property under consideration. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
10-12-9: ZONING UPON ANNEXATION:
Prior to annexation of an incorporated area, the city council shall request and
receive a recommendation from the planning and zoning commission on the
proposed comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance changes for the unincorporated
area. The commission and the city council shall follow the notice and hearing
procedures provided in section 10-8-5 of this title. Concurrently or
immediately following the adoption of an ordinance of annexation, the council
shall amend the comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance. (Ord. 297A, 5-5-1981)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Administration, Enforcement And
General Provisions   1
Definitions   2
Subdivision Approval Procedure   3
Design Standards   4
Improvement Standards   5
Special Development Subdivisions   6
Vacations And Dedications   7
Variances   8
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Authority
11-1-3: Purpose
11-1-4: Jurisdiction
11-1-5: Applicability
11-1-6: Interpretation
11-1-7: Administrator, Duties
11-1-8: Severability
11-1-9: Amendment Procedure
11-1-10: Enforcement And Penalties
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as the CRAIGMONT SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE, hereinafter
referred to as "this title". (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
11-1-2: AUTHORITY:
The provisions of this title are authorized by Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13;
Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65; and Idaho constitution article XII, section 2,
as amended and subsequently codified. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
11-1-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this title is to promote the public health, safety and general
welfare, and to provide for:
   A.   The harmonious and orderly development of the area;
   B.   The coordination of streets and roads within the subdivision with other
existing or planned streets and roads;
   C.   Adequate open space for travel, light, air and recreation;
   D.   Adequate transportation, water drainage and sanitary facilities;
   E.   The avoidance of scattered subdivision of land that would result in
either of the following:
      1.   The lack of water supply, sewer service, drainage, transportation or
other public services; and
      2.   The unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of public
funds for the supply of such services;
   F.   The requirements as to the extent and the manner in which:
      1.   Roads shall be created and improved; and
      2.   Water and sewer and other utility mains, piping connections or other
facilities shall be installed;
   G.   The manner and form of making and filing of any plat; and
   H.   The administration of this title by defining the powers and duties of
authorities charged with the administration of this title. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
11-1-4: JURISDICTION:
This title shall apply to the subdividing of land within the corporate limits
of Craigmont and the designated area of city impact, as provided in Idaho Code
sections 50-1306 and 67-6526, as amended, and subsequently codified. (Ord. 290,
2-7-1979; amd. 2010 Code)
11-1-5: APPLICABILITY:
Any person desiring to create a "subdivision" as herein defined shall submit
all necessary applications to the administrator. No final plat shall be filed
with the county recorder or improvements made on the property until the plat
has been acted upon by the planning and zoning commission and approved by the
council. No lots shall be sold until the plat has been recorded in the office
of the county recorder. This title shall not apply to any lot or lots forming a
part of any subdivision platted and recorded prior to the effective date
hereof, except for the further division of those existing lots. (Ord. 290, 2-7-
1979)
11-1-6: INTERPRETATION:
This title shall supplement all other regulations, and where at variance with
other laws, regulations, ordinances, or resolutions, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
11-1-7: ADMINISTRATOR, DUTIES:
The city council shall appoint an administrator to carry out the provisions as
herein specified and to serve at the pleasure of the planning and zoning
commission. The administrator shall receive and process all subdivision
applications in accordance with the provisions of this title. The administrator
shall develop and adopt such forms and require such information as is necessary
for the processing of applications described herein. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
11-1-8: SEVERABILITY:
Where any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section, or other part
of this title is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
judgment shall affect only that part so held invalid. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
11-1-9: AMENDMENT PROCEDURE:
The city council may, from time to time, amend, supplement, or repeal the
regulations and provisions of this title in the manner prescribed by the Idaho
Code. A proposed amendment, supplement or repeal may be originated by the
council, planning and zoning commission, or by petition. All proposals not
originating with the commission shall be referred to it for a report thereon
before any action is taken on the proposal by the council. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
11-1-10: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Detection Of Violation: The administrator shall be responsible for
performing any necessary investigation to detect violations of this title.
   B.   Enforcement: No subdivision plat required by this title or the Idaho
Code shall be admitted to the public land records of the county or recorded by
the county recorder until such subdivision plat has received final approval by
the council. No public board, agency, commission, official or other authority
shall proceed with the construction of or authorize the construction of any of
the public improvements required by this title until the final plat has
received the approval by the council. The city attorney shall, in addition to
taking whatever criminal action deemed necessary, take steps to civilly enjoin
any violation of this title.
   C.   Penalties: Violation of any of the provisions of this title or failure
to comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. The landowner,
tenant, subdivider, builder, public official or any other person who commits,
participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation may each be found
guilty of a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the
council or any other public official or private citizen from taking such lawful
action as is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this title or of
the Idaho Code. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Definitions
11-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Terms or words used herein shall be interpreted as follows:
   A.   The present tense includes the past or future tense, the singular
includes the plural and the plural includes the singular;
   B.   The word "shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive; and the word
"should" is preferred; and
   C.   The masculine shall include the feminine.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ADMINISTRATOR: An official, having knowledge in the principles and practices of
subdividing, who is appointed by the city to administer this title.
BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts or parcels within well defined boundaries,
usually streets.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners.
BUILDING: A structure designed or used as the living quarters for one or more
families, or a structure designed or used for occupancy by people for
commercial or industrial uses.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: An imaginary line established by a zoning ordinance that
requires all buildings to be set back a certain distance from lot lines.
BUILDING SITE: An area proposed or provided and improved by grading, filling,
excavation or other means for erecting pads for buildings.
CEMETERY: A lot that has been platted for the selling of sites for the burial
of animal or human remains.
CITY: The city of Craigmont, Idaho.
COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission, appointed by the city council.
COMMITTEE: That technical committee, appointed by the city council upon
recommendation from the commission, to assist with the technical evaluation of
subdivisions, and to make recommendations to the commission. The membership of
the committee shall include, but not be limited to, persons that are engaged in
either private or public work with specific knowledge in the following areas:
   A.   Road design and construction;
   B.   Sewer and water facility design and construction;
   C.   Health requirements for water and sewer facilities;
   D.   Environmental planning criteria such as geology, water systems,
vegetation and noise;
   E.   Solid waste; and
   F.   Recreational and open space.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: An adopted document that herein may be referred to as a
comprehensive plan or comprehensive development plan. The document shall show
the general location and extent of present and proposed development, including,
but not limited to, housing, industrial and commercial uses, streets, parks,
schools and other community facilities.
CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of an undivided interest in common in real
property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any combination
thereof; together with a separate interest in real property, in an interest or
interests in real property or in any combination thereof.
COUNCIL: The city council of Craigmont, Idaho.
COUNTY RECORDER: The office of the county recorder.
COVENANT: A written promise or pledge.
CULVERT: A drain that channels water under a bridge, street, road or driveway.
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public by ordinance, resolution or entry in the official minutes as by the
recording of a plat. Dedicated land becomes public land upon the acceptance by
the city.
DEVELOPER: Authorized agent(s) of a subdivider or the subdivider himself.
DWELLING UNIT: Any building or other structure proposed or built for occupancy
by people.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner to specific persons or to the public to
use land for specific purposes. Also, a right acquired by prescription.
ENGINEER: Any person who is licensed in the state to practice professional
engineering.
HIGHWAY: A street designated as a "highway" by an appropriate state or federal
agency.
HILLSIDE SUBDIVISION: Any subdivision, or portion thereof, having an average
slope of ten percent (10%) or more.
IMPROVEMENT: Any alteration to the land or other physical construction
associated with subdivision and building site developments.
LOT: A parcel, plot, tract or other land area of suitable size as required in
this title and the existing zoning ordinance; and created by subdivision for
sale, transfer or lease.
LOT AREA: The area of any lot shall be determined exclusive of street, highway,
alley, road or other rights of way.
LOT TYPES: As used in this title, lot types are as follows:
   Corner Lot: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets.
   Interior Lot: A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on only one
street.
   Through Lot: A lot with frontage on more than one street other than a corner
lot.
MOBILE HOME: A detached single-family dwelling unit with all of the following
characteristics:
   A.   Designed for long term occupancy and contains sleeping accommodations,
a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath and kitchen facilities with plumbing and
electrical connections provided for attachment to outside systems;
   B.   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels, or on
flatbed or other trailers, or detached wheels; and
   C.   Arrived at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling complete,
including major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy except for
minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on foundation
supports, connection to utilities and the like.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed and intended for exclusive
mobile home residential use.
MONUMENT: Any permanent marker either of concrete, galvanized iron pipe, or
iron or steel rods, used to identify any tract, parcel, lot or street lines, as
specified in Idaho Code section 50-1303.
OPEN SPACE: Any area open to the sky for outdoor recreation activity, exclusive
of streets, buildings or other covered structures.
ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND: A lot or tract as recorded on any plat or record on
file in the office of the county recorder, or any unplatted contiguous parcel
of land held in one ownership and of record at the effective date hereof.
OWNERSHIP: The individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership or
corporation having any interest in the land to be subdivided.
PERFORMANCE BOND: An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by the
subdivider or his surety to the city clerk-treasurer which guarantees that the
subdivider will perform all actions required by the city council regarding an
approved plat, and provides that if the subdivider defaults and fails to comply
with the provisions of an approved plat, the subdivider or his surety will pay
damages up to the limit of the bond, or the surety will itself complete the
requirements of the approved plat.
PLAT: The drawing, mapping or planning of a subdivision, cemetery, townsite or
other tract of land or a replatting of such including certifications,
descriptions and approvals:
   Final Plat: The final and formal presentation by drawings of an approved
subdivision development, the original and one copy of which is filed with the
county clerk and recorder.
   Preliminary Plat: The first formal presentation by drawings of a proposed
subdivision.
RESERVE STRIP: A strip of land between a partial street and adjacent property,
which is reserved or held in public ownership for future street extension or
widening.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public way,
which normally includes streets, sidewalks and other public utilities or
service areas.
STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS: Shall be the specifications as specified in this title
or as officially adopted by the city.
STREET: A right of way which provides access to adjacent properties, the
dedication of which has been officially accepted. The term "street" also
includes the terms "highway", "thoroughfare", "parkway", "road", "avenue",
"boulevard", "lane", "place" and other such terms.
   Alley: A minor street providing secondary access at the back or side of a
property otherwise abutting a street.
   Arterial: A street designated for the purpose of carrying fast and/or heavy
traffic.
   Collector: A street designated for the purpose of carrying traffic from
minor streets to other collector streets and/or arterial streets.
   Cul-De-Sac: A street connected to another street at one end only and
provided with a turnaround space at its terminus.
   Frontage: A minor street, parallel to and adjacent to an arterial street to
provide access to abutting properties.
   Loop: A minor street with both terminal points on the same street of origin.
   Minor: A local access street which has the primary purpose of providing
access to abutting properties.
   Partial: A dedicated right of way providing only a portion of the required
street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract of land.
   Private: A street that is not accepted for public use or maintenance which
provides vehicular and pedestrian access.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
SUBDIVIDER: A subdivider shall be deemed to be the individual, firm,
corporation, partnership, association, syndicate, trust or other legal entity
that executes the application and initiates proceedings for the subdivision of
land in accordance with the provisions of this title. The subdivider need not
be the owner of the property; however, he shall be an agent of the owner or
have sufficient proprietary rights in the property to represent the owner.
SUBDIVISION: The result of an act of dividing an original lot, tract or parcel
of land into more than two (2) parts for the purpose of transfer of ownership
or development; which shall also include the dedication of a public street and
the addition to, or creation of, a cemetery. However, this title shall not
apply to any of the following:
   A.   An adjustment of lot lines as shown on a recorded plat which does not
reduce the area, frontage, width, depth or building setback lines of each
building site below the minimum zoning requirements, and does not change the
original number of lots in any block of the recorded plat;
   B.   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent or a
court decree for the distribution of property;
   C.   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as defined
and allowed in the Idaho Code;
   D.   Widening of existing streets to conform to the comprehensive plan;
   E.   The acquisition of street rights of way by a public agency in
conformance with the comprehensive plan; and
   F.   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundaries which does not result in the change of the present land usage.
   G.   The division of land into no more than eight (8) lots, tracts, or
parcels, all of which are twenty (20) acres in size or larger, which does not
involve any new street dedication, and which will remain as productive
agricultural land.
SURVEYOR: A person who is licensed in the state as a public land surveyor to do
professional surveying.
UTILITIES: Installation for conducting water, sewer, gas, electricity,
television, stormwater and similar facilities providing service to and used by
the public.
VARIANCE: A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations where
such modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing
to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of this title would result in unnecessary and
undue hardship.
VICINITY MAP: A small scale map showing the location of a tract of land in
relation to a larger area. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION APPROVAL PROCEDURE
SECTION:
11-3-1: Preapplication Meeting
11-3-2: Preliminary Plat Procedure
11-3-3: Final Plat
11-3-4: Short Plat Procedure
11-3-1: PREAPPLICATION MEETING:
   A.   Application: The subdivider shall submit a preapplication to subdivide
to enable the administrator and other public officials to review and comment on
the proposed subdivision. The purpose of the preapplication procedure is to
inform the city and its staff of the developer's proposal, and to inform the
developer of the various ordinances and standards which are applicable to the
proposed subdivision. Subdividers electing and qualifying to follow the short
plat procedures described under section
11-3-4 of this chapter are exempted from the preapplication requirements
described in this section.
   B.   Contents Of Preapplication: The preapplication shall include at least
one copy of a sketch plan in schematic form and including the following:
      1.   The existing conditions, use, and characteristics of the land on and
adjacent to the proposed subdivision.
      2.   The proposed layout and approximate dimensions of streets, blocks,
and lots in sketch form.
      3.   Any areas set aside or to be dedicated for schools, parks, or other
public facilities.
   C.   Fee: None required.
   D.   Review Of Preapplication: Within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the
preapplication, the administrator shall schedule a preapplication meeting
between the subdivider, members of the planning and zoning commission, other
interested city officials, and other persons whom the administrator deems
necessary.
   E.   Statement Of Review: The administrator shall notify the subdivider
within fifteen (15) days after the preapplication meeting of any findings and
conclusions that resulted from the meeting in respect to:
      1.   Compliance of the proposed development with applicable city
policies, objectives, plans, ordinances, statutes or regulations.
      2.   Determination of any permits or changes in ordinance that will be
required, such as rezones, before subdivision can proceed.
      3.   Identification of any hazardous areas, unique historical,
archaeological or environmental features, such as a floodplain, or unstable
slopes, that would require special engineering measures.
      4.   Any other local, regional, state, or federal agencies that the
developer should contact prior to preparing a preliminary plat. (Ord. 290, 2-7-
1979)
11-3-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application: The subdivider shall file with the administrator all
completed subdivision application forms and preliminary plat data as required
in this title.
   B.   Contents Of Subdivision Application Forms And Preliminary Plat: The
contents of subdivision application forms and the preliminary plat shall be
determined by the commission, and the administrator may also require such
additional information as he deems necessary to process subdivision
applications. The subdivider shall submit to the administrator at least the
following:
      1.   Six (6) copies of the preliminary plat of the subdivision, drawn in
accordance with the requirements hereinafter stated. Each copy of the
preliminary plat shall be on a good quality paper, with dimensions of not less
than eighteen inches by twenty four inches (18" x 24"), shall be drawn at a
scale of not less than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), and shall
include the following:
         a.   The name of the proposed subdivision.
         b.   The name(s) of the subdivider or subdividers, and the engineer,
surveyor or site planner who prepared the plat.
         c.   An arrow indicating the direction of true north and a graphic
scale indicating the distances as measured on the plat.
         d.   The date of drafting.
         e.   The names and addresses of all adjoining owners of property
whether or not bisected by a public right of way as shown on record in the
county assessor's office.
         f.   A delineation showing the location, dimensions and intended use
of all portions of the subdivision, such as: single-family residential or
mobile home park, and a delineation of any land proposed for parks,
playgrounds, schools, churches, or other public uses or dedications.
         g.   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed
subdivision to the city plotted on a Craigmont highway map.
         h.   A map of the entire area scheduled for development if the
subdivision is a portion of larger holding(s) intended for subsequent
development.
         i.   The existing zoning and land use of the proposed subdivision and
of adjacent land.
         j.   The location and dimensions of any existing or proposed streets,
alleys, or other rights of way, including those on adjacent lands.
         k.   The location of existing and proposed property lines, blocks, lot
lines and building setbacks within the subdivision.
         l.   The name(s) of any streets.
         m.   The number(s) of lots.
         n.   Contour lines, shown at five foot (5') intervals where the land
slope is greater than ten percent (10%) and at two foot (2') intervals where
land slope is ten percent (10%) or less.
         o.   The location and dimensions of any existing or proposed utility
lines; including, but not limited to, storm.
         p.   Any additional information as specified in this chapter.
      2.   Six (6) sets of preliminary engineering plans (not meant to be cross
sections or detailed designs) for streets, water lines, sewers, sidewalks, and
other required public improvements. Such engineering plans shall contain
sufficient detail to enable the administrator to make a determination as to
conformance of the proposed improvements to applicable regulations, ordinances,
and development standards.
      3.   A written application for subdivision on the appropriate forms
provided by the administrator, including:
         a.   The name of the proposed subdivision.
         b.   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the developer(s),
the landowner(s), if he is someone other than the developer, and the person who
prepared the plat.
         c.   The names and addresses of all adjoining property owners.
         d.   The legal description of the proposed parcel(s) to be developed.
         e.   A site report as required by the appropriate health district
where individual wells or septic tanks are proposed.
         f.   A copy of any existing or proposed covenants, easements, or other
deed restrictions.
         g.   A statement as to whether or not a variance, as specified in
chapter 8 of this title, will be requested with respect to any provisions of
this title, describing the particular provision, the variance requested, and
the reasons therefor.
      4.   Additional information that sufficiently describes any natural
hazards that might affect the development, and any unique cultural or natural
features that will be altered by the development. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
   C.   Fee: At the time of submission of an application for approval of the
preliminary plat, a fee, as set by resolution of the city council, per lot,
shall be paid. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Administrator:
      1.   Certification: Upon receipt of the preliminary plat, and all other
required data as provided for herein, the administrator shall certify the
application as complete and shall affix the date of application acceptance
thereon. He shall, thereafter, place the preliminary plat on the agenda for
consideration at the next regular meeting of the commission which is held no
less than ten (10) days after said date of certification nor more than forty
five (45) days thereafter.
      2.   Review by Other Agencies: The administrator may refer the
preliminary plat and application to as many agencies as deemed necessary. Such
agencies may include the following:
         a.   Other governing bodies having joint jurisdiction.
         b.   The appropriate utility companies, irrigation companies or
districts and drainage districts.
         c.   The superintendent of the school district.
         d.   Other agencies or individuals having an interest in the proposed
subdivision.
      3.   Administrator Review: Prior to consideration of the application and
preliminary plat by the commission, the administrator shall review the
application and other required information and shall report to the commission
as to:
         a.   The conformance or conflict of the proposed subdivision with the
comprehensive plan, subdivision ordinance, zoning ordinance, and other related
city ordinances and policies;
         b.   The conformance or conflicts of the proposed subdivision with
existing streets, water and sewer lines, and other rights of way;
         c.   Any written correspondence that has been received by the city
from agencies or individuals commenting on the subdivision proposal;
         d.   Any other pertinent information that the administrator deems
appropriate to the commission's review of the proposed subdivision.
   E.   Notification:
      1.   Notification To Property Owners: The administrator shall notify all
adjoining property owners who appear on the list of property owner's names and
addresses that has been provided by the subdivider. Such written notification
shall be mailed at least ten (10) days prior to the commission meeting.
      2.   Failure To Notify: The administrator's failure to comply with the
notification provision shall not invalidate the commission's action, provided
the spirit of the procedure is observed.
   F.   Commission Action:
      1.   Hearing By Commission: Within no less than ten (10) days and no more
than forty five (45) days of the date of certification of the application, the
commission shall hold a public hearing to review the preliminary plat, and to
solicit comments from concerned persons and agencies.
      2.   Commission's Findings: In determining the acceptance of a proposed
subdivision, the commission shall consider the objectives of this title and the
following:
         a.   The conformance of the subdivision with the comprehensive
development plan, zoning ordinance, subdivision ordinance, and other related
city ordinances and policies;
         b.   The availability of public services to accommodate the proposed
development;
         c.   The continuity of the proposed development with the capital
improvement plan of the city, and other units of local, state and federal
government;
         d.   The public financial capability of supporting services for the
proposed development;
         e.   The other health, safety or environmental considerations that may
be brought to the commission's attention.
      3.   Action On Preliminary Plat: The commission may approve, approve
conditionally, disapprove, or table the preliminary plat for additional
information. Such action shall occur within thirty (30) days of the date of the
regular meeting at which the plat is first considered by the commission. The
action, and the reasons for such action shall be stated in writing by the
administrator, and forwarded to the applicant. The administrator shall also
forward a statement of the action taken and the reasons for such action,
together with a copy of the preliminary plat, to the council for their
information and record.
   G.   Appeals: Any person or aggrieved party who appeared in person or
writing before the commission, or the subdivider, may appeal in writing the
decision of the commission relative to the final action taken by the
commission. Such appeal must be submitted to the administrator within ten (10)
days from such commission action.
   H.   Approval Period:
      1.   Failure to file and obtain the certification of the acceptance of
the final plat application by the administrator within one year after action by
the commission shall cause all approvals of said preliminary plat to be null
and void, unless an extension of time is applied for by the subdivider and
granted by the commission.
      2.   In the event that the development of the preliminary plat is made in
successive contiguous segments in an orderly and reasonable manner, and
conforms substantially to the approved preliminary plat, such segments, if
submitted within successive intervals of one year, may be considered for final
approval without resubmission for preliminary plat approval. (Ord. 290, 2-7-
1979)
11-3-3: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Application: After the approval or conditional approval of the
preliminary plat, the subdivider may cause the total parcel, or any part
thereof, to be surveyed and a final plat prepared in accordance with the
approved preliminary plat.
   B.   Contents Of Subdivision Application Forms, Engineering Drawings And
Final Plat: The contents of the final subdivision application forms, drawings,
and final plat shall be determined by the commission, and shall be in
compliance with all items required under Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13. The
subdivider shall submit to the administrator at least the following:
      1.   Three (3) copies of the final plat of the subdivision, drawn at such
a scale and containing lettering of such a size as to enable the same to be
placed on one sheet of eighteen inch by twenty four inch (18" x 24") drawing
paper, with no part of the drawing nearer to the edge than one inch (1"). The
reverse of said sheet shall not be used for any portion of the drawings, but
may contain written matter as to dedications, certifications, and other
information. The final plat shall include:
         a.   The date, name, and location of the subdivision;
         b.   An arrow indicating the direction of true north and a graphic
scale indicating distances as measured on the plat;
         c.   The date of drafting;
         d.   The dimensions and bearings of boundary lines of property;
         e.   Sufficient engineering data to reproduce any line on the ground;
         f.   The widths, centerlines, and names of existing and proposed
streets, alleys, and sidewalks;
         g.   The location and widths of existing and proposed utility,
drainage, and the rights of way;
         h.   The lot numbers;
         i.   The type, specification, and location of monuments in the
proposed subdivision;
         j.   The dimensions and bearings of setback lines.
      2.   Three (3) copies of final engineering construction drawings for
streets, water, sewers, sidewalks, and other public improvements. The final
engineering construction drawings shall include the following:
         a.   The type, dimensions and construction materials of streets,
alleys, sidewalks, curbs, and gutters;
         b.   The type, dimension, and construction materials of water, storm,
and sanitary sewer lines and distribution system;
         c.   The type and placement of street lighting;
         d.   The type, dimensions, and construction materials of gas,
electric, cable TV, and telephone lines; and
         e.   The contours and configuration of proposed grading and drainage
of lots in the subdivision.
      3.   Three (3) copies of final subdivision application forms which shall
include the following information:
         a.   Proof of current ownership of the real property included in the
proposed plat;
         b.   The name, address, and signature of the subdivider and owner;
         c.   The name, address, and signature of the surveyor and engineer;
         d.   Restrictive covenants and any other existing or proposed deed
restrictions on the property being subdivided;
         e.   Legal certifications by the proper elected officials pertaining
to any public dedications;
         f.   Proper guarantees that all improvements shown in the proposed
plat will be constructed. Such guarantees will be in the form of a performance
bond with an escalator clause to cover increased costs from inflation. (Ord.
290, 2-7-1979)
   C.   Fee: At the time of submission of an application for a final plat, a
fee as set by resolution of the city council, per lot, shall be paid. (Ord.
290, 2-7-1979; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Administrator Review:
      1.   Acceptance: Upon receipt of the final plat, and compliance with all
other requirements as provided for herein, the administrator shall certify the
application as complete and shall affix the date of acceptance thereon.
      2.   Resubmittal Of Final Plat: The administrator shall review the final
plat for compliance with the approved or conditionally approved preliminary
plat. If the administrator determines that there is substantial difference in
the final plat than that which was approved as preliminary plat or conditions
which have not been met, the administrator may require that the final plat be
submitted to the commission in the same manner as required in the preliminary
plat process.
      3.   Submission To Council: Upon the determination that the final plat is
in compliance with the preliminary plat and all conditional requirements have
been met, the administrator shall place the final plat on the agenda within
forty five (45) days from the date that an acceptable final plat application
was received and acknowledged by the administrator.
   E.   Agency Review: The administrator may transmit one copy of the final
plat, or other documents submitted, for review and recommendation to the city
departments and other agencies as he deems necessary to ensure compliance with
the preliminary approval and/or conditions of preliminary approval. Such agency
review may also include the construction standards of improvements, compliance
with health standards, the cost estimate for all improvements and the legal
review of the performance bond.
   F.   Council Action: The council, at its next meeting following receipt of
the administrator's report, shall consider the commission's findings, and
comments from concerned persons and agencies to arrive at a decision on the
final plat. The council shall approve, approve conditionally, disapprove, or
table the final plat for additional information within thirty (30) days of the
date of the regular meeting at which the plat is first considered. A copy of
the approved plat shall be filed with the administrator.
   G.   Approval Period: Final plat shall be filed with the county recorder
within one year after written approval by the council. Otherwise, such approval
shall become null and void unless, prior to said expiration date, an extension
of time is applied for by the subdivider and granted by the council.
   H.   Method Of Recording: Upon approval of the final plat by the council,
the subdivider's prepayment of recording fees for construction of off site
improvements or posting of surety bond, and the inclusion of the following
signatures on the final plat, the administrator shall submit the final plat to
the Lewis County recorder for recording:
      1.   Certification and signature of the council verifying that the
subdivision has been approved.
      2.   Certification and signature of the city clerk-treasurer, if
required, verifying that the subdivision meets the city requirements and has
been approved by the council.
      3.   Certification of the sanitation restrictions on the face of the plat
per Idaho Code section 50-1326. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
11-3-4: SHORT PLAT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application: The subdivider may request that the subdivision
application be processed as both a preliminary and final plat if all of the
following conditions exist:
      1.   The proposed subdivision does not exceed three (3) lots;
      2.   No new street dedications or widening is included; and
      3.   All required information as specified in sections 11-3-2 and 11-3-
3 of this chapter for both the preliminary and final plats is complete and in
an acceptable form. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
   B.   Fee: At the time of submission of the plat, a fee as set by resolution
of the city council, per lot, shall be paid. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979; amd. 2010
Code)
   C.   Commission Action: The commission, at its next regular meeting
following receipt of the application, shall consider the information provided
by the subdivider, and any comments from concerned parties to arrive at a
decision on the plat. If the commission's conclusion is favorable to the
subdivider's request for consideration as both a preliminary and final plat,
then a recommendation shall be forwarded to the council in the same manner as
specified herein for a final plat.
   D.   Council Action, Approval And Recording: Procedures for council action,
approval and recording shall be the same as those specified for a final plat.
(Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Minimum Design Standards Required
11-4-2: Dedication
11-4-3: Location
11-4-4: Specifications
11-4-5: Street Names
11-4-6: Intersections
11-4-7: Pedestrian Walkways
11-4-8: Easements
11-4-9: Blocks
11-4-10: Lots
11-4-11: Reserve Strips
11-4-12: Protective Covenants
11-4-1: MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS REQUIRED:
   A.   Compliance: All plats submitted pursuant to the provisions of this
title, and all subdivisions, improvements and facilities done, constructed or
made in accordance with said provisions shall comply with the minimum design
standards set forth hereinafter in this chapter; provided, however, that any
higher standards adopted by any highway district, state highway department or
health agency shall prevail over those set forth herein.
   B.   Consideration: In order to ensure the reasonable and beneficial
development of land within the jurisdiction of this title, the planning and
zoning commission and the city council shall give consideration to the
following:
      1.   The intent and design of the proposed plat shall be in accordance
with the provisions of the comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance.
      2.   Design and development of subdivisions shall preserve, insofar as
possible, the natural terrain, natural drainage, existing topsoil, and trees.
      3.   Land, which the commission working in conjunction with local, state,
and federal agencies known to be subject to hazardous conditions such as
threats of flood, poor drainage, steep or unstable slopes, or other conditions
that might threaten the safety and general welfare of future residents or
residents of adjacent property, shall not be subdivided and developed until
adequate provisions have been made to eliminate these hazardous conditions.
(Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
11-4-2: DEDICATION:
Within a proposed subdivision, all streets and alleyways as shown on the
comprehensive plan shall be dedicated to the public; in general, all other
streets shall also be dedicated to public use. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
11-4-3: LOCATION:
Street and road location shall conform to the following:
   A.   Street Location And Arrangements: All streets in subdivisions shall
conform to the comprehensive plan.
   B.   Local Access Streets: Such streets shall be so arranged as to
discourage their use by through traffic.
   C.   Stub Streets: Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement
of streets in new subdivisions shall be such that said streets extend to the
boundary line of the tract to make possible the future extension of said
streets into adjacent areas. A reserve strip may be required and held in public
ownership.
   D.   Relation To Topography: Streets shall be arranged in relation to
topography so as to result in usable lots, safe streets and acceptable
gradients.
   E.   Alleys: Alleys shall be provided in multiple dwelling or commercial
subdivisions unless other provisions are made for service access and off street
loading and parking. Dead end alleys shall be avoided if at all possible.
   F.   Cul-De-Sac Streets: Cul-de-sac streets shall not be more than five
hundred feet (500') in length and shall terminate with an adequate turnaround
having a minimum radius of fifty feet (50') for right of way.
   G.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited except where unusual
circumstances make such necessary to the reasonable development of a tract in
conformance with this title and where satisfactory assurance for dedication of
the remaining part of the street is provided. Whenever a tract to be subdivided
borders on an existing half or partial street, the other part of the street
shall be dedicated within such tract. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
11-4-4: SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Street Right Of Way Widths: Street and road right of way widths shall
conform to the comprehensive plan and the standards of the state department of
highways and the highway district having jurisdiction; minimum rights of way
standards are as follows:
 
                              Width Of          Width Of
             Right Of Way (In Surfacing And     Surfacing (In Number Of Moving
             Ft.)             Usable Shoulders  Ft.)          Lanes
                              (In Ft.)
Collector    60               40                40            2
Local access 60               40                24            2
road
 
   B.   Street Grades: Street grades shall not exceed six percent (6%) on local
access streets, and four percent (4%) on collector streets.
   C.   Alignment: Street alignment shall be as follows:
      1.   Horizontal Alignment: When a street centerline curves by more than
ten degrees (10°) in alignment, the centerline shall follow a curve having a
minimum radius of five hundred feet (500') for collector streets, and three
hundred feet (300') for local access streets.
      2.   Reverse Curves: Between reverse curves on collector streets, there
shall be a minimum tangent distance of two hundred feet (200').
      3.   Vertical Alignment: Minimum stopping sight distance shall be two
hundred feet (200') for local access streets and designed in accordance with
design speed for collector streets.
   D.   Street Composition:
      1.   Gravel Streets: A minimum of an eight inch (8") pitrock base and a
six inch (6") gravel cover shall be required for all streets.
      2.   Paved Streets: If paving is desired, a minimum of an eight inch (8")
pitrock base, a six inch (6") gravel cover, and a minimum of two and one-half
inch (21/2") layer of bituminous pavement shall be required. (Ord. 290, 2-7-
1979)
11-4-5: STREET NAMES:
Street names shall not duplicate any existing street name within the city
except where a new street is a continuation of an existing street; street names
that may be spelled differently but sound the same as existing streets shall
not be used. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979; amd. 2010 Code)
11-4-6: INTERSECTIONS:
Intersections shall conform to the following:
   A.   Angle Of Intersection: Streets shall intersect at ninety degrees (90°)
or as closely thereto as possible, and in no case shall streets intersect at
less than seventy degrees (70°).
   B.   Sight Triangles: Minimum clear sight distance at all minor street
intersections shall permit vehicles to be visible to the driver of another
vehicle when each is fifty feet (50') from the center of the intersection.
   C.   Number Of Streets: No more than two (2) streets shall cross at any one
intersection.
   D.   "T" Intersections: "T" intersections may be used wherever such design
will not restrict the free movement of traffic.
   E.   Centerline Offsets: Street centerlines shall be off set by a distance
of at least one hundred twenty five feet (125').
   F.   Vertical Alignment Of Intersection: A nearly flat grade with
appropriate drainage slopes is desirable within intersections. This flat
section shall be extended a minimum of sixty feet (60') each way from the
intersection. An allowance of two percent (2%) maximum intersection grade in
rolling terrain, and three percent (3%) in hilly terrain, will be permitted.
(Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
11-4-7: PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS:
Right of way for pedestrian walkways may be required where necessary to obtain
convenient pedestrian circulation to schools, parks or shopping areas; the
pedestrian easement shall be at least ten feet (10') wide. Paved sidewalks
shall be constructed in accordance with city standards and shall be four feet
(4') wide. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
11-4-8: EASEMENTS:
Unobstructed utility easements shall be provided along front lot lines, rear
lot lines, and side lot lines when deemed necessary; total easement width shall
not be less than twelve feet (12'). Unobstructed drainageway easements shall be
provided as required by the council. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
11-4-9: BLOCKS:
Blocks shall be so designed as to provide two (2) tiers of lots, except where
lots back onto an arterial street, natural feature, or subdivision boundary;
blocks shall not be less than three hundred feet (300') long in all cases.
Every block shall be designed to be compatible with the existing grid, and to
provide adequate means for vehicular movement and emergency access. (Ord. 290,
2-7-1979)
11-4-10: LOTS:
Lots shall conform to the following:
   A.   The lot width, depth and total area shall not be less than the
requirements of any applicable zoning ordinances.
   B.   No lot shall be divided by a public road, street or alley.
   C.   Where individual sewer, and/or water systems are authorized by the
council, lot sizes shall be adequate to meet health and sanitation
requirements.
   D.   Where parcels of land are subdivided into unusually large lots (such as
when large lots are approved for septic tanks), the parcels shall be divided,
where feasible, so as to allow for future resubdividing into smaller parcels.
Lot arrangements shall allow for the ultimate extensions of adjacent streets
through the middle of wide blocks. Whenever such future subdividing or lot
splitting is contemplated, the plan thereof shall be approved by the commission
prior to the taking of such action. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
11-4-11: RESERVE STRIPS:
   A.   Private: Privately held reserve strips controlling access to streets
shall be prohibited.
   B.   Public: A reserve strip may be required to be placed along half streets
which are within the subdivision boundaries and shall be deeded in fee simple
to the city for future street widening. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
11-4-12: PROTECTIVE COVENANTS:
   A.   Commission Review: Prior to approval of any plat, the commission shall
review and approve any covenants attached to the proposed subdivision.
   B.   Criteria For Review: In reviewing covenants, the commission shall
consider the following:
      1.   The consistency of the covenants with the comprehensive plan.
      2.   The consistency of the covenants with the zoning ordinance,
subdivision ordinance, and related city ordinances. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
CHAPTER 5
IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Responsibility For Plans
11-5-2: Required Public Improvements
11-5-3: Guarantee Of Completion Of Improvements
11-5-1: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PLANS:
It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed subdivision
to have prepared by a registered engineer, a complete set of construction
plans, including profiles, cross sections, specifications, and other supporting
data, for all required public streets, utilities and other public facilities as
required in this title. Such construction plans shall be based on preliminary
plans, which have been approved with the preliminary plat, and shall be
prepared in conjunction with the final plat. Construction plans are subject to
approval by the responsible public agencies, and shall be prepared in
accordance with the public agencies' standards or specifications. (Ord. 290, 2-
7-1979)
11-5-2: REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Every subdivider shall be required to install the following public and other
improvements in accordance with the conditions and specifications as follows:
   A.   Monuments: Monuments shall be set in accordance with Idaho Code section
50-1303.
   B.   Streets And Alleys: All streets and alleys shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the council, as
specified in
chapter 4 of this title.
   C.   Curbs And Gutters: Rolled curbs and gutters shall be constructed on all
streets. All construction shall be in accordance with the standards and
specifications adopted by the council, pursuant to this chapter.
   D.   Installation Of Public Utilities: Underground utilities are encouraged
and may be required by the council. All utilities shall be constructed in
designated utility easements.
   E.   Driveways: All driveway openings in curbs shall be as specified by the
street commissioner.
   F.   Storm Drainage: An adequate storm drainage system shall be required in
all subdivisions. The requirements for each particular subdivision shall be
established by the commission. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
   G.   Public Water Supply System: All water supplied to subdivisions in the
corporate limits for culinary and other domestic uses shall be an extension of
the existing municipal water supply system. Water supply of any subdivisions
outside the city shall be reviewed on a case by case basis to determine whether
city water supply or supply through some other source is desirable. In the
instance of subdivision in which the developer does not propose connection to
the municipal system, the developer shall provide evidence that the extension
is not feasible. Idaho Code section 50-1326 requires that all water plans be
submitted to the state department of environmental quality or its authorized
agent for approval.
   H.   Public Sewer System: For subdivisions within the corporate limits, all
lines proposed for collection of sewer shall be connected to the municipal
sewer system. Sewerage collection and treatment for subdivisions outside the
city shall be reviewed on a case by case basis to determine the feasibility of
connecting to the city sewer system. The developer shall provide evidence of
the cost and feasibility of alternative sewerage collection and treatment
systems. Idaho Code section 50-1326 requires that all sewer plans be submitted
to the state department of environmental quality or its authorized agent for
approval.
   I.   Fire Hydrants And Water Mains: Adequate fire protection shall be
required in all subdivisions, as specified by the council.
   J.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall be installed by the city in
the appropriate locations at each street intersection. A fee as set by
resolution of the city council, per street sign, shall be paid by the
subdivider. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979; amd. 2010 Code)
   K.   Sidewalks And Pedestrian Walkways: Sidewalks shall be required on one
side of the street, except along collector streets, or where access to schools
requires sidewalks on both sides of the street. Sidewalks and crosswalks shall
be constructed on utility easements and in accordance with the standards as
specified in
chapter 4 of this title.
   L.   Street Lighting: Installation of streetlights shall be required at
intersections throughout the subdivision. Street lighting shall be installed by
the public utility providing such lighting. The developer shall bear the cost
of the lighting and installation. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
11-5-3: GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Financial Guarantee Arrangements: In lieu of the actual installation of
required public improvements before filing of the final plat, the council may
permit the subdivider to provide a financial guarantee of performance in one or
a combination of the arrangements provided for in this section for those
requirements of any other agency responsible for the administration, operation
and maintenance of the applicable public improvement.
   B.   Surety Bond:
      1.   Accrual: The bond shall accrue to the city covering construction,
operation and maintenance of the specific public improvement.
      2.   Amount: The bond shall be in an amount equal to one hundred ten
percent (110%) of the total estimated cost for completing construction of the
specific public improvement as approved by the council.
      3.   Term Length: The term length in which the bond is in force shall be
for a period to be specified by the council for the specific public
improvement.
      4.   Bond With Surety Company: The bond shall be with a surety company
authorized to do business in the state of Idaho, acceptable to the council.
      5.   Escrow Agreement: The escrow agreement shall be drawn and furnished
by the council.
   C.   Cash Deposit, Certified Check, Negotiable Bond, Irrevocable Bank Letter
Of Credit:
      1.   Treasurer, Escrow Agent Or Trust Company: A cash deposit, certified
check, negotiable bond, or an irrevocable bank letter of credit, such surety
acceptable by the council shall be deposited with an escrow agent or trust
company.
      2.   Dollar Value: The dollar value of the cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond, or an irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be equal to one
hundred ten percent (110%) of the estimated cost of construction for the
specific public improvement, as approved by the council.
      3.   Escrow Time: The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond, or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be for a period to
be specified by the council.
      4.   Progressive Payment: In the case of cash deposits or certified
checks, an agreement between the council and the subdivider may provide for
progressive payments out of the cash deposit or reduction of the certified
check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit, to the extent of
the cost of the completed portion of the public improvement, in accordance with
a previously entered into agreement.
   D.   Conditional Approval Of Final Plat: With respect to financial
guarantees, the approval of all final subdivision plats shall be conditioned on
the accomplishment of one of the following:
      1.   The construction of improvements required by this title shall have
been completed by the subdivider and approved by the council.
      2.   Surety acceptable to the council shall have been filed in the form
of a cash deposit, certified check, a negotiable bond, irrevocable bank letter
of credit or surety bond.
   E.   Inspection Of Public Improvements Under Construction: Before approving
a final plat and construction plans and specifications for public improvements,
an agreement between the subdivider and council shall be made to provide for
inspecting the construction and its conformity to the submitted plans.
   F.   Penalty In Case Of Failure To Complete Construction: In the event the
subdivider shall, in any case, fail to complete such work within the period of
time as required by the conditions of the guarantee for the completion of
public improvements, it shall be the responsibility of the council to proceed
to have such work completed. In order to accomplish this, the council shall
reimburse itself for the cost and expense thereof by appropriating the cash
deposit, certified check, irrevocable bank letter of credit, or negotiable bond
which the subdivider may have deposited in lieu of a surety bond, or may take
such steps as may be necessary to require performance by the bonding or surety
company, and as included in a written agreement between the council and the
subdivider. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
CHAPTER 6
SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Purpose
11-6-2: Hillside Subdivision
11-6-3: Mobile Home Subdivisions
11-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to identify two (2) types of developments that
normally pose special concerns to the commission and elected officials when
reviewing and acting upon subdivision requests. This chapter outlines the plan
submittal requirements and design standards that shall be taken into
consideration when acting on special developments. The provisions of this
chapter are in addition to the plan requirements, design standards and
improvement standards that are required by chapters
3,
4 and
5 of this title. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
11-6-2: HILLSIDE SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Appearance And Preservation: In order to preserve, retain, enhance and
promote the existing and future appearance, natural topographic features,
qualities and resources of hillsides, special consideration shall be given to
the following:
      1.   Skyline and ridge tops;
      2.   Rolling grassy land forms, including knolls, ridges and meadows;
      3.   Tree and shrub masses, grass, wild flowers and top soil;
      4.   Rock outcroppings;
      5.   Streambeds, draws and drainage swells, especially where tree and
plant formations occur; and
      6.   Characteristic vistas and scenic panoramas.
   B.   Hillside Development Evaluation:
      1.   Definition: For the purpose of this title, a "hillside subdivision"
shall be defined as any subdivision, or portion thereof, having an average
slope of ten percent (10%) or more.
      2.   All development proposals shall take into account and shall be
judged by the way in which land use planning, soil mechanics, engineering
geology, hydrology, civil engineering, environmental and civic design,
architectural and landscape design are applied in hillside areas, including,
but not limited to:
         a.   Planning of development to fit the topography soils, geology,
hydrology and other conditions existing on the proposed site;
         b.   Orientation of development on the site so that grading and other
site preparation is kept to an absolute minimum;
         c.   Shaping of essential grading to blend with natural landforms and
to minimize the necessity of padding and/or terracing of building sites;
         d.   Division of large tracts into small workable units on which
construction can be completed as quickly as possible, so that large areas are
not left bare and exposed during the winter- spring runoff period;
         e.   Completion of paving as rapidly as possible after grading;
         f.   Allocation of areas not well suited for development because of
soil, geology or hydrology limitations for open space and recreation uses;
         g.   Minimizing disruption of existing plant and animal life; and
         h.   Consideration of the view from and of the hills. Areas having
soil, geology or hydrology hazards shall not be developed unless it is shown
that their limitations can be overcome; that significant hazard to life or
property will not exist; that the safety, use or stability of a public way or
drainage channel is not jeopardized; and that the natural environment is not
subject to undue impact.
   C.   Engineering Plans:
      1.   Soils Report: For any proposed hillside development, a soils
engineering report shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report
shall include data regarding the nature, distribution and strength of existing
soils, conclusions and recommendations for grading procedures, design criteria
for corrective measures, and opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy
of sites to be developed.
      2.   Geology Report: For any proposed hillside development, a geology
report shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report shall include
an adequate description of site geology and an evaluation of the relationship
between the proposed development and the underlying geology and recommendations
for remedial remedies.
      3.   Hydrology Report: For any proposed hillside development, a hydrology
report shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report shall include
an adequate description of the hydrology, conclusions and recommendations
regarding the effect of hydrologic conditions on the proposed development, and
opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to be developed.
   D.   Grading Plan:
      1.   A preliminary grading plan shall be submitted with each hillside
preliminary plat proposal and shall include the following information:
         a.   Approximate limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to
be achieved by the grading, including all cut and fill slopes, proposed
drainage channels and related construction;
         b.   Preliminary plans and approximate locations of all surface and
subsurface drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs
and other protective devices to be constructed.
      2.   A final grading plan shall be submitted with each final plat and
shall include the following information:
         a.   Limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to be achieved
by the grading, including all proposed cut and fill slopes, and proposed
drainage channels and related construction;
         b.   Detailed plans and locations of all surface and subsurface
drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs and other
protective devices to be constructed.
   E.   Development Standards:
      1.   Soils:
         a.   Fill areas shall be prepared by removing organic material, such
as vegetation and rubbish, and any other material which is determined by the
soils engineer to be detrimental to proper compaction or otherwise not
conducive to stability.
         b.   Fills shall be compacted to at least ninety five percent (95%) of
maximum density.
         c.   Cut slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one
vertical (2:1); subsurface drainage shall be provided as necessary for
stability.
         d.   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one
vertical (2:1); fill slopes shall not be located on natural slopes two to one
(2:1) or steeper, or where fill slopes toe out within twelve feet (12')
horizontally of the top of an existing or planned cut slope.
         e.   Tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from
property boundaries a distance of three feet (3') plus one-fifth (1/5) of the
height of the cut or fill, but need not exceed a horizontal distance of ten
feet (10'); tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from
structures a distance of six feet (6') plus one-fifth (1/5) the height of the
cut or fill, but need not exceed ten feet (10').
      2.   Roadways:
         a.   Road alignments should follow natural terrain and no unnecessary
cuts or fills shall be allowed in order to create additional lots or building
sites.
         b.   One-way streets shall be permitted and encouraged where
appropriate for the terrain and where public safety would not be jeopardized.
Maximum width shall be seventeen feet (17') between the backs and curbs.
         c.   The width of the graded section shall extend three feet (3')
beyond the curb back or edge of pavement on both the cut and fill sides of the
roadway. If sidewalk is to be installed parallel to the roadway, the graded
section shall be increased by the width of the sidewalk plus one foot (1')
beyond the curb back.
         d.   Standard six inch (6") rolled curb and gutter shall be installed
along both sides of all paved roadways.
         e.   A pedestrian walkway plan shall be required.
      3.   Driveways And Parking: Combinations of collective private driveways,
cluster parking areas and on street parallel parking bays shall be used to
attempt to optimize the objectives of minimum soil disturbance, minimum
impervious cover, excellence of design and aesthetic sensitivity.
   F.   Vegetation And Revegetation: Vegetation sufficient to stabilize the
soil shall be established on all disturbed areas as each stage of grading is
completed.
   G.   Maintenance: The owner of any private property on which grading or
other work has been performed pursuant to a grading plan approved or a building
permit granted under the provisions of this title shall continuously maintain
and repair all graded surfaces and erosion prevention devices, retaining walls,
drainage structures or other means, and other protective devices, plantings and
ground cover installed or completed. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
11-6-3: MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   General: Mobile home subdivisions shall be subject to any requirements
set forth in the zoning ordinance.
   B.   Special Requirements: Mobile home subdivisions shall be subject to the
following special requirements:
      1.   Developed with a minimum lot area for the planned development of
five (5) acres;
      2.   Screening from adjacent areas, other than subdivisions of the same
type, by aesthetically acceptable fences, walls, living planting areas and
existing natural or manmade barriers; and
      3.   Creation of a homeowners' association to assure that all common
areas are adequately maintained. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
CHAPTER 7
VACATIONS AND DEDICATIONS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Application Procedure
11-7-2: Action
11-7-1: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application: Any property owner desiring to vacate an existing
subdivision, public right of way or easement, or desiring to dedicate a street
right of way or easement shall complete and file an application with the
administrator. These provisions shall not apply to the widening of any street
which is shown in the comprehensive development plan, or the dedication of
streets, rights of way or easements to be shown on a recorded subdivision.
   B.   Administrator Action: Upon receipt of any completed application, the
administrator shall affix the date of application acceptance thereon. The
administrator shall place the application on the agenda for consideration at
the next regular meeting of the planning and zoning commission which is held
not less than fifteen (15) days after said date of acceptance. (Ord. 290, 2-7-
1979)
11-7-2: ACTION:
   A.   Commission Recommendation: The commission shall review the request and
all agency responses and make a recommendation to the council for either
approval, conditional approval or denial.
   B.   Council Action:
      1.   When considering an application for vacation procedures, the council
shall establish a date for a public hearing and give such public notice as
required by law. The council may approve, deny or modify the application.
Whenever public rights of way or lands are vacated, the council shall provide
adjacent property owners with quit claim deeds for the vacated rights of way in
such proportions as are prescribed by law.
      2.   When considering an application for dedication procedures, the
council may approve, deny or modify the application. When a dedication is
approved, the required street improvements shall be constructed or a bond
furnished assuring the construction, prior to acceptance of the dedication. To
complete the acceptance of any dedication of land, the owner shall furnish to
the council a deed describing and conveying such lands to be recorded with the
county recorder. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
CHAPTER 8
VARIANCES
SECTION:
11-8-1: Purpose
11-8-2: Findings
11-8-1: PURPOSE:
The planning and zoning commission may recommend to the city council, as a
result of unique circumstances such as topographic- physical limitations, a
variance from the provisions of this title on a finding that undue hardship
results from the strict compliance with specific provisions or requirements of
this title or that application of such provision or requirement is
impracticable. (Ord. 290, 2-7-1979)
11-8-2: FINDINGS:
No variance shall be favorably acted upon by the council unless there is a
finding upon recommendation by the commission, as a result of a public hearing,
that all of the following exist:
   A.   That there are such special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property that the strict application of the provisions of this title would
clearly be impracticable or unreasonable; in such cases, the subdivider shall
first state his reasons in writing as to the specific provision or requirement
involved.
   B.   That strict compliance with the requirements of this title would result
in extraordinary hardship to the subdivider or detrimental to the public
welfare because of unusual topography, other physical conditions, or other such
conditions would result in inhibiting the achievement of the objectives of this
title.
   C.   That the granting of the specified variance will not be detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to other property in the vicinity in which the
property is situated.
   D.   That such variance will not violate the provisions of the Idaho Code.
   E.   That such variance will not have the effect of nullifying the interest
and purpose of this title and the general comprehensive plan. (Ord. 290, 2-7-
1979)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
Flood Damage Prevention   1
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose, And Objectives
12-1-1:    Statutory Authorization
12-1-2: Finding Of Fact
12-1-3:    Statement Of Purpose
12-1-4:    Objectives And Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
Definitions
12-1-5:    Definitions
General Provisions
12-1-6:    Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
12-1-7:    Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
12-1-8:    Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
12-1-9:    Compliance And Penalties
12-1-10: Disclaimer Of Liability
12-1-11: Severability
Administration
12-1-12: Establishment Of Development Permit
12-1-13: Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator
12-1-14: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
12-1-15: General Standards
12-1-16: Specific Standards
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT,
PURPOSE, AND OBJECTIVES
12-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The Legislature of the State of Idaho has in Title 46-1020, 46-1023 and 46-
1024, Idaho Code delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to
adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general
welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the City Council of Craigmont, Idaho does
ordain as follows: (Res. 1061, 11-1-2022)
12-1-2: FINDING OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of Craigmont are subject to periodic inundation
that results in:
      1.   Loss of life and property;
      2.   Health and safety hazards;
      3.   Disruption of commerce and governmental services;
      4.   Extraordinary public expenditures for flood relief and protection;
and
      5.   Impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public
health, safety, and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused by development in flood hazard areas,
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages, and by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains
causing increases in flood heights and velocities.
   C.   Local government units have the primary responsibility for planning,
adopting, and enforcing land use regulations to accomplish proper floodplain
management. (Res. 1061, 11-1-2022)
12-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due of flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed:
   A.   To protect human life and health;
   B.   To minimize expenditure of public money and costly flood control
projects;
   C.   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in areas of special flood hazard;
   F.   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
   G.   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard; and
   H.   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions. (Res. 1061, 11-1-2022)
12-1-4: OBJECTIVES AND METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purpose, this chapter includes methods and
provisions to:
   A.   Require that development which is vulnerable to floods, including
structures and facilities necessary for the general health, safety, and welfare
of citizens, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   B.   Restrict or prohibit development which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights,
velocities, or erosion;
   C.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage or erosion;
   D.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands;
   E.   Preserve and restore natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural
protective barriers which carry and store flood waters. (Res. 1061, 11-1-2022)
DEFINITIONS
12-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted according to the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY AND AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURES (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE): A structure on
the same lot or parcel as a principal structure, the use of which is incidental
and subordinate to the principal structure.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: See Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one (1) percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): A determination by the Federal Insurance
Administrator of the water surface elevations of the base flood, that is, the
flood level that has a one percent or greater chance of occurrence in any given
year. When the BFE has not been provided in a Special Flood Hazard Area, it may
be obtained from engineering studies available from a Federal, State, or other
source using FEMA-approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when
combined with the Freeboard, establishes the Flood Protection Elevation.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor sub grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: See Structure.
DEVELOPMENT: Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment and materials located within the area of special flood hazard.
FLOOD OR FLOODING:
   A.   General and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from:
      1.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
      2.   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
      3.   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding
as defined in division A.2. of this definition and are akin to a river of
liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when
earth is carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the
current.
   B.   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other
body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents
of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an
unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe
storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding as defined in division A.1. of this definition.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administrator has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been
made available digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, and flood plain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a flood
plain ordinance, grading ordinance, and erosion control ordinance), and other
applications of police power. The term describes such state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The Base Flood Elevation plus the Freeboard.
   A.   In “Special Flood Hazard Areas” where Base Flood Elevations (BFEs) have
been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus 2 feet of freeboard; and
   B.   In “Special Flood Hazard Areas” where no BFE has been established, this
elevation shall be at least 2 feet above the highest adjacent grade.
FREEBOARD: A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
the purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effects of urbanization in a watershed. The Base Flood Elevation
(BFE) plus the freeboard establishes the Flood Protection Elevation (FPE).
Freeboard shall be {'{'}insert number{'}'} of feet.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A facility that cannot be used for its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water, such
as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo
or passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair facilities. The term does not
include longterm storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG): The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed walls of a structure.
Refer to the FEMA Elevation Certificate for HAG related to building elevation
information.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: A structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or to a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify
as a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have
been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that
have been certified either:
      1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior, or
      2.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
programs.
LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC): A general term used to refer to the several types
of revisions and amendments to FIRMs that can be accomplished by letter. They
include Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision (LOMR), and
Letter of Map Revision based on Fill (LOMR-F).
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): An official amendment, by letter, to an
effective National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) map. A LOMA establishes a
property’s or structure’s location in relation to the Special Flood Hazard Area
(SFHA). LOMAs are usually issued because a property or structure has been
inadvertently mapped as being in the floodplain but is actually on natural high
ground above the base flood elevation.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): FEMA’s modification to an effective Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or a Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM) or both.
LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective Base Flood Elevations (BFEs), or the Special Flood Hazard Area
(SFHA). The LOMR officially revises the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or
Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM), and sometimes the Flood Insurance Study
(FIS) report, and when appropriate, includes a description of the
modifications. The LOMR is generally accompanied by an annotated copy of the
affected portions of the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F): FEMA’s modification of the
Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
based on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway. The
LOMR-F does not change the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): A formal review and comment as
to whether a proposed flood protection project or other project complies with
the minimum NFIP requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of
special flood hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or Flood Insurance Study (FIS). Upon submission and
approval of certified as-built documentation, a Letter of Map Revision (LOMR)
may be issued by FEMA to revise the effective FIRM. Building Permits and/or
Flood Development Permits cannot be issued based on a CLOMR, because a CLOMR
does not change the NFIP map.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s lowest floor, provided that such
enclosure is not build so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter found at Section
12-1-16  A.2.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For flood plain
management purposes the term “manufactured home” also includes park trailers,
travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
180 consecutive days. For insurance purposes the term “manufactured home” does
not include park trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For floodplain management purposes, a structure for which the
start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures. Any construction started after {'{'}insert
effective date of community’s first floodplain management ordinance adopted by
the community/NFIP emergency entry date{'}'} and before the effective start
date of this floodplain management ordinance is subject to the ordinance in
effect at the time the permit was issued, provided the start of construction
was within 180 days of permit issuance.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle that is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis, and
   B.   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection, and
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty
truck, and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): The land in the flood plain within a
community subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any
given year. For purposes of these regulations, the term “special flood hazard
area” is synonymous in meaning with the phrase “area of special flood hazard”.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of the
permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations of the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal or
exceed 50 percent (50%) of its market value before the damage occurred. See
definition of “substantial improvement”. Substantial damage also means flood-
related damage sustained by a structure on two separate occasions during a 10-
year period for which the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event,
on the average, equals or exceeds 25 percent (25%) of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the “start of construction”
of the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred
“substantial damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a “historic
structure” and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant to this
chapter.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s flood plain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the Finished Construction Elevation Certificate,
other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in 44 CFR § 60.3
(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided. (Res. 1061, 11-1-
2022)
12-1-6: LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
jurisdiction of the City of Craigmont, Idaho. (Res. 1061, 11-1-2022)
12-1-7: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance
Administrator in a scientific and engineering study represented by the Flood
Insurance Rate Map dated February 5,1986 is hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter. The Flood Insurance Rate Map is on file
at City Hall, Craigmont, Idaho. (Res. 1061, 11-1-2022)
12-1-8: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Res. 1061,
11-1-2022)
12-1-9: COMPLIANCE AND PENALTIES:
All development within special flood hazard areas is subject to the terms of
this chapter and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of
this chapter by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with
conditions) shall be punishable per state and/or local law. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the city of Craigmont from taking such other lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. (Res. 1061, 11-1-
2022)
12-1-10: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within
such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not
create liability on the part of the city of Craigmont, any officer or employee
thereof, for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Res. 1061, 11-1-2022)
12-1-11: SEVERABILITY:
This chapter and the various parts thereof are hereby declared to be severable.
Should any Section of this chapter be declared by the courts to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
ordinance as a whole, or any portion thereof other than the Section so declared
to be unconstitutional or invalid. (Res. 1061, 11-1-2022)
ADMINISTRATION
12-1-12: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
Development Permit Required. A development permit shall be obtained before
construction or development begins within any area of special flood hazard
established in Section
12-1-7 . The permit shall be for all structures including manufactured homes,
as set forth in the “DEFINITIONS”, and for all development including fill and
other activities, also as set forth in the “DEFINITIONS”. (Res. 1061, 11-1-
2022)
12-1-13: DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The Mayor is hereby appointed to administer, implement, and enforce this
chapter by granting or denying development permit applications in accordance
with its provisions. (Res. 1061, 11-1-2022)
12-1-14: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
Duties of the Floodplain administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
   A.   Permit Review.
      1.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      2.   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained;
      3.   The site is reasonably safe from flooding;
   B.   Use of Other Base Flood Data. When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with Section
12-1-7 , BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD, the
floodplain administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base
flood elevation and flood- way data available from a federal, State or other
source, in order to administer Section
12-1-16 , SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   C.   Information to be Obtained and Maintained. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed:
      1.   The actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all new or substantially im-proved structures,
and whether or not the structure contains a basement.
      2.   The floodproofing certifications required in Section
12-1-16  B.
   D.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the provisions
of this chapter in perpetuity.
   E.   Alteration of Watercourses.
      1.   Notify adjacent communities and the Idaho Dept, of Water Resources
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the Federal Insurance Administrator.
      2.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse is maintained.
   F.   Interpretation of FIRM Boundaries.
      1.   Make interpretations where needed, as to exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions).
      2.   The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation. Such appeals shall be
granted consistent with the standards of Section 60.6 of the rules and
regulations of the National Flood Insurance Program (44CFR 59-76.)
   G.   Requirements of Notification.
      1.   Base Flood Elevations may increase or decrease resulting from
physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon as practicable, but not
later than six months after the date such information becomes available, the
Floodplain Administrator shall notify the Federal Insurance Administrator of
the changes by submitting technical or scientific data in accordance with
Volume 44 Code of Federal Regulations Section 65.3. Such a submission is
necessary so that upon confirmation of those physical changes affecting
flooding conditions, risk premium rates and floodplain management requirements
will be based upon current data.
      2.   Notify the Federal Insurance Administrator in writing of acquisition
by means of annexation, incorporation or otherwise, of additional areas of
jurisdiction. (Res. 1061, 11-1-2022)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
12-1-15: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards, the following standards are required:
   A.   Anchoring. All new construction, substantial improvements, and
development shall be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   B.   Construction Materials and Methods.
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      3.   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air- conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise
elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during conditions of flooding.
   C.   Utilities.
      1.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
      2.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and,
      3.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   D.   Subdivision Proposals and Other Proposed Development.
      1.   All subdivision proposals and other proposed development shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
      2.   All subdivision proposals and other proposed development shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
      3.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage; and,
      4.   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available from another authoritative source, it shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed developments which contain at least 50
lots or 5 acres (whichever is less).
   E.   Review of Building Permits. Applications for building permits shall be
reviewed to assure that proposed construction will be reasonably safe from
flooding. The test of reasonableness is a local judgment and includes use of
historical data, high water marks, photographs of past flooding, etc., where
available. In areas of special flood hazard where a BFE has not been
determined, the lowest floor of a structure will be elevated at least two feet
above grade. (Res. 1061, 11-1-2022)
12-1-16: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in Section
12-1-7 , BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD or Section
   A.   Residential Construction. New construction, substantial improvements,
and development of any residential structure (including manufactured homes)
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than the
Flood Protection Elevation, as defined in Section
12-1-5  of this chapter. All new construction and substantial improvement with
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are
usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which
are subject to flooding, shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the automatic entry
and exit of floodwater. Designs for meeting this requirement must meet or
exceed the following criteria:
      1.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
      2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other coverings
or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level
of the flood protection elevation; or, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, shall:
      1.   Be floodproofed so that below the flood protection elevation level
the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water;
      2.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
      3.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the design and methods of construct- ion are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this subsection based on their
development and/or review of the structural design, specifications and plans.
Such certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth in Section
12-1-14  C.2.
      4.   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed, must
meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described in
division A.2. of this section.
   C.   Manufactured Homes. All manufactured homes to be placed or
substantially improved shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such that
the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base flood
elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored found ation system
in accordance with the provisions of Section
12-1-15  A.
   D.   Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall be either:
      1.   Temporary Placement. Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days
and be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently
attached additions); or
      2.   Permanent Placement. Recreational vehicles that do not meet the
limitations of Temporary Placement shall meet all the requirements for new
construction for manufactured homes.
   E.   Accessory and Agricultural Structures (Appurtenant structures). When
accessory structures less than XXX square feet (sheds, detached garages, etc.)
and used solely for parking and/or storage are to be placed within a Special
Flood Hazard Area, the following criteria shall be met:
      1.   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas);
      2.   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
      3.   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
      4.   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      5.   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored;
      6.   All utility equipment and machinery, such as electrical, shall be
installed to the Base Flood Elevation; and
      7.   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces shall be provided below Base Flood Elevation.
      8.   Accessory structures not used solely for parking and/or storage must
be elevated.
   F.   Construction of Below-Grade Crawlspace.
      1.   The interior grade of a crawlspace must not be below the BFE and
must not be more than two (2) feet below the exterior lowest adjacent grade
(LAG).
      2.   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the interior
grade of the crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace foundation wall, must not
exceed four (4) feet at any point.
      3.   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should be drained
within a reasonable time after a flood event.
      4.   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five (5)
feet per second for any crawlspace.
   See Technical Bulletin 11 for further information. (Res. 1061, 11-1-2022)
APPENDICES
APPENDIX A
CREATION OF MUNICIPALITY
SECTION:
Sec. 1: Order Creating Village Of Vollmer
Sec. 2: Order Creating Village Of Ilo
Sec. 3: Order Consolidating Villages
Sec. 1:   ORDER CREATING VILLAGE OF VOLLMER:
The following order was adopted by the board of county commissioners of Nez
Perce County, Idaho, at their January session of 1908, and can be found on page
332, Volume 1 of commissioner records.
In the matter of the petition of S. Hollenbeck et al., for the incorporation of
the village of Vollmer, Nez Perce County, Idaho.
This matter coming on regularly to be heard this 18th day of February 1908, the
board being fully advised on the premises, and all and singular the law and the
evidence being fully heard and considered, the board finds:
   First: That inhabitants to the number of two hundred (200) or more are
residents within the territory described in said petition.
   Second: That a majority of the taxable inhabitants who are residents within
the limits of the said proposed village have signed said petition.
   Third: That said petitioners are entitled to have the said village of
Vollmer be, and the same is, hereby incorporated under the name and style of
the village of Vollmer. That henceforth they are a body politic and corporate
with all the powers, rights and privileges of incorporated towns and villages,
as is contemplated in such cases, especially provided by the laws of the state
of Idaho.
That the boundaries of said village are as follows:
Commencing at a point 150 feet East of the Southwest corner of the SW1/4 of
section 33, township 34 North of range 1, West of the Boise Meridian, thence
running east 2,490 feet to the Southeast corner of the said section, thence
east 9662/3 feet to a point on the south line of the SE1/4 of said section,
thence due north 175 feet, thence due west 5762/3 feet, thence due north 2,465
feet to a point 390 feet due east of the northeast corner of the SW1/4 of the
above described section, then due north 750 feet, thence due west 390 feet to a
point 750 feet north of the Northeast corner of the SW1/4 of said section,
thence due west 1,320 feet, thence due south 750 feet to a point 1,320 due west
of the northeast corner of the SW1/4 of said section, thence due west 1,170
feet to a point 2,490 feet due west of the northeast corner of the SW1/4 of
said section, thence due south 2,640 feet to place of beginning, and being in
section 33, township 34 North of range 1, West of the Boise Meridian,
comprising 2061/3 acres in Nez Perce County, State of Idaho.
It is further ordered that S. Hollenbeck, L.I. Thomas, J.F. Edwards, J.S. Tyler
and F.O. Miller, five (5) persons qualified to act as trustees of the said
village be and the same are hereby appointed to act as trustees for the said
village of Vollmer, until their successors are elected and qualified as
prescribed by law.
Done in the open session of the board of county commissioners of the county of
Nez Perce, state of Idaho, in regular session at Lewiston, this 18th day of
February 1908. (1963 Code § 1-201)
Sec. 2: ORDER CREATING VILLAGE OF ILO:
The following order was adopted by the board of county commissioners of Nez
Perce County, Idaho, at their April session of 1909, and can be found on page
20, Volume J of commissioners proceedings of Nez Perce County, Idaho.
In the matter of the petition of O.W. Click et al., for the incorporation of
the village of Ilo, Nez Perce County, State of Idaho.
This matter coming on regularly to be heard this 15th day of April, 1909, the
board being fully advised on the premises, and all and singular the law and the
evidence being fully considered, the board finds:
   First: That inhabitants to the number of two hundred (200) or more are
residents within the territory described in the said petition.
   Second: That a majority of the taxable inhabitants who are residents within
the limits of the said proposed village have signed said petition.
   Third: That said petitioners are entitled to have the said village of Ilo
incorporated as prayed for in the petition.
   Wherefore, it is considered, ordered and adjudged that the said village of
Ilo be and the same is hereby incorporated under the name and style of the
village of Ilo. That henceforth they are a body politic and corporate with all
the powers, rights and privileges of incorporated towns and villages as is
contemplated in such cases, especially provided by the laws of the state of
Idaho.
That the boundaries of said Village are as follows:
Commencing at the intersection of the center of the public highway on east side
of the southeast quarter of section thirty two (32) Township thirty-four (34)
North, Range one (1) West Boise Meridian, and the South line of the right of
way of the Clearwater Short Line Railway Company; thence in a northwesterly
direction along the South line of said Railway Company right of way to the
North line of the Southeast quarter of section thirty-two (32) Township thirty-
four (34) North Range one (1) West Boise Meridian; thence running due West to
the northwest corner of said Southeast quarter of section thirty-two (32)
Township thirty-four (34) North Range one (1) West Boise Meridian; thence
running due south 2,170 feet; thence running due west 486 feet; thence running
due south 280 feet; thence running due west 333 feet; thence running due south
218 feet to the south line of the public highway; thence running due east along
the south line of the public highway 3,209 feet; thence running due south 150
feet; thence running due east 250 feet; thence running due north 1,720 feet to
the point of beginning, containing approximately 195 acres.
It is further ordered that J.J. Wood, O.W. Click, E. Rohlfing, N.C. Kafoury and
J. Kline, five (5) persons qualified to act as trustees of the said village be
and the same are hereby appointed to act as trustees for the said Village of
Ilo, until their successors are elected and qualified as prescribed by law.
Done in open session of the board of county commissioners of the county of Nez
Perce, state of Idaho, in regular session at Lewiston, this 15th day of April,
A. D. 1909. (1963 Code § 1-202)
Sec. 3: ORDER CONSOLIDATING VILLAGES:
The following order was adopted by the board of county commissioners of Lewis
County, Idaho, at the April term, first day, on April 12, 1920, consolidating
the villages of Vollmer and Ilo.
In the matter of the consolidation of the villages of Ilo and Vollmer in Lewis
County under the name of Craigmont having come on for consideration at this
time and the board having found that all of the provisions of chapter 164 of
the compiled statutes of the state of Idaho have been complied with, IT IS
THEREFORE ORDERED:
   That the villages of ILO and VOLLMER in Lewis County shall be on the 17th
day of June, A.D. 1920, consolidated and the consolidated village shall be
named CRAIGMONT.
That the said consolidated village of CRAIGMONT shall contain all of the land
within the following boundaries, to-wit:
Beginning at the center of Section 32 Twp. 34 N, Range 1, W.B.M.; thence
running South to a point 25 feet North of the Southwest (SW) corner of the SE1/
4 of Section 32 Twp. 34 N, Range 1, W.B.M.; thence East 2,340 feet; thence
South 350 feet; thence East to the East line of the West one half of the NW1/
4 of Section 4 Twp. 33 N. R. 1 W.B.M.; thence North 350 feet; thence East to a
point 25 feet North of the SW corner of the SE1/4 of Section 33 N, R. 1 W.B.M.;
thence North 463.64 feet; thence East 1,080 feet; thence North 780 feet; thence
West 720 feet; thence North 720 feet; thence West 780 feet; thence North 330
feet to the North line of the SW1/4 of Section 33 Twp. 34 N. R. 1 W.B.M., and
thence West to the point of beginning, all in Lewis County, Idaho.
(1963 Code § 1-203)
APPENDIX B
CORPORATE LIMITS AND ANNEXATIONS
SECTION:
Sec. 1: Corporate Limits
Sec. 2: Annexations And/Or Subdivisions
Sec. 1: CORPORATE LIMITS:
The corporate limits of the city of Craigmont as they were fixed and determined
on June 17, 1920, upon the consolidation of the villages of Ilo and Vollmer in
Lewis County, state of Idaho, under the name of the city of Craigmont, are as
follows:
Beginning at the center of Section 32, Township 34 North, Range 1, West Boise
Meridian; thence running South to a point 25 feet North of the Southwest corner
of the Southeast Quarter of Section 32, Township 34 North, Range 1, West Boise
Meridian; thence East 2,340 feet; thence South 350 feet; thence East to the
East line of the West half of the Northwest Quarter of section 4, Township 33
North, Range 1, West Boise Meridian; thence North 350 feet; thence East to a
point 25 feet North of the Southwest corner of the Southeast Quarter of Section
33 North, Range 1, West Boise Meridian; thence North 463.64 feet; thence East
1,080 feet; thence North 780 feet; thence West 720 feet; thence North 300 feet;
thence West 360 feet; thence North 330 feet to the North line of the Southwest
Quarter of Section 33, Township 34 North, Range 1, West Boise Meridian, and
thence West to the point of beginning, all in Lewis County, Idaho. (1963 Code §
1-301)
Sec. 2:   ANNEXATIONS AND/OR SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Enlargements To Corporate Limits: The following enlargements have been
made to the corporate limits due to annexations or subdivisions which have been
added since September 17, 1920:
      1.   Blocks 1 And 2 Of Vollmer: Beginning at the Northeast corner of the
Southwest Quarter of Section 33, Township 34 North, Range 1, West Boise
Meridian; which is the point of beginning; thence West along the North line of
said Southwest Quarter 780 feet; thence South 390 feet; thence East 780 feet;
thence North 390 feet to the point of beginning. Said area includes all of
Blocks 1 and 2 of the original town of Vollmer, now city of Craigmont.
      2.   Laufer's Subdivision: Commencing at the Quarter corner common to
Section 32 and 33, Township 34 North, Range 1, West Boise Meridian; thence
South 780 feet; thence East 30 feet to the true place of beginning; thence
continuing East 527 feet; thence South 140 feet; thence West 527 feet; thence
North 140 feet to the place of beginning.
      3.   Farris Addition: Beginning at the Southwest corner of the Northwest
Quarter of Section 33, Township 34 North, Range 1, West Boise Meridian; thence
North 130 feet; thence East 125 feet; thence South 130 feet to the South line
of the Southwest Quarter of said Section 33; thence West 125 feet to the place
of beginning.
      4.   Channel Addition: Beginning at a point which is the center of
Section 32, Township 34 North, Range 1, West Boise Meridian, and is the true
point of beginning; thence North 286 feet; thence Southeasterly along the right
of way of the Camas Prairie Railroad to the point where the North line of the
Southeast Quarter of Section 32, Township 34 North, Range 1, West Boise
Meridian intersects with said right of way; thence West 1,040 feet to the point
of beginning. Said land containing 3.7 acres and lying wholly within the
Northeast Quarter of Section 32, Township 34 North, Range 1, West Boise
Meridian. Said land is also described as follows:
All that portion of the Northeast Quarter of Section 32, Township 34 North,
Range 1, West Boise Meridian lying South of the right of way of the Camas
Prairie Railroad within the county of Lewis, state of Idaho.
      5.   Riechers Addition: Commencing at the Southeast corner of the
Southwest Quarter of Section 32, Township 34 North, Range 1, West Boise
Meridian; said point being marked by an iron pipe driven in the ground, and
being the true point of beginning; thence North along the East line of the
Southwest Quarter a distance of 636.5 feet to the South right of way of the
state highway now known as U.S. Highway 95; thence South 65°51' West along the
South right of way a distance of 175 feet, more or less, to a point which is
156 feet due West of the East line of the said Southwest Quarter; thence due
South 562.5 feet, more or less, to the South line of Section 32; thence East
156 feet to the true point of beginning, all in Lewis County, state of Idaho.
(1963 Code § 1-302)
   B.   Annexation Ordinances:
      1.   First Addition. (Ord. 224, 11-30-1965)
      2.   Bohnhof Addition. (Ord. 249, 6-15-1971)
      3.   Airport Addition. (Ord. 297B, 9-8-1981)
      4.   Riechers-Kinzer Addition. (Ord. 313, 9-2-1986)
      5.   Parcel of property located within government Lots 5, 6, and 12,
Section 4, Twp. 33N, R. 1 W.B.M. (Ord. 369, 12-2-1997)
      6.   Parcel of property located within government Lot 4 of Section 4,
Twp. 33 N., R. 1 W.B.M. (Ord. 370, 12-2-1997)
      7.   Erickson Addition. (Ord. 373, 12-1-1998)
APPENDIX C
STREET VACATIONS
Ord. No. Passage Date Description
Ord. No. Passage Date Description
144      3-3-1948     An ordinance vacating a portion of Front Street of the
                      original town of Vollmer (now Craigmont), Idaho.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of Second South Street
147      3-5-1949     Necessary Addition of the original town of Vollmer, now
                      Craigmont, Idaho.
148      5-7-1949     Rep. by Ord. 175, 3-9-1954.
164      10-3-1950    An ordinance vacating a portion of Sixth Street of the
                      original town of Vollmer, now Craigmont, Idaho.
165      10-3-1950    An ordinance vacating a portion of Front Street of the
                      original town of Vollmer, now Craigmont, Idaho.
                      An ordinance vacating certain streets and alleys in
                      Necessary Addition to the town of Vollmer, now village of
175      3-9-1954     Craigmont, Idaho, according to the recorded plat of said
                      Necessary Addition; repealing ordinance no. 148 of said
                      village.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of Second Avenue of the
204      5-18-1962    original town of Ilo, now village of Craigmont, Lewis
                      County, Idaho.
                      An ordinance vacating the east 150 feet of the alley
226      8-2-1966     located within and transversing block 13 of Simmons first
                      addition to the town of Ilo, now village of Craigmont,
                      Lewis County, Idaho.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of 6th Street in the
                      original town of Vollmer, now city of Craigmont, Lewis
251      7-6-1971     County, state of Idaho; providing for the manner of
                      reversion of the vacated areas and reserving to the city
                      certain rights of way and easements; and providing for
                      the publication and recording of this ordinance.
                      An ordinance vacating a portion of 8th Street, a portion
                      of Prairie Avenue and the alley located within and
                      transversing block 30 of the original town of Vollmer,
258      6-13-1972    now city of Craigmont, Lewis County, state of Idaho;
                      providing for the manner of reversion of the vacated
                      areas and reserving to the city of Craigmont certain
                      rights of way and easements; and providing for the
                      publication and recording of this ordinance.
 
