CITY CODE
of
DALTON GARDENS, IDAHO
1991
Code current through:
Ord. 288, passed 12-18-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Dalton Gardens, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 288, passed December 18, 2024. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
This code was reformatted in October 2023.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 122
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CITY CODE OF DALTON GARDENS, IDAHO
BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Dalton Gardens,
Idaho, an Idaho Municipal Corporation:
Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the City Code
of the City of Dalton Gardens, Idaho, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.,
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the City, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the Official
Code and Law of the City as enacted by the Mayor and City Council.
Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification, the
loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the Official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, three (3) copies of which
shall be maintained in the office of the City Clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said Official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the Official City Code.
Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change
or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or to
insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are, to
the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
Section 6: This Ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance with
law, as printed and published in book form by order of the Mayor and City
Council.
   INTRODUCED:  City Attorney
   PASSED:  March 5, 1992
   APPROVED: /s/James C. Howard
   Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/Gayle K. Clayeux
City Clerk
PUBLISHED: 3-13-92
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
Official Municipal Code   1
Saving Clause   2
Definitions   3
General Penalty   4
Mayor And City Council   5
Initiative And Referendum   6
Public Hearings   7
Official Newspaper   8
Code Enforcement Officer   9
Planning Administrator   10
Appeals   11
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL MUNICIPAL CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the City Council, this City Code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official City Code of the City of Dalton
Gardens. This City Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the DALTON
GARDENS CITY CODE, and it is hereby published by authority of the Council and
shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the City as
provided in Section
1-1-3  of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this City Code by title in any legal documents. (1991 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect. (1991
Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the City Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirements pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this City Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the City Code. (1991 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The City Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of said Clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of the City Code shall make every
effort to maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances codified.
He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such
are delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the City
Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the City and shall be
returned to the office of the City Clerk when directed so to do by order of the
City Council. (1991 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this City
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this City Code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances, appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
City; and all special ordinances. (1991 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code excepting as the City
Code may contain provisions for such matters, in which case, this City Code
shall be considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such
provisions only. (1991 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding. So far as practicable, if
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the City herein
repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
City under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this City Code. (1991 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this City Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1991 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this City Code importing the plural number
is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any
single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this City Code by words importing the singular number
only, or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females
as well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction not be applied to any section of this City
Code which contains any express provisions excluding such construction or where
the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been changed
in the content of this City Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1991 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
   AGENT A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
express or implied to do so.
   CITY The City of Dalton Gardens, County of Kootenai, State of Idaho.
   CODE The Municipal Code of Dalton Gardens, Idaho, and amendments thereto.
   COUNCIL Unless otherwise indicated, the City Council of the City of Dalton
Gardens, Idaho.
   COUNTY The County of Kootenai, State of Idaho.
   EMPLOYEES Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
City of Dalton Gardens".
   FEE A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   INFRACTION A civil public offense, not constituting a crime, punishable only
by a penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) and for which no
incarceration may be imposed. 1
   LICENSE The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
   MISDEMEANOR Any offense not defined as a felony or infraction under State
law.1 Except in cases where a different punishment is prescribed by the Idaho
Code or by this City Code, a misdemeanor is punishable by imprisonment in a
County jail not exceeding six (6) months or by a fine not exceeding three
hundred dollars ($300.00) or both. 2
   NUISANCE Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the City, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
   OCCUPANT As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this Code.
   OFFICERS Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Dalton Gardens".
   OPERATOR The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
   RETAILER Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things directly to the
consumer.
   STATE The State of Idaho.
   STREET Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with
others.
   WHOLESALER The term "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this
Code, unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who
purchase for the purpose of resale.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in
the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark. (1991 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §18-111.
2 2. I.C. §18-113.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the City Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted. (1991 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Individual Liability
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this code,
where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished as follows. Violations
of this code may be considered a criminal misdemeanor or an infraction and are
punishable with fines or imprisonment. The city may also take civil action to
compel compliance or performance.
   A.   Punishment For Misdemeanor: Every offense declared to be a misdemeanor
is punishable by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding six (6) months, or
by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by both. The city
may also take civil action to compel compliance of requirements or performance
and completion of, or maintenance of, improvements installed pursuant to this
section.
   B.   Punishment For Infraction: Every offense declared to be an infraction
unless another infraction penalty is specifically provided is punishable only
by a penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) and no imprisonment.
The city may also take civil action to compel compliance of requirements or
performance and completion of, or maintenance of, improvements installed
pursuant to this section.
   C.   Building Code Violations: Penalties and remedies for building code
violations are delineated in section
4-1-11 of this code. (Ord. 247, 7-5-2016; amd. Ord. 271, 9-2-2021)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
Applicants have the burden of proof for compliance with this code. No
applications for any permits or licenses shall be reviewed or approved by the
city if there is an existing, valid violation of this code, unless the permit
or license is to resolve the existing violation. The penalty provided in this
chapter shall be applicable to every section of this code the same as though it
were a part of each and every separate section unless otherwise indicated. Any
person convicted of a violation of any section of this code where a duty is
prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a continuing
nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of
either a misdemeanor or an infraction. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act
continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (Ord. 247, 7-5-2016)
1-4-3: INDIVIDUAL LIABILITY:
No commission or city council member, the mayor or any city employee or
contractor who acts in good faith and without malice in a role established by
this title shall be held liable for errors or omissions in its administration.
Any suit brought against such an individual shall be defended by the city, and
any judgment resulting from such a suit shall be a liability of the city. (Ord.
247, 7-5-2016)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Mayor
1-5-2: Meetings Of The Council
1-5-3: Compensation
1-5-1: MAYOR:
   A.   Election; Qualifications: Any person shall be eligible to hold the
office of mayor who is a qualified elector of the city at the time of his
election and remains a qualified elector during his term of office.
   B.   Term Of Office: The term of office of mayor shall be for a period of
four (4) years, except as otherwise specifically provided. He shall take office
at the time and in the manner provided for installation of council persons.
   C.   Vacancy: In case of a temporary vacancy in the office of mayor due to
absence or disability, the president of the city council shall exercise the
office of mayor during such disability or temporary absence and until the mayor
shall return. When a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor by reason of death,
resignation or permanent disability, the city council shall fill the vacancy
from within or without the city council as may be deemed in the best interests
of the city, which appointee shall serve until the next general city election,
at which election a mayor shall be elected for the full four (4) year term.
(Ord. 116, 11-1-1990)
1-5-2: MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the city council shall be
held on the fourth Wednesday of each month at six o'clock (6:00) P.M., at the
city hall.
   B.   Consent Calendar: When the mayor determines that any item of business
requires action by the council but is of a routine and noncontroversial nature,
he may cause such item to be presented at a regular meeting of the council as
part of a consent calendar.
   The consent calendar shall be introduced by a motion "to approve the consent
calendar" and shall be considered by the council as a single item.
   There shall be no debate or discussion by any member of the council
regarding any item on the consent calendar, beyond asking questions for simple
clarification.
   On objection by any member of the council to inclusion of any item on the
consent calendar, that item shall be removed from the consent calendar
forthwith. Such objection may be recorded at any time prior to the taking of a
vote on the motion to approve the consent calendar. All such items shall be
considered individually, in the order in which they were objected to,
immediately following consideration of the consent calendar.
   Approval of the motion to approve the consent calendar shall be fully
equivalent to approval, adoption or enactment of each motion, resolution,
ordinance, or other item of business thereon, exactly as if each had been acted
upon individually. Approval of the motion must be by roll call vote.
   The city clerk shall record in the council minutes each item passed under
the consent calendar individually and in full or, if possible, separately.
(Ord. 199, 10-2-2008; amd. Ord. 274, 3-3-2022; Ord. 286, 2-8-2024)
1-5-3: COMPENSATION:
Commencing January 1, 1998, the compensation to be paid to the mayor shall be
the sum of eight hundred fifty dollars ($850.00) per month, and commencing
January 1, 2000, to the councilmen, the sum of four hundred dollars ($400.00)
per month. (Ord. 142, 8-7-1997; amd. Ord. 147, 7-12-1999)
CHAPTER 6
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
SECTION:
1-6-1: Creation of Right
1-6-2: Petition for Initiative and Referendum; Signature Sheets
1-6-3: Ballot
1-6-4: Conduct of Election
1-6-5: Election Costs; Bond
1-6-6: Canvass of Returns
1-6-7: Violations
1-6-1: CREATION OF RIGHT:
The people of this City shall have the right to enact ordinances through the
initiative process and to repeal ordinances through the referendum process
according to the procedures set forth herein. (Ord. 64, 7-7-77)
1-6-2: PETITION FOR INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; SIGNATURE SHEETS:
   A.   Number of Petitioners Required: To enact an ordinance by initiative or
to repeal an ordinance by referendum, there shall be attached or appended to
the petition the signatures of the legal voters of the City equal to at least
twenty percent (20%) of the total number of voters registered to vote at the
last general election in the City.
   B.   Form of Petitions:
      1.   Initiative Petition: The initiative petition shall be in
substantially the following form:
Initiative Petition to the Mayor and Council of the City of Dalton Gardens,
Idaho: "We, the undersigned citizens and legal voters of the City of Dalton
Gardens, respectfully demand that the following proposed ordinance, to-wit:
(setting out full text of measure proposed) shall be submitted to the legal
voters of the City of Dalton Gardens, for their approval or rejection at an
election to be called in accordance with Idaho Code section 50-501 (3), and
each for himself says: I have personally signed this petition; I am a legal
voter of the City of Dalton Gardens; my residence and post office are correctly
written after my name.
 
Name          Street and Number          Post Office        
 
(Here follow numbered lines for signatures.)
      2.   Referendum Petition: The petition for referendum on any ordinance
passed by the City Council shall be in substantially the same form with
appropriate title and changes, setting out in full the text of the ordinance to
be referred to the people for their approval or rejection.
   C.   Time for Filing Referendum Petitions: Referendum petitions with the
requisite number of signatures attached shall be filed with the City Clerk not
less than sixty (60) days following the final adoption of the ordinance to be
subject to referendum.
   D.   Printing Petition and Signature Sheets; Time Limits for Perfecting
Petition:
      1.   Before or at the time of beginning to circulate any petition for
initiative or referendum, the person under whose authority the petition is to
be circulated shall send or deliver to the City Clerk a copy of such petition
duly signed by at least twenty (20) electors eligible to sign such petition.
The Clerk shall immediately examine the petition and specify the form and kind
and size of paper on which the petition shall be printed and circulated for
further signatures. All petitions and sheets for signatures shall be printed on
a good quality bond or ledger paper, on pages eight and one-half inches in
width by thirteen inches in length (81/2" x 13"), with a margin of one and
three- fourths inches (13/4") at the top for binding, and the sheets for
signatures shall have numbered lines thereon from one to twenty (20) for
signatures. The petition shall be prepared in sections, with each section
numbered consecutively. Each section of a petition must have a printed copy of
the petition as the first page, and each section shall have attached to it not
more than ten (10) sheets for signatures.
      2.   The City Clerk shall indicate, in writing, on the petition that he
has approved it as to form. The Clerk shall inform the person under whose
authority the petition is to be circulated, in writing, that the petition must
be perfected with the required number of certified signatures within sixty (60)
days following the date of approval as to form. Any petition that has not been
perfected with the required number of certified signatures within the sixty
(60) days allowed shall be declared null and void ab initio in its entirety.
   E.   Verification of Signatures: Each and every signature sheet of each
petition containing signatures shall be verified on the face thereof in
substantially the following form by the person who circulated said sheet of the
petition, by his affidavit thereon, as a part thereof:
State of Idaho      )
            ) SS.
County of Kootenai   )
I,                     , swear, under penalty of perjury, that every person who
signed this sheet of the foregoing petition signed his or her name thereto in
my presence. I believe that each has stated his or her name and the
accompanying required information on the signature sheet correctly, and that
the person was eligible to sign this petition.
   Signature                         
   Post Office Address                         
Subscribed and sworn to before me this       day of        , 19  
(Notary Seal)   Notary Public                              
   Residing at                              
   F.   Examination and Certification of Signatures:
      1.   All petitions with attached signature sheets shall be presented on
the same day to the City Clerk who shall make a cursory examination of them to
determine whether the petitions apparently contain the necessary number of
signatures.
         a.   If the total number of signatures on the petitions is not
sufficient to satisfy the number required by subsection A of this Section, all
petitions with attached signature sheets shall be retained by the City Clerk
who shall notify, in writing, the person filing the petition of the number of
signatures needed, and further signatures may be gathered, if within the time
limit of subsection D of this Section.
         b.   If the cursory examination of the signature sheets reveals:
            (1)   Erasures on any signature;
            (2)   Illegible or undecipherable signatures;
            (3)   Signatures not properly identified by all of the information
required on the sheet;
            (4)   Duplicate signatures; or
            (5)   Signatures of persons who have requested, in writing, to have
their names removed from the petition;
the City Clerk shall summarily reject such signatures, and they shall not be
counted. Each rejected signature shall be drawn through with ink and initialed
by the Clerk. If the total number of signatures not rejected is not sufficient
to satisfy the number required by subsection A of this Section, all petitions
with attached signature sheets shall be retained by the Clerk who shall notify,
in writing, the person filing the petition of the number of signatures needed,
and further signatures may be gathered, if within the time limit of subsection
D of this Section.
      2.   All petitions presented to the City Clerk found to apparently
contain the necessary number of signatures, after the cursory examination
provided for above, shall be filed with the City Clerk and become public
records of the City not to be returned. The City Clerk shall examine each such
signature purported to be that of a registered elector of the City and compare
each such signature with the registration documents available to the City
Clerk. The City Clerk shall summarily reject all signatures which are not the
signatures of a registered elector of the City, and such rejected signatures
shall not be counted. Each rejected signature shall be drawn through with ink
and initialed by the City Clerk. The City Clerk may take not to exceed ten (10)
days after filing of the petition to complete his examination. The City Clerk
shall certify each signature found to comply with all of the requirements of
this Chapter by an appropriate mark following each signature.
The City Clerk shall total the number of certified signatures and, if found to
total the number of signatures required by subsection A of this Section, shall
proceed as provided in subsection G herein.
   G.   Sufficiency of Petition; Notice; Council Action; Election:
      1.   In the event that a petition filed with a City Clerk does not
contain the required number of certified signatures, the City Clerk shall
inform the person under whose authority the petition was circulated that the
petition is defective for lack of certified signatures and specify the number
of additional signatures required to make the petition valid. The petition must
be perfected within thirty (30) days of the date that the City Clerk finds the
petition defective for lack of certified signatures. If the petition is not
perfected within the thirty (30) day period, the Clerk shall declare the
petition null and void ab initio in its entirety.
      2.   In the event that a petition filed with the City Clerk is found by
the City Clerk to contain the required number of certified signatures, the City
Clerk shall promptly, by certified mail, inform the petitioners and shall also
notify the City Council at its next meeting that the initiative or referendum
petition is in proper form.
         a.   If the petition is for a referendum, the City Council shall have
thirty (30) days from the date of certification of the petition to repeal the
ordinance being referred to the voters. In the event the Council repeals the
ordinance, the referendum petition shall be declared null and void.
         b.   If the petition is an initiative petition, the City Council shall
have thirty (30) days to pass an ordinance substantially as proposed by the
petition. In the event the Council passes such an ordinance, the initiative
petition shall be null and void.
         c.   In the event the City Council neither repeals the ordinance which
is the subject of a referendum petition nor enacts an ordinance which is the
subject of an initiative petition, an election shall be ordered by the City
Clerk to be conducted city- wide. A special election for initiative or
referendum shall be provided not more than ninety (90) days following the
certification of the petition; provided, that in the event a Municipal election
will occur within the ninety (90) days, the initiative or referendum shall be
submitted at the time of the Municipal election. (Ord. 64, 7-7-77)
1-6-3: BALLOT:
The City Council shall prepare a ballot for an initiative or referendum
election in one of the following ways:
   A.   If the full text of the ordinance or proposed ordinance to be voted
upon does not exceed one hundred twenty (120) words in length, it may be set
out in full on the election ballot; or
   B.   If the full text of the ordinance or proposed ordinance to be voted
upon exceeds one hundred twenty (120) words in length, and the Council votes
not to have it printed at length on the election ballot, it shall, with the
assistance of the City Attorney, prepare a short title and description of the
ordinance or proposed ordinance which shall clearly and impartially state its
purpose and effect, which short title and description shall be printed on the
election ballot. (Ord. 64, 7-7-77)
1-6-4: CONDUCT OF ELECTION:
Initiative or referendum elections, whether special or general, shall be
conducted and the results thereof canvassed and certified in all respects as
near as practicable, in like manner as general elections, except as otherwise
provided. (Ord. 64, 7-7-77)
1-6-5: ELECTION COSTS; BOND:
Upon the filing of any initiative or referendum petition with the City Clerk,
petitioners shall post bond with the Clerk in an amount sufficient to off-set
the estimated expense of conducting the election, unless such election is to be
held at the time of a regular general Municipal election. As near as
practicable after the election, the total actual expenses of the election shall
be tabulated by the City Clerk. The petitioners shall be jointly and severally
liable for payment into the City Treasury of the whole amount of the expenses
of such election. (Ord. 64, 7-7-77)
1-6-6: CANVASS OF RETURNS:
The Mayor and Council shall meet within five (5) days after said election to
canvass the votes cast at such election, and the City Clerk shall immediately
announce the results. Any initiative measure approved by a majority of the
votes cast shall be in full force and effect from the date of such
announcement. Any ordinance which is the subject of a referendum receiving less
than a majority of the votes cast shall be repealed, effective on the date of
such announcement. (Ord. 64, 7-7-77)
1-6-7: VIOLATIONS: 1
A person is guilty of a misdemeanor who:
   A.   Signs any name other than his own to any initiative or referendum
petition;
   B.   Knowingly signs his name more than once on the same initiative or
referendum petition;
   C.   Knowingly signs his name to any initiative or referendum petition if he
is not a registered City elector;
   D.   Wilfully or knowingly circulates, publishes or exhibits any false
statement or representation concerning the contents, purpose or effect of any
initiative or referendum petition for the purpose of obtaining any signature to
any such petition or for the purpose of persuading any person to sign any such
petition;
   E.   Presents to any officer for filing any initiative or referendum
petition to which is attached, appended or subscribed any signature which the
person so filing such petition knows to be false or fraudulent or not the
genuine signature of the person purporting to sign such petition or whose name
is attached, appended or subscribed thereto;
   F.   Circulates or causes to circulate any initiative or referendum
petition, knowing the same to contain false, forged or fictitious names;
   G.   Makes any false affidavit concerning any initiative or referendum
petition or the signatures appended thereto;
   H.   Offers, proposes or threatens, for any pecuniary reward or
consideration, to:
      1.   Offer, propose, threaten or attempt to sell, hinder or delay any
initiative or referendum petition or any part thereof or any signatures
thereon.
      2.   Offer, propose or threaten to desist from beginning, promoting or
circulating any initiative or referendum petition.
      3.   Offer, propose, attempt or threaten in any manner or form to use any
recall petition or any power of promotion or opposition in any manner or form
for extortion, blackmail or secret or private intimidation of any person or
business interest. (Ord. 64, 7-7-77)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  1-4-1  of this Code for penalty.
CHAPTER 7
PUBLIC HEARINGS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Rules of Procedure
1-7-1: RULES OF PROCEDURE:
The following rules are hereby established, shall be observed in the conduct of
any public hearing before the City Council and shall be known as the Dalton
Gardens Rules of Procedure:
   A.   No person shall be permitted to testify or speak before the City
Council at a public hearing, unless such person has signed his name and written
his residential address thereafter on sign- up sheets to be provided by the
City. This rule shall not apply to staff or technical witnesses directed by the
Mayor to give evidence or information to the City Council.
   B.   No person shall be permitted to speak before the City Council at a
public hearing, until such person has been recognized by the Mayor.
   C.   All public hearing proceedings shall be recorded electronically or
stenographically, and all persons speaking at such public hearings shall speak
before a microphone in such a manner as will assure that the recorded testimony
or remarks will be accurate and trustworthy.
   D.   At the commencement of the public hearing, the City Council shall
establish a time limit to be observed by all speakers. The time limit shall be
established depending on the number of speakers who sign up for each public
hearing and shall apply only to the speaker's comments.
   E.   The speaker shall not be interrupted by members of the City Council
until his time limit has been expended or until he has finished his statement.
   F.   At the conclusion of a speaker's comments, each City Councilman, when
recognized by the Mayor, shall be allowed to question the speaker, and the
speaker shall be limited to answers to the questions asked. The question and
answer period shall not be included in the speaker's time limit, as
established.
   G.   When the public hearing is quasi-judicial in nature or one after which
the City Council is required by law to make findings of fact, each speaker must
swear or affirm that his testimony will be true and correct.
   H.   Any person not conforming to any of the above rules may be prohibited
from speaking during the public hearing. Should any person refuse to comply
with such prohibition, he may be removed from the room by order of the Mayor.
   I.   The City Council may suspend or amend any one or more of these rules by
vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the full City Council.
   J.   The Mayor shall have the authority to interpret and apply the foregoing
rules, subject to an appeal to the City Council, whose decision shall be
determined by a majority vote of the Councilmembers present.
   K.   In accordance with Idaho Code 74-204, all agendas for public meetings
shall be posted on the city’s website. (Ord. 87, 10-7-82; amd. Ord. 264, 3-5-
2020)
CHAPTER 8
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
SECTION:
1-8-1: Official Newspaper Designated
1-8-1: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER DESIGNATED:
The "Coeur d'Alene Press", a newspaper printed and published in the city of
Coeur d'Alene and a newspaper of general circulation in the city of Dalton
Gardens, is hereby appointed, designated and constituted the official newspaper
of the city, and all ordinances and/or writings as are required under and by
virtue of the municipal government of the city to be published in a newspaper
shall be published in the "Coeur d'Alene Press". (Ord. 2, 3-9-1960)
CHAPTER 9
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
SECTION:
1-9-1: Officer Defined
1-9-1: OFFICER DEFINED:
   A.   The code enforcement officer is a person designated by the city with
the authority to conduct inspections as requested for municipal code
compliance, investigate complaints and potential violations of the city
ordinances, document inspections to determine the validity of complaints,
document conditions, gather information, and work closely with the clerk, city
attorney and planning administrator to assist the public in resolution of
violations.
   B.   The code enforcement officer maintains records of inspections and
enforcement of efforts; research and compile data for each case; prepare
required documentation and photos for legal actions; if requested, testify in
court proceedings regarding code violations, perform follow up actions as
needed to gain compliance. (Ord. 247, 7-5-2016)
CHAPTER 10
PLANNING ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-10-1: Planning Administrator Defined
1-10-1: PLANNING ADMINISTRATOR DEFINED:
   A.   The planning administrator is a person designated by the city with the
authority to conduct long and short range planning activities, including, but
not limited to, comprehensive planning, assisting the public in understanding
the applicability and requirements of this code, reviewing permit applications,
site plans, stormwater applications and plans, interpreting this code and
approving or disapproving such applications, and preparing reports on zoning
applications.
   B.   The planning administrator assists the clerk, commission and city
council in setting meeting agendas and providing proper notice of public
hearings required by this code, issuing orders and certificates of compliance
based on site inspections, enforcing the provisions of permits, licenses and
development agreements and assisting the code enforcement officer to
investigate and resolve possible violations of this code. (Ord. 247, 7-5-2016)
CHAPTER 11
APPEALS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Appeals
1-11-1: APPEALS:
   A.   Appeal Of Administrative Determinations.
      1.   General Provisions: The Council shall hear and decide appeals where
it is alleged there is error in any order, reguirement, recommendation or
determination made by the Administrator. department officials and employees in
the enforcement of this Code. Appeals concerning staff interpretation or
administration of this Code may be filed by an ersona rieved. All a eals
involvin inter retation and enforcement shall first be presented to the City
Council and recourse from the decision of the Council shall be to the courts as
provided by law.
      2.   Procedures: Appeals shall be filed within a reasonable time not to
exceed thirty (30) days from occurrence of the action being appealed. by filing
with the City Clerk a written notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof
and relief sought. The Council shall decide the same within a reasonable time
following the hearing. At the hearing, any affected party may appear in person,
by agent or attorney.
         a.   Appeals must be in writing, filed with the clerk, specify the
action, order, or decision appealed from, and state the relief sought.
         b.   Upon receipt of an appeal, the clerk shall:
            i.   Collect any required fees;
            ii.   Set the matter to be heard by the council within a reasonable
time;
            iii.   Fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal;
            iv.   Give notice of the hearing;
            v.   Notify any affected parties, including but not limited to the
appellant and the employee whose action is the subject of the appeal, or the
commission when a final order or decision of the commission is the subiect of
the appeal, of the time and place of the hearing before the Council:
      3.   Appeal Stays Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the Council finds, after the
notice of appeal is filed with it, that by reason of facts stated in the
appeal, a stay would, in their opinion cause imminent peril to life and
property. In such cases, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the courts after having due cause
shown.
   B.   Appeal Of Planning Commission Decision. Appeals concerning a final
decision made by the Planning Commission may be filed by any applicant or
affected person and such appeal shall be processed under the same provisions as
outlined in subsection A. of this section and chapter.
   C.   Appeal/Reconsideration Of City Council Decision.
      1.   Any affected person may request reconsideration of a final decision
made by the City Council by filing such request within a reasonable time not to
exceed fourteen (14) days from the date of signing of the final decision, or
from the date of the decision if no written decision will be created. Such a
request for reconsideration shall specify the grounds of the appeal or
deficiencies in the decision and shall be filed with the City Clerk.
      2.   The City Council shall review the petition for reconsideration at
its next regular meeting and decide whether to reconsider the matter. If the
City Council grants reconsideration in whole or in part, a hearing before the
City Council will be scheduled to address the specific deficiencies identified
by the applicant or affected person which (if applicable) shall be conducted
pursuant to the notice procedures set forth in section
5-10-3. The issues examined upon reconsideration shall be limited to the issues
raised by the petition for reconsideration and the record previously
established, as well as applicable law.
      3.   Following the hearing on reconsideration, the City Council may
affirm, reverse, or modify, in whole or in part, its prior decision and shall
provide a written decision to the applicant and the affected person(s) within
sixty (60) days of receipt of the request for reconsideration. If the City
Council fails to timely decide, the request for reconsideration is deemed
denied.
   D.   Judicial Appeals. After a written decision is issued, or after a
revised written decision is issued under a reconsideration proceeding, any
affected party may appeal the decision to a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 264, 3-5-2020)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Board Of Appeals   1
Planning And Zoning Commission   2
CHAPTER 1
BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Board Established
2-1-2: Membership; Terms Of Office
2-1-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
A board of appeals is hereby established to hear appeals of administrative
decisions made pursuant to the international and NFPA codes adopted under
Section
4-1-2 of this code. (Ord. 58, 12-11-1975; amd. Ord. 264, 3-5-2020)
2-1-2: MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE:
The board of appeals shall consist of three (3) members who are not employees
of the city, and shall be qualified by experience and training to pass on
matters pertaining to building construction. Terms shall be for four (4) years,
commencing with the term of the mayor, and shall be appointed by him subject to
confirmation of the council. The building official shall be an ex officio
member of the board of appeals and the secretary thereof. (Ord. 58, 12-11-1975;
amd. 1991 Code; Ord. 264, 3-5-2020)
CHAPTER 2
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Commission Established
2-2-2: Duties
2-2-3: Number Of Members; Terms And Vacancies
2-2-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
Based upon the provisions delineated in Idaho Code 67-6501 and all subsequent
and amended sections, the Dalton Gardens city council establishes a planning
and zoning commission. (Ord. 163, 7-9-2003)
2-2-2: DUTIES:
The commission shall perform the following duties as directed by the Dalton
Gardens city council:
   A.   Based upon Idaho Code 67-6508, it shall be the duty of the planning and
zoning commission to conduct a comprehensive planning process designed to
prepare, implement, and review and update a comprehensive plan.
   B.   Based upon Idaho Code 67-6509 and titles 3 through 8 of this code, act
as a recommending body to the council on the following actions:
      1.   Create and amend zoning district boundaries.
      2.   Establish standards to regulate and restrict the height, number of
stories, size, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or use of
buildings and structures; percentage of lot occupancy, size of courts, yards,
and open spaces; density of population; and the location and use of buildings
and structures.
      3.   Hold public hearings on creation and amendments of zoning district
boundaries and zoning standards. (Ord. 163, 7-9-2003)
      4.   Based upon Idaho Code 67-6512 and title 5 of this code, review
special use permits, hold public hearings to take public testimony and make
decisions. (Ord. 172, 3-3-2005)
      5.   Based upon Idaho Code 67-6513 and title 6 of this code, review major
subdivision applications and provide recommendations to the governing council,
hold public hearings to take public testimony.
      6.   Based upon Idaho Code 67-6513 and section
6-6-4 of this code, review short subdivision applications, make decisions on
short subdivisions, hold public hearings and take public testimony.
      7.   Based upon Idaho Code 67-6516 and title 5 of this code, review
variance requests to the zoning ordinance, hold public hearings, take public
testimony and provide recommendations to the governing council.
      8.   Based upon Idaho Code 67-6526, review the area of city impact,
provide recommendations to the governing council on issues related to land use
impacts adjacent to the city; as directed by the council, negotiate with county
planning commission.
      9.   Based upon section
5-10-4 of this code, review appeals regarding interpretation of the municipal
code related to land use, site disturbance and subdivisions, and provide
recommendations to the governing council.
      10.   Conduct town hall meetings, public opinion surveys, studies
pertinent to land use. (Ord. 163, 7-9-2003)
2-2-3: NUMBER OF MEMBERS; TERMS AND VACANCIES:
Such planning and zoning commission shall consist of five (5) members to be
appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the council, one member shall be a
resident from the area of city impact. The terms of office for the first
appointive members shall be three (3) years, to be determined by lot.
Thereafter, the term of each appointive office shall be three (3) years. No
person shall serve more than two (2) full consecutive terms without specific
concurrence by two-thirds (2/3) of the governing board adopted by motion and
recorded in the minutes. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the
expiration of terms shall be filled in the same manner as the original
appointment. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through expiration of terms
shall be filled by the mayor and confirmed by the council. Members may be
removed for cause by a majority vote of the council. Such members shall be
selected without respect to political affiliation and may receive such mileage
and per diem compensation as provided by the governing board. (Ord. 163, 7-9-
2003)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
General License And Permit Provisions   1
Alcoholic Beverage Control   2
Door To Door Solicitation   3
Businesses Utilizing Temporary Or Portable Structures   4
Pawnbrokers   5
Home Based Business   6
Public Events And Assembly   7
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: License Required
3-1-3: Applications And Renewals For Licenses And Permits
3-1-4: License Fee
3-1-5: Investigations And Inspections
3-1-6: Forms And Signatures
3-1-7: Termination Of License Or Permit
3-1-8: Building And Premises
3-1-9: Change Of Location
3-1-10: Change Of Use
3-1-11: Nuisance Businesses Prohibited
3-1-12: Violation And Penalty
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   BUSINESS: Every employment or occupation which occupies the time, attention
and labor of persons for purposes of livelihood or for profit.
   PERSON: Includes bodies politic and corporate, partnerships, associations
and corporations. (Ord. 207, 4-1-2010)
3-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall be engaged in, maintain or conduct any business by himself or
through an agent, employee or partner to hold himself forth as being engaged in
business or occupation, or to solicit patronage therefor, actively or
passively, within the city without obtaining a license therefor. (Ord. 207, 4-
1-2010)
3-1-3: APPLICATIONS AND RENEWALS FOR LICENSES AND PERMITS:
Applications and renewals for all licenses and permits required by this chapter
shall be made, in writing, to the city clerk, unless otherwise specifically
provided by law. Each application and renewal shall include:
   A.   Name and address of the applicant.
   B.   Name and address of property owner or lessor.
   C.   Specific use of the business.
   D.   Location of the business including property address and suite number,
if applicable.
   E.   Number of employees associated with the business.
   F.   A site plan showing the building that houses the business and the
parking lot. The parking lot site plan shall show the location, number of
parking spaces and size of the parking spaces designated for the business.
   G.   The floor plan must differentiate between the square footage of
occupied space and storage space. (Ord. 207, 4-1-2010)
3-1-4: LICENSE FEE:
The fee for each business license shall be assessed according to the fee
schedule adopted by Council resolution. (Ord. 207, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 277, 6-
9-2022)
3-1-5: INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Generally: Upon receipt of an application or renewal for a license or
permit where laws of the municipality necessitate an inspection or
investigation before the issuance of such permit or license, the clerk shall
refer such application to the proper officer for making such investigation. The
officer charged with the duty of making the investigation or inspection shall
make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within fifteen (15) days after
receiving the application or a copy thereof.
   B.   Inspection Of Premises:
      1.   Inspections Generally: Whenever inspections of the premises are
reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any code provision or to detect
violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee, permittee or person
in charge of the premises to be inspected to admit any officer or employee of
the municipality at any reasonable time that admission is requested.
      2.   Analyses: Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is
reasonably necessary to secure conformance with any code provision or to detect
violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee or permittee of the
municipality, whose business or occupation is governed by such provision, to
give to any authorized officer or employee of the municipality requesting the
same sufficient samples of such material or commodity for such analysis upon
request.
      3.   Failure To Allow Inspection Or Analysis; Revocation Of License Or
Permit: In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the mayor may
revoke the license or permit of any licensed proprietor of any licensed
business or occupation in the municipality who refuses to permit any such
officer or employee who is authorized to make such inspection or take such
sample to make the inspection or take an adequate sample of the said commodity
or who interferes with such officer or employee while in the performance of his
duty in making such inspection; provided, that no license or permit shall be
revoked for such cause, unless written demand is made upon the licensee or
permittee or person in charge of the premises, in the name of the municipality,
stating that such inspection or sample is desired at the time it is sought to
make the inspection or obtain the sample. (Ord. 207, 4-1-2010)
3-1-6: FORMS AND SIGNATURES:
   A.   Forms: Forms for all licenses and permits and applications therefor
shall be prepared and kept on file by the city clerk.
   B.   Signatures Required: Each license or permit issued shall bear the
signatures of the mayor and the city clerk in the absence of any provision to
the contrary. (Ord. 207, 4-1-2010)
3-1-7: TERMINATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
All annual licenses or permits shall terminate on June 30 where no provision to
the contrary is made.
The city clerk shall mail to all licensees and permittees of the municipality a
statement of the time of expiration of the license or permit held by the
licensee or permittee, if an annual license or permit, sixty (60) days prior to
the date of such expiration; provided, however, that failure to send out such
notice or failure of the licensee or permittee to receive it shall not excuse
the licensee or permittee from failure to obtain a new license or permit or the
renewal thereof nor shall it be a defense in an action for operation without a
license. (Ord. 207, 4-1-2010)
3-1-8: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
   A.   No license shall be issued or renewed for the conduct of any business,
and no permit shall be issued or renewed for any thing or act if the premises
and building to be used for the purpose do not fully comply with the
requirements of the municipality, including the requirements of title 7,
chapter 4 of this code.
   B.   No such license or permit shall be issued or renewed for the conduct of
any business or performance of any act which would involve a violation of the
zoning ordinance of the municipality or title 7, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord.
207, 4-1-2010)
3-1-9: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any licensed
business or occupation or of any permitted act may be changed; provided, ten
(10) days' notice thereof is given to the city clerk; provided, further, the
building 1  and zoning 2  and wastewater 3  requirements of this code are
complied with. (Ord. 207, 4-1-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4 of this code.
2 2. See title 5 of this code.
3 3. See title 7 of this code.
3-1-10: CHANGE OF USE:
Any change in use, ownership, intensity or occupancy of an existing structure
or use shall require approval of the city.
A change of use may occur, but is not limited to:
   A.   A change in the use of the building, structure or site.
   B.   A change in the use of the business occupying the building.
   C.   A change in the product sold, leased or rented.
   D.   A change in the service provided.
   E.   An increase in the number of employees.
   F.   An increase in the number of parking spaces.
   G.   An increase in the water flow or sewage loading.
Prior to a change of use on a property or a structure, the property owner,
business owner or representative shall notify the city at least ten (10) days
prior to the proposed change and provide the city adequate information to
determine compliance of applicable codes. Adequate information will include,
but is not limited to, a detailed description of the new use. A review by the
city shall be conducted prior to the change of use for review of applicable
codes to determine compliance. If the use complies with the municipal codes,
the city shall provide a notice of compliance that accompanies the business
license. (Ord. 207, 4-1-2010)
3-1-11: NUISANCE BUSINESSES PROHIBITED:
No business, licensed or not, shall be conducted or operated as to amount to a
"nuisance" in fact as defined in title 1, chapter 3 of this code. (Ord. 207, 4-
1-2010)
3-1-12: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful and an infraction, punishable in accordance with the
penalties set out in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person subject to license or permit hereunder to
fail to obtain such license or permit by the dates set forth in this chapter.
Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
The city shall have all lawful remedies including, but not necessarily limited
to, debt collection service, the imposition of reasonable interest and
penalties, the imposition of liens pursuant to chapter 5, title 45, Idaho Code,
the issuance of "stop work" orders, and the revocation or suspension of any
permits or renewals. (Ord. 207, 4-1-2010)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL
SECTION:
3-2-1: Authorization
3-2-2: Purpose
3-2-3: Definitions
3-2-4: Policies And Procedures
3-2-5: Fees Set By Resolution
3-2-6: License Required
3-2-7: License Application
3-2-8: General Applicant/License Restrictions
3-2-9: License Revocation/Suspension
3-2-10: License Renewal
3-2-11: License Transfer
3-2-12: Sale To Prohibited Persons
3-2-13: Hours Of Sale
3-2-14: Catering Permits
3-2-15: Enforcement
3-2-1: AUTHORIZATION:
This Chapter is enacted pursuant to the City's general police power and the
authority granted to cities by Article 12, Section 2 of the Idaho Constitution;
Title 23, Chapters 9 and 10; and Section 50-302 and 50-307 of the Idaho Code.
(Ord. 263, 11-7-2019)
3-2-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to protect the general health, safety and public
welfare of the City of Dalton Gardens residents and visitors by regulating the
hours, places and conditions of the sale of alcoholic beverages in the City of
Dalton Gardens. (Ord. 263, 11-7-2019)
3-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, unless the context indicates otherwise, the
following terms are defined as follows:
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE(S): Beer, liquor and wine.
   BEER: Has the same meaning as "beer" as defined in Idaho Code 23-1001.
   LIQUOR: Has the same meaning as "alcoholic liquor" as defined in Idaho Code
23-105.
   RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of alcoholic
beverages to a consumer.
   WINE: Has the same meaning as "wine" as defined in Idaho Code 23-1302. (Ord.
263, 11-7-2019)
3-2-4: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES:
The Mayor is authorized to establish and update, from time-to-time, written
policies and procedures to implement the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 263,
11-7-2019)
3-2-5: FEES SET BY RESOLUTION:
All license and other fees authorized by this chapter will be established by
resolution of the City Council. The fee established for the sale of beer must
be consistent with Idaho Code 23-1016 and the fee for the sale of liquor must
be consistent with Idaho Code 23-916. The catering permit fee must be
consistent with Idaho Code 23-934A. (Ord. 263, 11-7-2019)
3-2-6: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to sell or give away alcoholic beverages without
first obtaining a license from the City, except as provided in Idaho Code 23-
1007A for the purposes of donating the proceeds to a benevolent, charitable or
public purpose. (Ord. 263, 11-7-2019)
3-2-7: LICENSE APPLICATION:
   A.   A completed application for the retail sale of alcoholic beverages by
the drink or beer and wine to be consumed off the premises must be filed with
the City Clerk along with the required fee. The application must provide for
the name of the applicant, the location of the proposed business, information
required to show that the applicant meets the qualifications required by this
Chapter, and such other information as may be required on the application. At
the time the application is filed the applicant must also present copies of a
license to sell beer, wine or liquor, whichever is applicable, obtained from
both the state and the county, and a copy of the premises layout submitted with
the application submitted to the state.
   B.   All applications received by the City Clerk will be reviewed and a
final decision to grant or deny the license will be made by the City Council
within forty-five (45) days of receipt of a completed application.
   C.   Licenses will be for a period of no longer than one (1) year and expire
at two o'clock (2:00) a.m. on the first day of the renewal month for a state
license as determined by the Director of Idaho State Police.
   D.   The licensed premises will be limited to the area designated in the
premises layout submitted with the application, which may not be expanded
without submitting an amended application and obtaining approval by the City.
   E.   A licensed premises may only sell the type(s) of alcoholic beverages
that it is licensed to sell. (Ord. 263, 11-7-2019)
3-2-8: GENERAL APPLICANT/LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No retail license to sell alcoholic beverages by the drink will be
issued to any applicant who:
      1.   Has, or any partner who has, or actual manager or officer of whom
has:
         a.   Been convicted of the violation of any law of the state, or of
the United States regulations, governing or prohibiting the sale of alcoholic
beverages or intoxicating liquor within three (3) years or within three (3)
years forfeited or suffered the forfeiture of a bond for their appearance to
answer charges for such violation.
         b.   Been convicted of driving a motor vehicle under the influence of
alcohol, drugs or any other intoxicating substances as defined in the
jurisdiction in which the judgment was entered within three (3) years prior to
the date of the making of the application for license and/or has not paid a
fine, completed a sentence and/or parole for such conviction.
         c.   Engaged in the operation of, or has interest in, any house or
place for the purpose of prostitution, or has engaged in the operation of any
house or premises within the City limits of Dalton Gardens which has been
declared and found to have been a moral nuisance as defined by City ordinances
or state law.
         d.   Been convicted in any jurisdiction or received a withheld
judgment for any crime concerning the possession of any controlled substance
within five (5) years.
      2.   Has had a similar license revoked by any jurisdiction granting the
license and/or had their license revoked by the State of Idaho or Kootenai
County.
      3.   Allows conduct to occur on the premises which is a moral nuisance as
defined by the laws of the State of Idaho and/or the ordinances of the City of
Dalton Gardens.
      4.   Manages and/or operates the licensed premises in such a way as to be
a nuisance to surrounding businesses by reason of the conduct of employees or
clientele of the licensed premises, where said employees or clientele engage in
lewd and/or violent and/or disorderly behavior.
   B.   No license shall be issued for the sale of alcoholic beverages upon the
premises in locations where such sale is prohibited by Idaho Code 23-913. (Ord.
263, 11-7-2019)
3-2-9: LICENSE REVOCATION/SUSPENSION:
   A.   The City retains the right at all times to suspend, revoke and cancel
any alcoholic beverage license.
   B.   If any licensee or employee of a business licensed to sell alcoholic
beverages violates any of the provisions of this Chapter, provides false
information on the application, or is convicted of violation of any of the
provisions of the laws of the State of Idaho relating to the sale of alcoholic
beverages or the terms of this Chapter, the license may be revoked or
suspended.
   C.   If the City determines that a license issued under this Chapter should
be suspended, the licensee, prior to the effective date of the suspension, may
request that a monetary penalty be allowed in lieu of the license suspension.
If the City Council determines that such payment be consistent with the purpose
of the laws of the State of Idaho and the City of Dalton Gardens and is in the
public interest, the Clerk will charge a monetary penalty not to exceed five
thousand dollars ($5,000). The licensee may reject the payment amount and
instead be subject to the suspension. Upon payment of the amount established,
the suspension shall be canceled.
   D.   In the event that the City determines that a license should be revoked
or suspended, a written notice of revocation or suspension must be provided to
the licensee setting forth the grounds for such action. The revocation or
suspension will become effective ten (10) days after the notice is provided
unless the licensee appeals the revocation to the City Council. The licensee
must request an appeal in writing addressed to the City Clerk. The appeal must
be received within ten (10) days of notice and set forth the basis of the
appeal in accordance with City Code 1-11-1. Upon receipt of an appeal, the City
Council will set a time and place for hearing the appeal. A revocation or
suspension of the state license by the Director of the Department of Law
Enforcement or a revocation of the county license shall be deemed prima facie
evidence for revocation or suspension of the license issued in this Chapter.
(Ord. 263, 11-7-2019)
3-2-10: LICENSE RENEWAL:
An application for renewal of a license to sell alcoholic beverages must be
submitted on the same form as the application for the initial license and
submitted to the City Clerk along with the required fee. A final decision on
the issuance of a renewal license will be made within the same time limits
required by this Chapter for the issuance of new licenses. (Ord. 263, 11-7-
2019)
3-2-11: LICENSE TRANSFER:
   A.   An application for the transfer of a license to sell alcoholic
beverages must be submitted on the form provided by the City Clerk along with
the required fee.
   B.   No license will be transferred to any applicant that does not meet the
requirements for a license set out in this Chapter.
   C.   A final decision on the issuance of a license transfer will be made
within the same time limits required by this Chapter for the issuance of new
licenses. (Ord. 263, 11-7-2019)
3-2-12: SALE TO PROHIBITED PERSONS:
It is unlawful for any person to sell alcoholic beverages to any person to whom
the sale of the same is prohibited by the laws of the State of Idaho. Any such
sale by a person licensed to sell or a person working at a business licensed to
sell any alcoholic beverages is cause for cancellation of such license or
licenses as such person may be issued. (Ord. 263, 11-7-2019)
3-2-13: HOURS OF SALE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any licensee to sell or dispense beer or wine
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) a.m. and six o'clock (6:00) a.m.
   B.   It is unlawful for any licensee to sell liquor to be consumed on the
premises between the following hours:
      1.   Between two o'clock (2:00) a.m. and ten o'clock (10:00) a.m.
      2.   All day on Christmas. (Ord. 263, 11-7-2019)
3-2-14: CATERING PERMITS:
Holders of a permit to sell any alcoholic beverage to be consumed on the
premises may serve and sell alcoholic beverages by the drink at a party or
convention off the licensed premises with a catering permit.
   A.   Application: Application for a catering permit must be filed with the
City Clerk, along with the required fee, in such form and manner as provided
herein. The application must provide for:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant;
      2.   The number of the applicant's state liquor, beer or wine license;
      3.   The dates and hours during which the permit is to be effective;
      4.   The name of the organization, groups or persons sponsoring the
event;
      5.   The address at which the alcoholic beverages are to be served, with
a description of the area within the building or at the location where the
alcoholic beverages will be served.
   B.   Permit Limitations: The catering permit will be limited to
authorization to sell liquor or beer or wine, or any combination thereof, based
upon the type of license which the applicant possesses.
   C.   Length Of Permit: Catering permits issued for festivals or conventions
cannot exceed five (5) consecutive days. Permits for parties cannot exceed two
(2) consecutive days. Upon application by the permittee, catering permits for
festivals or conventions can be extended for one (1) additional period on the
same terms and conditions of the original permit. The decision to authorize the
extension is at the sole and absolute discretion of the City. (Ord. 263, 11-7-
2019)
3-2-15: ENFORCEMENT:
Any violation of this Chapter is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
Title 1, Chapter 4 of this Code.
(Ord. 263, 11-7-2019)
CHAPTER 3
DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITATION
SECTION:
3-3-1: Registration Required
3-3-2: Registration Exemption
3-3-3: Registration Fee
3-3-4: Required Information
3-3-5: Term
3-3-6: Nuisance Prohibited
3-3-7: False Information Prohibited
3-3-8: Violation And Penalties
3-3-1: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to solicit door to door without first registering
with the city of Dalton Gardens, unless exempt by state or federal law. "Door
to door solicitation" shall mean any unsolicited contact by a person with any
person at a residence in the city of Dalton Gardens for the purpose of selling
any product or service, or soliciting orders for any product or service.
Registration forms shall be provided by the city. (Ord. 234, 12-5-2013)
3-3-2: REGISTRATION EXEMPTION:
Registration shall not be required for any commonly recognized and locally
organized youth groups, local youth school groups and youth church groups. Any
commonly recognized and locally organized youth group shall notify the city
prior to door to door solicitation activities within the city limits. "Local"
means within Kootenai County. (Ord. 234, 12-5-2013)
3-3-3: REGISTRATION FEE:
A registration fee in the amount set by the city council by resolution shall be
tendered at the time of submitting a registration application, unless the
solicitor is a nonprofit business or charitable organization that meets section
501(c)(3) of the United States internal revenue code, which shall be exempt
from any registration fee. Possession of a certificate of such status from the
internal revenue service shall be required at the time of registration to
qualify for this exemption.
Registration fee exemptions shall also apply to any commonly recognized local
organized youth groups, local youth school groups and youth church groups that
do not qualify for section 501(c)(3) of the United States internal revenue
code. (Ord. 234, 12-5-2013)
3-3-4: REQUIRED INFORMATION:
Persons registering with the city clerk shall present current and valid
government issued photo identification and shall fill out a registration
application to be provided by the city clerk, which shall give the following
information:
   A.   Name and permanent home address of the applicant;
   B.   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods or
services to be sold or provided;
   C.   Name and address of the person's employer, together with an explanation
of the exact relationship between the person and the employer;
   D.   Length of time for which the door to door solicitation will occur;
   E.   A statement as to whether or not the person has been convicted of any
crime or violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of the offense and
where the offense was committed. (Ord. 234, 12-5-2013)
3-3-5: TERM:
   A.   A new registration shall be filed with the city clerk each year for
solicitation of sales of the same product or service by the same person.
   B.   A new registration shall be required when a person who has previously
registered within the last year desires to sell door to door any products or
services not listed on the original registration application. (Ord. 234, 12-5-
2013)
3-3-6: NUISANCE PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person, registered or not, shall solicit business at any home or
business when such location has clearly posted any sign indicating that
solicitation or peddling is prohibited.
   B.   No person, registered or not, shall continue with door to door
solicitation at any home or business when requested to leave by the owner,
authorized agent of the owner, or any other person that resides or works on the
premises. (Ord. 234, 12-5-2013)
3-3-7: FALSE INFORMATION PROHIBITED:
Providing false information on a registration application shall be a violation
of this chapter. (Ord. 234, 12-5-2013)
3-3-8: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions set out in this chapter shall have
committed an infraction, and, upon being found to have violated a provision of
this chapter, shall be penalized as set forth in title 1, chapter 4 of this
code. (Ord. 234, 12-5-2013)
CHAPTER 4
BUSINESSES UTILIZING TEMPORARY OR PORTABLE STRUCTURES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Statement Of Purpose
3-4-2: Restrictions On Issuance Of License
3-4-3: Definition
3-4-4: Foundations Required
3-4-5: Outdoor Seating Prohibited
3-4-6: Location
3-4-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
The City Council has determined that certain temporary or portable structures
not connected to septic tanks and used by businesses selling prepared food or
drink products in the commercially zoned area of the City may create traffic
and fire hazards and potential health and sanitation concerns as well as
enforcement problems. (Ord. 137, 5-2-1996)
3-4-2: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
No business license or permit under Title 3, Chapter 1 of this Code shall be
issued to any business being operated out of a trailer. (Ord. 137, 5-2-1996)
3-4-3: DEFINITION:
"Trailer" shall mean a vehicle with wheels and without means of self propulsion
licensable as a conveyance on a public street. (Ord. 137, 5-2-1996)
3-4-4: FOUNDATIONS REQUIRED:
All temporary or portable structures not meeting the requirements of the
Uniform Building Code and used for the purpose of retail sales of food and
drink products shall be placed on foundation supports as approved by the City
Building Inspector. (Ord. 137, 5-2-1996)
3-4-5: OUTDOOR SEATING PROHIBITED:
No person or entity permitted or licensed to operate a business of retail sales
of prepared food or drink products from a temporary or portable structure shall
allow or place outdoor seating for the consumption of products sold from the
business. (Ord. 137, 5-2-1996)
3-4-6: LOCATION:
All portable and temporary structures used for retail sales of prepared food
and drink products shall be located upon a site in the City's Commercial
District in a manner creating no danger to entering and exiting traffic and
pedestrians. (Ord. 137, 5-2-1996)
CHAPTER 5
PAWNBROKERS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: License And Fee
3-5-3: Exemptions; Nonprofit Charitable Organizations, Secondhand Clothing
Sales
3-5-4: Minors; Purchasing Secondhand Articles From Prohibited
3-5-5: Minors; Accepting Property From As Pledge For A Loan Prohibited
3-5-6: Records Required; Contents And Identification Requirements
3-5-7: Report; Purchase Of Secondhand Articles
3-5-8: Report; Acceptance Of Property As Pledge For Loan
3-5-9: False Or Fictitious Information
3-5-10: Lease Or Contract Purchase
3-5-11: Sales
3-5-12: Forfeitures
3-5-13: Violation; Penalty
3-5-14: Stolen Property; Police Hold; Seizure
3-5-15: Authority To Confiscate
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to the terms used in this Chapter:
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY: Code Enforcement Officer of the City of Dalton
Gardens and/or the Kootenai County Sheriff or his authorized representatives.
   PAWNBROKER: Any person, association or corporation which, in the course of
its business, loans money and receives as a security personal property as a
pledge or holds such personal property under a conditional sales contract or an
agreement to resell such personal property to the borrower or his assignee at a
price agreed upon, at or before the time of such transaction, except the term
shall not apply to banks, trust companies or bond brokers who may be regulated
by law and authorized to deal in commercial paper, sales of stock, bonds or
other certificates of value.
   SECONDHAND DEALER: Any person, association or corporation engaging in,
conducting, managing or carrying on the business of buying, selling or
otherwise dealing in used or secondhand personal property, rebuilt or
reconditioned goods, wares or merchandise; provided that this term shall not
apply to a person conducting casual or isolated sales of one's own personal
property; provided, further, that this term shall not apply to a retail dealer
of used or secondhand merchandise whose stock of merchandise consists at least
ninety percent (90%) of objects of art, bric-a-brac, curios or household
furniture or furnishings offered for sale upon the basis, express or implied,
that the value of the property, in whole or in substantial part, is derived
from its age or from its historical association; provided, further, that this
term shall not apply to dealers of new articles who allow their patrons an
exchange value on used or secondhand articles, when selling a new article; coin
shop or auto wreckers or used car dealers holding dealer permits. (Ord. 140, 1-
2-1997)
3-5-2: LICENSE AND FEE:
   A.   No person shall engage in, conduct or carry on the business of loaning
money with articles kept as security or to buy and sell used articles without
first obtaining a license to do so from the City Clerk. The fee for such
license shall be as set by the City Council.
   B.   No license shall be issued under this Chapter to any person,
partnership, or association if such person, member of the partnership, any
officer, director, or manager of any corporation or association or any person
having a direct financial interest in the business other than as lessor,
mortgagee, or vendee, has been convicted of a felony or had a license under
this Chapter revoked, within five (5) years of the date of application for
license, or unless the applicant is a citizen of the United States of America.
   C.   All applications for a license under this Chapter shall be made to the
City Clerk and shall be referred to the Code Enforcement Officer or Sheriff of
Kootenai County, hereinafter referred to as the "Enforcement Authority", which
shall inquire into the qualifications of the applicant. In order to determine
an individual's suitability for licensing with the City, the Enforcement
Authority shall require each specified applicant to be fingerprinted and shall
forward the fingerprints through the Idaho Department of Law Enforcement/Bureau
of Criminal Investigation to the F.B.I. Identification Division for a criminal
history check. Fees required for the criminal history check shall be tendered
at such time as the application is made. Should the Enforcement Authority
determine that the applicant is qualified for a license under the provisions of
this Chapter, it shall report to the City Clerk that the applicant is qualified
and the license shall be issued by the Clerk. Should the Enforcement Authority
find that the applicant does not meet the qualification requirements under this
Chapter, the application shall be denied.
   D.   No license required by this Chapter is transferable from one person or
location to another person or location. (Ord. 140, 1-2-1997)
3-5-3: EXEMPTIONS; NONPROFIT CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS, SECONDHAND CLOTHING
SALES:
Stores dealing in secondhand clothing only, and all nonprofit charitable
organizations are exempt from the requirements of this Chapter. (Ord. 140, 1-2-
1997)
3-5-4: MINORS; PURCHASING SECONDHAND ARTICLES FROM PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person who conducts a business which business wholly or
in part consists of buying used or secondhand articles, goods, wares or
merchandise, to purchase any such used or secondhand property from any person
under the age of eighteen (18) years. (Ord. 140, 1-2-1997)
3-5-5: MINORS; ACCEPTING PROPERTY FROM AS PLEDGE FOR A LOAN PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person who conducts a pawnshop or secondhand store to
accept any article as a pledge for a loan from any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years. (Ord. 140, 1-2-1997)
3-5-6: RECORDS REQUIRED; CONTENTS AND IDENTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Every such pawnshop or dealer in used or secondhand articles, goods,
wares or merchandise shall maintain a record of each loan or purchase
transaction. This record shall be maintained in an invoice book approved by the
Enforcement Authority. The book must be either duplicate or triplicate with
invoice numbering maintained in sequence. Each invoice shall have the following
information legibly recorded upon it:
      1.   The date, hour and place of transaction;
      2.   A true, accurate and complete description of each article involved,
including serial number and name of manufacturer;
      3.   The amount loaned or paid for each article;
      4.   The name, address, date of birth and complete physical description
of the person borrowing on or selling the article;
      5.   The type of identification presented.
   B.   The pawnshop or secondhand dealer must require official identification
and record the name, address, date of birth and physical description of the
person borrowing or selling the article from that identification.
   C.   The records shall be open to the inspection of the police, City
officials, the Sheriff and other law enforcement officers of the State at any
and all times.
   D.   The Enforcement Authority, or his duly authorized representative, shall
have the right at any time to enter any premises licensed under this Chapter
and to inspect any article pawned or purchased by the licensee under this
license and examine the same, to determine that the licensee has and is
complying with all laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations of the
United States, the State of Idaho, and the City of Dalton Gardens. (Ord. 140,
1-2-1997)
3-5-7: REPORT; PURCHASE OF SECONDHAND ARTICLES:
Every such pawnshop or dealer in secondhand articles shall render the first
carbon copy of each purchase transaction to the Sheriff's Office of Kootenai
County, to be available on a daily basis. (Ord. 140, 1-2-1997)
3-5-8: REPORT; ACCEPTANCE OF PROPERTY AS PLEDGE FOR LOAN:
Every such pawnshop shall render the first carbon copy of each loan transaction
to the Sheriff of Kootenai County, to be available on a daily basis. (Ord. 140,
1-2-1997)
3-5-9: FALSE OR FICTITIOUS INFORMATION:
It is unlawful for any person to use a false name, a fictitious address or any
address other than the true address or to furnish any false, untrue or
misleading information or statement relating to the information required by any
section of this Chapter. (Ord. 140, 1-2-1997)
3-5-10: LEASE OR CONTRACT PURCHASE:
It is unlawful for any person to pledge or sell any goods, chattels or effects
or any personal property of a value of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) or
less, leased or let to him by any instrument in writing under a contract of
purchase not yet fulfilled. (Ord. 140, 1-2-1997)
3-5-11: SALES:
No personal property purchased by any pawnbroker through his place of business
shall be sold for a space of at least ten (10) working days after receipt by
the Sheriff's Office of Kootenai County of a copy of the purchase transaction.
(Ord. 140, 1-2-1997)
3-5-12: FORFEITURES:
It shall be the duty of every pawnbroker to allow any person accepting a loan
for:
   A.   Twenty dollars ($20.00) or less, a period of thirty (30) days in which
to pay before the same shall become forfeitable; and
   B.   Over twenty dollars ($20.00), a period of thirty (30) days before the
same shall become forfeitable. (Ord. 140, 1-2-1997)
3-5-13: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine of not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment for
not more than thirty (30) days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
The license of any licensee shall be revoked or application for issuance of a
new license or renewal of a license shall be denied when it is determined that
any licensee, employee of licensee, member of a partnership or association,
officer or member of the governing board or principal stockholder of a
corporation or other person having direct financial interest in the business,
other than as lessor, mortgagee, or vendee, has violated any provisions of this
Chapter or does not meet the qualifications of a licensee provided in this
Chapter.
Prior to the revocation of any license or the denial of an application for a
license or renewal thereof, written notice of the reasons for such action shall
be given to the applicant or licensee by the City Clerk. Such notice shall
state that the applicant or licensee may request a hearing on such decision by
the City Council within ten (10) days of receiving the notice. Should the
applicant or licensee request the hearing within such ten (10) day period, the
applicant shall be notified in writing by the City Clerk of the time and place
of the hearing. (Ord. 140, 1-2-1997)
3-5-14: STOLEN PROPERTY; POLICE HOLD; SEIZURE:
Any article pledged or sold to a pawnbroker or secondhand dealer which is
subsequently determined to have been stolen must be held by such pawnbroker or
secondhand dealer for a period of sixty (60) days after being notified by the
Enforcement Authority of a "police hold" on the article. (Ord. 140, 1-2-1997)
3-5-15: AUTHORITY TO CONFISCATE:
The Enforcement Authority may seize any article determined to have been stolen
after obtaining a court order for such seizure. (Ord. 140, 1-2-1997)
CHAPTER 6
HOME BASED BUSINESS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Title
3-6-2: Authority
3-6-3: Purpose
3-6-4: Definitions
3-6-5: Applicability
3-6-6: Application Requirements
3-6-7: Process
3-6-8: Administration
3-6-9: Special Use Permits
3-6-10: Inspection
3-6-11: Grace Period For Nonconforming, Existing Home Based Businesses
3-6-12: Prohibited Conduct, Enforcement, And Penalties
3-6-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the HOME BASED BUSINESS ORDINANCE of Dalton
Gardens. (Ord. 180, 12-1-2005)
3-6-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is authorized under the provisions of Idaho Code sections 67-6511
and 67-6512. (Ord. 180, 12-1-2005)
3-6-3: PURPOSE:
It is the intent of this chapter to provide peace, quiet, and domestic
tranquility, and maintain the character of all residential neighborhoods within
the city. It is further the intent of this chapter to guarantee all residents
freedom from excessive noise, traffic, nuisances, fire hazards, and other
possible effects of commercial uses being conducted in residential areas. This
chapter will provide standards which allow a resident of a single-family
dwelling to operate a limited commercial or business activity from their
principal dwelling while achieving the goals of retaining residential
character, maintaining property values, and preserving environmental quality.
It is not the intent of this chapter to cover incidental business phone calls
received or made from the residence. (Ord. 180, 12-1-2005)
3-6-4: DEFINITIONS:
   CRITICAL MATERIAL: Any liquid, semiliquid, flowable, or water soluble solid
that is listed on the most current superfund amendments and reauthorization
act, title III (SARA III) "List Of Lists" published by the office of toxic
substances, U.S. environmental protection agency, Washington, D.C., or is
required by the U.S. occupational safety and health administration to have a
material safety data sheet (MSDS).
   DWELLING: A structure, building, or shelter, serving as a place where one or
more persons live. Also known as a house, residence, abode, domicile,
habitation, lodging, or home.
   HOME BASED BUSINESS: A limited business activity which may, if permitted by
the city, be operated in a residential dwelling on a lot in the residential
district.
   INDUSTRIAL USE: A use that includes, but is not limited to, manufacturing,
processing, production, assembly, warehousing, disposal and/or distribution of
goods, services and materials 1 .
   NONCONFORMING HOME BASED BUSINESS: A business activity within the
residential district that was in existence prior to March 2, 1989, and has been
in continuous operation from March 2, 1989, until the adoption date hereof.
   NONDOMESTIC WASTEWATER: Any wastewater that is not produced as sanitary
wastewater from restroom facilities, showers, or kitchens.
   RESTRICTED HOME BASED BUSINESS: A business that does not meet at least one
of the criteria of a home based business, but which may, with an approved
special use permit, be operated within the residential district. The restricted
home based business may be allowed within an accessory structure.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
not more than one family. (Ord. 180, 12-1-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §50-2702.
3-6-5: APPLICABILITY:
Any property owner or resident operating a business from a dwelling in the
residential district shall be required to apply for a home based business
permit. If the business does not meet the criteria for a home based business
permit, then the property owner or resident shall apply for a special use
permit for a restricted home based business. No business or occupation defined
as industrial by the state of Idaho or requiring an industrial application or
permit from any government entity shall be permitted.
   A.   Home Based Business Criteria: A home based business permit shall be
required in order to operate business activity within the residential district.
The number of home based businesses within a dwelling is not limited, but the
total combined effect of the home based businesses which are permitted on one
property shall not exceed the performance standards and criteria in this
section. A home based business permit shall meet all of the following:
      1.   Home based businesses shall be incidental and subordinate to the
principal use of the dwelling for residential purposes and shall not detract
from the residential character of the premises or neighborhood;
      2.   The area within the dwelling that is associated with the home based
business shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the structure or shall
not exceed one thousand (1,000) square feet, whichever is less. The home based
business shall not be allowed in any structure other than the dwelling;
      3.   No retail sales are allowed where customer vehicular traffic is
generated;
      4.   Home based businesses shall not generate more than one commercial
truck delivery per day. Load limits shall apply to truck deliveries on city
streets. Deliveries shall be restricted to the business hours between seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., Monday through Saturday;
      5.   Home based businesses shall only be operated by family members
actually occupying the dwelling as their principal residence;
      6.   No additions to the dwelling for the specific purpose of operating a
home based business shall be allowed;
      7.   Any machinery, mechanical devices, or equipment employed in the
operation of a home based business shall not generate noise, vibration,
radiation, odor, glare, smoke, steam, or other condition not typically
associated with the use of the dwelling for residential purposes;
      8.   The outdoor storage of goods and/or materials associated with the
home based business is prohibited;
      9.   There shall be no parking permitted on yards. There shall be no on
street parking associated with the business. There shall be no pick up and drop
off of children or pets that are associated with the home based business;
      10.   No signs are allowed;
      11.   Evidence of compliance with Panhandle health district critical
materials regulations shall be required if such materials are present.
Nondomestic wastewater is prohibited.
      12.   Yard, garage, and estate sales shall not exceed four (4) sales per
calendar year, or a combined total of twelve (12) days per year. More than four
(4) sales per calendar year, or more than a combined total of twelve (12) days
per calendar year, shall require a special use permit. (Ord. 180, 12-1-2005)
3-6-6: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
All applications for a home based business permit shall be submitted to the
city by the property owner or resident on a form provided by the city with an
application fee as set by resolution of the city council. At a minimum, the
following shall be required:
   A.   Application Form: The form shall be submitted under oath attesting to
the accuracy of the information.
   B.   Site Plan: The site plan shall show a separate floor plan of the
dwelling depicting the location and square footage of the home based business.
   C.   Description Of Activity And Water Usage: A narrative describing in
sufficient detail the home based business activity and the type of water usage
necessary to operate the business.
   D.   Authorization: Notarized authorization of the property owner if the
applicant is a tenant or renter. (Ord. 180, 12-1-2005)
3-6-7: PROCESS:
The applicant shall obtain an application package from the city. The applicant
shall provide to the city the application, narrative, applicable fees and the
site plan. The applicant shall also sign the application form under oath. Upon
review of the application, the city shall apply the criteria listed in
subsection 3-6-5A of this chapter to determine whether or not to approve or
deny the home based business. (Ord. 180, 12-1-2005)
3-6-8: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   General: This chapter shall be administered in a manner consistent with
other ordinances of Dalton Gardens. The permit shall run with the property and
specify the owner. The permit may not be moved or transferred to a different
business or another owner or tenant. If any changes to the permit occur during
the permit year, the business owner shall provide the new or additional
information to the city within thirty (30) days of the change.
   B.   Duration Of Permit: Permits shall expire on December 31 of each year.
The permit shall be renewed by December 31 of each year. The clerk shall mail
to all permittees of the municipality a statement of the time of expiration of
the permit held. Failure by the city to send the notice, or of the permittee to
receive the notice, shall not excuse the permittee from the requirement to
obtain a renewal, nor shall it be a defense in an action to operate without a
permit.
   C.   Appeals: Appeals concerning interpretation or administration of this
chapter shall be processed in accordance with Section
1-11-1. (Ord. 180, 12-1-2005; amd. Ord. 264, 3-5-2020)
3-6-9: SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
A restricted home based business is a business operated on a residential lot
and is limited to an accessory use in conjunction with a dwelling that fails to
meet one or more of the criteria for a home based business permit.
A restricted home based business shall require a special use permit. The
application requirements and criteria for approval used for a special use
permit are found in title 5, chapter 7 of this code. (Ord. 180, 12-1-2005)
3-6-10: INSPECTION:
All activities governed by these regulations shall be subject to inspection by
the city during business hours. It shall be the permittee's responsibility to
keep the city notified of any changes to the conditions required by the permit.
If deemed necessary by the city, special inspections may be performed to verify
conformance with this chapter. The cost of such inspections shall be borne by
the applicant. Fees associated with the inspection shall be adopted by council
resolution. (Ord. 180, 12-1-2005)
3-6-11: GRACE PERIOD FOR NONCONFORMING, EXISTING HOME BASED BUSINESSES:
An existing home based business that has been operating prior to the adoption
date hereof shall be required to make in person contact with the city within
one hundred twenty (120) days of the adoption date hereof to determine
qualifying status of the home based business. Holders of a current business
license within the residential zoning district obtained under ordinance 81 of
the city shall not expand their operation without meeting the current municipal
code regulations.
Home based businesses that were in existence prior to the repeal of the
original home occupation ordinance (March 2, 1989) shall be considered legal
nonconforming and will be allowed to continue operating under this chapter. The
legal nonconforming businesses shall provide proof of existence of the business
prior to March 2, 1989, and shall also provide proof of continuous operation
from March 2, 1989, up until the adoption of this chapter. The legal
nonconforming home based business shall not be allowed to expand their
operation. Once the proof of existence has been established, a permit shall be
granted by the city. Yearly renewals of the permit shall be required.
Any expansion of the legal, nonconforming home based business will constitute a
substantial change and the property owner or resident shall be required to meet
the current requirements of this chapter.
Home based business that existed prior to the adoption date hereof that do not
meet the criteria for legal nonconforming or a home based business permit shall
be required to apply for a special use permit within one hundred twenty (120)
days of the adoption date hereof. Failure to contact the city and apply for a
permit shall be deemed to be abandonment of any right to operate the
nonconforming home based business. (Ord. 180, 12-1-2005)
3-6-12: PROHIBITED CONDUCT, ENFORCEMENT, AND PENALTIES:
Should the city, at any time during the period in which a home based business
is in operation, receive a written complaint, and after conducting an
investigation, find that the operation of such home based business is in
violation of the provisions of this chapter and/or the terms and conditions
subject thereto, the city shall serve notice, by certified mail, to cease
activities conducted in violation of the home based business regulations. Such
notice shall be headed "NOTICE TO CEASE NON-PERMITTED HOME BASED BUSINESS
ACTIVITY", shall contain a description of the property, shall describe the
ordinance section(s) violated, shall specify the penalty provisions of this
chapter, and shall specify the appeal process specified by this chapter.
The property owner or resident shall stop all work associated with the permit
until authorized by the city to proceed. The city may also withhold further
issuance of permits.
Violations of this chapter may be considered a criminal misdemeanor and shall
be punishable by a maximum fine of three hundred dollars ($300.00) or six (6)
months in jail, or both. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate
offense. The city may also take civil action to compel compliance of
requirements or performance and completion of, or maintenance of, improvements
installed pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 180, 12-1-2005)
CHAPTER 7
PUBLIC EVENTS AND ASSEMBLY
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: Parades Prohibited
3-7-3: Permit Required
3-7-4: Exceptions to Permit Requirement
3-7-5: Application and Proper Notice
3-7-6: Contents of Permit Application
3-7-7: Application Fee
3-7-8: Standards for Issuance
3-7-9: Notice of Determination of Application
3-7-10: Conditional Approval
3-7-11: Appeal Procedure
3-7-12: Duties of Permittee
3-7-13: Time, Place and Manner Restrictions
3-7-14: Violation; Penalties
3-7-15: Emergency Cancellation; Termination
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have the
meanings set out in this section:
            Any person applying for a “permit” as defined herein. The true applicant for any
APPLICANT:  such permit shall be the sponsoring entity whether such sponsoring entity is an
            individual person, a corporation, a partnership or other legal entity of any
            type.
CITY CLERK: The clerk of the city or the clerk’s authorized designee.
EVENT:      A gathering or meeting of 50 or more people with or without vendors, including
            weddings, birthdays, reunions, and class reunions.
FIRE        Kootenai County Fire and Rescue.
DEPARTMENT:
            Any dash, demonstration, march, marathon, meeting, motorcade, parade,
            procession, race, rally, or like activity consisting of multiple persons,
PARADE:     animals, or vehicles or a combination thereof within the city with an intent of
            attracting public attention or achieving some other expressive purpose which
            might interfere with or has the potential to interfere with the normal flow or
            regulation of traffic upon the streets.
PERMIT:     The permit as required by this chapter for a “parade”, “public assembly” or
            “event” as defined herein. An approved application will serve as the permit.
PERMITTEE:  Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or organization
            of any kind granted a permit for an activity regulated by this chapter.
PERSON:     Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or organization
            of any kind.
            Any meeting, demonstration, rally or gathering of 50 or more persons for a
PUBLIC      common purpose as a result of prior planning that interferes with or has a
ASSEMBLY:   tendency to interfere with the normal flow or regulation of pedestrian or
            vehicular traffic or occupies any street or other public property managed by the
            city of Dalton Gardens, including parks.
SHERIFF:    The Kootenai County sheriff or the sheriff’s authorized designee.
SIDEWALK:   Any area or way set aside or open to the general public for purpose of
            pedestrian traffic, whether or not it is paved.
            Any place or way set aside or open to the general public for primary purposes of
STREET:     vehicular traffic, including any berm or shoulder, parkway, right of way, or
            median strip thereof. (Ord. 269, 5-6-2021)
 
3-7-2: PARADES PROHIBITED:
Parades, as defined in this chapter, are prohibited within the City of Dalton
Gardens. (Ord. 269, 5-6-2021)
3-7-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in, participate in, or conduct any “public assembly” or
“event” as defined by this chapter unless a permit has been issued by the city
clerk for the date and location involved. (Ord. 269, 5-6-2021)
3-7-4: EXCEPTIONS TO PERMIT REQUIREMENT:
This chapter shall not apply to the following:
   A.   Funeral processions;
   B.   Government agencies acting within the scope of their function;
   C.   Regular park usage by family, charitable, fraternal or other groups in
the ordinary traditional use of the park, when the anticipated number of
participants is less than fifty (50) where no vendors are present;
   D.   Community block watch events that are organized and working with
Kootenai County Sheriff’s Office or city government;
   E.   Students going to and from classes or participating in educational
activities, provided such conduct is under the immediate direction and
supervision of the proper school authorities;
   F.   Lawful activities occurring within the right of way of the city of
Dalton Gardens.
   G.   Other activities sponsored by the city of Dalton Gardens in its
municipal capacity or in conjunction with other government agencies. (Ord. 269,
5-6-2021)
3-7-5: APPLICATION AND PROPER NOTICE:
A person seeking an event permit shall obtain an application form and file a
completed application with the city clerk on forms provided.
An application for a permit shall be filed with the city clerk as soon as the
applicant knows sufficient information to complete an application and at least
thirty (30) days and not more than one year before an event or public assembly
is proposed to commence. The time frame set forth herein may be waived in the
discretion of the city clerk for good cause and upon a finding that such waiver
would not compromise the ability of the city to prepare for the activity for
which the permit is requested.
Good cause may be shown when the event or public assembly is related to an
unanticipated or recently announced or occurring event and the application for
permit can be processed in compliance with the provisions of this chapter in
sufficient time to allow the event to proceed as scheduled without causing
fiscal or operational hardship to the city’s operations.
This section is subject to amendment or replacement at any time, and any
application for an event or public assembly permit shall be issued pursuant to
the ordinance in effect at the time of application, but conduct during the
event or public assembly shall be governed by standards of behavior legally
required at the time the event occurs. (Ord. 269, 5-6-2021)
3-7-6: CONTENTS OF PERMIT APPLICATION:
Each permit application shall state at least the following, and the applicant
shall adhere to and be bound by any commitments made in an application
submittal:
   A.   the full name, street address, telephone number, e-mail address, and
facsimile number, if any, of the person or organization sponsoring the event or
public assembly;
   B.   The name, street address, telephone number, e-mail address, and
facsimile number, if any, of the person in charge of the event or public
assembly;
   C.   The date when the event or public assembly is to be conducted;
   D.   The name of the event or public assembly, if any;
   E.   The time the event or public assembly will begin to form, and the
expected duration of the event or public assembly;
   F.   The place or the event or public assembly;
   G.   The approximate number of participants, not including spectators, who
will participate in the event or public assembly and the maximum number who
will be allowed to participate;
   H.   The prior event or public assembly history of the applicant within
Dalton Gardens, or the state of Idaho history if no Dalton Gardens history
exists, including the number of permits previously applied for;
   I.   A thoroughly documented plan for controlling disorderly or violent
conduct if such might reasonably be expected, a plan for maintaining traffic
flow to residential and commercial properties, and other establishments, a plan
for sanitary and medical facilities, and for cleanup;
   J.   Attach the required certificate of insurance, if applicable, as set
forth elsewhere within this chapter;
   K.   Identify any requested exception from any requirement established by
this chapter premised upon the unique circumstances associated with the event
or public assembly for which application has been made;
   L.   Any other information required by the city clerk or sheriff to enable
them to understand the impacts of the proposed event or public assembly. (Ord.
269, 5-6-2021)
3-7-7: APPLICATION FEE:
A nonrefundable application fee in an amount set by resolution of the city
council to cover the expenses incident to processing the application for an
event or public assembly permit shall be paid to the city clerk at the time of
filing of the application. This fee is not refundable unless the application is
withdrawn on the same date it is submitted. (Ord. 269, 5-6-2021)
3-7-8: STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE:
   A.   Statement Of Purpose: The purpose of these regulations is to set forth
the standards of issuance for an event or public assembly permit. It is further
the purpose of these regulations to:
      1.   Assure that emergency services such as police, fire, and ambulance
services are available for an event or public assembly taking place within the
corporate limits of the city of Dalton Gardens; and
      2.   Assure that emergency services such as police, fire, and ambulance
services are not unreasonably inhibited in their ability to travel on and to
cross public streets or property used by events or public assembly; and
      3.   Assure that private business activities in Dalton Gardens are not
unreasonably impacted by events or public assembly; and
      4.   Assure that traffic on public streets is not unreasonably disturbed
or disrupted by events or public assembly; and
      5.   Assure that public safety can be maintained; and
      6.   Assure that public property can be protected from harm.
   B.   Permit Issuance: Only one event or public assembly permit will be
granted for the same calendar day unless absolute assurance can be provided
that the permitted events will not conflict and that public service obligations
will not exceed the fiscal and operational limits of city personnel. The city
clerk shall issue the permit on a first come, first served basis. Except for
the city and other public agencies, individual persons/organizations/
corporations shall be limited to one event or public assembly per month. Prior
to issuance of the permit for any group over 50 people where vendors will be
present for a public event or public assembly, the applicant shall provide a
certificate of liability insurance in an amount not less than five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000.00). Private events such as weddings, birthdays or
family reunions shall not be required to provide insurance.
   C.   Health District Requirement: No permit shall be granted unless the
applicant obtains the approval of Panhandle Health District indicating that the
applicants for the permit have complied with the health requirements of such
district for like or similar facilities. Such approval shall include the type
and adequacy of water supply to be provided, the type and adequacy of toilet,
waste collection and washing facilities to be provided, and if there is food or
drink served on the premises, the type and adequacy of food and drink
preparation, and food and drink service facilities to be provided.
   D.   Application Form; Approval: Affected city departments, if any, may
request such information from the applicant as necessary to demonstrate
compliance with applicable provisions of law. Information may be requested on
the permit application form, through written instructions communicated from the
city clerk, or through written or oral inquiries addressed to the applicant by
any designated city staff member. The time for considering the permit may be
extended by the time taken by the applicant in responding satisfactorily to any
inquiry, not to exceed five (5) business days.
   E.   Discrimination Prohibited: There shall be no discrimination in
granting, denying, or conditionally granting permits under this chapter based
upon statutorily protected or constitutionally guaranteed individual rights.
   F.   Permit Denial: The city clerk may deny a permit if the applicant or the
person on whose behalf the application is made has on prior occasions made
material misrepresentations regarding the nature or scope of an event or public
assembly previously permitted or has violated the terms of prior permits issued
to or on behalf of the applicant; or if the applicant or the person on whose
behalf the application was made has on prior occasions damaged city property
and not paid in full for such damage.
   G.   Additional Reasons For Denial; Halting Of Event: A permit may be denied
where the city clerk, upon the advice of the City Council, sheriff, or fire
department determines that the event or public assembly would unreasonably
disrupt traffic or public services or where there is clear and convincing
evidence that the applicant, not opponents of the applicant, intends to engage
in violence and that the time, place, and manner of the event cannot be
adjusted such that the city will be able to control such potential violence
without injury to bystanders, participants, or police. An event or public
assembly may be halted by the sheriff or fire department if at any time
participants fail to conform to the permit or if an imminent risk of violence
arises in the course of the event or public assembly. No application for a
permit shall issue if the applicant fails to demonstrate compliance with all
applicable provisions of law, including the requirements of this chapter. (Ord.
269, 5-6-2021)
3-7-9: NOTICE OF DETERMINATION OF APPLICATION:
The city clerk shall act upon the application for a permit promptly after the
filing thereof accompanied by the applicant’s submission of complete
information. The clerk shall make a reasonable effort to notify the applicant,
by facsimile, personal service, or certified mail, of any notice of denial or
conditional approval and the reason(s) for denial or conditions as soon as
practical upon the clerk’s decision. Such decision shall be made with a
promptness adequate to allow an opportunity for appeal pursuant to provisions
of this chapter. (Ord. 269, 5-6-2021)
3-7-10: CONDITIONAL APPROVAL:
The city clerk may authorize the conduct of the event or public assembly
requiring a permit at a date, time, place, or in a manner different from that
named by the applicant and may tender a conditional permit setting forth
proposed modified terms which differ from those set forth in the application.
An applicant desiring to accept a conditional permit shall, within five (5)
days after notice of the action of the city clerk, file a written notice of
acceptance with the city clerk. If the applicant fails to provide written
notice of acceptance of the conditional permit within the time prescribed, the
event or public assembly shall not be held. (Ord. 269, 5-6-2021)
3-7-11: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
Any applicant shall have the right to appeal the clerk’s denial of a permit or
imposition of conditions to the city council. The denied applicant must make
any appeal within forty eight (48) hours after receipt of the denial or
conditional approval from the city clerk by filing a written notice of appeal
with the city clerk setting out the reasons therefor in writing. The city
council will hear the appeal at a regular or special meeting, when available,
and reach a determination prior to the planned date and time of the event or
public assembly, and in each instance no more than ten (10) business days after
the date the notice of appeal is filed with the city clerk unless a quorum of
the city council cannot be obtained. (Ord. 269, 5-6-2021)
3-7-12: DUTIES OF PERMITTEE:
A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit conditions, the City’s
facility use policies and with all federal, state and local laws.
The following shall be attached to the application for the event or public
assembly:
   A.   Approval of the Panhandle Health District indicating that the applicant
has met all of the health requirements of the district for like or similar
facilities.
   B.   A performance bond may be required to guarantee damage repair to any
structure within the public right of way or other public property, if in the
opinion of the city clerk the nature of the activity is likely to cause damage
to city property. (Ord. 269, 5-6-2021)
3-7-13: TIME, PLACE, AND MANNER RESTRICTIONS:
The following prohibitions and regulations shall apply to activities requiring
a permit:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of, or responsible for
the conduct of, a duly permitted activity requiring a permit to knowingly fail
to comply with any condition of the permit.
   B.   No permit shall be issued for an event or public assembly to commence
before seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. All events and public assemblies shall
terminate prior to eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M.
   C.   All participants shall assemble for the event or public assembly at the
time and location designated in the permit and shall disperse from public
property after the conclusion of the event or public assembly.
   D.   Event or assembly organizers shall assure to the satisfaction of the
sheriff: 1) do not intend to engage in violence or other unlawful conduct, and
2) do not intend to incite others to do so.
   E.   The permit may limit or condition the number of participants, the
length of the event, the time and location of the event, or the manner of the
event where necessary to prevent violence; to avoid serious inconvenience to
those needing access to commercial or public services; to avoid interference
with movement of police or fire vehicles or ambulances and where such
limitations or conditions provide ample opportunity for exercise of
constitutionally protected rights.
   F.   The permit may require that the applicant provide water supply and/or
toilet, waste collection and washing facilities for participants and attendees
of the event or public assembly. Permittee is required to work with the health
district if additional portable facilities are required. (Ord. 269, 5-6-2021)
3-7-14: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person who violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter or who, having obtained a permit hereunder, fails to comply with the
conditions set forth in the approved permit is guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in subsection
1-4-1A of this code. (Ord. 269, 5-6-2021)
3-7-15: EMERGENCY CANCELLATION; TERMINATION:
Notwithstanding issuance of a permit pursuant to provisions of this chapter,
the mayor is authorized to revoke an event or public assembly permit if the
mayor determines, based upon competent evidence, that the conduct of the event
or public assembly would bring about violence which would, with reasonable
certainty, result in injury to the public or to public safety personnel or
which would result in damage to private property. Any such cancellation shall
be communicated to the sponsor/applicant as soon as possible after such
determination has been made. (Ord. 269, 5-6-2021)
TITLE 4
BUILDING REGULATIONS
Building Codes   1
Street Names And House Numbers   2
Erosion, Sedimentation Control And Storm Water Management   3
Wind Power Generators   4
Hillside Development   5
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Appointment Of City Building Official
4-1-2: Codes Adopted
4-1-3: Amendments To International Codes (Rep. by Ord. 214, 2-15-2011)
4-1-4: Issuance Of Permits; Duties Of Permit Applicant
4-1-5: Outside Agency Review
4-1-6: Fees For Building Permits And Associated Services
4-1-7: Structure Moving Requirements
4-1-8: Manufactured Home Setting Permits; Requirements
4-1-9: Manufactured Home Setting Permits; Additional Requirements
4-1-10: Appeals From Administrative Rulings
4-1-11: Remedies And Penalties
4-1-1: APPOINTMENT OF CITY BUILDING OFFICIAL:
There is hereby appointed a Dalton Gardens building official empowered to
enforce the provisions of this chapter, the Building, Fire, and Safety Codes
adopted pursuant to this chapter, and such other ordinances, as the City
Council shall designate. The building official may be either appointed or under
consultant contract.
The building official shall have the power and responsibility to render
interpretations of the adopted codes and enforce rules and supplemental
regulations in order to clarify the application of their provisions. Any
reference in the standardized codes to Mayor, Council, or Governing Body shall
be deemed to refer to the City Council of Dalton Gardens.
One copy of each standardized code adopted herein shall be duly certified and
filed for use by the public at City Hall. (Ord. 248, 7-5-2016)
4-1-2: CODES ADOPTED:
The following nationally recognized codes are adopted as the official Building
Codes of the City of Dalton Gardens:
   A.   Building Code: The International Building Code, prepared by the
International Code Council, Inc., as adopted by the State of Idaho or the Idaho
Building Code Board, together with any amendments or revisions to the
International Building Code made by the Idaho Building Code Board through the
negotiated rulemaking process, is adopted.
   B.   Residential Code: The International Residential Code, prepared by the
International Code Council, Inc., as adopted by the State of Idaho or the Idaho
Building Code Board, together with any amendments or revisions to the
International Residential Code made by the Idaho Building Code Board through
the negotiated rulemaking process, is adopted.
   C.   Energy Conservation Code: The International Energy Conservation Code,
prepared by the International Code Council, Inc., together with any amendments
or revisions to the International Energy Conservation Code made by the Idaho
Building Code Board through the negotiated rulemaking process, is adopted.
   D.   Mechanical Code: The International Mechanical Code as published by the
International Code Council.
   E.   NFPA Standards For Manufactured Homes: National Fire Protection
Association codes number 501A and 1194 and the accepted engineering practice
standards contained therein for compliance by the manufactured home
recreational vehicle industry.
   F.   Fire Code: The International Fire Code as published by the
International Code Council.
   G.   Fuel Gas Code: The International Fuel Gas Code as published by the
International Code Council.
   H.   Life Safety Code: Life Safety NFPA 101 as published by the National
Fire Protection Association.
The adopted versions of the foregoing codes shall be deemed superseded by
successive versions of such codes as they are adopted or approved by the State
of Idaho effective on the date any such codes are made effective. (Ord. 256,
10-4-2018)
4-1-3: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL CODES:
(Rep. by Ord. 214, 2-15-2011)
4-1-4: ISSUANCE OF PERMITS; DUTIES OF PERMIT APPLICANT:
The burden of demonstrating compliance with this title rests with the
applicant. An applicant for a building permit or other construction permit as
governed by this chapter shall be responsible, in presenting his/her
application for a permit, for showing that the activity to be carried out
pursuant to the requested permit meets title 5, chapter 10 of this code and the
following standards:
   A.   Complies with the Dalton Gardens municipal code, northwest energy code,
fuel gas installer's licensing requirements ordinance, and all other applicable
ordinances of the city.
   B.   Complies with the international building and residential code
application requirements.
   C.   Has received final approval on a variance, conditional use permit,
temporary hardship, final subdivision plat, or zone change if one is required.
   D.   Has received necessary water, sewer, and health permits from the Dalton
Water Association, Panhandle health district or other sewer districts.
   E.   Has received an access, approach, or encroachment approval from the
city or the Lakes highway district (when applicable), and the fire district
(when applicable), providing service to the site upon which the permit has been
requested.
   F.   For mobile manufactured home setting permits, has received approval
from Kootenai County assessor's appraisal division, verifying that appropriate
taxes have been paid.
   G.   For pole barns, log homes, steel structures or other alternate building
systems not tested and approved by the National Evaluation Service, Inc., or
the International Conference Of Building Officials Evaluation Service, Inc., or
the International Code Council Evaluation Service, Inc., have plans approved
and stamped by a design professional licensed in the state of Idaho.
   H.   Commercial, industrial, educational, assembly buildings and their site
plans shall be designed by a licensed Idaho design professional. The site plans
for any of these buildings include, but are not limited to, distances to the
property line and/or other buildings, easements, provisions of site disturbance
requirements, driveways, approaches and parking. (Ord. 248, 7-5-2016)
4-1-5: OUTSIDE AGENCY REVIEW:
   A.   Prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy the applicant shall
provide final approval signatures from other agencies also performing
inspection services on that particular project including, but not limited to,
the fire district, the highway district, the Panhandle health district, or
other sewer districts, the state electrical inspector, the state plumbing
inspector, the state building inspector, the Idaho department of health and
welfare, the department of lands, and the U.S. army corps of engineers. All
approval signatures from the above mentioned agencies are at the discretion of
the building official with city council approval.
   B.   Any permit applicant whose requested building permit or certificate of
occupancy is denied by the building official for reasons related to the refusal
of an official of a jurisdiction other than Dalton Gardens to approve said
permit or certificate shall be entitled to appeal said denial to the Dalton
Gardens city council.
      1.   Such appeal shall be taken solely upon the record and upon such
testimony and evidence as might be introduced before the council by the parties
and any agency whose approval has been withheld. Notice of such review shall be
provided at least five (5) days prior to the hearing of the parties and agency,
respectively, by first class mail.
      2.   If the council is able to develop an accord between the parties and
the withholding agency, said accord shall be reduced to writing, signed by the
parties, and the appeal shall go no further.
      3.   The city council may decide whether to allow the permit or
certificate to be issued despite objection by another agency. A decision to
issue a permit or certificate may be made if the council finds from the record
developed in the case that the applicant has complied with all ordinances of
Dalton Gardens or any state laws for which Dalton Gardens has enforcement
responsibility. The requested permit or certificate shall be withheld if the
record provides evidence that a city ordinance or applicable state law is
violated if the permit or certificate were issued.
      The appeal shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
Section
1-11-1 A. of this code. (Ord. 248, 7-5-2016; amd. Ord. 264, 3-5-2020)
4-1-6: FEES FOR BUILDING PERMITS AND ASSOCIATED SERVICES:
Fees for building permits and related building department services shall be set
by resolution by the city council.
Building valuation obtained from the building valuation data, published by the
International Conference Of Building Officials (ICBO) "Building Standards"
magazine each year, shall be used to determine valuation of construction. Such
valuation shall become effective on January 1 of the calendar year following
the ICBO publication. Discontinuance of said publication will result in the use
of the last valuation data and computations of local and national construction
statistics to determine fair market value of fees to be charged. (Ord. 248, 7-
5-2016)
4-1-7: STRUCTURE MOVING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any person desiring to move an existing structure, excluding a
manufactured home, to a location within the incorporated areas of Dalton
Gardens shall obtain the following inspections and permits prior to initiating
moving activities:
      1.   Premove Inspection: The person or firm who will be the owner of the
structure when it is placed on its destination site, hereinafter the
destination owner, shall arrange for a code compliance inspection with the
jurisdiction having code enforcement responsibilities at the premove location
of the structure, prior to initiating the move. The results of said inspection
shall be supplied by the owner to the Dalton Gardens building official. Upon
receipt of the inspection report, the Dalton Gardens building official shall
inform the person or the firm requesting the premove inspection what
corrections will be necessary before occupancy of the relocated structure will
be allowed. Said requirements may be referred to by an itemized list or by
reference to the inspection report submitted by the premove jurisdiction.
      2.   Moving Permit: Permission to move the structure in question into or
within Dalton Gardens may be granted by the building official if the following
conditions have been met satisfactorily:
         a.   An acknowledgment has been received from the destination owner
that code compliance requirements will be met prior to occupancy of the
relocated structure.
         b.   Copies of permits to use public rights of way for movement of the
structures have been obtained from all public agencies having responsibility
for the rights of way to be used in the move. Any bonds or surety requirements
associated with the use of the public right of way for movement of the
structure shall be obtained and submitted to the transportation agency(ies)
responsible for regulation of pertinent rights of way prior to issuance of the
permits required herein. Dalton Gardens shall not be responsible for security
of the move in any manner.
         c.   A building permit for all improvements to be installed upon the
destination site shall be obtained prior to initiating the move. Adequate plans
and accessory permits from special purpose districts serving the destination
site shall be provided as same would be required for completely new
construction on the destination site.
         d.   Nothing in the process of permit review for structures to be
moved shall excuse the destination owner from his responsibility to repair any
damage caused by movement of the structure, prior to occupancy.
         e.   Notification of moving date and route shall be made to the fire
protection district(s) and all other emergency services dispatch centers before
and during the move. (Ord. 248, 7-5-2016)
4-1-8: MANUFACTURED HOME SETTING PERMITS; REQUIREMENTS:
Although actual construction standards for manufactured homes are enforced by
the Idaho department of building and safety, a setting permit shall be required
prior to placement of a manufactured home within the incorporated areas of
Dalton Gardens. "Placement of a manufactured home" shall mean the installation
of said structure on a foundation or similar support system and/or its
connection to water or sewer facilities, electricity, gas, telephone, cable
television, or similar services, or initiation of its use as a residence or for
a residentially related purpose. To obtain a setting permit or manufactured
home foundation permit, the applicant shall supply information identical with
that required from one seeking to build a dwelling on site, excluding the
required plans for the structure itself. (Ord. 248, 7-5-2016)
4-1-9: MANUFACTURED HOME SETTING PERMITS; ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
When the manufacturer requires footings to be installed according to their
direction, such information shall be provided to the building department and a
footing inspection prior to the placement of concrete will be required.
Manufactured homes and mobile homes that are to be converted to real property
shall comply with section 44-2201(2) of the Idaho state code. When the
manufacturer's direction for footings do not meet the minimum requirements of
Idaho state code 44-2201(2) for converting manufactured homes and mobile homes
to real property, then Idaho state code 44-2201(2) will have precedence.
All other footings for manufactured homes and mobile homes that are not
required to be set according to manufacturer's instructions, or that are not to
be converted to real property, will comply with National Fire Protection
Association (NFPA) 501.A. (Ord. 248, 7-5-2016)
4-1-10: APPEALS FROM ADMINISTRATIVE RULINGS:
Appeals from administrative orders made by the building official may be
appealed in accordance with the procedures contained in the standardized codes
adopted by this chapter and with such additional procedures as may be adopted
by the city council. (Ord. 248, 7-5-2016; amd. Ord. 264, 3-5-2020)
4-1-11: REMEDIES AND PENALTIES:
The primary purpose of this chapter shall be to obtain compliance with the
standardized codes adopted to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
public. To that end, the building official may seek to use the following
remedies as may be appropriate to see that these chapter provisions are
enforced:
   A.   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter, or of the
standardized codes adopted pursuant to this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   A separate violation is deemed to have occurred with respect to each
building or structure not in compliance with the codes adopted herein. Each day
such violation occurs or continues will constitute a separate offense.
   C.   The building official, with the consent of the Dalton Gardens city
council, may seek equitable relief from a court of competent jurisdiction to
restrain conduct in violation of this chapter or to compel performance of
duties established by this chapter. Said equitable remedies may be sought in
addition to criminal penalties.
   D.   The assessment of investigation fees will be one hundred percent (100%)
of the actual permit fee and will also apply to mobile manufactured home
setting permits.
   E.   Whenever the building official has determined that an applicant has
abandoned the project for which a permit was obtained, or that the applicant
has failed to obtain a certificate of occupancy as required by this chapter, or
if the building official determines that an applicant has failed to comply, or
refuses to comply, with provisions of this chapter, then the building official
may issue a notice and order directed to the record owner of the property
stating the nature of the noncompliance with this chapter. If the record owner
of the property has not provided proof of compliance with this chapter within
the time limits established by this chapter, then the building official may
file in the office of the county recorder a certificate describing the property
and certifying that the property is not in compliance with this chapter and
that the owner has been so notified. The building official shall comply with
the following procedures before recording a notice and order in the office of
the county recorder.
   F.   The building official may elect to use any, or all, or any combination
of, the remedies and penalties set forth in this chapter.
      1.   Notice And Order: The building official may issue a notice and order
to the record owner of the building. The notice and order shall contain the
following information:
         a.   The street address and a legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises upon which the building is located.
         b.   A statement of the building official containing a brief and
concise description of the conditions found to render the building or premises
in violation of this chapter.
         c.   A statement of the action required to be taken, as determined by
the building official, in order to bring the property into compliance with this
chapter.
         d.   A statement by the building official establishing a reasonable
amount of time, not to exceed sixty (60) days from the date of the notice and
order, to allow the record owner of the property to take such steps as are
necessary in order to bring the property into compliance with this chapter.
         e.   The notice shall advise that any person(s) having record title or
legal interest in the building may appeal from the issuance of the notice and
order, in accordance with the procedural provisions set forth in section
1-11-1. The notice shall also indicate that failure to appeal will constitute a
waiver of all right to an administrative hearing and determination of the
matter, and that an appeal of the building official’s notice and order must be
in writing and must be received by the building official within thirty (30)
days of the date the notice and order was served.
      2.   Service Of Notice And Order: The notice and order, and any amended
or supplemental notice and order, shall be served upon the record owner of the
property. The failure of the building official to serve any person required to
be served shall not invalidate any proceedings under this section as to any
other person duly served or relieve any person from any duty or obligation
imposed on him by the provision of this chapter. Service may be made by
delivering the notice and order by:
         a.   Delivering the notice and order in person to the record owner; or
         b.   Delivering the notice and order upon an agent or employee of the
property owner; or
         c.   Delivering the notice and order upon an adult performing work
upon the property; or
         d.   Posting the notice and order in a conspicuous location upon the
property; or
         e.   Placing it in the U.S. Mail postage prepaid and mailing it to the
owner of record or its registered agent; or
         f.   Private courier service delivered to the owner of record or its
registered agent; or
         g.   Electronic means including but not limited to electronic mail,
text or social media; or
         h.   Publication in the official city newspaper; or an other means
reasonably calculated to provide notice of the order and notice.
      3.   Method Of Service: Service of the notice and order shall be made
upon all persons either personally or by mailing a copy of such notice and
order by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to each
person entitled to notice at his address as it appears on the last equalized
assessment roll of the county or as known to the building official. If no
address of the person so appears or is known to the building official, then a
copy of the notice and order shall be mailed, addressed to the person, at the
address of the building involved in the proceeding. Service by certified mail
in the manner provided by this chapter shall be effective on the date of
mailing.
      4.   Proof Of Service: Proof of service of the notice and order shall be
certified at the time of service by a written affidavit, under penalty of
perjury, by the person(s) performing service and indicating the time, date and
manner in which service was made. This affidavit, together with a receipt card
returned in acknowledgment of receipt by certified mail, shall be retained by
the building official.
      5.   Recordation Of Notice And Order: If the building official's notice
and order is not complied with within the time specified, and no appeal has
been properly and timely filed, the building official may file in the office of
the county recorder, a certificate describing the property and certifying that
the building is not in compliance with this chapter and that the record owner
has been notified of the noncompliance. The certificate shall also contain a
brief and concise description of the nature of the noncompliance and shall
include a statement of the actions required, if any, which must be taken in
order to bring the building into compliance with this chapter.
      6.   Release Of Notice And Order: Whenever the building official has
determined that the conditions which caused the building to fail to comply with
this chapter have been corrected, the building official shall file a new
certificate with the office of the county recorder certifying that the
previously recorded notice and order shall be released and that all required
corrections have been made so that the property is in compliance with this
chapter. (Ord. 248, 7-5-2016; amd. Ord. 264, 3-5-2020)
CHAPTER 2
STREET NAMES AND HOUSE NUMBERS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Street Names
4-2-2: House Numbers
4-2-1: STREET NAMES:
The names of all streets within the City shall be as shown on the map which is
entitled Official Map of Streets, a copy of which is attached to Ordinance No.
12 and made a part hereof as though fully set out herein, and such Map, when it
has been signed by the Mayor and Clerk and filed with the City Clerk shall be a
part of this Section. (Ord. 12, 3-9-65; 1991 Code)
4-2-2: HOUSE NUMBERS:
   A.   Numbering System: All residences and/or places of business within the
City or hereinafter constructed within the City shall be numbered in accordance
with the Map and Plan showing the numbering system of such residences and/or
places of business now on file in the office of the City Clerk and designated
the "Official Numbering Plan of the City of Dalton Gardens adopted September 4,
1980".
   B.   Number Size and Placement: The numbers shall be in figures not less
than three inches (3") high and one-half inch (1/2") wide on or of metal or
glass placed in a conspicuous position on each residence and/or place of
business and shall be plainly legible from the street or avenue upon which such
residence and/or place of business has its principal entrance. Such numbers
shall be placed and exhibited on each and every residence and/or place of
business, and each and every residence and/or place of business hereafter
erected within the City shall have exhibited on the street side thereof the
number of said residence and/or place of business in accordance with the
provisions of this Section within thirty (30) days after the completion
thereof. (Ord. 82, 9-4-80)
   C.   Violation and Penalty: It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
residence or residences or places of business to fail to comply with the
provisions of this Section, and such violation shall constitute a misdemeanor
and shall subject the offender to penalties in accordance with Section
1-4-1 of this City Code. (Ord. 82, 9-4-80; 1991 Code)
CHAPTER 3
EROSION, SEDIMENTATION CONTROL AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
4-3-1: Short Title
4-3-2: Authority
4-3-3: Purpose
4-3-4: Definitions
4-3-5: Applicability
4-3-6: Application And Information Requirements
4-3-7: Standards
4-3-8: Disturbance Restrictions (Rep. by Ord. 256, 10-4-2018)
4-3-9: Hazards
4-3-10: Administration
4-3-11: Inspection
4-3-12: Maintenance
4-3-13: Prohibited Conduct, Enforcement, And Penalties
4-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the SITE DISTURBANCE ORDINANCE of Dalton
Gardens. (Ord. 165, 2-5-2004)
4-3-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is authorized under the provisions of Idaho Code section 67-6518.
(Ord. 165, 2-5-2004)
4-3-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter shall be to protect property, surface water, and
ground water against significant adverse effects from excavation, filling,
clearing, unstable earthworks, soil erosion, sedimentation, and stormwater
runoff, and to provide maximum safety in the development and design of building
sites, roads, and other service amenities. (Ord. 165, 2-5-2004)
4-3-4: DEFINITIONS:
   ADMINISTRATOR: An official appointed by the Mayor and City Council to
administer provisions of this chapter. This official may be a contract
professional such as a licensed engineer.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Physical, structural, and/or managerial
practices that, when used singly or in combination, prevent or reduce pollution
of water and erosion of soils. The City shall utilize by reference the
Department of Environmental Quality manual entitled "Catalog of Storm Water
Best Management Practices for Idaho Cities and Counties". All site disturbance
permit applications shall use this BMP manual.
   BUFFER STRIP: A vegetated area that slows stormwater runoff and provides
filtration. The effectiveness of buffer strips is determined by several factors
that include soil type, slope, width and vegetation type. Typically stormwater
must enter the buffer strip as sheet flow for the buffer to provide any
significant treatment.
   CLEARING: The destruction and removal of vegetation by manual, mechanical,
or chemical methods.
   CONSTRUCTION OPERATOR: The party responsible for the operational control of
erosion and sediment control on site. It is usually the developer or landowner,
but may be the contractor or another party.
   CONVEYANCE: A mechanism for transporting water from one point to another,
including pipes, ditches, and channels.
   CUT: To excavate into a hillside to create a flat area, or to steepen or
flatten a bank.
   DESIGN PROFESSIONAL: A licensed professional engineer, landscape architect,
or geologist, registered for their respective profession by the State of Idaho.
   DETENTION: The temporary storage of storm runoff, used to control the peak
discharge rates and provide gravity settling of pollutants.
   DRAINAGE COURSE: Lowest elevation of the surrounding topography on a parcel.
   DRIVEWAY: For purposes of managing and treating stormwater, a driveway shall
be a means of vehicular access from a public or private road to a point within
an individual lot.
   EASEMENT: A legal encumbrance placed against a property's title for
maintenance access or to reserve other specified privileges for the users and
beneficiaries of the drainage facilities contained within the boundaries of the
easement.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA): The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency. EPA region 10 is the NPDES permitting authority for the City of Dalton
Gardens.
   EROSION: The detachment and movement of soil or rock fragments by water,
wind, ice, or gravity.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL: Those Best Management Practices (BMPs)
which are employed to prevent or reduce erosion or sedimentation and are
typically necessary when ground disturbance occurs.
   EXCAVATE: Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or other earthen
material is cut into, dug, uncovered, displaced, or relocated.
   FILL: A solid material which increases the ground surface elevation, or the
act of depositing such material by mechanical means.
   FLOOD CONTROL STRUCTURE: A manmade feature designed or constructed to reduce
damage caused by flood events, including, but not limited to, a dam, dike,
channel, levee, or similar device.
   GENERAL PERMIT: A permit issued under the NPDES program to cover a certain
class or category of stormwater discharges.
   GRADING: Any excavation, filling, or movement of earth for the purposes of
changing the shape or topography of the land.
   GROUND WATER: Water in a saturated zone or stratum beneath the land surface
or a surface water body.
   GUARANTEE OF FINANCIAL SURETY: A surety bond, cash deposit, escrow account,
irrevocable letter of credit, or other means acceptable to or required by the
City to guarantee that infrastructure or improvements are completed in
compliance with the project's approved plans.
   HIGH WATER MARK: The line which water impresses on the soil by covering it
for sufficient periods to deprive it of vegetation.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any hard surface area which either prevents or retards
the entry of water into the soil mantle, or which causes water to run off the
surface in greater quantities or at a greater rate of flow than under those
conditions present before development. Common impervious surfaces include, but
are not limited to, roofs, walkways, patios, driveways, parking lots, storage
areas, concrete or asphalt paving, gravel and compacted native surfaces,
compacted earthen materials, and oiled, macadam or other surfaces which
similarly impede the natural infiltration of stormwater.
   NPDES PERMITTING AUTHORITY: The U.S. Environmental Protection Authority,
region 10, is the NPDES permitting authority for the City of Dalton Gardens.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES): The name of the
surface water quality program authorized by Congress as part of the 1987 Clean
Water Act (CWA). This is EPA's program to control the discharge of pollutants
to waters of the United States.
   NATURALLY OCCURRING DRAINAGE SWALE: Natural drainage conveyances that
provide for the discharge of stormwater to Class 1 or Class 2 streams, and have
bed and banks which are stable and covered with vegetation.
   NOTICE OF INTENT (NOI): The application to notify the permitting authority
(EPA - region 10) of the intent to be covered by a general permit.
   PRIVATE ROAD: A means of vehicular access which does not meet the definition
of "driveway" and is not maintained by a public highway agency.
   PUBLIC HIGHWAY AGENCY: The Idaho Transportation Department, Highway
District, or other political subdivision of the State with jurisdiction over
public highways, public streets, and public rights-of-way.
   PUBLIC ROAD: Any public highway or street which has been accepted for
maintenance by a municipality or public highway agency.
   RETENTION: The holding of runoff in a basin without release except by means
of evaporation, infiltration, or emergency bypass.
   SCARIFY: To break up or loosen the ground surface of an area.
   SEDIMENT: Fragmented material that originates from weathering and erosion of
rocks or unconsolidated deposits and is transported by, suspended in, or
deposited by water.
   SEDIMENTATION: The deposition of sediment on ground surfaces or in
watercourses.
   SITE: The parcel of land on which grading or excavation activity is
conducted. A road right-of-way shall be considered a separate site from
adjacent properties.
   SLOPE MEASUREMENT: An average measurement across the area to be disturbed,
expressed as a percentage.
   SPOIL PILE: Soil and/or rock excavated from an area which may be used for
backfill or final grading on site.
   STABILIZED CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCE: A stabilized pad of clean, crushed rock
located where traffic enters or leaves a construction site onto a paved public
or private road. The pad shall be a minimum of six inches (6") thick, with a
minimum rock size of two inches (2") to three inches (3"), and a length
sufficient to minimize off site tracking.
   STORMWATER CONTROL: Those Best Management Practices (BMPs) which are
employed to convey, direct, treat, or dissipate stormwater and are typically
necessary when impervious area is created or the natural drainage is
interrupted (see definition of Best Management Practices (BMPs)).
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP): A plan to describe a process
whereby a facility thoroughly evaluates potential pollutant sources at a site
and selects and implements appropriate measures designed to prevent or control
the discharge of pollutants in stormwater runoff.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF: That portion of precipitation that does not naturally
percolate into the ground or evaporate, but flows via overland flow, interflow,
channels, or pipes into a defined surface water channel, or a constructed
infiltration facility.
   STORMWATER SYSTEM: A BMP or series of BMPs which serve(s) one or more
parcels.
   STREAM: A watercourse of perceptible extent which confines and conducts
continuously or intermittently flowing water. This definition is intended to
include streams in natural or manmade channels. This definition is not meant to
include dead end streams which do not support fish or other beneficial uses. A
"dead end" stream is one which infiltrates into the ground prior to reaching a
larger body of water.
   SURFACE WATER: For purposes of this chapter, surface water shall include all
lakes, rivers, streams, wetlands, ponds, and similar features, and any feature
which acts as a conveyer of water to a surface water feature. Conveyance
features may include natural or manmade ditches.
   TREATMENT: Removal of sediment or other pollutants from stormwater. (Ord.
256, 10-4-2018)
4-3-5: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Exemptions: Any of the following activities are exempt from the permit
requirements of this chapter. These exemptions shall not apply to commercial or
industrial developments or for subdivision infrastructure development:
      1.   Agricultural practices in common local usage;
      2.   Activities governed by and subject to the Forest Practices Act;
      3.   Cemetery graves;
      4.   Emergency situations involving immediate danger to life or property,
substantial fire hazards, or other public safety hazards as subsequently
determined by the City, or during the period covered by an emergency
declaration by the City;
      5.   In any twelve (12) month period, excavation or placement of fill
totaling less than seventy five (75) cubic yards in volume, which does not
obstruct a stream, drainage course, or surface waters;
      6.   Private road or driveway maintenance where work is limited to the
travel way, no cut or fill slopes are created, and no drainage features are
created or modified;
      7.   Excavation of test holes for soil testing activities, provided that
no access road will be created for test hole excavation, and the total
excavation is less than seventy five (75) cubic yards;
      8.   Grading, excavating, or placement of fill which is subject to the
regulations and permitting process of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Idaho
Department of Lands, and Idaho Department of Water Resources. Grading
activities that are related to such projects, but which are not subject to the
aforementioned agencies' regulations, are not exempt;
      9.   Grading and maintenance of public roadways.
Excavation, grading and paving activities which are exempted from the permit
requirement under subsections A5 through A9 of this section shall employ
reasonable and knowledgeable Best Management Practices to prevent sediment from
leaving the site.
   B.   Permit Required: Except as exempted under subsection A of this section,
a site disturbance permit shall be required for the following activities:
      1.   Construction of all new driveways, private or public roads, or
infrastructure authorized through the subdivision or short plat process;
      2.   Conversion of roads from one use to another (such as a logging road
to a private road, private road to a public road, etc.) regardless of the level
of improvement required on the road;
      3.   Excavation for the construction of commercial or light industrial
structures;
      4.   Creation of a new commercial or industrial access or parking lot,
and conversion or paving of an existing access or parking lot for commercial or
industrial development;
      5.   All site disturbance or construction activity resulting in the
disturbance of more than seventy five (75) cubic yards on a residential parcel;
      6.   All other excavation, filling, and grading activity, except as
specifically exempted under subsection A of this section.
Where a building permit has been properly issued by the City, it shall include
the excavation and grading activity that is directly related to the
construction authorized by said building permit.
   C.   Other Activities:
      1.   Site disturbing activities conducted by utility installers shall use
knowledgeable and reasonable Best Management Practices to prevent sediment from
leaving the site. (Ord. 256, 10-4-2018)
4-3-6: APPLICATION AND INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Applications: All applications for a site disturbance permit shall be
submitted to the City on a form provided by the City with a filing fee as set
by resolution of the City Council. At a minimum, the following information
shall be required:
      1.   Property owner's name and applicant's name if different from the
owner;
      2.   Legal description of property including parcel number;
      3.   A written description of the work to be done, including an estimate
of the amount of earth to be moved;
      4.   A site plan, drawn to scale, including property boundaries,
buildings, structures, north arrow, adjacent roads, "surface water" (as defined
in this chapter), location of proposed work, and distances to property lines or
prominent features of the land;
      5.   A copy of the stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as
required by the "NPDES general permit for stormwater discharges associated with
construction activity" from the EPA and a copy of an appropriate "notice of
intent" (NOI) which has been sent to the EPA. If the project is not required to
have an EPA permit, then a notarized affidavit from the construction operator
stating why the project is exempt from the requirement for a NPDES permit may
be submitted. The affidavit must be reviewed and accepted by the Administrator
before a site disturbance permit may be issued.
   B.   Site Disturbance Plans: The required elements of site disturbance plans
shall be developed as outlined in the Department of Environmental Quality Best
Management Practice and Plan Criteria Manual, adopted pursuant to this chapter.
The Administrator may waive the submission of plans for minor improvements if
the standards of this chapter can be met by existing site conditions.
      1.   Plans prepared by a design professional shall be required in the
following circumstances:
         a.   Site disturbing activities governed by this chapter where the
disturbance will occur on a slope greater than fifteen percent (15%).
         b.   All commercial and industrial development.
         c.   Subdivision infrastructure development.
      2.   All site disturbance plans shall include a site plan, drawn to
scale, (not less than 50 feet equals 1 inch without prior approval from the
Administrator) including property boundaries, north arrow, adjacent roads,
location of proposed work, and distances to property lines or prominent
features of the land. The site plan shall include property boundaries including
property pins, rights-of-way, easements, existing and proposed roads,
driveways, walkways, structures, and other impervious areas. The plans shall
show water sources, drainage channels, and all utilities (including septic
tanks, drain fields, water systems, irrigation systems, power, gas and phone).
The site shall show topographic contours at appropriate intervals for the site
along with a reference datum. All structures and prominent feature shall be
dimensioned on the plan from the property lines or other acceptable baselines.
      3.   When required, a grading/stormwater management plan.
The grading/stormwater management plan shall show the area to be disturbed
including cut and fill limits. Grade break, drainage channels and other
stormwater conveyance channels and BMPs shall be shown on the plans with
adequate grading and layout information for constructions. All existing and new
structures shall have a finished floor elevation stated on the plans. All hard
surface shall have adequate point elevation provided for construction
(including point elevation information at all grade breaks, angle point curve
points and tie in points at existing surfaces).
      4.   When required, an erosion control plan. The erosion control plan
must include the location, type and proper installation details for all the
temporary and permanent erosion and sediment control measures. The plans must
include a narrative describing the inspection criteria and maintenance measures
for each temporary control system installed including dust abatement and
methods to minimize the tracking of sediment onto roadways. The final
vegetation plan must address the method and type of vegetation proposed and
what level of growth must be established and maintained for acceptance as a
permanent erosion control measure. (Ord. 256, 10-4-2018)
4-3-7: STANDARDS:
The following standards for grading and erosion and sedimentation control
(subsections A and B of this section) apply to all excavation and grading
activity, regardless of whether a permit is required.
   A.   Grading:
      1.   The slope of cut surfaces shall be no steeper than is safe for the
intended use and shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical (2:1),
unless the design professional can demonstrate to the Administrator substantial
evidence that steeper slopes are feasible, taking into account safety,
stability, erosion control, revegetation, maintenance, and overall water
quality impacts. Subsurface drainage shall be provided as necessary for
stability. All engineering reports are subject to review by the Administrator.
      2.   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than is safe for the intended use
and shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical (2:1), unless the
design professional can demonstrate to the Administrator substantial evidence
that steeper slopes are feasible, taking into account safety, stability,
erosion control, revegetation, maintenance, and overall water quality impacts.
Fill slopes shall not be constructed on natural slopes of two to one (2:1) or
steeper, without special treatment or design. In addition, the toe of fill
slopes shall not be closer to the top of existing or planned downhill cut
slopes than the height of that cut (e.g., if an 8 foot cut is planned, the toe
of the uphill fill slope shall not be closer than 8 feet to the top of that
cut), unless the design professional has demonstrated that comparable stability
can be achieved with lesser setbacks.
      3.   Prior to placement of fill, the ground surface shall be prepared to
receive fill by removing vegetation, topsoil, forest duff, and any other
unsuitable material. Fill shall not be placed until the area is prepared by
constructing a level bench into competent material at the base of the new fill.
The Administrator may waive the benching requirement for minor fills which are
not intended to support a road, driveway, or structure. Fill slopes and the
transition zone into natural terrain shall be configured to a generally smooth,
planar configuration so that runoff traverses the area as sheet flow and is not
concentrated. Fill material shall be composed of mineral soil that is free of
organic material. Roadway fills shall be placed in lifts and compacted to a
minimum of ninety five percent (95%) of the maximum density as determined by
the AASHTO T-180 or ASTM D-1557 compaction procedure, or as specified in the
design professional's report.
      4.   Except where roads or driveways cross property lines, the tops and
toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from property boundaries one-half
(1/2) of the height of the slope with a minimum of five feet (5') and a maximum
of twenty feet (20'), unless the design professional has demonstrated to the
Administrator that smaller setbacks provide a sufficient measure of safety and
stability for activities which may occur on adjacent property.
   B.   Erosion And Sedimentation Control:
      1.   Erosion and sedimentation control BMPs for all sites must be
sufficient to prevent sediment from leaving the site.
      2.   Stabilized construction entrances and driveways Best Management
Practices shall be required for all construction sites to prevent sediment
tracking onto roadways. Parking of vehicles shall be restricted to paved or
stabilized areas.
      3.   The erosion and sedimentation control BMPs must be installed or
otherwise in effect, and the boundary of the area to be disturbed must be
clearly marked, as indicated in the approved plan, prior to any site
disturbance.
      4.   All surfaces where bare soil is exposed during clearing and grading
operations, including spoil piles, shall be covered or otherwise protected from
erosion.
      5.   The property owner, construction operator, contractor, and design
professional shall be responsible for the design and construction of revised
temporary erosion and sedimentation control if application of the approved plan
fails. The applicant shall immediately notify the Administrator of alterations
to plans.
      6.   All cut and fill slopes shall be revegetated or otherwise protected
from erosion to the greatest extent possible.
   C.   Stormwater Detention And Conveyance:
      1.   Stormwater conveyance mechanisms must be sized to convey runoff from
a 25-year storm event without causing flooding or other damage to public or
private property, the stormwater management system, or other improvements.
      2.   Culvert size within public rights-of-way shall be determined by the
public highway agency with jurisdiction. All other culvert sizing shall be done
by an appropriate design professional.
      3.   Stormwater systems shall provide for sufficient storage volume and
detention time to result in no increase in the peak rate of runoff from the
site for a 25-year storm.
      4.   Runoff from impervious and pervious surfaces shall be considered in
meeting this requirement.
   D.   Stormwater Treatment:
      1.   Treatment of the first one-half inch (1/2") of stormwater runoff
from all impervious surfaces shall be required prior to discharge of the
stormwater overland or to ground or surface waters. Roof runoff may be directly
discharged to an infiltration BMP without treatment.
      2.   For development of public or private roads, stormwater shall be
managed utilizing a combination of stormwater treatment and erosion control.
   E.   Ground Water And Springs: Springs and other ground water sources that
are encountered during grading or excavation activity shall be returned to
subsurface flow where possible or conveyed through the site by an appropriate
means of conveyance that shall be nonerosive, avoids sediment transport, and
dissipates energy, in accordance with the Best Management Practices guidelines.
The construction operator must ensure that the ground water will not interfere
with the implementation or function of the planned stormwater or erosion
control improvements. (Ord. 256, 10-4-2018)
4-3-8: DISTURBANCE RESTRICTIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 256, 10-4-2018)
4-3-9: HAZARDS:
Whenever the Administrator determines that an existing excavation, embankment,
fill, or roadway on private property has become a hazard to life and limb;
endangers other property; adversely affects the safety, use, or stability of a
public or private access, drainage channel, or adjacent or contiguous
properties, the Administrator may require the property owner(s) to eliminate
the hazard. The Administrator shall give notice in writing to the owner or
other person(s) or agent(s) in control of the property. The owner(s) or their
agent(s) must have the hazard corrected within the period specified in the
notice. (Ord. 165, 2-5-2004)
4-3-10: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   General: This chapter shall be administered in a manner consistent with
other ordinances of Dalton Gardens by an Administrator as appointed by the
Mayor and City Council. All applicants shall use the Department of
Environmental Quality's Best Management Practices as guidelines to implement
the requirements and standards set forth in this chapter. Changes in the
supporting documents may be accomplished by subsequently adopted resolution.
   B.   Duration Of Permit: Permits shall expire if the work authorized by the
permit is not started within one hundred eighty (180) days of issuance of the
permit, or if work is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work has
started for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days or more. The City may
grant a one time extension for an additional one hundred eighty (180) days on
written request by the permittee showing that circumstances beyond the control
of the permittee have prevented work authorized by the permit. The City may set
specific time limits to the permit for project initiation and completion for
environmental reasons or for coordination with other permitted site work.
   C.   Guarantee Of Installation:
      1.   Subdivisions: Prior to a site disturbance permit being issued for
subdivision infrastructure, the developer may be required by the City to
provide an acceptable guarantee of financial surety to ensure that erosion
control, site stabilization and stormwater management improvements will be
completed. The design professional shall provide an estimate of the cost to
implement these improvements based on the current local construction costs. The
financial guarantee may be up to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the
estimated cost to complete the plan. Prior to release of the financial
guarantee, the developer's design professional shall submit a letter to the
City, approving the construction and certifying its completion.
If the required improvements have not been completed by the specified date, the
City may contract to have the work completed with the money from the financial
guarantee. The City may also take additional enforcement measures as provided
by law.
      2.   Other Development: For commercial and industrial development, or
other development where a site disturbance permit was required, the owner may
be required by the City to provide an acceptable guarantee of financial surety
to the City prior to issuance of the site disturbance permit. The design
professional shall provide an estimate of the cost to implement the approved
plan. Estimated costs shall be based upon the current local construction costs.
The financial guarantee may be up to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the
estimated cost to complete the plan. Prior to release of the financial
guarantee, the applicant's design professional shall submit a letter to the
City, approving the construction and certifying its completion.
If the required improvements have not been completed by the specified date, the
City may contract to have the work completed with the money from the financial
guarantee. The City may also take additional enforcement measures as provided
by law.
   D.   Variances: To vary from the standards and requirements of this chapter,
the applicant shall follow the variance criteria and procedures outlined in
title 5, chapter 8 of this Code.
   E.   Appeals: Appeals concerning interpretation or administration of this
chapter shall be processed in accordance with Section
1-11-1. (Ord. 256, 10-4-2018; amd. Ord. 264, 3-5-2020)
4-3-11: INSPECTION:
All activities governed by these regulations shall be subject to inspection by
the City at any time. An approved set of plans must be available for review on
site whenever work is in progress. It shall be the permittee's responsibility
to keep the City notified of the progress of the project and call for all
required inspections. (Ord. 165, 2-5-2004)
4-3-12: MAINTENANCE:
Maintenance requirements and responsibility shall be clearly identified for all
projects where Best Management Practices are employed, including BMPs for
erosion, sedimentation control, and stormwater management. When a stormwater
system is designed to service more than one lot, a maintenance agreement
between all parties which benefit from the system must be established,
including assurance of adequate funding. Easements across private property for
maintenance access to community stormwater systems shall also be required where
necessary. All maintenance agreements must be approved by the Administrator.
In the event that appropriate maintenance of any stormwater system is not
conducted, the City shall have the option of requiring the property owner or
association to provide for maintenance, or take other enforcement measures as
outlined in section
4-3-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 165, 2-5-2004)
4-3-13: PROHIBITED CONDUCT, ENFORCEMENT, AND PENALTIES:
The following actions shall be considered violations of this chapter:
   A.   Failure to obtain a permit prior to the start of any site disturbing
activity for which a permit is required under this chapter;
   B.   Failure to call for inspections as required by this chapter;
   C.   Failure to complete the site disturbing activity within the time limits
specified by the permit;
   D.   Failure to install in a timely manner the necessary erosion control,
sediment control, stormwater management, or slope stabilization measures;
   E.   Failure to maintain temporary and/or permanent erosion control,
sediment control, stormwater management, or slope stabilization measures;
   F.   Conducting work on a site which exceeds the scope of work outlined in
the approved plans;
   G.   Damaging or otherwise impairing the function of a stormwater system;
   H.   Exporting sediment from a site in a manner not authorized by this
chapter;
   I.   Continuing work at a site after a stop work order has been placed;
   J.   Discharging stormwater in a manner not authorized by this chapter;
   K.   Failure to correct a hazard as outlined in section
4-3-9 of this chapter.
If any of the above violations have occurred, the Administrator may revoke the
permit or order the work stopped by notice, in writing, served on any persons
engaged in doing or causing such work to be done. Such person shall stop all
site work until authorized by the Administrator to proceed. The Administrator
may also withhold further issuance of permits. Stop work orders may be appealed
in the same manner as other appeals.
Violations of this chapter may be considered a criminal misdemeanor and shall
be punishable by a maximum fine of three hundred dollars ($300.00) or six (6)
months in jail, or both. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate
offense. The City may also take civil action to compel performance and
completion of, or maintenance of, improvements installed pursuant to this
chapter. (Ord. 165, 2-5-2004)
CHAPTER 4
WIND POWER GENERATORS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definition
4-4-2: Permit Required
4-4-3: Permit Application
4-4-4: Granting Of Permit
4-4-5: Variance
4-4-1: DEFINITION:
A wind power generator is anything which is designed for the purpose of
generating either electrical or mechanical energy from the force of wind. This
definition applies whether or not it is being used for that purpose, or it will
be used for that purpose at any time in the future. (Ord. 157, 8-2-2001)
4-4-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   All wind power generators under thirty five feet (35') at the highest
point, require a building permit before construction may begin.
   B.   All wind power generators over the height of thirty five feet (35') at
the highest point shall require both a variance, under the procedures set forth
in title 5, chapter 8 of this code, and a building permit before construction
may begin. (Ord. 157, 8-2-2001)
4-4-3: PERMIT APPLICATION:
The building permit application must include the following:
   A.   Plot Plan: The plot plan must be accurately drawn to scale and must
show at a minimum the following:
      1.   Proposed location and height of the wind power generator.
      2.   Property boundaries of all properties within three hundred feet
(300') of the proposed site.
      3.   Locations of all easements within one hundred fifty feet (150') of
the proposed site.
      4.   Locations of all homes, buildings, and structures within three
hundred feet (300') of the proposed site.
      5.   Major topographical features.
      6.   Location of all power lines, including any overhead service lines
going to any home, building, or structure.
   B.   Structural Analysis: Structural analysis of the tower structure written
by the manufacturer of the tower, or by a state certified engineer.
   C.   Noise Analysis: Noise analysis showing noise levels at the distance of
three hundred feet (300') from the proposed site. (Ord. 157, 8-2-2001)
4-4-4: GRANTING OF PERMIT:
A building permit will be granted only if all of the following requirements and
conditions are met:
   A.   A wind power generator may not be mounted to any building or structure
not designed specifically for that purpose.
   B.   A wind power generator may not be placed on any property of less than
one acre.
   C.   A wind power generator must be a minimum distance of one and one-half
(11/2) times the maximum height of the tower, including anything attached to
it, from the following:
      1.   Any power line, including overhead service lines feeding any
building, home or structure;
      2.   Any public roadway or right of way;
      3.   Any property line;
      4.   Any overhead public utility lines.
   D.   A wind power generator must be located a minimum distance of three
hundred feet (300') from any home, building, or structure designed for human
occupancy located on adjacent property. This includes any designated or platted
building site for future residential construction. If there is a vacant
residential acre within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed site, then
every effort must be made to maintain a minimum distance of three hundred feet
(300') from the most likely residential building site.
   E.   A wind power generator must be a minimum distance of sixty feet (60')
from any residence located on the same property. If there is no residence on
the property, then a residential building site must be designated, platted, and
approved by the city building inspector before the building permit for the wind
power generator may be granted. No changes will be permitted to that
residential building site once the wind power generator has been built.
   F.   Any guy wire anchoring point must be a minimum distance of ten feet
(10') from the following:
      1.   Property lines;
      2.   Public roadways, including any right of way;
      3.   Easements.
   G.   Any wire running from the wind power generator to any building or
structure must be buried underground in conduit, and must meet all applicable
state codes. (Ord. 157, 8-2-2001)
4-4-5: VARIANCE:
Variances to this chapter shall be processed in accordance with the zoning
ordinance of the city of Dalton Gardens. (Ord. 157, 8-2-2001)
CHAPTER 5
HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
4-5-1: Short Title
4-5-2: Authority
4-5-3: Purpose
4-5-4: Definitions
4-5-5: Applicability
4-5-6: Application And Information Requirements
4-5-7: Process
4-5-8: Standards
4-5-9: Waiver Of Standards
4-5-10: Administration
4-5-11: Inspection
4-5-12: Maintenance
4-5-13: Prohibited Conduct, Enforcement, And Penalties
4-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE of Dalton
Gardens. (Ord. 166, 2-5-2004)
4-5-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is authorized under the provisions of Idaho Code section 67-6513.
(Ord. 166, 2-5-2004)
4-5-3: PURPOSE:
   A.   To provide the maximum in public safety and welfare in the development
and design of building sites, roadways, and other service amenities; and
   B.   To provide safe ingress and egress for vehicular, bicycle, and
pedestrian traffic to and within the hillside areas, while at the same time
minimizing the scarring effects of hillside development; and
   C.   To use to the fullest extent the current understanding of the planning,
design, and engineering professions and the natural sciences including botany,
biology, ecology, soils and geology, to mitigate potential hazards to public
health, safety, and welfare, and to enhance the existing and future appearance
and resources of the hillsides; and
   D.   To provide guidelines in the creation of buildings suited to the
natural hillside surroundings through imaginative and innovative building
techniques; and
   E.   To provide a variety of development patterns on the hillside; and
   F.   To provide variations in architectural design to reduce grading and
scarring of the hillside. (Ord. 166, 2-5-2004)
4-5-4: DEFINITIONS:
   ADMINISTRATOR: An official appointed by the mayor and city council to
administer provisions of this chapter. This official may be a contract
professional such as a licensed engineer.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any work requiring a Dalton Gardens site disturbance permit.
   SCARRING: Any permanent scar left on a hillside by a development activity.
   SITE DISTURBANCE ORDINANCE: Dalton Gardens ordinance 165, and all subsequent
amendments.
   VISUAL IMPACT: The visible change in a hillside as a result of any
development activity. (Ord. 166, 2-5-2004)
4-5-5: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply whenever a site disturbance permit is required and the
overall slope is greater than six percent (6%). This chapter shall apply in
conjunction with the Dalton Gardens site disturbance ordinance and any
subsequent amendments. Any conflicts between ordinances shall be interpreted to
mean that the most restrictive standard shall apply. This chapter shall apply
to all development including individual building permits, special use permits,
and land divisions. (Ord. 166, 2-5-2004)
4-5-6: APPLICATION AND INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS:
All applications for a hillside development permit shall be submitted to the
city on a form provided by the city with a filing fee as set by resolution of
the city council. At a minimum, the following shall be required:
   A.   Visual Impact Report: A visual impact report which has been reviewed
and approved by an Idaho licensed design professional. The report shall include
the following information:
      1.   Graphic Rendition: The existing view (prior to development) and the
proposed view (after development) in a computer/photographic generated graphic
form.
      2.   Detailed Methods On Mitigation Of Visual Impacts: These methods
include, but are not limited to: architectural design, building site envelopes,
height restrictions, landscaping, fencing, construction materials, and colors.
      3.   Vegetation: The existing vegetation and the proposed method of
preserving and/or replacing such vegetation.
      4.   Methods To Minimize Effects: A statement detailing how the proposed
development or subdivision minimizes visual impact and hillside scarring
through careful site placement, roadway design, or other methods.
   B.   Slope Stabilization And Revegetation Plan And Report: The applicant
shall hire an Idaho licensed design professional with expertise in landscape
architecture to review and approve the slope stabilization and revegetation
plan and report. The report shall include a description of the existing soils,
the vegetation to be planted, soils amendments if necessary, and slope
stabilization measures to be implemented. The report shall also include an
analysis of the environmental effects of such operations including the effects
on slope stability, soil erosion and water quality.
   C.   Engineering Hydrology Report: Based upon the slope stabilization plan
and report, the city may require a professional engineer registered in the
state of Idaho to complete an engineering hydrology investigation and report.
This individual should be experienced and knowledgeable in the science of
hydrology and in the techniques of hydrologic investigation. This report shall
include the following information:
An adequate description of the hydrology of the site, conclusions on the
proposed development, and opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy of
sites to be developed. The report shall include results of field investigations
of the site, unless existing information is determined by the city to be
sufficient to satisfy the purpose of this chapter.
   D.   Natural Features Plan And Report: A natural features plan and report
with the following information:
      1.   Hazardous Areas: Location and identification of all potential
hazardous areas including, but not limited to, land that is unsuitable for
development because of poor drainage areas, high ground water, steep slopes,
rock formation, buried pipelines, or other similar conditions likely to be
encountered.
      2.   Important Features: The plan shall show important features,
including, but not limited to, the following: outline of existing structures,
watercourses, surface water, wetlands, power lines, telephone lines, airport
influence areas, any existing easements, municipal boundaries, section lines,
and property lines.
      3.   Protecting Important Features: A written statement explaining how
the site plan, private road, and/or plat protects or mitigates impacts on the
important natural features of the site.
   E.   Supplemental Data: Other supplemental data may be required by the city
when deemed appropriate by the administrator, planning commission, mayor, or
city council. (Ord. 166, 2-5-2004)
4-5-7: PROCESS:
Upon review of the application, the city shall apply the criteria listed in
this section to determine whether or not to approve, approve with conditions,
or deny the hillside development permit. No grading, filling, clearing, or
excavation of any kind shall be initiated until the hillside development permit
is approved by the city, a site disturbance permit (or waiver) is obtained from
the city, and the development has received approval by the decision making
body. The hillside development application must first be submitted to the
planning commission for a public hearing, who will then make a recommendation
to the city council for final decision.
Criteria for approval:
   A.   The site is physically suitable for the design and location of the
proposed development;
   B.   The proposed development will provide safe ingress and egress for all
building sites, and to the public at large;
   C.   The proposed development shall result in minimum disturbance of
hillside areas;
   D.   Areas not suited for development because of soil, geology, vegetation,
or hydrology limitations are designated as open space;
   E.   Disruption of existing native vegetation is minimized;
   F.   The proposal sets forth sufficient and adequate mitigation for the
identified visual impacts beyond the normally expected impact of hillside
development. (Ord. 166, 2-5-2004)
4-5-8: STANDARDS:
To ensure the intent of this chapter is achieved, the applicant shall retain a
professional civil engineer currently registered in the state of Idaho to serve
as the engineer of record.
   A.   Responsibilities: It shall be the responsibility of the engineer of
record:
      1.   To prepare the preliminary development plan and permit application.
      2.   To incorporate into the development plans all recommendations
contained in the plans and other reports as required in this chapter.
      3.   To act as coordinating agent between other professionals, the owner,
the city, and other government agencies with a regulatory interest in the
development.
      4.   To prepare any revised plans and to submit an as built record to the
city upon the completion of the project.
   B.   Reports: The engineer of record shall submit all necessary reports to
the city both prior to and during development activities.
   C.   Noncompliance: If the engineer of record, in the course of fulfilling
the specified responsibilities, discovers that any work is being accomplished
to a substantially lesser standard than required by this chapter or by the
approved hillside development plan, the noncompliance shall be reported in
writing to the owner, with copies of the report delivered to the city within
three (3) working days of the discovery. The owner shall provide the city with
recommendations for corrective measures, within five (5) calendar days of the
notice. The city may require corrective action within a specified period. If
any deficiency is deemed by the city to be an imminent threat to the public
health, safety, or welfare, that work shall be stopped immediately until such
deficiencies are corrected.
   D.   Replacement Of Engineer: If the engineer of record is replaced during
the course of work, the work shall be stopped. Work may resume when the
replacement engineer of record has agreed to accept the responsibility for
previous and future work.
   E.   Inclement Weather: In the event work is stopped during inclement
weather, all open, and/or unfinished work on the project shall be protected to
the satisfaction of the city.
   F.   Completion Of Work: At the conclusion of the approved work, the
engineer of record shall submit a report to the city stating that the work has
been executed in compliance with the approved plans. The report shall have the
signature and professional seal of the engineer of record, along with copies of
all testing reports required by this chapter, by the city, or by the
administrator.
   G.   Delays: The city may require the grading operation and/or project
schedule be modified if delays occur which result in weather generated problems
not anticipated at the time approval was granted. Construction shall be
scheduled to minimize soil disturbance.
   H.   Development Of Special Hazard Areas: Any area that presents one or more
of the following limiting factors shall not be permitted to be developed unless
the engineer of record can demonstrate to the city, based on the required
engineering reports, that these limitations can be overcome in such a manner as
to prevent hazard to life, hazard to property, adverse effects on the use or
stability of a public way or adverse impact on the natural environment:
      1.   Landslide areas or scarps, or areas of active landslides.
      2.   Natural slopes greater than fifteen percent (15%).
      3.   Water table within six feet (6') of the surface at any time of the
year.
      4.   Any area of hydrologic hazard as determined by the engineering
hydrology report.
   I.   Vegetation And Slope Stabilization:
      1.   Vegetation shall be removed only when absolutely necessary, such as
for the construction of structures, filled areas, roadways, firebreaks, or as
required by this title.
      2.   Every effort shall be made to conserve topsoil that is removed
during construction for later use on areas requiring revegetation or
landscaping.
      3.   Adequate soil and slope stabilization using any combination of
vegetation and/or chemical or mechanical methods shall be established on all
disturbed areas as each stage of development is completed.
      4.   New plantings shall be protected with organic cover unless
determined not to be necessary in the slope stabilization and revegetation plan
and report.
   J.   Slopes And Stabilization:
      1.   All retaining walls with a total vertical height of four feet (4')
or more, including footing, shall be designed in accord with the regulations of
this code for building permits.
      2.   All slopes that are stabilized by mechanical or chemical means shall
conform to the surrounding terrain and shall be given aesthetic treatment that
is designed to blend into the background and minimize the visual impacts on
surrounding areas.
      3.   Large tracts shall be divided into smaller workable units on which
construction can be completed within one construction season so that large
areas are not left bare and exposed during the winter-spring runoff period.
   K.   Roadways:
      1.   Roadway alignments shall be designed to create the minimum feasible
amounts of hillside scarring, land coverage and the disturbance of the soil.
      2.   Roadway alignments shall be designed to minimize removal of existing
deep rooted perennial vegetation.
      3.   Roadway alignments shall be designed to follow natural terrain.
      4.   Roadways shall meet the standards of the associated highway
districts of Kootenai County design criteria, except as revised by ordinance or
variance. (Ord. 166, 2-5-2004)
4-5-9: WAIVER OF STANDARDS:
   A.   Authority: The city has the authority to grant a waiver if the engineer
of record can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city that any of the
standards required by this article are not necessary in the proposed
development, and that the omission of such requirements would not result in any
of the following:
      1.   Hazard to public safety.
      2.   Hazard to public or private property.
      3.   Excessive hillside scarring.
   B.   Request: The request for a waiver of standards shall be in writing and
shall state the reason for the request. The justification for the waiver shall
be based on the engineering reports required in section
4-5-6 of this chapter. The request for a waiver shall be forwarded by the clerk
to the planning commission for recommendation and the city council for final
decision.
   C.   Alternatives: The city or administrator may approve an alternative
development proposal when the overall design, as proposed by the applicant,
meets or exceeds the intent and the requirements of this chapter and shall not
be detrimental to the public health, safety, or welfare, and provides adequate
mitigation of visual impacts and hillside scarring. (Ord. 166, 2-5-2004)
4-5-10: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   General: This chapter shall be administered in a manner consistent with
other ordinances of Dalton Gardens by an administrator as appointed by the
mayor and city council. All applicants shall use the department of
environmental quality's best management practices as guidelines to implement
the requirements and standards set forth in this chapter. Changes in the
supporting documents may be accomplished by subsequently adopted resolution.
   B.   Duration Of Permit: Permits shall expire if the work authorized by the
permit is not started with one hundred eighty (180) days of issuance of the
permit, or if work is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work has
started for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days or more. The city may
grant one time extension for an additional one hundred eighty (180) days on
written request by the permittee showing that circumstances beyond the control
of the permittee have prevented work authorized by the permit. The city may set
specific time limits to the permit for project initiation and completion for
environmental reasons or for coordination with other permitted site work.
   C.   Appeals: Appeals concerning interpretation or administration of this
chapter shall be processed in accordance with Section
1-11-1. (Ord. 166, 2-5-2004; amd. Ord. 264, 3-5-2020)
4-5-11: INSPECTION:
All activities governed by these regulations shall be subject to inspection by
the city as work is in progress. It shall be the permittee's responsibility to
keep the city notified of the progress of the project and call for all required
inspections. If deemed necessary by the city, special inspections and testing
may be performed to verify conformance with this chapter. The cost of such
special inspections and testing shall be borne by the applicant. (Ord. 166, 2-
5-2004)
4-5-12: MAINTENANCE:
Maintenance requirements and responsibility shall be clearly identified for all
projects where hillside development permits are required. When improvements
benefit more than one lot, a maintenance agreement between all parties which
benefit from the improvements must be established, including assurance of
adequate funding. Easements across private property for maintenance access to
improvements shall also be required where necessary. All maintenance agreements
must be approved by the administrator.
In the event that appropriate maintenance of any improvements is not conducted,
the city shall have the option of requiring the property owner or association
to provide for maintenance, or take other enforcement measures as outlined in
section
4-5-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 166, 2-5-2004)
4-5-13: PROHIBITED CONDUCT, ENFORCEMENT, AND PENALTIES:
The following actions shall be considered violations of this chapter:
   A.   Failure to obtain a permit prior to the start of any development
activity for which a permit is required under this chapter;
   B.   Failure to call for inspections as required by this chapter, or by the
approved hillside development plan and reports;
   C.   Failure to complete the development activity within the time limits
specified by the permit;
   D.   Failure to install in a timely manner and maintain the necessary slope
stabilization measures;
   E.   Failure to minimize hillside scarring, road alignment, land coverage
and soil disturbance;
   F.   Conducting work on a site outside the scope of work outlined in the
approved plans;
   G.   Continuing work at a site after a stop work order has been placed;
   H.   Failure to notify the city of substandard work as required in
subsection 4-5-8C of this chapter.
If any of the above violations have occurred, the administrator may revoke the
permit or order the work stopped by notice, in writing, served on any persons
engaged in doing or causing such work to be done. Such person shall stop all
site work until authorized by the administrator to proceed. The administrator
may also withhold further issuance of permits. Stop work orders may be appealed
in the same manner as other appeals.
Violations of this chapter may be considered a criminal misdemeanor and shall
be punishable by a maximum fine of three hundred dollars ($300.00) or six (6)
months in jail, or both. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate
offense. The city may also take civil action to compel performance and
completion of, or maintenance of, improvements installed pursuant to this
chapter. (Ord. 166, 2-5-2004)
TITLE 5
ZONING
General Zoning Provisions   1
Land Classifications; District Boundaries   2
Commercial District   3
Utility District   4
Residential District   5
Nonconforming Uses   6
Special Use Permits   7
Variances   8
Amendments   9
Administration And Enforcement   10
Signs   11
Parking Regulations   12
Telecommunications Towers And Personal Wireless Service Facilities   13
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Title
5-1-2: Authority
5-1-3: Interpretation And Application
5-1-4: Definitions
5-1-5: Setback Requirements
5-1-1: TITLE:
This title and any amendments and additions thereto shall be hereafter known as
the ZONING ORDINANCE of the City. (Ord. 252, 4-5-2018)
5-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to authority granted by title 67, chapter 65
of the Idaho Code and article 12, section 2 of the Idaho Constitution. (Ord.
252, 4-5-2018)
5-1-3: INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall
be held to be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public
health, safety and general welfare. Whenever the requirements of this chapter
conflict with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules,
regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the most restrictive and that imposing
the higher standards will govern. (Ord. 252, 4-5-2018)
5-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain words and terms are defined as
follows:
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT: Any single accessory structure attached or detached
to the primary single-family dwelling already constructed providing complete
independent living facilities for one or more persons, including permanent
provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking or sanitation.
   ACCESSORY USE OR BUILDING: A subordinate use or building customarily
incident to and located upon the same lot occupied by the main use or building.
   AMBIENT NOISE: The all-encompassing noise associated with a given
environment, being usually a composite of sounds from many sources, near and
far. More specifically, ambient noise will be measured at the residential
property line and includes, but is not limited to, vehicular street traffic and
noise from adjacent cities.
   BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the
housing or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels.
   CLERK: The City Clerk of the City of Dalton Gardens.
   COMMISSION: The Planning and Zoning Commission of the City of Dalton
Gardens.
   CORNER LOT: A zoning lot which adjoins the point of intersection of two (2)
or more street lines and which the interior angle formed is one hundred thirty
five degrees (135°) or less.
   DWELLING: A structure, building, or shelter, serving as a place where one or
more persons live. Also known as a house, residence, abode, domicile,
habitation, lodging, or home.
   FAMILY: Any number of individuals living together as a single housekeeping
unit and doing their cooking on the premises exclusively as one household.
   FENCE: A structural device forming a vertical physical barrier.
   FIELD: A piece of land cleared of trees and usually enclosed.
   FRONT LOT PROPERTY LINE: For an interior lot that is only accessed by one
street, a front lot line is the line that is directly adjacent to the street.
On a corner lot, the applicant may select either street line as a front lot
line.
   FRONT YARD: The required open space between the front property line and the
nearest wall, support column or similar vertical support for any building on
the lot, except as otherwise permitted by this Code. Eaves or roof overhangs
may encroach into the setback a maximum of twenty four inches (24").
   GLARE: Illumination which comes directly from the fixture without reflection
off of a separate object or surface.
   GOVERNING BODY: The City Council of the City of Dalton Gardens.
   HEIGHT: A measurement of the distance from the bottom to the top of
something which is upright. Structure height is the vertical distance measured
from the average elevation of the proposed finished grade at the front of the
building to the highest ridgeline or peak on the roof. Appurtenances such as
chimneys, cupolas, antennas, weather vanes and the like are not included in the
height measurement. Chimneys, cupolas and similar encroachments above the
ridgeline (not to include antennas, weather vanes and the like) shall be
limited in height to ten feet (10') above the ridgeline and shall not exceed
ten feet (10') in either horizontal dimension or one hundred (100) square feet
in the aggregate.
   INTERIOR LOT: A lot that is not on the corner and is between other lots. The
interior lot is not located adjacent to two (2) streets.
   KENNEL: A place where, or use of a lot by a family for maintaining,
breeding, boarding, keeping, training or suffering the occupancy by more than
three (3) dogs. However, the litter of a female dog may be kept with the dog,
and the litter, together with the mother, shall count as one dog until the
litter reaches six (6) months of age.
   LANDSCAPE PLAN: Professionally prepared graphic and written specifications
for design, planting, and maintenance as well as detailed plans to create,
arrange, and modify natural and manmade features.
   LANDSCAPED AREA OR LANDSCAPING: That area within the boundaries of a given
lot that is devoted to, and consists of, landscaping material, including, but
not limited to, trees, shrubs, perennials, vines, grasses, or other live ground
covers, and annual flowerbeds. Incidental hardscape materials may be included
such as planters, brick, stone, placed rocks or boulders, water forms, and
aggregates, but the extent of such hardscape materials shall be less than
twenty percent (20%) of the landscaped area.
   LIGHT POLLUTION: Misdirected, unshielded, excessive and/or unnecessary night
lighting aimed upwards or sideways, scattering light across the atmosphere and
brightening the night sky while diminishing the view of it.
   LIGHT TRESPASS: Light that is emitted onto an adjacent property.
   LOT: The parcel of land on which a principal building and its accessory
buildings are placed or are to be placed, together with the required open
spaces, or a "lot" designated as such on an officially recorded plat.
Any subdivision of land by metes and bounds or aliquot parts description prior
to the effective date hereof and held under one ownership separate and distinct
from the adjoining or abutting land shall be considered a lot as shown by the
last conveyance of record.
For the purpose of determining the location of the required yards, a lot shall
be considered to be as shown on the official recorded plat of the property,
regardless of any metes and bounds subdivision of said property subsequent to
the effective date hereof.
When a tract of land consisting of more than one platted lot held under one
ownership is to be developed as one unit, all the parcels or lots shall be
considered as one lot for the purposes of this chapter.
   LOT COVERAGE: The portion of a lot, stated in terms of percentage that is
covered by all buildings, structures or paved surfaces. This shall include all
buildings, porches, breezeways, patio roofs and the like, whether open box type
or lathe roofs, or fully roofed, but shall not be deemed to include fences, or
walls, or swimming pools. It shall also include all surfaces with concrete or
asphalt paving, such as patios, driveways, and sidewalks when surfaced with
pavement. Gravel surfaces, bricks, pavers, and similar "hard" surfaces shall
not be included in lot coverage calculations.
   MAINTAIN, MAINTENANCE: In reference to landscaping includes mulching,
mowing, spraying, irrigating, fertilizing, propping, bracing, treating for
disease or injury, snow removal, proper pruning techniques based on current
arboriculture standards, and any other similar acts which promote the life,
growth, health, safety, or beauty of the landscape vegetation.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, constructed after June 15, 1976, in
accordance with the HUD manufactured home construction and safety standards,
and is transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is
eight (8) body feet or more in width or is forty (40) body feet or more in
length, or when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square
feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical
systems contained therein, except that such term shall include any structure
which meets all the requirements of this subsection except the size
requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and
complies with the standards established under 42 USC section 5401 et seq.
   MOBILE HOME: A factory-assembled structure or structures generally
constructed prior to June 15, 1976, and equipped with the necessary service
connections and made so as to be readily movable as a unit or units on their
own running gear and designed to be used as a dwelling unit or units with or
without a permanent foundation.
   NOISE: For purposes of Title 5, Chapter 3, an unwanted sound.
   PARCEL: A quantity of land identified for taxation purposes. It is common
for a lot and a parcel to share the same space and have common boundaries, but
this is not always the case. For instance, it is possible for a parcel to have
more than one lot, or portions of lots.
   PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS: Containers not used for human occupancy, and
transported to a designated location for storage purposes (typically known as
PODS, MODS, shipping container). Not a pre-fabricated shed.
   PRE-FABRICATED SHED: Typically a simple, small, single-storied roofed
structure built off-site and delivered to the site in one unit. Typically used
for storage.
   REAR LOT LINE: The back lot line or back line parallel to the front line.
   REAR YARD: The required open space between the rear property line and the
nearest wall, support column or similar vertical support for any building on
the lot, except as otherwise permitted by this Code. Eaves or roof overhangs
may encroach into the setback a maximum of twenty four inches (24").
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary
quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, which either has its own
motive power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle. A trailer house is
considered a recreational vehicle.
   SIDE LOT LINE: Any lot line which is not a front lot line or a rear lot
line.
   SIDE YARD: The required open space between the side property line and the
nearest wall, support column or similar vertical support for any building on
the lot, except as otherwise permitted by this Code. Eaves or roof overhangs
may encroach into the setback a maximum of twenty four inches (24").
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A building or manufactured home arranged or designed
to be occupied by not more than one family. In addition, the classification
"single family dwelling" shall include any group residence in which eight (8)
or fewer unrelated persons with disabilities or elderly persons reside and who
are supervised at the group residence in connection with their disability or
age related infirmity. Resident staff, if employed, need not be related to each
other or to any of the persons with disabilities or elderly persons residing in
the group residence. No more than two (2) of such staff shall reside in the
dwelling at any one time.
   SPECIAL USE: A special use permitted within a district other than a
principally permitted use, requiring a permit and approval of the commission
and Governing Body.
   SPOKANE VALLEY-RATHDRUM PRAIRIE AQUIFER BOUNDARY: A boundary of the aquifer
as delineated and determined by the Environmental Protection Agency and
administered by the Department of Environmental Quality and the Panhandle
Health District. The map is available at the City Hall.
   STORY: The habitable space between each floor level of a building.
   STREET: A public way established by or maintained under public authority; a
private way open for public use and a private way plotted or laid out for
ultimate public use, whether or not constructed.
   TRAILER HOUSES: A vehicle without means of self-propulsion, licensable as a
conveyance on a public street or highway, constructed to permit temporary or
intermittent occupancy as a dwelling or sleeping place for one or more persons.
Trailer houses are considered recreational vehicles for purposes of this Code.
   VIBRATION: Any use creating intense earthshaking vibrations and noise
created by equipment or inventory drops, heavy drop forges or heavy hydraulic
surges. (Ord. 256, 10-4-2018; amd. Ord. 272, 9-14-2021; Ord. 276, 5-12-2022;
Ord. 282, 12-8-2022)
5-1-5: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
No building or structure shall be erected nor any addition made to any existing
building or structure so that any portion of such building or structure shall
be nearer to the front, side or rear lot line than the distance required by
section
5-5-4 of this title. (Ord. 192, 2-1-2007)
CHAPTER 2
LAND CLASSIFICATIONS; DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Districts Established
5-2-2: District Boundaries
5-2-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this title, all land in the
city shall be classified according to the following use districts:
   Commercial
   Utility
   Residential (Ord. 105, 1-7-1989)
5-2-2: DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
   A.   Commercial District: All land within the area six hundred thirty feet
(630') east of the west boundary of the city between Dalton Avenue and Hanley
Avenue, within the area three hundred fifteen feet (315') east of the west
boundary of the city between Hanley Avenue and Wilbur Avenue, and within the
area six hundred thirty five feet (635') east of the west boundary of the city
between Wilbur Avenue and Prairie Avenue, and the west one hundred seventy four
feet (174') of lot 1, block 1, rude third addition, and the west one hundred
seventy four feet (174') of lot 10 and block 1, rude 4th addition, Kootenai
County, Idaho. (Ord. 105, 1-7-1989; amd. Ord. 161, 9-5-2002)
   B.   Utility District: All land within the following described property:
      1.   Those portions of Section 19, Township 51 North, Range 3 West, Boise
Meridian, and Section 24, Township 51 North, Range 4 West, Boise Meridian,
Kootenai County, Idaho, described as follows:
         Commencing at the southwest corner of said Section 19; thence
         North 00o12'42" West, 1,139.26 feet along the West line of Section 19,
Township 51 North, Range 3 West, Boise Meridian, to the Southwest corner of the
Dalton Water Association Tract and the true point of beginning; thence
      Along the southerly line of said tract as follows:
         North 69o20' East, 187.0 feet; thence
         North 20o40' West, 50.0 feet; thence
         North 69o20' East, 197 feet, more or less, to the North line of the
Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of said Section 19; thence
         West, 342 feet, more or less, along said North line to the Northwest
corner of said Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter; thence
         South 00o12'42" East, 115.12 feet (South 115.12, Record) along the
West line of said Section 19 and the East line of Section 24, Township 51
North, Range 4 West, Boise Meridian, to the Northeast corner of Tax Number
10,001 (Book 82, page 933); thence
         Southwesterly along the Northwesterly line of Tax Number 10,001 as
follows:
         South 68o28'06" West, 633.85 feet; thence
         South 51o52'34" West, 263.29 feet; thence
         South 28o47'04" West, 269.98 feet; thence
         South 33o08'44" West, 319.38 feet; thence
         South 35o06'49" West, 340.48 feet to the North line of Section 25;
thence
         South 88o24'06" East, 650.88 feet along the South line of said Section
24 to the Southwest corner of the South half of the Southeast Quarter of the
Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 24; thence
         North 00o12'42" East, 332.44 feet along the West line of said South
half to the Northwest corner thereof; thence
         South 88o24'06" East, 650.88 feet along the North line of the South
half to the East line of Section 24; thence
         North 00o12'42" West, 806.82 feet along said East line to the
Southwest corner of the Dalton Water Association Tract in Section 19, Township
51 North, Range 3 West, and the true point of beginning.
(Ord. 105, 1-7-1989)
      2.   Lot 4 block 4 rude 4th addition, Dalton lot 3 block 4 rude 4th
addition. (Ord. 161, 9-5-2002)
   C.   Residential District: All other land in the city. (Ord. 105, 1-7-1989)
CHAPTER 3
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
5-3-1: Uses
5-3-2: Building Requirements (Rep. by Ord. 272, 9-14-2021)
5-3-3: Minimum Building Site Dimensions And Lot Size
5-3-4: Yards
5-3-5: Height
5-3-6: Fire Lane
5-3-7: Access
5-3-8: Off Street Parking
5-3-9: Site Disturbance
5-3-10: Signage
5-3-11: Fencing, Landscaping, Buffer Yards, And Sidewalks
5-3-12: Performance Standards
5-3-13: Project Review For Development
5-3-14: Appendix 1 Activity Groups
5-3-1: USES:
   A.   General:
      1.   The Commercial District (C) is intended as a broad spectrum
commercial district that permits limited wholesale/retail sales and service, in
addition to allowing limited manufacturing uses with a special use permit.
      2.   Any uses not specifically delineated as allowed, or allowed as a
specified special use permit shall be considered prohibited. No buildings or
other structures shall be allowed in the vision triangle. The vision triangle
is a triangle of land that has an unobstructed view from a curb line of a
driveway, roadway or street intersection. Intersections include all cases where
two (2) streets intersect and locations where driveways intersect streets. The
area needed to be clear of obstruction for safe turning movements is called the
“vision triangle”.
The following standards apply:
 
Street to street vision triangle                      25 feet x 25 feet
Street to edge of driveway and city paved road vision 15 feet x 20 feet
triangle
 
   B.   Allowed Uses:
      1.   See section
5-3-14, “Appendix 1 Activity Groups”, of this chapter for general description
and definition of each use.
Administrative offices.
Agricultural supplies and commodity sales.
Automobile and accessory sales.
Automobile renting.
Automotive fleet storage.
Automotive parking.
Banks and financial institutions.
Bars and taverns.
Building maintenance service.
Business supply retail sales.
Business support service.
Coffee and espresso stands.
Commercial film production.
Communication service.
Community assembly.
Community organization.
Construction retail sales.
Consumer repair service.
Convenience sales.
Convenience service.
Department stores.
Essential public utility service.
Farm equipment sales.
Finished goods wholesale.
Food and beverage stores.
General construction service.
Government facilities.
Group assembly.
Handicapped or minimal care facility.
Home furnishing retail sales.
Hospitals/healthcare.
Hotel/motel.
Laundry service.
Microbreweries.
Ministorage facilities.
Neighborhood recreation.
Nursery sales and landscaping services.
Nursing/convalescent/rest homes for the aged.
Personal service establishments.
Professional offices.
Public recreation.
Religious assembly.
Restaurants.
Retail gasoline sales.
Spas and health clubs.
Specialty retail sales.
Veterinary office.
Wineries.
      2.   Allowed Accessory Uses:
Storage for primary use, subject to the following restrictions:
         a.   Any outdoor storage associated with an allowed or special use
shall be stored within a completely enclosed building, or behind a six-foot
(6') high, one hundred percent (100%) site obscuring fence, or a six-foot (6')
high landscaped berm. Such a fence or berm shall be configured so that
materials within the outdoor storage area are not visible from adjacent
properties, road rights of way, or from a parking area or driveway on the
subject property. The following items may be stored outside, outside of the
aforementioned enclosure:
            (1)   Vehicle sales for display.
            (2)   Equipment rentals for display.
            (3)   Limited inventory for advertising purposes, restricted to
three (3) items on display; shall not impede required parking spaces and
circulation patterns.
            (4)   Any equipment or inventory displayed shall not create a
visual obstruction in the vision triangle that will interfere with the ingress
or egress to a roadway or driveway.
      3.   Special Use Permits: See section
5-3-14, “Appendix 1 Activity Groups”, of this chapter for general description
and definition of each use. A structure, site or parcel may have more than one
special use permit. Each special use is considered a separate permit.
Adult entertainment sales and service.
Automobile repair and cleaning.
Car wash.
Childcare facility.
Commercial kennel.
Commercial recreation.
Community education.
Custom manufacturing.
Funeral service.
Light industrial uses.
Noncommercial kennel.
Veterinary hospital with boarding facilities.
Warehouse/storage.
Wireless communication facility.
      4.   Prohibited Uses: See section
5-3-14, “Appendix 1 Activity Groups”, of this chapter for general description
and definition of each use.
Those uses which may have been declared nuisances in any court of record or may
be deemed obnoxious or offensive by reason of emission of odor, smoke, dust,
gas or noise by the City and:
Amusement park, theme park.
Auto camp.
Automobile graveyards and junkyards (defined separately).
Aviation field or landing strips.
Bulk petroleum storage stations and terminals.
Chemical plant.
Concentrated animal feeding operation.
Extensive impact uses.
Heavy industrial uses.
Manufacture or storage of explosives or gunpowder with the exception of retail
sale of gunpowder for firearms.
Metal powder works.
Outdoor theaters.
Recycling plant.
Riding stable.
Slaughterhouse.
Solid waste facility or solid waste transfer station.
Tanneries.
      5.   Classification Of Unlisted Uses: Any activity or facility which is
not expressly classified within any activity group shall be included in that
group whose description most closely portrays it. In cases of uncertainty as to
the classification of any use, the City shall classify the use, subject to the
right of appeal from such determination pursuant to the appeal procedure of
Section
1-11-1. In cases of mixed uses as defined in section
5-3-14, “Appendix 1 Activity Groups”, of this chapter, the use that occupies
the majority of the floor area as determined by the City shall be considered
the principal use. Such determination shall be subject to the appeal procedure
of Section 1-11-1. (Ord. 221, 7-12-2012; amd. Ord. 256, 10-4-2018; Ord. 264, 3-
5-2020; Ord. 272, 9-14-2021)
5-3-2: BUILDING REQUIREMENTS:
(Rep. by Ord. 272, 9-14-2021)
5-3-3: MINIMUM BUILDING SITE DIMENSIONS AND LOT SIZE:
   A.   Without Municipal sewer service: All lots shall have one hundred ten
feet (110') of frontage on a publicly dedicated street, accepted and maintained
by the City or the Lakes Highway District or other public authority, and shall
contain not less than one acre.
   B.   With Municipal sewer service: All lots shall have a minimum of ten
thousand (10,000) square feet with frontage of fifty feet (50') on a public or
private street or access easement.
   C.   Any lots reduced to less than one acre by condemnation or eminent
domain procedures shall be considered legal lots even if such lot contains less
than one acre. (Ord. 221, 7-12-2012)
5-3-4: YARDS:
   A.   Front Yards: Every permanent structure with the exception of signs,
fences and walls on all properties which front on an established street right-
of-way shall be set back from the front property line at least twenty five feet
(25'). For sign setbacks, see chapter 11 of this title for the sign
regulations. Note: More restrictive setbacks may be required due to noise and
vibration.
   B.   Rear Yard: Every permanent structure with the exception of signs,
fences and walls shall be set back at least ten feet (10') from the rear
property line, except the rear yard of a corner lot that fronts a public right-
of-way shall be not less than twenty five feet (25') along the side or flanking
street. If the rear yard abuts a lot in a different district that requires
setbacks for rear yards, then the property in this district shall have setbacks
as specified in the more restrictive district. Note: More restrictive setbacks
may be required due to noise and vibration.
   C.   Side Yards: No setback for structures shall be required on side
property lines, unless required by the International Building Code or
International Fire Code and except on the side yard of a corner lot which
fronts a public right-of-way shall be not less than twenty five feet (25')
along the side street, also if the side yard abuts a lot in a different
district which requires setbacks for side yards, then the property in this
district shall have setbacks as specified in the more restrictive district.
Note: More restrictive setbacks may be required due to noise and vibration.
   D.   Nonconforming Structures: Existing structures that met setback
requirements when they were constructed but no longer meet setback requirements
as a result of right-of-way dedication or eminent domain procedures shall be
considered legal, conforming structures unless there is a health and safety
issue as determined by the City Engineer or the Fire Marshal. (Ord. 221, 7-12-
2012)
5-3-5: HEIGHT:
"Height" is defined under section
5-1-4, "Definitions", of this title. All structures that are at least set back
twenty five feet (25') from a residential property line shall be limited to
thirty two feet (32') in height or a maximum of two (2) stories, whichever is
less. All structures that are within twenty five feet (25') of a residential
property line shall be limited to twenty five feet (25') in height or a maximum
of two (2) stories, whichever is less. (Ord. 221, 7-12-2012)
5-3-6: FIRE LANE:
Every parcel of land used for commercial purposes shall provide a lane of not
less than eighteen feet (18') of unobstructed all weather driving surface
approved by the Kootenai County Fire Protection District from an established
street or highway to the rear property line. A fire lane shared by adjacent
property owners by a mutual recorded agreement may be allowed. Said lane shall
be a designated fire lane and shall remain accessible at all times. If the fire
lane is gated for security purposes, the fire district shall give their written
approval and then shall be provided the code or key to open the gate. (Ord.
221, 7-12-2012)
5-3-7: ACCESS:
For parcels of land that access right-of-way controlled by City of Coeur
d’Alene, an approach permit shall be obtained from the City of Coeur d’Alene.
Except for rights-of-way controlled by the City of Coeur d’Alene, any parcels
that access public streets in Dalton Gardens shall be designed to comply with
the City’s engineering standards for access and approach onto public streets
and require an approach permit obtained from the City. (Ord. 221, 7-12-2012;
amd. Ord. 272, 9-14-2021)
5-3-8: OFF STREET PARKING:
All off street parking regulations shall be as set forth in chapter 12 of this
title which is by reference herein incorporated. (Ord. 221, 7-12-2012)
5-3-9: SITE DISTURBANCE:
All site disturbance, erosion control and stormwater management regulations
shall be as set forth in the latest version of title 4, chapter 3 of this Code
which is incorporated herein by reference. (Ord. 221, 7-12-2012)
5-3-10: SIGNAGE:
All sign regulations shall be as set forth in the latest version of chapter 11
of this title which is incorporated herein by reference. (Ord. 221, 7-12-2012)
5-3-11: FENCING, LANDSCAPING, BUFFER YARDS, AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Fencing: Fencing is not required; however, if fencing is erected or
installed, the following standards apply:
      1.   Permit Required; Inspection. Any fence exceeding 6 feet (6') in
height shall require a building permit and meet International Building Code
requirements. A fence permit is not required for maintenance or repair. Total
replacement of an existing fence shall require a permit. Fees for fence permits
shall be as specified in the Dalton Gardens fee resolution.
      2.   Materials For Fences And Walls: Fences and walls may be of material
commonly used in fence construction (for example: wood, wrought iron,
chainlink, vinyl), provided that said fence or wall meets any criteria for
sturdiness and construction as established in other City regulations.
      3.   Fence Height: Fences and walls shall not exceed ten feet (10') in
height. The height of fences and walls shall be measured from the top of the
fence or wall at its highest point to the finished grade of the lot or parcel
adjacent to the fence. If the fence or wall is built on a mound or is otherwise
constructed on a level above the average finished grade of the parcel or lot,
the height of the mound shall be included in the overall height of the fence or
wall. However, where parking, loading or other similar areas are constructed
adjacent to a fence or wall and are constructed above the finished grade of the
parcel, the height of fences or walls shall be measured from the top of the
parking/loading surface.
      4.   Fence Setbacks:
         a.   Front yard or yards directly adjacent to public right-of-way:
Fences over three feet (3') in height in the front yard shall be set back at
least fifteen feet (15') from the front property line.
         b.   Rear and side yard: Fences are allowed on property lines unless
adjacent to a public right-of-way, which then shall follow front yard setbacks
in subsection A4a of this section.
         c.   Fences are subject to vision triangle restrictions as delineated
in subsection
5-3-1A3 of this chapter.
   B.   Landscaping And Buffering:
      1.   Landscaping Applicability: All properties in the Commercial District
shall be required to develop a landscaping plan and add landscaping and
buffering. Compliance with the provisions of this section shall be required in
the following circumstances:
         a.   Any building permit for a new structure.
         b.   Building permits for reconstruction, alteration, remodel or
renovation that cumulatively exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of
the existing structure within a five (5) year period. In the event of fire or
natural disaster, the structure can be reconstructed to the same size and in
the same location, regardless of market value without triggering the
requirements of landscaping.
         c.   Any construction, reconstruction, reconfiguration, addition to,
or alteration of a parking lot shall be required to include landscaping of any
areas adjacent to street rights-of-way, and any vision triangles adjacent to a
public right-of-way or driveway.
         d.   When the use of a building or portion of a building changes to
another use which does not involve expansion or remodeling, such use need not
provide landscaping except if additional off street parking is required, or the
parking area is being modified.
         e.   In conjunction with any Special Use Permit, compliance with
landscaping and buffering requirements will be evaluated and appropriate
standards may be imposed as a condition of approval on the permit.
      2.   Landscaping Plan Required:
         a.   The landscape plan shall be professionally prepared, drawn to
scale and indicate the following:
            (1)   Boundaries and dimensions of the site.
            (2)   Trees and any other vegetation that is to be retained.
            (3)   The location and design of areas to be landscaped.
            (4)   Type and design of proposed irrigation.
      3.   Landscaping Required, Additional Standards: The following areas
shall be landscaped. These standards are the minimum required:
         a.   All front, rear and side yards within five feet (5') of street
rights-of-way shall be landscaped.
         b.   All vision triangle corners shall be landscaped.
         c.   Landscaping within the parking lot equal to ten percent (10%) of
the gross parking area used for parking spaces (in addition to the landscaped
areas required in subsections B3a and B3b of this section). Traffic aisles and
driveways are excluded from this calculation. Such landscaping areas should be
dispersed throughout the parking area. Parking lots and the accompanying
landscaping shall be configured so that no parking space is more than seventy
five feet (75') from a landscaped area.
         d.   All landscaped areas shall consist of a mix of deciduous and
evergreen trees, shrubs and live ground cover. There shall be at least one tree
and two (2) shrubs for each three hundred (300) square feet of required
landscape area.
         e.   All buffer yards shall be landscaped in accordance with
subsection B4 of this section.
         f.   No trees or shrubs or landscaping treatment shall obstruct the
view between the intersection or the street and the access drives and parking
aisles near entries and exits. Plantings within the vision triangle as defined
in subsection
5-3-1A3 of this chapter shall not exceed a maximum mature height of thirty
inches (30").
         g.   No ground disturbance as a result of site construction, grading,
development or paving shall be left exposed to bare soil at the conclusion of
construction.
         h.   All landscaped areas shall be separated from driveways, drive
aisles, loading and parking areas by a six inch (6") concrete curb or similar
permanent barrier.
      4.   Buffer Yard Regulations:
         a.   Buffer Yard: For purposes of this chapter, a “buffer yard” is
part of the required landscaping and is a landscaped area that serves to
physically and/or visually separate land uses having incompatible facilities or
activities or differing intensities of use. A buffer yard is required along
property lines that are adjacent to the residential zone.
         b.   Minimum Width: The buffer yard shall be a minimum of fifteen feet
(15') wide unless adjacent to a public right-of-way. In such cases, the buffer
yard may be a minimum of five feet (5') wide. Any buffer adjacent to public
right-of-way must meet vision triangle standards.
         c.   Materials For Buffer Yards:
            (1)   All buffer yards shall be comprised of, but not limited to, a
six foot (6') tall 100% sight obscuring solid fence or wall along the property
line (or the line between the residential and commercial use if on the same
property); together with a mix of evergreen and deciduous trees ground cover in
which evergreen plant materials comprise a minimum of seventy five percent
(75%) of the total plant material used. An earthen berm may not be substituted
for the fence or wall.
            (2)   The required buffer yard shall result in an effective barrier
within five (5) years and be maintained such that fifty percent (50%) or more
of the vertical surface is closed and prevents the passage of vision through
it, as determined by the City.
      5.   Landscaping Development Agreement Option: A landscaping development
agreement may be initiated by the property owner. Such an agreement is
negotiated with the City to provide flexibility in the implementation of the
standards of this chapter while meeting the intent of the requirements. The
agreement may allow for the relocation of required landscaping, but does not
allow for elimination of required elements.
         a.   Information: The agreement shall be in a form provided by the
City. No agreement shall be accepted without the following information included
in the agreement and provided by the applicant:
            (1)   Legal name, title and addresses of the applicant, property
owner and/or others with a direct vested interest in the landscaping
development agreement.
            (2)   A legal description of the property that is subject of the
agreement. Such legal description must be acceptable to the City.
            (3)   Signatures of all applicants, owners, developers, or lawfully
authorized agents, shall be notarized, and in the case of lawfully authorized
agents, properly executed powers of attorney in a form acceptable to the City’s
legal counsel shall be presented to the City and shall be made part of the
agreement.
            (4)   A narrative that states what changes will be made to the
landscaping plan and how those changes will continue to meet the intent of the
standards for landscaping and buffering.
            (5)   A site plan indicating proposed and existing landscaping,
materials and plants to be used and buildings and other features that will
assist in providing an accurate description of the proposed landscaping plan.
            (6)   A clause that states that once the agreement is signed by
both the property owner and the City, the property owner understands and
accepts that changes made to the landscaping plan shall need to be reviewed and
approved by the City through an amended landscaping development agreement.
         b.   Termination Of Agreement: A termination of the agreement may be
initiated by the City if the property owner fails to comply with any term,
condition, obligation or duty of the agreement.
            (1)   If the City perceives that the property owner has not
complied with the agreement, the City shall provide notice to the property
owner of a compliance hearing held to determine compliance and possible
termination of the agreement.
            (2)   The compliance hearing is a public hearing and will comply
with Idaho Statute 67-6509. The property owner shall provide reasons to the
City why compliance has not been implemented and why the City should not
terminate the agreement and require the ordinance standards to be met.
      6.   Installation And Maintenance: The owner/developer shall follow
accepted nursery standards and practices in the planting and maintenance of
required landscape areas. Soil and slope stabilization must result after
landscape installation.
All required landscaping shall be permanently maintained in a healthy growing
condition by the property owner or the property owner’s designee. This includes
the maintenance of landscape materials within or abutting the public right-of-
way adjacent to the subject property. The property owner shall remove and, if
required to meet the standards of this chapter, shall replace any unhealthy or
dead plant material immediately or as the planting season permits.
      7.   Completion Time: The City may authorize a delay in the completion of
planting outside of the planting season. Should a delay occur, a bond or other
sufficient security approved by the City Attorney, equal to one hundred fifty
percent (150%) of the costs of landscaping, will be provided by the owner/
developer in the form of cash, certified check, irrevocable letter of credit,
or bond and held by the City until said landscaping is complete or the
guarantee is forfeited for noncompliance. No final certificate of occupancy
shall be issued until the required landscaping is complete or a guarantee is
posted.
   C.   Sidewalks: For parcels with frontage on Aqua Circle, a five foot (5')
wide concrete sidewalk along the road frontage shall be installed by the
property owner as part of the parking lot and landscaping requirements.
Sidewalks shall be located immediately adjacent to the property line. If
sidewalk exists on the adjacent parcel(s), the new sidewalk shall be configured
to meet the existing.
   D.   Undeveloped Property: Undeveloped lots or parcels shall be weeded,
planted with indigenous grasses and maintained in a neat and orderly manner.
Under subsection
5-3-12E2e of this chapter, performance standards delineate that a violation
occurs if weeds or unkempt landscaping constitute a fire hazard. (Ord. 256, 10-
4-2018; amd. Ord. 272, 9-14-2021)
5-3-12: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Compliance Required: All new and existing structures and uses shall be required
to meet the requirements of this section on the date of the adoption hereof.
   A.   Refuse:
      1.   Definition: “Refuse” is defined as waste, garbage, trash, junk and
litter.
      2.   Standards: All refuse containers shall be adequately screened such
that they are not visible from the public street or a residential property
line.
   B.   Building And Property Maintenance: All commercial buildings and
properties shall be maintained to protect the public health, safety and general
welfare at all times. Properties exhibiting characteristics that include, but
are not limited to, the following are considered harmful or a nuisance and are
prohibited:
      1.   Missing windows or doors that constitute a public safety concern or
building hazard;
      2.   Unrepaired fire or vandalism damage;
      3.   Structure dilapidation, deterioration or decay that constitutes a
building hazard;
      4.   Graffiti as delineated in ordinance 188;
      5.   Noxious weeds or unkempt landscaping that constitutes a fire hazard;
      6.   Abandoned and inoperable vehicles as defined in title 8, chapter 3
of this code;
      7.   Absence of adequate solid waste refuse pick up; and
      8.   Dumping, storing, burying, reducing, disposing of or burning
garbage, refuse, scrap metal, rubbish, dead animals or parts of dead animals.
   C.   Lighting:
      1.   Lighting Exemptions: The following are exempt from the provisions of
this chapter:
         a.   Seasonal displays unless such displays become a nuisance;
         b.   Vehicular lights and all temporary emergency lighting needed by
the police department and fire protection district or other emergency services;
         c.   All temporary lighting used for the construction or repair of
roadways, utilities and other public infrastructure; and
         d.   All lighting required by the City, state or federal regulatory
agencies.
         e.   All lighting for public utilities as long as fixtures are
downward directed and shielded.
      2.   General Standards: The following general standards apply to all
nonexempt outdoor lighting fixtures:
         a.   Nuisance prevention: All outdoor lighting fixtures shall be
designed, located and installed to be downward directed and shielded, by
retrofitting if necessary, and shall be maintained in order to prevent glare,
light trespass and light pollution.
         b.   An outdoor lighting fixture may only be aimed against a structure
if the light is effectively contained by the structure and no glare is visible
from off site.
         c.   Uplighting of identification signs fronting public streets shall
be allowed under conditions delineated in chapter 11 of this title. No direct
lighting shall be visible from the residential district property line. Any
lighting directed upwards above the horizontal plane (uplighting) is
prohibited, with the exception of government flags.
      3.   Prohibited Lighting: The following light fixtures and activities are
prohibited and are considered a nuisance and light pollution:
         a.   The installation of any new fixture not in conformance with this
chapter is prohibited.
         b.   No outdoor lighting fixtures shall be installed, aimed or
directed to produce light that spills over into adjacent residential properties
or the public right of way. Direct light trespass onto residential properties
is prohibited.
         c.   No outdoor lighting fixture may be installed or maintained in
such a manner to cause glare visible from off site.
         d.   No outdoor lighting fixture may be operated in such a manner as
to constitute a hazard or danger to persons, or to safe vehicular travel.
         e.   Blinking, flashing, moving, revolving, scintillating, flickering,
changing intensity, and changing color lights.
         f.   Searchlights, laser source lights, or any similar high intensity
light is prohibited except in emergencies by police and fire personnel or at
their direction, or for approved temporary lighting under a special event
permit issued by the city.
   D.   Construction Activity Prohibited During Certain Hours: It is unlawful
and is deemed a public nuisance for any person to engage in acts of building
construction, site development, use of heavy equipment for earthmoving or
installation of public works, or other construction activities which involve
use of concussion, compression, power tools, or which produce bothersome noise,
vibration, illumination, dust, or similar undesirable environmental effects
onto adjoining residential properties, between the hours of nine o’clock (9:00)
P.M. and six o’clock (6:00) A.M. on a weekday and between six o’clock (6:00)
P.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. on a weekend, except as otherwise authorized
by the city council for utility construction or service emergencies.
   E.   Vibration: Any outdoor activity that causes vibration shall be set back
from the property line sufficient distance to stop vibration at the property
line or be conducted in a fully enclosed building that has been engineered to
prevent vibration at the property line or an abutting residential zoning
district as perceived by a person of normal sensitivities.
   F.   Noise:
      1.   Standard: No person may make or permit, in the operation of a
machine or otherwise, any noise to the annoyance of any other person of
ordinary sensibilities between the hours of nine o’clock (9:00) P.M. and six
o’clock (6:00) A.M. on a weekday and between six o’clock (6:00) P.M. and seven
o’clock (7:00) A.M. on a weekend, except as otherwise authorized by the city
council for utility construction or service emergencies.
      2.   Loud Or Unnecessary Noises: Any noise which exceeds the ambient
level by fifteen (15) decibels on an A-scale decibel meter (as specified in
ANSI S 1.4-1971) and which endangers or injures the safety or health of humans
or animals or annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of ordinary sensibilities;
endangers or damages personal or real property; disturbs or would disturb the
peace; or creates a nuisance is prohibited.
      3.   Exemptions: This requirement shall not apply to maintenance
equipment including, but not limited to, lawn mowers, snowblowers and weed
whackers, snow removal equipment, emergency equipment not operated on a regular
or scheduled basis; and warning devices not operating continuously for more
than five (5) minutes.
      4.   Enumeration Of Violations: The following noises and acts, are
declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises in violation of this
section, but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
         a.   Inoperative Muffler: Inoperative or absence of vehicle muffler.
         b.   Repair Of Vehicles: Any noise generated from the repair, rebuild
or test motor vehicle, motorboat or aircraft to cause a noise disturbance
across a residential lot line outside of the hours delineated in this section.
         c.   Repair Tools (Hammers, Concrete Saws, Etc.): Any noise generated
by the use or operation of any pneumatic and electric hammer, concrete saw or
other equipment or appliance, blasting device or other explosive not associated
with a current building permit shall be a loud and unnecessary noise unless
such noise is both created during the times allowed for construction and does
not exceed the noise levels.
         d.   Loading, Unloading, Opening Boxes Or Crates: The creation of loud
and excessive noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the
opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers.
   G.   Dust, Smoke And Odor Control: No development shall generate dust,
smoke, odors, or other airborne pollutants that travel beyond its property
line, except as permitted by state and federal air quality standards. (Ord.
221, 7-12-2012; amd. Ord. 272, 9-14-2021)
5-3-13: PROJECT REVIEW FOR DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   When determined necessary by the Planning Administrator, a project
review meeting shall be required prior to processing building permit or site
disturbance permit applications in the commercial zone. The project proponent
must submit a complete description of the project, including all information on
the forms provided by the city. Staff may request additional information prior
to sending the request to the project review team.
   B.   The project review team includes the project proponent, and city
representatives from planning, building and engineering. It may include fire
department representatives, health district representatives and representatives
from the Dalton Gardens Water Association, Dalton irrigation district, and the
City of Coeur d’Alene.
   C.   At the project review meeting, the project review team will determine
the types of approvals that will be necessary and provide an estimate of
required fees for the project. The project review team may impose conditions on
the project to mitigate impacts.
   D.   A site inspection may be deemed necessary by the City.
   E.   The burden of proof to provide correct information lies with the
project proponent and property owner. (Ord. 221, 7-12-2012; amd. Ord. 264, 3-5-
2020; Ord. 272, 9-14-2021)
5-3-14: APPENDIX 1 ACTIVITY GROUPS:
Administrative. Activities typically performed by public, quasi-public, and
public utility administrative offices such as City, County, State or similar
offices.
Adult entertainment. Activities, whether conducted intermittently or full time,
that primarily involve the display, exhibition, or viewing of people and/or
materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to human sex acts or by emphasis on male or female
genitals, buttocks or female breasts; typical of adult motion picture theaters,
adult mini-motion picture theaters, and adult motion picture arcades, and
including massage parlors and bathhouses.
Adult entertainment retail sales. Activities, whether conducted intermittently
or full time, that primarily involve the sale of books, magazines, films,
photographs or other materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or pertaining to human sex acts or by an emphasis
on male or female genitals, buttocks or female breasts, typical of adult motion
picture theaters, adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult motion picture
arcade and adult bookstores.
Agricultural supply and commodities sales. Activities that typically include
the sale from the premises of feed and grain, fertilizers, pesticides,
herbicides, animal care equipment.
Amusement park. A permanent outdoor facility, which may include structures and
buildings, where there are various devices for entertainment, including rides,
booths for the conduct of games or the sale of items, and buildings for shows
and entertainment.
Auto camps. Activities that include the provision of spaces for lodging for
transient or semipermanent guests in semipermanent dwelling structures,
typically tents, travel trailers, and camper vehicles.
Automotive accessory retail sales. Activities that include the retail sale from
the premises of motor vehicle parts and accessories; such activities are
typical of firms selling tires, batteries, mufflers, auto glass, and auto
upholstery, but excluding tire recapping.
Automotive fleet storage. Activities that include the storage of vehicles used
regularly in business operations and not available for sale, typically
including overnight storage of rental cars, mobile catering trucks, taxicabs,
etc.
Automotive parking. Activities that include the temporary parking of motor
vehicles on a fee or free basis within a privately owned, off street parking
area, and not the parking of commercial vehicles nor vehicles for sale.
Automotive rental. Activities that include the rental from the premises of
motor vehicles, with provision of incidental maintenance service, typically
performed by car rental agencies.
Automotive repair/cleaning. Activities that include the major repair or
painting of motor vehicles, including bodywork and installation of major
accessories as well as the washing and polishing of motor vehicles.
Automotive sales. Activities that include the sale from the premises of motor
vehicles, with incidental maintenance; such activities are typical of new or
used auto, boat and mobile home dealers.
Aviation field or landing strips.
Banks and financial services. Activities that include the provision of
financial services; such activities are typical of banks, savings and loan
associations, and credit institutions.
Bar and tavern. An establishment where alcohol and sometimes food is served.
Brewery. "Brewery" is a distillery where beer, wine and alcoholic beverages are
brewed.
Building maintenance services. Activities that include the provision, primarily
to firms rather than individuals, of maintenance and custodial services,
including window cleaning services, disinfecting and exterminating services,
janitorial services, and carpet cleaning services.
Bulk liquid fuel storage. Activities that include the storage and pumping of
liquid fuel products for wholesale distribution.
Bulk petroleum stations and terminals. This is an industrial land use that is
comprised of establishments with bulk liquid storage facilities primarily
engaged in wholesaling crude petroleum and petroleum products, including
liquefied petroleum gas.
Business supply retail sales. Activities that include the retail sale or rental
from the premises of the office equipment and supplies and similar goods
primarily to individuals, firms and other organizations utilizing the goods;
they exclude the sale or rental of motor vehicles and the sale of materials
used in construction of buildings or other structures; such activities are
typical of barber equipment and supply firms, and hotel or office equipment and
supply firms.
Business support services. Activities that include the provision, primarily to
firms rather than individuals, of services of a clerical, employment,
protective, or minor processing nature, including multicopy and blueprint
services; they exclude the printing of books, other than pamphlets and small
reports for another firm, and the storage of goods other than samples for sale.
CAFO (Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation). Defined in Idaho Code 67-6529C
(1).
Car wash. A facility that either is used manually or automatically to wash the
exterior or interior of automobiles.
Chemical plant. A "chemical plant" is an industrial facility where chemicals
are produced and stored.
Commercial film production. A use whose activities may be conducted
intermittently or full time, and which includes the accommodation of motion
picture filming and videotape production for commercial distribution.
Commercial recreation. Activities that include profit oriented sports
activities performed either indoors or outdoors, which require a facility for
conducting the recreational activity; such activities are typical of swimming
centers, skating rinks, tennis courts, racquetball courts, golf courses, etc.,
but does not include riding stables, amusement parks or theme parks.
Communication services. Activities that include the provision of broadcasting
and other information relay services accomplished primarily through use of
electronic and telephone mechanisms; such activities are typical of television
and radio studios and telegraph offices.
Community assembly and cultural/nonassembly. Activities typically performed by,
or at the following institutions or installations:
   A.   Public meeting halls.
   B.   Nonprofit museums, art galleries, libraries, and observatories.
Community education. Community education is a campus based program that
provides educational, social, cultural, economic, and workforce development
opportunities that meet the diverse needs of the communities it serves. Typical
classes may include, but are not limited to, personal enrichment, hobbies,
skill building, and career training. Community education can also include
establishments for children such as foster care, childcare facilities,
kindergartens and public and private schools.
Community organizations. Activities typically performed by nonprofit
organizations whether social, charitable, civic, or professional. This includes
organizations such as the Chamber of Commerce, the Red Cross, labor unions,
political organizations, and similar groups.
Construction retail sales. Activities that include the retail sale or rental
from the premises of goods and equipment, including paint, glass, hardware,
fixtures, electrical supplies and lumber, primarily to individuals rather than
firms; such activities are typical of hardware stores.
Consumer repair services. Activities that include the provision, principally to
individuals rather than firms, of repair services such as apparel, shoe,
upholstery, furniture, and electrical appliance repair services.
Convenience sales. Activities that include the retail sale from the premises of
drugs and other frequently needed small personal convenience items such as
toiletries, tobacco and magazines, including small grocery stores.
Convenience services. Activities that include the provision, to individuals, of
convenience services which are typically needed frequently or recurrently, such
as beauty and barber care, and apparel laundering and dry cleaning.
Crematory. A building where bodies are incinerated. Crematories may be an
accessory use to a funeral home; however, a crematory may have more intensive
impacts than those of the funeral home.
Custom manufacturing. Activities that include the production of goods and
characterized by direct sale to the consumer, typically involving the
manufacture, compounding, processing, assembling, packaging, treatment or
fabrication of items that are not massed produced such as the following:
   A.   Cameras and photographic equipment, but not film development.
   B.   Custom clothing.
   C.   Professional, scientific, measuring and control instruments.
   D.   Musical instruments.
   E.   Handicraft, art objects and jewelry.
   F.   Printing, publishing or pattern making.
   G.   Sign making.
   H.   Custom woodworking or custom metal working.
Department store type retail sales. Activities that include the retail sale or
rental from the premises of a wide range of general goods and merchandise
primarily for personal or household use, principally including apparel,
appliances and sundries; they exclude the sale or rental of motor vehicles,
except for parts and accessories; such activities are typical of department or
variety stores.
Dumping, storing, burying, reducing, disposing of or burning garbage, refuse,
scrap metal, rubbish, offal ("offal" is the entrails and internal organs of a
butchered animal) or dead animals.
Essential public utility services. Activities that include the maintenance and
operation of public utilities typical of electric, gas, telephone, sewer and
water lines. Also included in this group are cemetery support services that are
ordinary and necessary for the operation of a cemetery and that do not
adversely impact the surrounding neighborhood. A monument company would be
typical of a cemetery support service.
Extensive impact. Activities that typically encompass large areas of land may
detrimentally impact certain neighboring areas typical of prisons, airports,
large electrical transforming installations, refuse dumps, and military
installations.
Extractive uses. Activities that include the on site production of mineral
products by extractive methods, typical of the following:
   A.   Oil and gas field exploration, drilling and operation.
   B.   Subsurface and surface mining and quarrying of metallic and nonmetallic
minerals.
Farm equipment sales. Activities that include the sale from the premises of
motor driven farm vehicles; such activities are typical of firms selling
tractors or harvesting equipment.
Finished goods. Activities that include the storage and wholesale sale to
retailers from the premises of finished goods and foodstuffs, typical of
wholesale food and apparel supply firms.
Food and beverage sales/off site consumption. Activities that include the
retail sales from the premises of food and beverages for off premises
consumption; such activities are typical of groceries, markets, liquor stores
and retail bakeries. On site consumption seating areas of up to fifteen percent
(15%) of the gross floor area may be provided.
Food and beverage sales/on site consumption. Activities that include the retail
sale from the premises of food or beverages prepared for on premises
consumption; such activities are typical of restaurants and bars.
Funeral services. Activities that include the provisions of undertaking,
funeral and crematory services involving the care, preparation and disposition
of human dead.
Gasoline sales. Activities that include the sale from the premises of goods and
the provision of services normally required in the operation and maintenance of
automotive vehicles, including the principal sale of liquid fuel products, the
incidental sale of tires, batteries, replacement items, and lubricating
services, and the performance of minor repairs; excluding wholesale sale of
liquid fuel products.
General construction services. Activities that include the provision of
services typically performed off the premises by building contractors, or by
any of the trades involved in construction, typically including earthwork,
plumbing, painting, electrical, roofing, carpentry, heating and sheet metal
contracting when related to construction and other services. Activities include
minor and incidental repair of equipment. Construction services includes
structures, yards and facilities.
Government facilities. A building, structure, infrastructure or land that is
owned by the public.
Group assembly. Activities that include the provision of cultural, educational,
and entertainment services to assembled groups of spectators or participants;
such activities are typical of dance halls, theaters, skating rinks and meeting
halls.
Heavy industrial. Activities that include the manufacturing, compounding,
processing, assembling, packaging, treatment or fabrication of articles or
merchandise not usually enclosed in a building that operates in a manner that
may degrade the environment in relation to air, water, noise, visual quality,
typical of factories that render raw materials to a more usable form, such as
steel mills, pulp plants, electricity/generating facilities, gasohol and energy
conversion plants.
Home furnishing retail sales. Activities that include the retail sale from the
premises of furniture and home appliances, primarily to individuals rather than
firms; such activities are typical of furniture and appliance stores.
Home occupation. An accessory activity performed within a living unit by an
occupant of the living unit, which is incidental to the residential use of the
living unit and is subject to the home occupation regulations set forth herein.
Hospital/healthcare. Activities typically performed by the following
institutions:
   A.   Hospitals and health clinics.
   B.   Nursing homes, convalescent hospitals, rest homes, and homes for the
aged, providing care for three (3) or more residents who require twenty four
(24) hour skilled or intermediate care and medical supervision at a lower level
than that provided by a hospital.
   C.   Handicapped or minimal care facility providing twenty four (24) hour
care, group dining and supervision for nine (9) or more residents who are:
      1.   Physically or mentally handicapped or infirm and who are in need of
residential rather than medical care; or
      2.   Capable of taking care of themselves in independent living units,
but who prefer personal supervision.
Hotel/motel. Activities that include the provision of lodging services to
transient guests on a less than weekly basis.
Junkyards, automobile graveyards or places for the collection of scrap metal,
paper, rags, glass or junk for salvage or storage purposes with the exception
of land uses that meet title 3, chapter 3 of this Code.
Juvenile offenders facility. Providing twenty four (24) hour care and
supervision for three (3) or more children (plus 2 houseparents) who are under
the age of eighteen (18) and unrelated to the houseparents, and who have been
placed voluntarily or by a State agency, court order or a childcare agency, as
a result of a criminal offense. The maximum number of residents shall be set by
special use permit, where required.
Laundry services. Activities that include institutional or commercial linen
supply and laundry services, as well as diaper service laundries.
Light industrial. Activities that include the manufacturing, compounding,
processing, assembling, packaging, treatment, fabrication of articles or
merchandise that is primarily indoors, including welding fabrication and repair
with an on site operation that will not be significantly detrimental to the
environment in respect to air, water, noise, and visual quality; typical of
assemblage of appliances, photographic developing, enclosed bottling plants,
textile, manufacture, metal fabrication, cabinet shops, plants, tire recapping
and food canning, but not processing; lumber, saw and planing mills are
included within this category.
Manufacture or storage of explosives or gunpowder with the exception of retail
sale of gunpowder for firearms.
Metal powder works. The production and sale of metal powders, metal flakes,
metal fibers or nonmetallic powder additives used with these materials, such as
graphite or lubricants.
Microbrewery. A brewery producing specialty beer. This may include area for
retail sales.
Ministorage. Activities that include the provision of personal, self-service
storage facilities, not intended for use by freight handling, shipping,
weighing, or trucking services or similar entities; typical of commercial
ministorage facilities.
Mixed use. A combination of uses inside a single building or set of buildings
on a single parcel, typically a combination of unrelated businesses.
Neighborhood recreation. Activities that include the use of small open spaces
for unstructured or passive recreation, typical of neighborhood or pocket
parks; these parks, which could be publicly or privately owned and maintained,
provide for the low intensity recreational needs of the immediate local
vicinity.
Outdoor theaters. Outdoor theaters include drive-in movie theaters, stadiums
and field houses.
Personal services. Activities that include the provision of informational,
instructional, and similar services of a personal but nonprofessional nature,
such as driving schools, travel bureaus, and photography studios.
Professional and administrative offices. Activities that include managerial,
clerical, consultation and professional, including medical, services for
therapeutic, preventative or corrective personal treatment, typically performed
by the following:
   A.   Insurance and real estate offices.
   B.   Architects, engineers, lawyers and accounting offices.
   C.   Planning and educational research service.
   D.   Doctors, dentists and other healthcare practitioners.
   E.   Medical testing and analysis services.
   F.   Corporate headquarters, branch offices and data storage centers.
Public recreation. Activities typical of institutionally owned structures or
public open space for passive or active recreation programs and life sports
that include Municipal parks, school playgrounds, public beach.
Recycling plant. A plant for reprocessing used or abandoned materials.
Religious assembly. Activities typically performed at churches, temples,
synagogues, and other centers established for the pursuit of religious beliefs;
this includes accessory residential uses typical of such religious centers.
Restaurant. An establishment where food and sometime liquor or alcoholic
beverages are served for profit.
Slaughterhouse. "Slaughterhouse" is a place where animals marketed for meat are
killed humanely and processed; this includes the distilling of bones, fat or
glue; glue or gelatin manufacturing.
Solid waste facility or solid waste transfer station. Dumping, storing,
burying, reducing, disposing of or burning garbage, refuse, scrap metal,
rubbish, offal ("offal" is the entrails and internal organs of a butchered
animal) or dead animals.
Specialty retail sales. Activities that include the sale or rental from the
premises of particular or predominant types of goods and merchandise primarily
for personal or household use; they exclude the sale or rental of motor
vehicles, parts and accessories, furniture and major appliances, and materials
used in the construction of buildings or other structures; such activities are
typical of apparel, antique, camera and flower stores.
Storage and warehousing. Activities that include the provision of warehousing,
storage, freight handling, shipping, weighing, and trucking services; except
for the storage of live animals. Typical activities include moving and storage
services, public warehouses, trucking firms, and recycling centers.
Tanneries including the tanning, curing or storage of rawhides or skins.
Theme park. An amusement park in which landscaping, buildings, and attractions
are based on one or more specific themes, as jungle wildlife, fairy tales, or
the Old West.
Unfinished goods. Activities that include the storage and wholesale sale from
the premises of unfinished, raw, or semi- refined projects requiring further
processing, fabrication, or manufacturing.
Veterinary activities. Activities that include the provision of animal care,
treatment, surgery and boarding services, but excluding the boarding of horses
or cattle, typically performed by animal clinics, hospitals and kennels, as
follows:
   A.   Veterinary office. Activities that include the provision of healthcare
for small domestic animals (such as cats, dogs and rabbits). Such activities
are typical of small animal clinics and facilities for which are indoors.
   B.   Veterinary hospital. Activities that include the provision of
healthcare, surgery and boarding services for small and large animals.
Facilities for this type of activity generally require boarding facilities and
outdoor areas.
Winery. A building or property that produces wine, or a business involved in
the production of wine. A winery may include retail sales of wine.
Wireless communication facility (WCF). Any facility designed and used for the
purpose of transmitting, receiving, or relaying voice and data signals. WCFs
include siting areas, transmission towers and antennas. (Ord. 256, 10-4-2018)
CHAPTER 4
UTILITY DISTRICT
SECTION:
5-4-1: Use Restrictions
5-4-2: Construction Requirements
5-4-3: Other Provisions
5-4-4: Fencing
5-4-1: USE RESTRICTIONS:
A utility district shall permit no land uses other than the maintenance of
wells, pumps, pump houses, water tanks, pipes, fencing and accessory structures
or buildings, all of which must be compatible with one another. (Ord. 238, 8-7-
2014)
5-4-2: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
No one shall commence the construction or installation of any well, pump, pump
house, water tank, pipes, fencing or accessory building or structure in the
utility district prior to submission of his application for said construction
or installation, together with a site plan therefor. (Ord. 238, 8-7-2014)
5-4-3: OTHER PROVISIONS:
The provisions of subsection
5-3-2B, sections
5-3-3,
5-3-4,
5-3-6 and
5-3-8 of this title, shall be applicable to this chapter and by reference
herein incorporated. (Ord. 238, 8-7-2014)
5-4-4: FENCING:
   A.   When the utility district is located surrounded or within the
residential district, residential fencing standards apply.
   B.   When the utility zoning district is surrounded or within the commercial
district, commercial fencing standards apply. (Ord. 238, 8-7-2014)
CHAPTER 5
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
5-5-1: Allowed Uses
5-5-2: Special Uses
5-5-3: Minimum Lot Size And Street Frontage
5-5-4: Yards And Lot Coverage
5-5-5: Manufactured Homes
5-5-6: Height Of Structures
5-5-7: Fencing
5-5-8: Public Parks
5-5-9: Residential Vision Triangle Standards
5-5-10: Standards For Residential Exterior Lighting
5-5-1: ALLOWED USES:
In the Residential District, no building or land located therein shall be used,
nor any structure hereafter erected or altered, except for the following
purposes:
Home gardens and gardening of vacant land.
Park, public. A public park is a tract of land owned by the City and maintained
as a place for passive or active recreation programs to meet the recreational
needs of the general public, including playgrounds and horse arenas (see
section
5-5-8 of this chapter).
Portable storage containers and semi-truck cargo trailers not used for human
occupancy:
   A.   No more than two (2) portable storage containers or shall be located on
a single lot or parcel of land.
   B.   Portable storage containers shall not be used to store or transport
nonresidential materials and substances, including but not limited to the
following: contractors' materials and equipment, solid waste, hazardous
materials, explosives and unlawful substances and materials.
   C.   Portable storage containers shall not remain on lots or parcels of land
longer than thirty (30) consecutive calendar days and no more than sixty (60)
calendar days per calendar year, except when used for storage in conjunction
with the construction or substantial remodel of a dwelling on the parcel on
which the portable storage containers are placed. In such cases the portable
storage containers may remain on site for the period in which a valid building
permit exists, until completion of the dwelling or expiration of the building
permit for the dwelling.
   D.   The use of semi-truck cargo trailers for any purpose is prohibited,
except when included as part of a special use permit or home occupation.
Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles may only be temporarily or
intermittently occupied and under the following conditions:
   A.   Occupation of a recreational vehicle is limited to not more than four
(4) months in any twelve (12) month period.
   B.   The recreational vehicle shall have current registration and shall be
in a serviceable condition so it can be operated in a safe and lawful manner on
the roads of the State of Idaho.
   C.   The recreational vehicle shall not be set on blocks or have the running
gear removed.
   D.   No decks or additions shall be attached to the recreational vehicle and
the vehicle shall not be skirted.
   E.   The recreational vehicle shall not be used as a dwelling except as
provided in this section. The occupant of an RV must have a primary residence
other than the RV.
   F.   No independent mail service shall be allowed to the recreational
vehicle.
   G.   The recreational vehicle shall not be used as rental property or used
for commercial purposes.
   H.   The recreational vehicle must be fully self- contained and removed from
the site to empty holding tanks at an approved location.
   I.   An RV may be used as a dwelling for the owners of the parcel on which
the RV is located during construction of a dwelling, or substantial remodel of
the dwelling on that parcel as evidenced by a valid permit for such
construction. In such cases, the provisions of this section regarding the
owner’s primary residence, duration of occupation of the RV and mail service
shall not apply. Upon completion of the dwelling or expiration of the building
permit for the dwelling, the RV shall revert to temporary or intermittent use
as provided in this section.
Seasonal agricultural, horticultural and animal products. The sale of
agricultural, horticultural and animal products that are grown and raised on
site. The raising, breeding and maintaining of dogs or cats, for the purposes
of this chapter, are not an agricultural purpose.
Single-family dwellings including manufactured homes (see section
5-5-5 of this chapter).
The usual accessory buildings commonly appurtenant to a single-family dwelling.
No accessory buildings are allowed without a primary single-family dwelling
already constructed on site (except as permitted by special use permit).
Accessory dwelling units are prohibited. (Ord. 252, 4-5-2018; amd. Ord. 276, 5-
12-2022)
5-5-2: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses are permitted only with a special use permit issued pursuant
to this chapter, and except for the uses herein specified; no other use can be
made of such land or structures located within the Residential District:
Accessory buildings prior to construction of a single family dwelling.
Churches.
Equine boarding facilities. "Equines" are defined as horses, ponies, mules and
donkeys, or any other animal belonging to the family Equidae. "Equine boarding
facilities" are defined as any facilities used for the care and maintenance of
another individual's equines for profit by the property owner or individual
residing on the property. For purposes of this use, "profit" is any exchange of
money or services for the care and maintenance of two (2) or more equines. More
specifically, care and maintenance may include, but is not limited to,
providing anything from minimal to full service boarding. Minimal boarding is
where the property owner provides only shelter and/or grazing, and the equine's
owner provides all other care. Full service boarding is where a range of
services are provided by the property owner that may include feeding, exercise
and veterinary care.
Public and private schools.
Public, Municipal and government uses, including fire, police and safety uses.
This use category includes the land, premises and buildings. This use excludes
public parks.
Public utility structures such as substations, pumping plants, telephone
exchanges and similar uses. (Ord. 252, 4-5-2018)
5-5-3: MINIMUM LOT SIZE AND STREET FRONTAGE:
   A.   Lot Size: No building or structure shall hereafter be erected on any
lot, tract, plot or block having an area of less than one acre, minus such
portion which may be granted, conveyed or licensed for use as a road, right-of-
way or other easement, not in excess of one-half (1/2) of the dedicated road
right-of-way or width of streets required by other ordinances of the City.
   B.   Exceptions Regarding Lot Size: The City may grant an exception to the
minimum lot size requirement for purposes of issuing building permits if any
one of the following conditions exist:
      1.   The lot was created through the City's short subdivision process
(pursuant to ordinance 73, or as subsequently amended) after May 29, 1979.
Property owners shall provide proof of signed order of decision or record of
survey signed by City.
      2.   The lot was created through the City's subdivision process (pursuant
to ordinance 52, or as subsequently amended) after December 11, 1975. Property
owners shall provide proof of signed order of decision or plat signed by the
City.
      3.   Lots or parcels established by subdivision plat or recorded deed of
conveyance prior to ordinance 4 dated March 14, 1961. For parcels created by a
deed of conveyance, property owners shall provide the deed history/chain of
ownership which demonstrates the date the parcel was first created and that it
has been held as a separate parcel since March 14, 1961.
      4.   Parcels lawfully created after March 14, 1961, but prior to December
11, 1975 shall have a minimum size of 0.8 gross acres, when including one-half
(1/2) of the adjacent City road right-of- way.
   C.   Street Frontage: All lots shall have one hundred ten feet (110') of
frontage on a publicly dedicated street, accepted and maintained by the City or
the Lakes Highway District.
   D.   Exceptions Regarding Street Frontage: The City may grant an exception
to the minimum street frontage requirement for purposes of issuing building
permits if any one of the following conditions exist:
      1.   The lot was created through the City's short subdivision process
(pursuant to ordinance 73, or as subsequently amended) after May 29, 1979.
Property owners shall provide proof of signed order of decision or record of
survey signed by the City.
      2.   The lot was created through the City's subdivision process (pursuant
to ordinance 52, or as subsequently amended) after December 11, 1975. Property
owners shall provide proof of signed order of decision or plat signed by the
City.
      3.   The lot or parcels was legally created prior to ordinance 52 dated
December 11, 1975. For parcels created by a deed of conveyance, property owners
shall provide the deed history/chain of ownership which demonstrates the date
the parcel was first created and that it has been held as a separate parcel
since December 11, 1975. (Ord. 252, 4-5-2018)
5-5-4: YARDS AND LOT COVERAGE:
   A.   Front And Rear Yards: For every structure there shall be a front yard
of not less than twenty five feet (25') and a rear yard of not less than ten
feet (10') in depth.
   B.   Side Yards: Each dwelling or residence shall have a side yard not less
than ten feet (10') in depth; accessory buildings within seventy five feet
(75') from the front property line shall have a side yard not less than ten
feet (10') in depth; provided, however, that an accessory building more than
seventy five feet (75') from the front property line shall have a side yard not
less than five feet (5'); and provided further, that each dwelling, residence
and accessory building on a corner lot shall have a side yard of not less than
twenty five feet (25') along the flanking or side street.
   C.   Exceptions to yard requirements. Fences as permitted in Section
5-5-7, and signs as permitted in Title 5, Chapter 11 are not required to comply
with the yard requirements of this Section.
   D.   Lot Coverage: Lot coverage shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of the
parcel size, not including any portion of the adjacent street right-of-way.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8b2513aff346e6c027698e1915087099c811fd81/
IMAGES/0-0-0-863.png]
 
(Ord. 252, 4-5-2018; amd. Ord. 272, 9-14-2021)
5-5-5: MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   A.   Idaho Code 67-6509A requires the City's land use regulations to be
amended to allow for siting manufactured homes in residential areas within the
City.
   B.   Manufactured homes shall be as defined in Idaho Code 39-4105(8).
   C.   Manufactured homes on individual lots for single-family residential
uses shall meet the following criteria:
      1.   The manufactured home shall be multi-sectional and enclose a space
not less than one thousand (1,000) square feet.
      2.   The manufactured home shall be placed on an excavated and backfilled
foundation and enclosed at the perimeter in such a manner that the finished
floor of the home is located not more than sixteen inches (16") above grade
except when placed on a basement foundation.
      3.   The manufactured home shall have a pitched roof with a minimum slope
of three feet (3') in height for each twelve feet (12') in width.
      4.   The manufactured home shall have exterior siding or roofing which in
color, material and appearance is similar to the exterior siding and roofing
material commonly used on residential dwellings within the community or which
is comparable to the predominant materials used on surrounding dwellings.
      5.   In addition to the provisions of subsections C1 through C4 of this
section, a manufactured home shall be subject to any development standards,
architectural requirements and minimum size requirements to which a
conventional single-family residential dwelling on the same lot would be
subject. (Ord. 252, 4-5-2018)
5-5-6: HEIGHT OF STRUCTURES:
The maximum height of structures in the Residential District shall be as
follows:
 
Principal structure (residence) 32 feet or a maximum of 2 stories, whichever is
                                less
All accessory structures        25 feet or a maximum of 2 stories, whichever is
                                less
 
(Ord. 252, 4-5-2018)
5-5-7: FENCING:
   A.   General:
      1.   Setback Requirement. Any fence exceeding six feet (6') in height is
prohibited, except as specifically permitted herein.
      2.   Materials For Fences And Walls: Fences and walls may be of any
material commonly used in construction of fences, provided that said fence or
wall meets any criteria for sturdiness and construction as established in other
City regulations.
      3.   Measurement Of Heights: The height of fences and walls shall be
measured from the top of the fence or wall at its highest point to the finished
grade of the lot or parcel adjacent to the fence. If the fence or wall is built
on a mound or is otherwise constructed on a level above the average finished
grade of the parcel or lot, the height of the mound shall be included in the
overall height of the fence or wall. Where parking, loading or other similar
areas are constructed adjacent to a fence or wall and are constructed above the
finished grade of the parcel, the height of fences or walls shall be measured
from the top of the parking/loading surface.
      4.   Fences For Swimming Pools: Swimming pools shall be enclosed by
buildings or fences or walls in accordance with the provisions of the
International Building Code, as adopted, and other applicable provisions of
this Code.
   B.   Residential Fencing:
      1.   Height And Setback Standards: Fences shall comply with the following
height and setback standards:
         a.   Fences erected in the area in front of the primary structure
(defined by a perpendicular line from the closest corner of the primary
structure to the side property line on each side) shall be no more than four
feet (4') in height, and shall not be required to meet any setback
requirements. Fences located rear-ward of those lines may be up to 6 feet in
height and shall not be required to meet any setback requirements. Wire or rail
type fences used to enclose large livestock, i.e., horses, cows, etc., may be 5
feet high as a permitted use. Fencing for livestock enclosures may be permitted
within the front yard setback.
         b.   Exception to height requirements: Wire mesh fencing may be
constructed up to eight (8') feet in height. Such wire mesh fences shall not be
sight obscuring and shall not have privacy slats installed. Such fences shall
be located rearward of the front corner of the primary structure or at least
seventy-five feet (75') from any property line that is adjacent to a public
street, except where that public street serves as the flanking street for a
corner lot. For such corner lots, no setback from the flanking street side is
required.
         c.   All fences shall meet vision triangle standards so to not
obstruct views from street or driveway.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8b2513aff346e6c027698e1915087099c811fd81/
IMAGES/0-0-0-865.png]
 
   C.   Trees To Be Trimmed: All trees located within twenty five feet (25') of
the property lines of any property at an intersection of one or more public
streets within the City shall have all foliage, including leaves and branches,
trimmed to a point eight feet (8') above the level of the street under or near
said trees. (Ord. 238, 8-7-2014; amd. Ord. 252, 4-5-2018; Ord. 272, 9-14-2021)
5-5-8: PUBLIC PARKS:
   A.   Definitions:
   ATV: All-terrain vehicle.
   UTV: Utility terrain vehicle.
   B.   Standards For Use Within Public Park Or Horse Arenas:
      1.   Hours of use: Sunrise to sunset.
      2.   No motorized vehicles: Except in designated driving and parking
areas.
      3.   All garbage must be packed out or placed in designated garbage
receptacles.
      4.   Horse arena: All ATV/UTV by City permission only.
      5.   No overnight camping.
      6.   Public parks (see section
7-2-5 of this Code): Dogs prohibited.
      7.   Horse arena (see section
7-2-5 of this Code): Dogs allowed but must be on a leash at all times.
      8.   Horse arena: Gates on warm up and performance ring shall remain
closed at all times with the exception of entering and leaving ring. Access
gates to arena from parking lot shall be closed at sunset.
   C.   Violation: Any violation of the provisions of this section shall be
deemed an infraction and shall subject the offender to penalties in accordance
with section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 252, 4-5-2018)
5-5-9: RESIDENTIAL VISION TRIANGLE STANDARDS:
   A.   The vision triangle is a triangle of land that is clear of obstructions
to facilitate safe turning movements from driveways and at street
intersections. The vision triangle is measured along the property lines of
parcels adjacent to road or street rights of way. For driveways, the triangle
is measured along the edge of the driveway to the city paved road. Areas within
the street right of way shall meet the same vision triangle standards as if the
vision triangle were extended through the right of way to the edge of the
pavement or other road surface.
   B.   No buildings or other structures including fences above three feet (3')
in height shall be allowed inside the vision triangle. No tree, shrub or
growing plant or other landscape feature within the vision triangle shall
obstruct or interfere with the view of a street, driveway, alley or roadway.
Any fence, landscape feature or growing plant shall be considered an
obstruction or interference if it exceeds three feet (3') or thirty six inches
(36") in height and is within the vision triangle as defined in this section.
Height will be measured at the level of the street.
   C.   The following standards apply:
 
Street to street vision triangle                      15 feet x 15 feet
Street to edge of driveway and city paved road vision 15 feet x 15 feet
triangle
(Ord. 272, 9-14-2021)
5-5-10: STANDARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL EXTERIOR LIGHTING:
   A.   Applicability. All lighting within the residential district that is
located outside of a building, whether located on a post or pole, on the
ground, or on the wall of a building shall comply with the requirements of this
section.
   B.   Lighting Control:
      1.   All lighting shall be aimed, located, designed, fitted, shielded and
maintained so as not to present a hazard to drivers or pedestrians by impairing
their ability to safely traverse and so as not to create an unacceptable light
trespass nuisance by projecting or reflecting objectionable light onto a
neighboring use or property.
      2.   Directional luminaires such as floodlights and spotlights, shall be
so shielded, installed and aimed that they do not project their output onto
neighboring properties, past the object being illuminated, skyward or onto a
public roadway or pedestrian way. Floodlights installed above grade on
residential properties, except when motion-sensor actuated, shall not be aimed
out more than 45º from straight down. When a floodlight creates glare as viewed
from an adjacent residential property, the floodlight shall be required to be
re-aimed and/or fitted with a shielding device to block the view of the glare
source from that property.
      3.   Overhead area lights used for lighting of a general area on a
property shall be downward directed and shielded so that they are not a source
of glare when viewed from an adjacent residential property or roadway.
   C.   Nonconforming Lighting - Any luminaire or lighting installation
existing on the effective date of this Ordinance that does not conform with the
requirements of this Ordinance, shall be considered a legal nonconforming use.
      1.   A nonconforming luminaire or lighting installation shall be made to
conform with the requirements of this Section under any of the following
circumstances:
         a.   Minor corrective action, such as re-aiming or shielding can
achieve conformity with the applicable requirements of this Section;
         b.   It is deemed by the City to create a safety hazard;
         c.   It is replaced by another luminaire or luminaires or abandoned or
relocated;
         d.   There is a change in use on the property.
      2.   Regardless of the requirements of Section C.1. above, when requested
by the City, nonconforming luminaires and lighting installations shall be made
to conform with the requirements of this Section or removed within three (3)
years from the effective date of this section. (Ord. 272, 9-14-2021)
CHAPTER 6
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Title And Purpose
5-6-2: Definitions
5-6-3: Right To Continue Nonconforming Use
5-6-4: Nonconformity Resulting From Eminent Domain Or Condemnation
5-6-5: Issuance Of Permitted Nonconforming Use Certificate
5-6-6: Nonconforming Use; Abandonment Of Use
5-6-7: Nonconforming Use; Damage Or Destruction Of Facilities
5-6-8: Nonconforming Use; Repairs And Alterations Of Facilities
5-6-9: Nonconforming Use; Expansion
5-6-10: Nonconforming Activity; Substitutions Not Permitted; Definition Of
Substitution
5-6-11: Nonconforming Activity; Change To Permitted Activity
5-6-12: Additional Restrictions
5-6-13: Nonconforming Facility; Reversion
5-6-14: Nonconforming Lot
5-6-15: Nuisance
5-6-16: Penalty
5-6-1: TITLE AND PURPOSE:
The provisions of this chapter shall be known as the NONCONFORMING USE
REGULATIONS. The purpose of these regulations is to control, improve, or
terminate uses which do not conform to this title and to protect property
rights and establish the parameters for the continuation of such existing uses.
These regulations shall apply to all nonconforming uses. (Ord. 220, 7-5-2012)
5-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
   FACILITY: Means a structure, or other physical site improvements, necessary
to accommodate a specific activity.
   GRANDFATHERING: A vested use, allowed to continue, same as the term
nonconforming use.
   NONCONFORMING USE: Any and all of the following:
      Nonconforming Activity: Means an activity which, under this Code, is not
itself a permitted activity where it is located, but which was permitted or
otherwise lawfully established prior to the adoption of the specific
requirements of this Code with which it does not comply.
      Nonconforming Facility: Means a structure or facility which, under this
Code, is not itself a permitted structure where it is located or does not
conform to: off street parking or loading requirements, performance standards,
site performance standards, density, height, yard, buffering, landscaping,
screening or other requirements applying to facilities; and which was permitted
or otherwise lawfully established prior to the adoption of the specific
requirements of this Code with which it does not comply.
      Nonconforming Lot: Means a lot which, under this Code does not meet the
lot area or lot dimension requirements of the zoning district where it is
located and which was legally created prior to adoption of the specific
requirements of this Code with which it does not comply.
      Nonconforming Use (Including Activity, Facility, And Lot): Does not
include uses that were not lawfully established prior to adoption of the
specific requirements of this Code with which it does not comply. (Ord. 253, 4-
5-2018)
5-6-3: RIGHT TO CONTINUE NONCONFORMING USE:
A nonconforming use which is in existence on the effective date of this title
or of any subsequent rezoning or other amendment thereto which makes such use
nonconforming may be continued and maintained, except as otherwise specified in
this chapter. (Ord. 220, 7-5-2012)
5-6-4: NONCONFORMITY RESULTING FROM EMINENT DOMAIN OR CONDEMNATION:
If an eminent domain action (hereinafter referred to as "condemnation") results
in the creation of nonconformity of the lot or the facility, the existing
nonconforming use shall be allowed to continue under this Code, until such time
as the use changes. For example, if the condemnation results in the elimination
of necessary parking spaces required under this Code, the nonconformity shall
be allowed to continue until such time as the use or facility change as
outlined in sections
5-6-6 through
5-6-12 of this chapter.
If upon change of use the requirements of this Code then in existence cause
modification of the facility to be necessary, a variance procedure may be
utilized.
If structural alterations are required due to eminent domain or condemnation,
the alterations will not be counted toward the fifty percent (50%) accumulation
of repairs and alterations as delineated in section
5-6-8 of this chapter with the following provisions: a) the property owner
provides evidence of the nonconformity and b) that the remodel and alteration
that will be done is necessary to accommodate the condemnation and c) any
remodel and alteration resulting from a condemnation must be reviewed and
approved by the City and d) all remodels and alterations which result from the
condemnation shall be completed upon completion of the public improvements for
which the condemnation was implemented.
If other facility or site improvements are necessary as a result of eminent
domain or condemnation, including, but not limited to, sign relocation, entry
or parking lot relocation, etc., the issuance of a new permit for such
improvements shall not trigger compliance with the requirements for
landscaping, fencing and buffering, refuse screening or lighting for the entire
site. (Ord. 220, 7-5-2012)
5-6-5: ISSUANCE OF PERMITTED NONCONFORMING USE CERTIFICATE:
A certificate permitting a nonconforming use can be issued by the City to the
property owners of all nonconforming use properties in existence on the
effective date of this chapter or amendment thereto, and those nonconforming
properties created by a subsequent rezoning. This certificate shall include,
but shall not be limited to, the following information:
   A.   Legal description of property.
   B.   Type of use involved.
   C.   Reasons for the nonconformance.
   D.   Land area involved.
   E.   Type and area of building or portion of buildings involved in the
nonconforming activity.
This certificate shall be used by the City to ensure the nonconforming status
for the property owner and to determine if future requests for license
renewals, change of uses, or building and site disturbance permits, continue to
comply with the nonconforming status of the site, use or structure. This
certificate shall not be used to grant a use that would be nonconforming to the
applicable development regulations. There shall be no fee required for a
nonconforming use certificate. A copy of the certificate will be given to the
property owner and a copy of the certificate will be kept on file with the
City. The City shall keep written documentation on all nonconforming uses, even
if no certificate is issued to the property owner, and said records shall be
available to the public. (Ord. 220, 7-5-2012)
5-6-6: NONCONFORMING USE; ABANDONMENT OF USE:
   A.   Nonconforming As To Activity: Whenever a use, which is nonconforming
because it is not a permitted activity, discontinues active operation for a
continuous period of one year, such nonconforming use shall be considered
abandoned and may not be resumed. The existing facilities on the property may
be used thereafter, but only for a permitted activity or a special use permit.
   B.   Nonconforming As To Facility: A use, which is nonconforming because of
the facility, may resume operations regardless of the period during which it
may have discontinued active operation.
   C.   Idaho Code: No provision of this chapter is intended to supersede the
provisions of Idaho Code 67-6538. (Ord. 220, 7-5-2012)
5-6-7: NONCONFORMING USE; DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   Nonconforming As To Activity: Whenever a facility that contains a
nonconforming activity is damaged or destroyed to the extent that
reconstruction, repairing, or rebuilding will exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
replacement costs of the facility as it was immediately prior to the damage,
the facility may only be restored to accommodate a conforming activity or with
a special use permit to resume a prior nonconforming activity. The value of the
proposed repairs shall be determined using the City's valuation for
establishing building permit fees. Market value shall be the value of the
structure as determined by the Kootenai County Assessor's Office or a private
licensed appraiser, if the property owner chooses.
   B.   Nonconforming As To Facility: Whenever a nonconforming facility is
damaged or destroyed to the extent that reconstruction, repairing, or
rebuilding will exceed fifty percent (50%) of the replacement costs of the
facility as it was immediately prior to the damage, the facility may not be
restored as nonconforming. The value of the proposed repairs shall be
determined using the City's valuation for establishing building permit fees.
Market value shall be the value of the structure as determined by the Kootenai
County Assessor's Office or by a licensed appraiser.
   C.   Multiple-Tenant Structures/Facilities: If a site or structure has
multiple tenants, each tenant space shall be evaluated separately to determine
the value of the existing facility versus the value of the proposed repair or
reconstruction, unless the repair or reconstruction is not associated with a
tenant space. (Ord. 220, 7-5-2012)
5-6-8: NONCONFORMING USE; REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS OF FACILITIES:
   A.   Nonconforming As To Activity: Facilities for a use which is
nonconforming because the activity is not itself permitted where it is located,
may be repaired and altered subject to the following provisions:
      1.   If the nonconforming activity occupies less than fifty percent (50%)
of the facility, repairs, remodels and structural alterations may be allowed,
regardless of cost, provided the alteration does not enable an expansion of the
nonconforming activity.
      2.   Where the nonconforming activity occupies more than fifty percent
(50%) of the facility, repairs, remodels and/or alterations may be performed on
a structure housing a nonconforming use, including, but not limited to, repair
or replacement of the roof, walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing, provided the
repairs do not enable an expansion of the nonconforming use, and provided the
cumulative value of the repairs performed over a five (5) year period do not
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure prior to the
repair, remodel or alteration. The value of the proposed repairs shall be
determined using the City's valuation for establishing building permit fees.
Market value shall be the value of the structure as determined by the Kootenai
County Assessor's Office or by a licensed appraiser.
   B.   Nonconforming As To Facility: Any nonconforming facility used for a
permitted activity may be repaired or altered subject to the following
provisions:
      1.   No structural alterations shall be made to the nonconforming portion
of any facility except those required by law and repairs or alterations which
do not increase the volume of the nonconforming portion of the building.
      2.   The costs of such repairs or alterations shall not exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the facility. The value of the proposed
repairs shall be determined using the City's valuation for establishing
building permit fees. Market value shall be the value of the structure as
determined by the Kootenai County Assessor's Office or by a licensed appraiser.
      3.   Repairs or alterations shall not result in a greater degree of
nonconformity.
      4.   There shall be no limit on the value of the repairs or alterations
made to bring the site into greater conformity with City regulations. (Ord.
220, 7-5-2012)
5-6-9: NONCONFORMING USE; EXPANSION:
   A.   Nonconforming As To Activity: A use, which is nonconforming wholly or
partly because it is not itself a permitted use where it is located, shall not
be expanded in any way with the exception of any requirement to meet Federal
law including the Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA). The restriction on
expansion includes but is not limited to number of employees, intensity of the
operation, pieces of equipment and parking spaces.
   B.   Nonconforming As To Facility: Any individual structure which is
nonconforming for any reason may not be expanded or enlarged without an
approved variance from the City. The existence of a nonconforming structure
will not preclude new construction, facility expansion, alteration or
enlargement as long as the structure to be constructed, expanded, altered or
enlarged complies with all regulations of the present zoning district, and
provided that adequate parking for the total subsequent facility is provided.
   C.   Correction: An unlawfully established activity or facility will
preclude new construction, facility expansion, alteration or enlargement until
the unlawful activity or facility is corrected. (Ord. 253, 4-5-2018)
5-6-10: NONCONFORMING ACTIVITY; SUBSTITUTIONS NOT PERMITTED; DEFINITION OF
SUBSTITUTION:
A substitution is the replacement of an existing nonconforming activity by a
new nonconforming activity, or a change in the nature of an existing
nonconforming activity. Substitutions are prohibited. Substitutions do not
include a change of ownership, tenancy, or management where the previous line
of business or other function is substantially unchanged. (Ord. 220, 7-5-2012)
5-6-11: NONCONFORMING ACTIVITY; CHANGE TO PERMITTED ACTIVITY:
   A.   Activity Not Requiring A Special Use Permit: Any nonconforming activity
may be replaced by an activity permitted in the zoning district and shall meet
all of the requirements of that use in the zoning district.
   B.   Activity Requiring A Special Use Permit: Any nonconforming activity
requiring a special use permit within the present zoning district may be
expanded only upon the granting of said permit.
   C.   Resumption Of Nonconforming Activity: If a nonconforming activity is
replaced by a conforming activity, the nonconforming activity shall not be
resumed. (Ord. 220, 7-5-2012)
5-6-12: ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS:
Any restrictions on the repairs, alterations and expansion of a nonconforming
use shall be in addition to the basic restrictions on nonconforming uses. In
case of conflict, the most restrictive shall apply. (Ord. 220, 7-5-2012)
5-6-13: NONCONFORMING FACILITY; REVERSION:
Any portion of a nonconforming facility which is changed to conform to the
regulations of the zoning district where located shall not be changed back to a
nonconforming portion. (Ord. 220, 7-5-2012)
5-6-14: NONCONFORMING LOT:
   A.   Restrictions On Use: A lot which is nonconforming as to width or depth
or lot area and which was under one ownership at the time the area was first
zoned, the zoning causing the lot to become nonconforming, may be used subject
to all other requirements of this title.
   B.   Creation Of Nonconforming Lots: A lot shall not be separated from a
larger parcel if any of the resulting lots would be nonconforming. (Ord. 220,
7-5-2012)
5-6-15: NUISANCE:
None of the provisions of the nonconforming use regulations restrict the
authority to require modification or termination of any nonconforming use which
has been declared to be a nuisance by the City Council. (Ord. 220, 7-5-2012)
5-6-16: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person violating any of the provisions set out in this chapter
shall be assessed a charge of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each violation,
payable at the City Clerk's Office within thirty (30) days of the citation.
Each such person is guilty of a separate violation for each and every day the
violation continues.
   B.   Violations of this chapter shall be resolved before a business license
is issued or renewed. (Ord. 220, 7-5-2012)
CHAPTER 7
SPECIAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
5-7-1: Application For Special Use Permit
5-7-2: Public Hearing
5-7-3: Commission Action
5-7-4: General Standards
5-7-5: Validity Of Permit
5-7-6: Appeal To Council
5-7-1: APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   Contents Of Application: An application for a special use permit shall
contain at least the following information:
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of applicant.
      2.   Description of property involved.
      3.   Description of existing use.
      4.   Existing zoning.
      5.   Description of proposed use.
      6.   A plan of the site for the proposed special use showing the location
of all existing and proposed buildings, parking and loading areas, traffic
access and circulation, open space, landscaping, refuse and service areas,
utilities, signs, yards and other such information as the commission may
require to determine if the proposed special use meets the intent and
requirements of this title.
      7.   A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining property,
the effect on the environmental elements such as noise, glare, odor, fumes and
vibration on adjoining property and a discussion of the general compatibility
with adjacent and other property in the district.
      8.   The names and mailing addresses of all property owners whose
property is within an area bounded by lines three hundred feet (300') from the
boundaries of the property on which the special use is being proposed. (Ord.
105, 1-7-1989)
5-7-2: PUBLIC HEARING:
The commission shall hold at least one public hearing prior to making a
decision on a special use permit. Notice of hearing shall be given pursuant to
standards outlined in section
5-10-3 of this title. (Ord. 172, 3-3-2005)
5-7-3: COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing, the commission shall
either approve, conditionally approve, disapprove the application as presented
or delay such decision for a definite period of time for further study. If the
request is approved or approved conditionally, the commission shall issue a
special use permit listing the conditions that must be complied with to
maintain commission approval. (Ord. 172, 3-3-2005)
Conditions which may be attached to a permit may include, but are not limited
to:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on surrounding property.
      2.   Controlling sequence and timing of the development.
      3.   Controlling the duration of the development.
      4.   Assuring the development is properly maintained.
      5.   Designating the exact location and nature of the development.
      6.   Requiring the provision for on site and off site public facilities
or services.
      7.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
by ordinance. (Ord. 105, 1-7-1989)
   B.   Upon granting or denying the application, the commission shall specify:
(Ord. 172, 3-3-2005)
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application.
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial.
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit. (Ord. 105, 1-7-1989)
   C.   In granting any special use, the commission may prescribe appropriate
conditions, bonds and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violations of
such conditions, bonds or safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which
the special use is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title. (Ord.
172, 3-3-2005)
5-7-4: GENERAL STANDARDS:
The commission shall review the particular facts and circumstances of each
proposed special use in terms of the following standards and shall find
adequate evidence showing that such use at the proposed location: (Ord. 172, 3-
3-2005)
   A.   Will, in fact, constitute a special use as established on the
conditional use schedule for the zoning district involved.
   B.   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general objectives
or with any specific objective of the comprehensive plan and/or this title.
   C.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be harmonious
and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended character of the
general vicinity, and that such use will not change the essential character of
the same area.
   D.   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring
uses.
   E.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures,
refuse disposal, water and sewer and schools, or that persons or agencies
responsible for the establishment of the proposed use will be able to provide
adequately any such services.
   F.   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community.
   G.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment and
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property or
the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare or odors.
   H.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares.
   I.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural, scenic
or historical feature of major importance. (Ord. 105, 1-7-1989)
5-7-5: VALIDITY OF PERMIT:
   A.   To benefit from the issuance of a special use permit, preliminary
construction or operation must be commenced within six (6) months of approval.
An applicant may request a maximum of two (2) extensions of six (6) months
each. Failure to receive a time extension or to commence construction or
operation before an established time limit shall automatically invalidate
permit approval. (Ord. 105, 1-7-1989)
   B.   A special use permit shall not be completely validated until the
conditions required pursuant to section
5-7-4 of this chapter are met. Permit approval may be revoked after the
commission holds a public hearing and reviews a permit and determines the
permit conditions are not being met. (Ord. 105, 1-7-1989; amd. Ord. 172, 3-3-
2005)
5-7-6: APPEAL TO COUNCIL:
Appeals of the commission decision shall be forwarded to the city council for
public hearing and determination in accordance with Section
1-11-1. (Ord. 172, 3-3-2005; amd. Ord. 264, 3-5-2020)
CHAPTER 8
VARIANCES
SECTION:
5-8-1: Purpose
5-8-2: Applicability
5-8-3: Definitions
5-8-4: Requirements For Granting A Variance Request
5-8-5: Procedure For Requesting A Variance
5-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide definitions, standards, and
procedures for acting on requests for variances to this Code. (Ord. 252, 4-5-
2018)
5-8-2: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to all zoning districts unless otherwise indicated.
(Ord. 252, 4-5-2018)
5-8-3: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or phrases are used in this chapter they shall
have such meaning as herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such
meaning repugnant thereto:
   ADJOINING PROPERTY: All properties within, or adjacent to, a line three
hundred feet (300') from the property for which a variance is requested.
Contiguous properties owned by the same party are all treated as one property.
   SITE CHARACTERISTICS: The distinguishing physical characteristics of a
property for which a variance is requested, including area, shape, soil and
ground conditions, topography (slope), and access.
   VARIANCE: A modification of or an exception to the bulk and placement
requirements of this title as to lot size, lot coverage, width, depth, front
yard, side yard, rear yard, setbacks, parking space, building height, or other
ordinance provision of this title affecting the size of lots or the size or
shape of a structure or the placement of the structure upon lots. (Ord. 252, 4-
5-2018)
5-8-4: REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTING A VARIANCE REQUEST:
A variance, not being a right, may be granted to an applicant only if the
following requirements for granting a variance request are satisfied. The
burden of proof rests upon the applicant for a variance to establish the
following:
   A.   Submission of a completed application packet to the City;
   B.   Proof through evidence provided by the applicant:
      1.   That the site characteristics of the property for which the variance
is requested cause undue hardship to the property owner when complying with
specific provisions of this title;
      2.   That reasonable uses of the property are not possible without the
requested variance; and
      3.   That approval of the requested variance will not be in conflict with
the public interest and will not create a nuisance, harm adjoining properties,
or have an adverse effect on implementation of the comprehensive plan;
   C.   A variance may not be granted if it is for the property owner's
convenience or financial profit alone; and
   D.   The granting of a variance must grant the minimum relief from the
requirements of this title necessary to allow a reasonable use of the property.
(Ord. 252, 4-5-2018)
5-8-5: PROCEDURE FOR REQUESTING A VARIANCE:
   A.   If a variance is determined to be necessary by the City, a property
owner or applicant may apply for a variance. The burden of proof lies with the
property owner or applicant to provide accurate and sufficient information
within the variance application packet.
   B.   A preapplication conference is required by a property owner or
applicant to complete a variance application. The City shall provide the
information on the application requirements, criteria and process to obtain a
variance from the City.
   C.   A variance is requested by submitting to the City a complete
application packet.
      1.   An application packet shall consist of an application form provided
by the City and attachments thereto that together include all of the following:
         a.   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner(s) of the
property for which a variance is requested and of the applicant(s), if
different. If the applicant is different from the owner, then the consent of
the owner is required.
         b.   The legal description of the property for which a variance is
requested.
         c.   At least six (6) photographs of the property for which a variance
is requested, taken from all sides at the property line. Photographs should try
to depict the applicable site characteristics of the property.
         d.   A site plan of the property for which the property is requested.
The site plan shall meet the requirements of chapter 10 of this title, drawn to
scale and also delineate the following:
            (1)   All structures, both existing and proposed;
            (2)   All dimensions, including property lines and setbacks from
property lines to structures; and
            (3)   All site characteristics that support the request for a
variance.
      2.   A written narrative is required that explains all of the following:
         a.   The purpose of the variance;
         b.   Which site characteristics, in the absence of a variance, cause
undue hardship on the property owner;
         c.   A detailed description of the reasonable uses of the property
that are not possible without approval of the requested variance;
         d.   A statement that indicates how the approval of the variance will
not be in conflict with the public interest and will not create a nuisance,
harm adjoining properties, or have an adverse effect on implementation of the
comprehensive plan;
         e.   A statement from the applicant that he/she understands and agrees
that the variance will not be granted if it is for the property owner's
convenience or financial profit alone; and
         f.   That the requested variance is the minimum relief from the
requirements of this title necessary to permit a reasonable use of the
property.
      3.   The applicant shall provide a mailing list of the names and mailing
addresses and two (2) sets of completed mailing labels of all adjoining
property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the subject property. Note:
The applicant bears the burden of proof to provide accurate information to the
City to notify the adjoining property owners. If adjoining property owners are
not notified, the hearing will not be held, the City will not be liable for the
inaccurate information and the applicant will be responsible for any additional
costs the City incurs to hold additional public hearings.
      4.   The applicant shall remit applicable fees to the City as determined
by the City's fee resolution.
   D.   Upon receipt of an application for a variance, the City staff shall
check that it is complete, including fees paid. If an application is not
complete the City staff shall so advise the applicant and a hearing shall not
be scheduled.
   E.   Upon determining that an application is complete, the City staff shall:
      1.   Set the matter for a hearing before the Dalton Gardens Planning
Commission, allowing for sufficient time to comply with all notice
requirements.
      2.   Give notice of the hearing to the applicant and adjoining property
owners.
   F.   A public hearing will be held by the Dalton Gardens Planning Commission
using the procedures found in chapter 10 of this title. The commission shall,
after reviewing the application packet and taking any testimony and receiving
any exhibits offered by the applicant and members of the public at a hearing
for that purpose, make specific written findings as to whether the requirements
for granting a variance request have been satisfied.
   G.   Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing, the commission shall
either approve, conditionally approve or deny the application as presented or
delay such decision for a definite period of time for further study. The
commission's decision shall include any conditions that should be attached to
the approval of the application, including conditions designed to mitigate the
impact of the variance.
   H.   The commission's decision shall be in writing and:
      1.   Shall include its specific findings of fact, based on the evidence
presented to it, that support its decision as to whether the requirements for
granting a variance have been satisfied;
      2.   Shall, based on its findings, approve or deny the requested variance
application;
      3.   Shall be issued within sixty (60) days of the closing of its hearing
on the matter; and
      4.   May include conditions upon its approval of the variance
application, including conditions designed to mitigate the impact of the
granted variance. Violation of such conditions shall be deemed a violation of
this title.
   I.   Under no circumstances may the commission grant a variance that permits
a use of the property not permissible under the terms of this title in the
district involved or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the
terms of this title in said district.
   J.   The Clerk shall notify the property owner (and the applicant, if
different) of the commission's decision within five (5) business days of its
issuance.
   K.   The commission's decision may be appealed to the City Council under
section
1-11-1, where the decision after a proper appeal shall then be the final
decision of the City. (Ord. 252, 4-5-2018; amd. Ord. 3-5-2020)
CHAPTER 9
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
5-9-1: Authority
5-9-2: Initiation Of Amendment
5-9-3: Application For Amendment
5-9-4: Procedure For Adoption Of Amendment
5-9-5: Resubmission Of Application
5-9-6: Zoning Upon Annexation
5-9-1: AUTHORITY:
Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare or good zoning
practices require, the council may, by ordinance, after receipt of
recommendation thereon from the commission and subject to procedures provided
by law, amend, supplement, change or repeal the regulations, restrictions and
boundaries or classification of property. (Ord. 105, 1-7-1989)
5-9-2: INITIATION OF AMENDMENT:
Amendments to this title may be initiated in one of the following ways:
   A.   By adoption of a motion by the commission;
   B.   By adoption of a motion by the council; or
   C.   By the filing of an application by a property owner or a person who has
existing interest in property within the area proposed to be changed or
affected by this amendment. (Ord. 105, 1-7-1989)
5-9-3: APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT:
Applications for amendments to this title shall contain at least the following
information:
   A.   Name, address and telephone number of applicant.
   B.   Proposed amending ordinance, approved as to form by the council.
   C.   Present land use.
   D.   Present zoning district.
   E.   Proposed use.
   F.   Proposed zoning district.
   G.   A vicinity map showing property lines, thoroughfares, existing and
proposed zoning and such other items as may be required.
   H.   A list of all property owners and their mailing addresses who are
within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being
considered.
   I.   A statement on how the proposed amendment relates to the comprehensive
plan, availability of public facilities and compatibility with the surrounding
area.
   J.   A fee as established by the council. (Ord. 105, 1-7-1989)
5-9-4: PROCEDURE FOR ADOPTION OF AMENDMENT:
   A.   Transmittal To Commission: Zoning districts shall be amended in the
following manner:
      1.   Requests for an amendment to this title shall be submitted to the
commission which shall evaluate the request to determine the extent and nature
of the amendment requested.
      2.   If the request is in accordance with the adopted comprehensive plan,
the commission may recommend and the council may adopt or reject the amendment
under the notice and hearing procedures as herein provided. (Ord. 105, 1-7-
1989)
      3.   If the request is not in accordance with the adopted comprehensive
plan, the request shall be submitted to the planning and zoning commission
which shall recommend and the council may adopt or reject an amendment to this
title under the notice and hearing procedures provided by section 67-6509 Idaho
Code. (Ord. 105, 1-7-1989; amd. 1991 Code)
   B.   Public Hearing: The commission shall hold a public hearing and make
recommendations on proposed zoning amendments. Zoning amendments may consist of
an amendment to the text of this title. The commission, prior to recommending
an amendment to the text of this title to the council, shall conduct at least
one public hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be
heard.
   C.   Commission Recommendation: Within sixty (60) days from the receipt of
the proposed amendment, the commission shall transmit its recommendation to the
council. The commission may recommend that the amendment be granted as
requested, or it may recommend a modification of the amendment requested, or it
may recommend that the amendment be denied. The commission shall ensure that
any favorable recommendations for amendments are in accordance with the
comprehensive plan and established goals and objectives.
   D.   Council Action; Effect:
      1.   The council, prior to adopting, revising or rejecting the amendment
to this title, as recommended by the commission, shall conduct at least one
public hearing using the same notice and hearing procedures as the commission.
Following the council hearing, if the council makes a material change from what
was presented at the public hearing, further notice and hearing shall be
provided before the council adopts the amendment.
      2.   The council shall accept the recommendation of the commission's
report unless rejected by a vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the members.
      3.   Upon granting or denying an application to amend this title, the
council shall specify:
         a.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application.
         b.   The reasons for approval or denial.
         c.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
amendment.
      4.   In the event the council shall approve an amendment, such amendment
shall thereafter be made a part of this title upon the preparation and passage
of an ordinance. (Ord. 105, 1-7-1989)
5-9-5: RESUBMISSION OF APPLICATION:
No application for a reclassification of property which has been denied by the
council shall be resubmitted in either substantially the same form or with
reference to substantially the same premises for the same purposes within a
period of one year from the date of such final action, unless there is an
amendment in the comprehensive plan which resulted from a change in conditions
as applying to the specific property under consideration. (Ord. 105, 1-7-1989)
5-9-6: ZONING UPON ANNEXATION:
Prior to annexation of an unincorporated area, the council shall request and
receive a recommendation from the planning and zoning commission on the
proposed comprehensive plan and changes to this title for the unincorporated
area. The commission and the city council shall follow the notice and hearing
procedures provided in section
5-10-3 of this title. Currently or immediately following the adoption of an
ordinance of annexation, the council shall amend the comprehensive plan and
this title. (Ord. 105, 1-7-1989)
CHAPTER 10
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
5-10-1: Enforcement Officials
5-10-2: Plans And Specifications
5-10-3: Public Hearings
5-10-3-1: Hearings, General
5-10-3-2: Hearing Notices
5-10-3-3: Posted Site Notices (Signs)
5-10-4: Appeals
5-10-5: Action By Council (Rep. by Ord. 264, 3-5-2020)
5-10-6: Schedule Of Fees, Charges And Expenses
5-10-7: Violations And Penalties
5-10-1: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
It shall be the duty of the city to see that this title is enforced through
proper legal channels. (Ord. 250, 8-4-2016)
5-10-2: PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   General: No permit shall be issued for the construction or alteration
of any building or part thereof, unless the plans and specifications for
intended use of such building conform in all respects with the requirements
stated herein.
   B.   Application Forms: Applications for permits shall be submitted on forms
provided by the city, and all applications shall include a site plan (see
subsection D of this section for the contents of a site plan). All information,
including the site plan, and other maps, plans, drawings, tabulations and
calculations, and all agency and government signatures called for on those
forms shall be required for a complete application, and no incomplete
application shall be accepted. The administrator may require submission of
multiple copies of application forms and supporting materials.
   C.   Burden Of Proof: The burden of demonstrating compliance of all permits
with this title rests with the applicant and property owner.
   D.   Site Plan:
      1.   All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by a site
plan.
      2.   The following types of permits require a site plan that is
delineated in subsection D3 of this section. Other permits or applications such
as primary commercial buildings, special use permits and variances may require
additional information as requested by the city.
         a.   Commercial alterations and additions;
         b.   Change of use not affecting the intensity or change of location
of a commercial or industrial parking lot, truck loading or vehicle access;
         c.   Residential primary structures, additions and alterations and
detached accessory structures without new vehicular access.
         d.   All other projects shall be subject to project review per chapter
3 of this title.
      3.   The following site plan drawing is required and may be obtained
either on forms provided by the city or by a set of scaled drawings provided by
the applicant. The scale of the drawing shall be at a minimum one inch equals
ten feet (1" = 10') to a maximum scale of one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50')
and contain the following:
         a.   Address of project.
         b.   Owner's name.
         c.   Legal description of the property, including any easements and
project numbers of short plats or lot boundary adjustments.
         d.   Kootenai County assessor's parcel number (property tax account
number).
         e.   Kootenai County recording instrument number for any easements or
other pertinent legal features.
         f.   North arrow.
         g.   Property lines, dimensions and bearings.
         h.   Identification and right of way (ROW) and roadway widths of
adjacent streets (by name), alleys or other adjacent public property.
         i.   Curbs and sidewalks if applicable; type, location, dimensions.
         j.   Street and alley improvement type (asphalt, concrete, gravel,
etc.).
         k.   Location of the primary entrance to each building.
         l.   If existing or proposed building structures (e.g., building
overhangs, chimneys, gutters, underground parking, etc.) extend into, over or
under the ROW, a utility easement, or known utility for which there is no
easement, the dimensions of these structures and their locations must be
provided.
         m.   Location and dimensions of all driveways, parking areas, and
other paved areas (existing and proposed).
         n.   General location, size and shape of any structures presently on
the site and of those proposed for construction; including buildings, retaining
walls, patios, decks, porches, driveways, pools, spas and other water features,
septic tank and drainfield locations (existing and proposed).
         o.   Dimensions showing front, side and rear distances from structures
to property lines, distances between structures, porches and decks (existing
and proposed).
      4.   Staking of property lines, setbacks from property lines to
structures and locations of driveways may be requested by the city.
      5.   The following supplemental information is required:
         a.   In narrative form, identification of exactly what work is to be
done, including the changes that are proposed to the physical features of the
site or existing structures (clearly distinguish between existing and proposed
features on the site plan drawing). Statements such as "existing wall to
remain" are acceptable call outs for the site plan. Clearly indicate by
citation or notation the explanation of work to be done with the site plan
drawing.
         b.   Signature of preparer and relationship to owner and a
certification stating that this is a true and accurate representation of the
site and that the preparer and the property owner take responsibility for the
accuracy of the information.
         c.   If not prepared by the property owner, a notarized authorization
by the property owner that the preparer can act on behalf of the property
owner.
      6.   A record of all such applications, site plans and supplemental
information shall be kept in the office of the city clerk. (Ord. 250, 8-4-2016)
5-10-3: PUBLIC HEARINGS:
Whenever a hearing is required by this title for a special use permit,
variance, subdivision, or amendment, such hearing shall be held at least once
to receive testimony from interested and affected agencies and citizens. At
least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time, place and a
summary of the proposal shall be published in the official newspaper or paper
of general circulation within the jurisdiction. For site specific applications,
notice shall also be provided to property owners whose property is within or
adjacent to the area bounded by lines three hundred feet (300') from the
external boundaries of the property under consideration. These are only the
minimum hearing notice requirements and specific requirements are delineated
below. The council or commission may, when deemed appropriate, provide
additional notice. (Ord. 250, 8-4-2016; amd. Ord. 264, 3-5-2020)
5-10-3-1: HEARINGS, GENERAL:
   A.   Hearings before the council or commission shall be open to the public.
   B.   Hearings before the council or the commission are either legislative or
quasi-judicial in nature.
      1.   Legislative hearings are conducted for the purpose of receiving
public comment in aid of formulating city policies and ordinances.
      2.   Quasi-judicial hearings are conducted for the purpose of resolving
contested matters concerning specific parties or properties, including, but not
limited to, applications for change of zone, subdivision of land, special
(conditional) use permit, and variance of zoning standards.
   C.   The criteria for making decisions on applications and permits is found
under the applicable title and chapter. (Ord. 250, 8-4-2016)
5-10-3-2: HEARING NOTICES:
   A.   Whenever notice is required under this chapter it shall be in writing
and shall provide the following information:
      1.   The address of the property, or another general description by which
the public can identify the property, that is the subject of the hearing;
      2.   The present land use of the property;
      3.   A description of the action or relief sought; and
      4.   The date, time, and place of the hearing.
   B.   To assist the city in providing all required notices, the applicant or
appellant shall provide to the city from a title company the correct names and
addresses and two (2) sets of mailing labels of all adjoining property owners
which are defined in section
5-8-3 of this title as owners who own property within three hundred feet (300')
of the subject property on the application.
Note: The applicant bears the burden of proof to provide accurate information
to the city to notify the adjoining property owners. If adjoining property
owners are not notified, the hearing will not be held, the city will not be
liable for the inaccurate information and the applicant will be responsible for
any additional costs the city incurs to hold additional public hearings. (Ord.
250, 8-4-2016)
5-10-3-3: POSTED SITE NOTICES (SIGNS):
   A.   Posted notices are required for applications requesting:
      1.   Special use permits; and
      2.   Rezones.
   B.   When a posted notice is required it shall be the responsibility of the
applicant to install or erect a sign and attached notice furnished by the city
that meets the following specifications:
      1.   The sign shall be placed so as to be easily readable by the motoring
public;
      2.   The sign shall be installed on the subject property adjacent to the
most heavily traveled public way;
      3.   The sign shall be posted at least fifteen (15) days before the
scheduled date of the public hearing; and
   C.   The applicant shall remove the sign within seven (7) days following the
public hearing. (Ord. 250, 8-4-2016)
5-10-4: APPEALS:
Appeals concerning interpretation, administration or decisions rendered
pursuant to Title 5 shall be processed in accordance with Section
1-11-1. (Ord. 250, 8-4-2016; amd. Ord. 264, 3-5-2020)
5-10-5: ACTION BY COUNCIL:
(Rep. by Ord. 264, 3-5-2020)
5-10-6: SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES:
The Council shall establish, by resolution, a schedule of fees, charges and
expenses and a collection procedure for amendments, appeals, variances, special
use permits, plan approvals and other matters pertaining to the administration
and enforcement of this title requiring investigations, inspections, legal
advertising, postage and other expenses. The schedule of fees shall be posted
in the Office of the Clerk and may be altered or amended only by the Council.
Until all applicable fees, charges and expenses have been paid in full, no
action shall be taken on any application or appeal. (Ord. 250, 8-4-2016)
5-10-7: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations And Penalties: It shall be unlawful to construct,
reconstruct, enlarge and maintain or use any building or to use any land in
violation of any regulation or any provision of this title or the terms of any
permit therefor. Any such violation shall be deemed an infraction or a
misdemeanor and shall subject the offender to penalties in accordance with
section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each and every day such illegal erection, construction, and
enlargement of, maintenance or use continues may be deemed a separate offense.
The City may also take civil action to compel compliance of requirements or
performance and completion of, or maintenance of, improvements installed
pursuant to this title. No applications for any permits or licenses shall be
reviewed or approved by the City if there is an existing, valid violation of
this Code, unless the permit or license is to resolve the existing violation.
   B.   Action By Council Or Property Owner: In case any building is, or is
proposed to be, constructed, erected, reconstructed, located, enlarged,
changed, maintained or used, or any land is proposed to be used in violation of
this title or any amendment hereto, the City Council or any adjacent property
owner who could be specially damaged by any such violation, in addition to any
other remedy provided by law or in this title, may institute injunction,
mandamus, abatement or any other appropriate action, actions, proceeding or
proceedings to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove such unlawful location,
erection, construction, reconstruction, enlargement, change, maintenance or
use.
   C.   Notice And Order:
      1.   Notice And Order Issued: The Code Enforcement Officer may issue a
notice and order to the record owner of the property containing the violation.
The notice and order shall contain the following information:
         a.   The street address and a legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises upon which the violation is occurring.
         b.   A statement of the Code Enforcement Officer containing a brief
and concise description of the conditions found to render the building or
premises in violation.
         c.   A statement of the action required to be taken, as determined by
the Code Enforcement Officer, in order to bring the property into compliance.
         d.   The property owner shall have forty five (45) days from the date
of mailing of the notice and order, to take such steps as are necessary in
order to bring the property into compliance.
         e.   The notice shall advise that any person(s) having record title or
legal interest in the property may appeal from the issuance of the notice and
order, in accordance with the procedural provisions set forth in section
5-10-4 of this chapter. The notice shall also indicate that failure to appeal
will constitute a waiver of all right to an administrative hearing and
determination of the matter, and that an appeal of the notice and order must be
in writing and must be received by the City Clerk within thirty (30) days of
the date the notice and order was mailed. The notice shall also advise that
failure to appeal or bring the site into compliance will result in the City
recording the notice against the property.
      2.   Service Of Notice And Order: The notice and order, and any amended
or supplemental notice and order, shall be mailed to the record owner of the
property by certified mail. The failure of the Code Enforcement Officer to
serve any person required to be served shall not invalidate any proceedings
under this section as to any other person duly served or relieve any person
from any duty or obligation imposed on him by the provision of this chapter.
      3.   Recordation Of Notice And Order: If the Code Enforcement Officer's
notice and order is not complied with within forty five (45) days, and no
appeal has been properly and timely filed, the Code Enforcement Officer may
file in the Office of the County Recorder, a certificate describing the
property and certifying that the property is not in compliance with this Code
and that the record owner has been notified of the noncompliance. The
certificate shall also contain a brief and concise description of the nature of
the noncompliance and shall include a statement of the actions required, if
any, which must be taken in order to bring the property into compliance.
      4.   Release Of Notice And Order: Whenever the Code Enforcement Officer
has determined that the violation has been corrected, the building official
shall file a new certificate with the Office of the County Recorder certifying
that the previously recorded notice and order shall be released and that all
required corrections have been made so that the property is in compliance with
this Code. (Ord. 256, 10-4-2018; amd. Ord. 264, 3-5-2020)
CHAPTER 11
SIGNS
SECTION:
5-11-1: Title
5-11-2: Purpose
5-11-3: Scope
5-11-4: Coordination With State Law
5-11-5: Definitions
5-11-6: Nonconforming Signs; Alteration, Relocation And Replacement
5-11-7: General Requirements
5-11-8: Permit Exceptions And General Exemptions
5-11-9: Prohibited Signage For Residential, Commercial And Light Industrial
5-11-10: Residential Sign Requirements
5-11-11: Commercial And Light Industrial District
5-11-12: Maintenance Standards
5-11-13: Signs As Part Of Merchandise
5-11-14: Permit Application; Plans
5-11-15: Enforcement
5-11-1: TITLE:
The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be known as the DALTON GARDENS
SIGN ORDINANCE, and shall hereinafter be referred to as "this chapter". (Ord.
219, 7-5-2012)
5-11-2: PURPOSE:
The city council finds and declares that it is necessary to regulate the
construction, erection, maintenance, electrification, illumination, type, size,
number and location of signs to protect the health, safety, property and
welfare of the public; to improve the neat, clean and orderly appearance of the
city; to improve the effectiveness of signs in identifying and advertising
businesses; to provide for sign needs of special areas, facilities, centers and
districts; to preserve and protect the scenic beauty of Dalton Gardens; and to
promote the healthy business climate of Dalton Gardens. (Ord. 219, 7-5-2012)
5-11-3: SCOPE:
Except as provided in this chapter, no person shall erect, alter, or move any
sign or cause or permit the same to be done in violation of the provisions of
this chapter. No person in control of any premises in the city shall permit
thereon any sign which violates the provisions of this chapter. Nothing in this
chapter is intended to permit the erection or maintenance of any sign at a
place or in any manner unlawful under ordinance, state, or federal law. (Ord.
219, 7-5-2012)
5-11-4: COORDINATION WITH STATE LAW:
Where provisions of this chapter are more restrictive than state law, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (Ord. 219, 7-5-2012)
5-11-5: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, words used in the present tense include the
future, the singular number includes the plural, the word "shall" is mandatory
and not directory and the word "building" includes "structures" other than
"sign structures". The gender "he" refers to all genders.
A-FRAME SIGN: On premises temporary, portable, freestanding signs intended for
use in parking lots, at storefronts, within the vision triangle, and adjacent
to property lines.
   AFFECTED PERSON OR AGGRIEVED PERSON: Any resident of the city of Dalton
Gardens; or person having an interest in real property in the city of Dalton
Gardens; or any person with an interest in real property located within three
hundred feet (300') of the property where the sign is located.
   AREA: See definition of Sign Area.
   ATTENTION GETTING DEVICE: A flag, pennant, sky dancer, inflatable object or
other item, which bears no specific lettered or symbolic message, which is
displayed to attract the attention of the general public.
   AWNING: A permanent roofed structure, which is attached to a building,
usually over a sidewalk constructed to provide protection from the weather.
   BANNER: A flexible material on which a sign is displayed. It may be
stretched across a property, anchored to the outside of a building or other
structure, affixed to windows, or otherwise displayed on exterior surfaces.
Banner may be permanent or temporary.
   BILLBOARD (STANDARDIZED OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN): Any sign which advertises
goods, products, services or facilities not sold, produced, manufactured or
furnished on the premises on which the sign is located.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL OR HIS DESIGNEE: For purposes of this chapter, the person
assigned to administer and enforce the structural integrity of signage for the
city. Whenever the term "building official" is used in this code, it shall mean
the building official or his designee.
   BUSINESS: All of the activities carried on by the same legal entity on the
same premises and includes charitable, fraternal, benevolent, religious,
educational and social organizations. Such "legal entity" includes individual
proprietorships, partnerships, corporations, nonprofit corporations,
associations or joint stock companies.
   BUSINESS OR SHOPPING CENTER: A building or group of buildings planned and
developed as a center under common ownership with more than one occupant.
   CANOPY: A permanent freestanding roofed structure designed and constructed
to provide protection from the weather, typically found at gasoline stations.
   CANOPY SIGN: A sign which is erected or maintained under and is supported by
or under a canopy.
   CHANNEL LETTER SIGN: A sign made up of individual, cabinet style, internally
illuminated letters.
   CLEAR SPACE: The space on a sign that must remain clear of any visual
obstruction.
   CONSTRUCTION ZONE: May include, but not be limited to, the development of
commercial, industrial and residential subdivisions, the construction of new
buildings, and the remodeling and renovation of existing buildings.
   COPY: The lettering and/or graphics displayed on a sign.
   CURB LINE: The line at the face of the curb nearest the street or in absence
of a curb, a line established by the city engineer or engineer's designee.
   CUTOUT: Every type of display in the form of letters, figures, characters,
representations or others in cutout or three-dimensional forms attached to a
wall or face of a sign.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN: An on premises sign used to identify and locate an office,
entrance, exit, motor vehicle route, public telephone or similar service.
   DISPLAY SURFACE: The area made available by a sign structure for the purpose
of displaying a message.
   ELECTRIC SIGN: A sign containing electrical wiring and lighting, but not
including a sign illuminated by an exterior floodlight source.
   ERECT: To construct, paint, place, affix or otherwise bring into being.
   EXTERNALLY ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign illuminated by an external light source.
   FLASHING SIGN: A directly or indirectly illuminated sign where the
artificial light is not constant in intensity or color at all times when the
sign is in use. Flashing signs are prohibited in Dalton Gardens. Message center
signs are not flashing signs.
   FLOTATION TYPE, ATTENTION GETTING DEVICES: Any device inflated with heated
air or any lighter than air gas, and floated at the end of a tether for the
purpose of advertising or drawing attention to a commercial establishment.
   FREESTANDING SIGN: Sign without external bracing or guywires, which are
wholly detached from any building or other structure and are supported by poles
or foundation support.
   GROUND SIGN: See definition of Monument Sign.
   HEIGHT OF SIGN: The vertical distance measured from finished grade to the
top of the sign.
   IBC STANDARDS: The international building code standards published as a part
of the international building code.
   INFLATABLE SIGN: A form whose structure derives its support from pressurized
air or other gas.
   INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign which is wholly or partially illuminated
by an internal light source from which the source of light passes through the
display surface to the exterior of the sign.
   MAINTAIN: To keep free of any major defects in structure or appearance.
   MESSAGE CENTER: A sign providing information by means of electronically
changing text or images.
   MONUMENT SIGN: A freestanding sign supported primarily by an internal
structural framework or integrated into landscaping or other solid structural
features other than support poles.
   MURAL: A painting made directly on a wall or fastened to a wall.
   NEON SIGN: A sign using high voltage neon tubing to illuminate or display
the copy.
   NONTRADITIONAL SIGN: Any attention getting structure or device whose design
fails to meet the definition criteria in any other section of this chapter, but
which is accepted by the city council as a sign. A nontraditional sign requires
a special use permit.
   OFF PREMISES LOCATOR SIGN: An off premises sign giving direction to
motorists or pedestrians seeking the location of a public school, college,
charitable, or religious institution.
   OFF PREMISES SIGN: Any sign, billboard, wall display, inflatable, or
temporary sign that is used to advertise a business and/or service which is not
located on said property. Off premises signs are prohibited in Dalton Gardens.
ON PREMISES SIGN: A sign which advertises only the business or the goods,
products or facilities located on the property on which the sign is located, or
which advertises the sale or lease of such property.
   PENNANT: A piece of flexible material which is attached to a support.
   PERMANENT SIGN: Any sign other than a temporary sign.
   PERSON: An individual or legal entity (see definition of Business).
   POLE SIGN: A sign that is supported by, or suspended from one freestanding
column.
   PORTABLE READER BOARD: A movable sign with changeable copy that is located
in or on a vehicle, trailer or other moving device or transported by any type
of wheels.
   PORTABLE SIGN: Outdoor advertising display that is located in or on a
vehicle, trailer or other moving device or transported by any type of wheels.
   PROJECTING SIGN: A sign which projects beyond the building face to which it
is attached.
   READER BOARD: A sign with changeable copy using removable plastic letters
mounted in lines of track. (See definition of Message Center.)
   RIGHT OF WAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part is open to the use of the public for
vehicular travel, with jurisdiction extending to the adjacent property line,
including sidewalks, shoulders, berms and rights of way not intended for
motorized traffic. See Idaho state code 49-109(5).
   ROOF SIGN: A sign erected upon a roof. All new or altered roof signs as of
the effective date hereof will require a special use permit in Dalton Gardens
as delineated in chapter 7 of this title.
   ROTATING SIGN: A sign that rotates. All new or altered rotating signs as of
the effective date hereof will require a special use permit in Dalton Gardens
as delineated in chapter 7 of this title.
   SANDWICH BOARD SIGNS: Any A-frame style sign.
   SHOPPING OR BUSINESS CENTER: A building or group of buildings planned and
developed as a shopping center under common ownership with more than one retail
business occupancy.
   SIDEWALK: A paved pedestrian path usually adjacent to or within close
proximity to a street.
   SIGN: A display bearing a specific written or symbolic message, which may
include pictorial or graphic decoration, intended to inform the public,
identify the location of a business or other entity, and/or advertise goods for
sale. A sign may be a freestanding structure, a structure mounted against a
wall, or lettering and/or logo symbols painted upon or affixed to the wall or
window surfaces of a building, motor vehicle, or trailer.
   SIGN AREA: The total area of a sign face, including all decorative or
structural trim or other attention getting devices, exclusive of essential
structural supports. Where a sign is of a three-dimensional, spherical, cubic,
or irregular solid shape, the largest cross section shall be used in a flat
projection for the purpose of determining sign area. Whenever a sign is made of
letters or numbers located individually upon a single surface wall, the area of
the sign shall be determined by the size of the rectangle the copy occupies.
   SIGN SETBACK: A distance from a curb, property line, or structure for which
building, construction or erection of a sign is prohibited. Any permanently
affixed sign is considered a structure and shall meet the setback requirements
of the commercial or light industrial zoning district or with a special use
permit in the residential zoning district. Special standards are required if
signs are located in the vision triangle.
   SIGN STRUCTURE: The supports, uprights, braces and framework of a sign.
   SIGN TOWER: That portion of a building designed specifically for the placing
of a sign flat against one or more faces thereof.
   T-FRAME SIGNS: See definition of A-Frame Sign.
   TEMPORARY ACTION DISPLAY: A wind activated device including, but not limited
to, flags, pennants, streamers, banners and valances, but not including flags
of the United States, state of Idaho, U.S. or state military services, foreign
countries, the United Nations or flags of civic, fraternal or charitable
organizations. A "temporary action display" shall not contain any graphic or
pictorial advertising message or advertising symbol including, but not limited
to, words or pictures.
   TEMPORARY BUSINESS SIGN: A temporary, freestanding, on premises sign or
banner.
   TEMPORARY MERCHANDISE SIGN: A temporary sign affixed to or placed against
merchandise, or painted on or affixed to a nonpermanent rack or other type of
display, advertising only the items of merchandise contained therein.
   TEMPORARY NONPROFIT SIGN: A temporary sign identifying a nonprofit civic,
charitable or benevolent event.
   TEMPORARY OFF PREMISES SIGN: An off premises sign that is temporary.
   TEMPORARY POLITICAL SIGN: A temporary sign advertising a candidate seeking
public office or promoting the passage or defeat of a measure on a ballot.
   TEMPORARY PROMOTIONAL SIGN DISPLAY: Temporary business signs advertising a
single event or promotion and erected and maintained as a group.
   TEMPORARY REAL ESTATE DIRECTIONAL SIGN: A temporary sign advertising an
"open house" and located off of the premises advertised. Temporary real estate
signs shall not be placed in the right of way.
   TEMPORARY REAL ESTATE SIGN: A temporary sign advertising only the sale, rent
or lease of the building, structure or premises to which it is attached.
   TEMPORARY SIGN: A sign, banner, pennant, valance or advertising display that
is not permanently affixed to any sign structure, sign tower or building.
   TEMPORARY SIGN FOR WORK UNDER CONSTRUCTION: A temporary on premises sign
denoting the name of the development and the architects, landscape architects,
contractors, engineers, and financial institutions involved in the project.
   TEMPORARY SUBDIVISION SIGN: A temporary on premises sign advertising under
construction or property for sale in a subdivision.
   VISION TRIANGLE: A triangle of land that has an unobstructed view from a
curb line of a driveway, roadway or street intersection. Intersections include
all cases where two (2) streets intersect and locations where driveways
intersect streets. The area needed to be clear of obstruction for safe turning
movements is called the "vision triangle".
The following standards apply:
 
Street to street vision triangle   25' x 25'
Street to driveway vision triangle 10' x 20'
Alley to street vision triangle    10' x 10'
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8b2513aff346e6c027698e1915087099c811fd81/
IMAGES/0-0-0-867.png]
 
(Note: The sight distance requirements of the vision triangle affect the
location of all obstructions, including signs, landscaping, fencing, on street
parking, buildings and other improvements. The required sight distance
represents how far left or right on the major road the driver should be able to
see so as to safely exit a minor public or private road, a driveway or an alley
or to make a right turn on red at an intersection.)
   WALL FACADE FOR SIGNS: A sign structure designed for the placement of a sign
erected upon the top of a wall or on a wall or parapet of a building in the
same general plane as the wall.
   WALL SIGN: A sign painted on or attached to or erected against the wall of a
building or structure, or against the faces or ends of a canopy, with the face
of the sign parallel to the wall or face and projecting out not more than
eighteen inches (18"). Wall signs shall not exceed eighty (80) square feet.
   WINDSOCK: A cone made of cloth or similar material which is open at both
ends and is attached at one or more points to a support.
   ZONING DISTRICTS: The city of Dalton Gardens is divided into zoning
districts; see the city of Dalton Gardens zoning code for definitions and
requirements. (Ord. 219, 7-5-2012)
5-11-6: NONCONFORMING SIGNS; ALTERATION, RELOCATION AND REPLACEMENT:
   A.   A sign which does not conform to the provisions of this chapter shall
not be structurally altered, relocated or replaced unless it is immediately
brought into compliance, except that:
      1.   Such sign may be repaired and maintained and may have the
advertising copy or display surface thereon changed; provided that the sign
will not advertise a business at a location other than that where the sign is
located. Such sign may be removed from its sign structure for the purpose of
repair and maintenance under this section if a sign repair permit has been
obtained.
      2.   Such sign may be replaced if, upon application, the city council
finds that the replacement of the sign would improve the appearance of the
sign, sign location on the building, structure or premises on which the sign is
located. Applicant for replacement of signs under this section shall file a
removal agreement in a form acceptable to the city attorney which provides that
the owner of the sign and the owner of the building, structure or premises on
which the sign is located agree, both jointly and severally, to remove the sign
at the end of the applicable nonconforming period. The applicant shall provide
such information as the city council finds necessary.
   B.   It is not the intent of this section to permit an increase in the size
or number of signs which are nonconforming under this chapter.
   C.   Signs made nonconforming due to an eminent domain action, or regulatory
taking: If structural alterations or relocation of the sign are required due to
condemnation, the alterations will not be counted toward the fifty percent
(50%) accumulation of repairs and alterations within five (5) years with the
following provisions: 1) the property owner provides evidence of the
nonconformity by providing the city the signed certificate of nonconformity and
2) that the alteration is necessary to accommodate the condemnation and 3) any
remodel and alteration as a result of the condemnation must be reviewed and
approved by the city and 4) all alterations as a result of the condemnation
shall be completed within three hundred sixty five (365) days of completion of
the public improvements adjacent to the subject site for which the condemnation
was necessary. If the sign is relocated, the sign shall meet the current
setbacks as delineated in this code for signage. (Ord. 219, 7-5-2012)
5-11-7: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: All signs require permits from the city unless
specifically exempted as delineated in this chapter.
   B.   Construction And Maintenance: All signs displayed in the city of Dalton
Gardens must be constructed of durable materials, designed and lettered in a
professional manner, erected according to sound structural practices and kept
in good repair.
   C.   Sign Setbacks: Any permanently fixed sign is considered a structure and
shall meet the requirements of each applicable zoning district.
      1.   On the street named Government Way, if the condemnation proceedings
have occurred and the right of way has been purchased, the sign may be located
to the edge of the property line, not overhang the sidewalk and must meet
vision triangle requirements. If condemnation proceedings have not been
completed and the right of way has not been purchased as of the effective date
hereof, the sign shall be located at least twenty feet (20') from the property
line. On the streets of Dalton, Hanley, Canfield, Wilbur, Deerhaven, Prairie
and Aqua Circle, and if there are no public sidewalks, and there is no
condemnation or right of way purchase, the setbacks for permanently affixed
signs shall be at least eight feet (8') from front property line, and meet any
vision triangle requirements.
   D.   Sign Height: No sign shall exceed thirty feet (30') in height.
   E.   Nonconforming Sites Or Use: Signs may be altered, relocated or replaced
in conforming with this chapter regardless of a site's nonconforming status as
to facility or activity. Sign improvements, including the installation of a new
sign shall not be used to require other site improvements, including, but not
limited to, parking lot improvements or landscaping improvements, regardless of
the cost of the sign improvements. Sign improvements shall not be considered an
expansion of a nonconforming activity. (Ord. 219, 7-5-2012)
5-11-8: PERMIT EXCEPTIONS AND GENERAL EXEMPTIONS:
If the following signs do not violate provisions of this chapter, they are
exempt from all other requirements of this chapter:
   A.   Official Sign: A sign required, authorized or permitted by law,
ordinance, rule or regulation, erected or maintained by the responsible public
authority including, but not limited to, a traffic sign or signal, sign
identifying a public building or use or giving directions to a building,
structure, use, or area. Official signs are restricted to the same size and
structural requirements as all other signs within this code. The structure and
size of existing official signs do not need to be brought up to current
standards.
   B.   Warning Sign: A sign erected or maintained on private property warning
the public of a danger on or limiting access to the premises. Such sign is
limited to a sign area of four (4) square feet, and a height of six feet (6').
   C.   Identification Or Monument: Building plaque, cornerstone, nameplate, or
similar building identification or monument. These identifiers shall be
attached to the building.
   D.   Historical Marker: Historical marker erected or maintained by public
authority or a recognized historical society or organization identifying a
site, building or structure, or area of recognized historical value.
   E.   Interior Signs: Signs inside a building, decals, painting, decoration,
letters, numbers, and displays applied or attached to the interior or exterior
of a window or located on the interior and visible through the window.
   F.   Credit Card Signs: Credit signs, signs advertising bank cards, credit
cards, credit arrangements, or trading stamps available to business customers
when located on a wall, under canopy or marquee.
   G.   Flags: Flags of the United States, the state, U.S. or state military
service, foreign country, United Nations, or a civic, fraternal, or charitable
organization.
   H.   Customary And Usual Christmas Decorations: If extended over public
streets, city council approval shall be required.
   I.   Temporary Signs: Temporary signs of the following types:
      1.   Temporary residential real estate signs not exceeding six (6) square
feet in sign area, including rider (message attached to the real estate sign).
      2.   Temporary residential real estate directional signs not exceeding
two (2) square feet in sign area. Signs shall not be placed in the public right
of way.
      3.   Temporary commercial real estate signs not exceeding sixteen (16)
square feet in sign area. Signs shall not be placed in the public right of way.
      4.   Temporary commercial real estate directional signs not exceeding
four (4) square feet in sign area. Signs shall not be placed in the public
right of way.
      5.   Temporary nonprofit signs not in excess of thirty two (32) square
feet.
      6.   Anchoring approved by the city building official must be in place at
all times for temporary signs over eight (8) square feet in size.
      7.   Temporary off premises signs. These signs will be allowed with
council permission while the roadway adjacent to property is under
construction. Property owner shall seek permission from off premises property
owner and also receive city council approval.
   J.   Permanent Decorations: Decorations, floral or artistic arrangements,
trim ornamentation or other nonanimated devices, without letters or numbers,
affixed to a wall and not an integral part of any sign.
   K.   Institutional Signs: One on premises attached bulletin board that is a
permanent sign with changeable copy indicating the institution's name, events,
or services offered on the premises, not over twelve (12) square feet in sign
area for public schools, colleges, charitable, or religious institutions when
the same is located on the premises. A nonprofit organization may include a
"credit bar" of two (2) square feet listing only the name of the organization
which donated said sign. Such signage must meet all other sign regulations.
   L.   Directional Signs: Traffic directing or directional signs indicating
traffic movement onto or within a premises not exceeding four (4) square feet
for each sign, limited to one such sign per entrance. (Ord. 219, 7-5-2012)
5-11-9: PROHIBITED SIGNAGE FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL AND LIGHT INDUSTRIAL:
   A.   Signs Not To Obstruct Doors, Windows Or Fire Escapes: No sign shall be
erected, relocated or maintained so as to prevent free ingress to or egress
from any door, window or fire escape. No sign of any kind shall be attached to
a standpipe or fire escape.
   B.   Signs On Trees, Utility Poles, Or Fences: No sign shall be erected,
taped, nailed, stapled, or otherwise attached to a tree, utility pole, fence,
or other object whose purpose or natural condition is utilitarian.
   C.   Signs Not To Be In Rights Of Way: No signs shall be erected in public
rights of way. Exceptions are allowable with city council approval and the
issuance of an encroachment permit from the city.
   D.   Vision Triangle Obstructions: A sign shall not be placed to obstruct
anywhere in the vision triangle. In the commercial and light industrial zoning
district, signs may be allowed in the vision triangle if they meet clear space
standards.
   E.   Signs Not To Obstruct Or Resemble Traffic Signs: No sign shall be
erected at the intersection of any streets in such a manner as to obstruct the
free and clear vision of pedestrians and vehicular traffic or at any location
where, by reason of the position, shape, color, words, phrases or symbols, it
may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with, any authorized
traffic sign, signal or device.
   F.   Obscene Signs Prohibited: No sign shall bear or contain statements,
words or pictures which would offend public morals or decency.
   G.   Billboards And Off Premises Signs Prohibited: All billboards and off
premises signs are prohibited with the exception of those with city approval or
temporary off premises signage to offset public road construction.
   H.   Portable Signs And Portable Reader Boards Mounted On Axles And Tires
Prohibited:
      1.   Portable signs or portable reader boards mounted on frame, axle, and
tires are prohibited.
      2.   Any sign that is affixed to a vehicle or trailer that is
inconsistent with generally accepted practice or industry standards of
professional sign attachment and/or renders the vehicle or trailer unusable or
unsafe in the manner that it was intended to be utilized is prohibited.
      3.   Signs mounted on vehicles, use of blinking lights, searchlights,
beacons, balloons, strings of lights, spinners, or other animated or moving
devices used to call attraction shall be prohibited.
   I.   Flashing Signs Prohibited: All flashing signs as defined in this
chapter are prohibited.
   J.   Signs Extending Over Sidewalk Rights Of Way Prohibited; Exception:
Except for projecting signs which may project up to three feet (3') from the
building wall, no sign of any kind may extend onto sidewalks or rights of way
unless it is hung from a permitted awning and maintains eight feet (8') of
clearance beneath it. (Ord. 219, 7-5-2012)
5-11-10: RESIDENTIAL SIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Allowed signs without permit unless specifically delineated:
      1.   Address Identification: Shall meet requirements of international
building code, city addressing ordinance and fire code. Address number for
dwelling and one nonilluminated identification sign shall be permitted for one-
family dwelling provided that such sign shall not exceed two (2) square feet in
area and not be closer than five feet (5') from any property line.
      2.   Political Signs:
         a.   Political signs of eight (8) square feet in area or less may be
erected on private property with the consent of the property owner.
         b.   Political signs may be erected for sixty (60) days prior to the
decision in which such candidates or issues are to be decided upon. Such signs
shall be removed not later than the fourth day following such election. Any
such signs which have not been removed by the fifth day following such decision
may be removed by the city's building official. The sponsoring organization
shall be assessed the cost of removing each sign according to the fee schedule
adopted by Counsel resolution.
      3.   Real Estate Signs:
         a.   Temporary residential real estate signs not exceeding six (6)
square feet in sign area, including rider (message attached to the real estate
sign).
         b.   Temporary residential real estate directional signs not exceeding
two (2) square feet in sign area. Signs shall not be placed in the public right
of way.
      4.   Temporary Sign For Work Under Construction:
         a.   A temporary on premises sign denoting the name of the development
and the architects, landscape architects, contractors, engineers, and financial
institutions involved in the project.
      5.   Temporary Subdivision Sign: A temporary on premises sign advertising
under construction or property for sale in a subdivision.
      6.   Temporary Event Locator Sign: Temporary signs announcing upcoming
nonprofit, charitable or benevolent events may be erected subject to the
following conditions:
         a.   The signs may only convey the name and/or logo of the event,
pertinent information directing people to the event and the timing of the
event.
         b.   The signs may be erected on private property with the written
consent of the property owner, or in public rights of way with an encroachment
permit and the consent of the city council.
         c.   The signs must be located on the route of the event or at other
key access points to the event.
         d.   The signs may be in place for five (5) business days prior to the
event, during the event and two (2) business days following the event.
      7.   Temporary Garage And Yard Sales:
         a.   All garage and yard sale signs must have the time, date, and
place of the sale. If the signs do not have the complete information they may
be subject to removal.
         b.   Garage and yard sale signs may be posted the day of the sale, but
must be removed within twenty four (24) hours after the sale.
         c.   Signs should be no larger than ordinary poster paper, twenty four
inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36").
         d.   If the sign is posted during other time periods or larger than
twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36") the sign may be subject to
removal.
      8.   Temporary Banners Advertising A Special Event:
         a.   Limited to nonprofit (501(c)), churches, schools or
municipalities;
         b.   Limited to one 64-square foot banner;
         c.   Limited to twice a year and limited to seven (7) days for each
event. Banner shall be removed within forty eight (48) hours of event end;
         d.   No electrical devices or lighting shall be associated with the
banner.
      9.   Signs Requiring Special Use Permit:
         a.   A-frame signs in the residential zoning district as defined in
this chapter and standards delineated in commercial district signage.
         b.   Detached freestanding signs for nonprofit, civic or community
uses within the residential zone. As defined in this chapter and standards
delineated in commercial district signage.
      10.   Prohibited Signs:
         a.   All other signs not specifically enumerated in this section.
(Ord. 219, 7-5-2012; amd. Ord. 277, 6-9-2022)
5-11-11: COMMERCIAL AND LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Individual Business On One Parcel: A single business on one parcel may
have one freestanding sign per parcel. Such sign shall not extend over public
property and shall be used solely to identify the business and the street
address of the parcel. The total display surface including property address of
such freestanding sign shall not exceed sixty four (64) square feet. The
display of the parcel address shall meet standards acceptable to the city fire
marshal and the building inspector.
   B.   Business And Shopping Centers, Multiple Businesses On One Parcel:
      1.   Multiple businesses or a business or a shopping center may have one
freestanding sign per parcel. All businesses within the shopping center or
multiple business building(s) shall be identified on the freestanding sign.
Such sign shall not extend over public property and shall be used solely to
identify the center, the street address of the parcel and the businesses within
the center. The display of the parcel address shall meet standards acceptable
to the city fire marshal and the building inspector.
      2.   The total display surface including property address of a
freestanding sign shall not exceed:
 
Number Of Businesses Display Surface Per  Side (Square Feet)
                     
2 to 4               64
5 to 9               100
10 or more           Not to exceed 140
 
Note: Monument signs shall not exceed sixty four (64) square feet for each sign
face.
      3.   Each business that leases building space from a property owner shall
be allowed to have the following signs with permission from the property owner
and a sign permit from the city:
         a.   Their business name displayed on one detached freestanding sign
located adjacent to public street front.
         b.   One attached wall sign.
         c.   One attached projecting sign.
         d.   One attached awning with unit number or address over doorway.
         e.   One attached message center sign.
         f.   One mural on side or rear of building.
         g.   One attached permanent banner.
         h.   One A-frame directly adjacent to "storefront" entryway.
         i.   One temporary sign for events or promotions.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8b2513aff346e6c027698e1915087099c811fd81/
IMAGES/0-0-0-869.png]
 
   C.   A-Frame Signs: A-frame signs are allowed on an annual basis and require
a permit. The signs are permitted under the following conditions:
      1.   One annual A-frame sign is permitted per business located adjacent
to the public street or within the vision triangle. The sign shall not obstruct
traffic circulation or sight distance.
      2.   One A-frame sign per business is allowed located adjacent to the
store front doorway.
      3.   The applicant must submit:
         a.   A sign permit application.
         b.   Signed authorization from the property owner.
         c.   Scale drawings of the proposed sign and its proposed placement.
         d.   Photograph or visual graphic of the sign.
      4.   Sign panels shall have a maximum width of twenty four inches (24")
wide and a maximum height of thirty six inches (36") and shall include all sign
area excluding essential structural support.
      5.   Signs must be constructed of sturdy, weatherproof panels and good
quality hardware. Signs must be constructed and lettered in a professional
manner.
      6.   A-frame signs must consist of two (2) faces hinged at the top. They
must be designed to prevent collapse. Signs must have nonskid "feet". Signs
must have handles or other provisions for portability.
      7.   All signs must be structurally stable and able to withstand wind per
current building code requirements, in order to ensure it maintains its proper
position and to prevent potential hazards. The owner is responsible for removal
of any sign on public property, not in its proper position, or creating any
hazard.
      8.   A-frame signs may not be placed within city vehicular rights of way.
      9.   A-frame signs may not obstruct vehicle or pedestrian traffic.
      10.   If the A-frame sign is located within the vision triangle, the
maximum height of the entire sign including frame shall not exceed thirty six
inches (36").
      11.   Any A-frame sign on sidewalks must have an encroachment permit from
the controlling jurisdiction.
      12.   A-frame signs may be in place only during business hours.
   D.   Awnings And Canopy Signs:
      1.   Awning or canopy signs must be printed on, painted on, or attached
to or under an awning or canopy.
      2.   The lower edge of any such awning or sign shall be not less than
eight feet (8') above the sidewalk or grade directly below the awning.
Exception: A flexible fabric valance may extend twelve inches (12") below the
awning.
      3.   It is unlawful for a person to place a banner of any kind on an
awning over a sidewalk.
   E.   Banners:
      1.   Permanent On Site Banners: Permanent on site banners may be
permitted under the following conditions:
         a.   The area of banners will be included in the total of the
freestanding signage allowance for the specific street frontage.
         b.   The maximum size for any one banner is twenty (20) square feet.
Maximum dimensions are to be no greater than thirty inches (30") wide by ninety
six inches (96") tall.
         c.   Banners nine (9) square feet, or larger, in size may be spaced no
closer than forty feet (40') on center or forty feet (40') from any other
freestanding sign. Banners less than nine (9) square feet in size may be spaced
no closer than twenty feet (20') on center or twenty feet (20') from any other
freestanding sign.
         d.   Banners and horizontal supports may be no closer than:
            (1)   Eight feet (8') vertically to ground or any walking surface;
            (2)   Fourteen feet (14') vertically to any driving surface.
         e.   If the banner is to be attached to an existing structure, the
sign owner will provide supporting documentation to the building official which
will prove that the supporting structure can safely support the banner and any
other existing attachments.
   F.   Electric Signs And Message Centers:
      1.   Distracting Or Hazardous Electric Signs Prohibited: No illuminated
signs shall be erected or maintained which create an unduly distracting or
hazardous condition to a motorist, pedestrian, or the general public. No strobe
type lights shall be erected or maintained on the interior of a window or door
or attached to any other area of a building facing a public street or avenue.
      2.   Frequency Of Message Change: All signs, including public service
signs and temperature message centers, must hold each displayed message a
minimum of two (2) seconds before changing to the next image. No sign which
either directly or apparently flashes or blinks shall be erected or maintained.
      3.   Illumination: The city shall have the authority to require the
illumination of a sign to be decreased and/or to be fitted with adequate
shielding if, in its judgment, the sign is too bright for its location or is
deemed hazardous or distracting.
      4.   Information Required: Every electric sign and message center shall
have placed thereon within easy view the following information in letters at
least one inch (1") in height: permit number; power consumption including
voltage and amperage; Underwriters Laboratories labels on all electrical signs.
   G.   Freestanding Signs, Standards:
      1.   Footing And Support Calculations: Footing and support calculations
for a permanent, freestanding sign which stands less than ten feet (10') above
finish grade are required to be submitted to and approved by the city building
official prior to issuing a sign permit.
      2.   Permanent Freestanding Signs: A permanent, freestanding sign which
stands ten feet (10') or greater above finish grade is required to have a
licensed Idaho architect's or Idaho engineer's stamp of approval. The required
drawings must include:
         a.   Detailed plans showing footing and foundation design,
reinforcement size and placement, pole type, size and thickness, all bolted
and/or welded connections, and sign construction materials.
         b.   Supporting calculations must address all components of the
proposed sign installation. Calculations are to include the design criteria
(wind, soils, materials, and seismic).
         c.   Detailed site plan which shows location on property, distances to
all adjacent site appurtenances (buildings, trees, roads, etc.), and rights of
way.
      3.   Freestanding Signs: Freestanding signs with the exception of
monument signs shall not exceed thirty feet (30') in height. The lowest height
of freestanding electrical signs in areas accessible to vehicles must meet the
electrical code currently adopted by the state of Idaho. The electrical permit
number must be submitted with the sign application.
      4.   Monument Signs: The base of the sign structure shall be on the
ground or a maximum of twelve inches (12") above the adjacent grade. The width
of the top of the sign shall not be greater than the width of the bottom of the
sign.
         a.   One monument sign allowed per parcel.
         b.   Monument signs shall have a solid base upon which the sign face
is installed.
         c.   A maximum of two (2) parallel sign faces.
         d.   Shall not exceed six feet (6') in height from finished grade and
shall not visually obstruct traffic and pedestrian circulation.
         e.   Shall not exceed sixty four (64) square feet in sign area for
each side of sign.
   H.   Nontraditional Permanent Signs: A special use permit is required for
each nontraditional sign. A nontraditional sign must be anchored to and
touching the ground. A nontraditional sign must meet the same requirements as a
freestanding sign.
   I.   Projecting Signs: Included within the number and area of permanent
signs and subject to all other provisions of this code are projecting signs. No
projecting sign shall extend more than three feet (3') from the building to
which it is attached. Any projecting sign in excess of twenty four (24) square
feet, shall be accompanied by a plan prepared by an Idaho licensed professional
architect or engineer.
   J.   Roof Signs: All new or altered roof signs effective on the date hereof
require a special use permit as delineated in chapter 7 of this title.
   K.   Vehicular Signage: Any sign attached to, painted or placed on a vehicle
or trailer parked on public or private property in a position visible to
traffic on a public street or parking area is allowed meeting the following
conditions:
      1.   The primary purpose of such vehicle or trailer is not the display of
signs.
      2.   The signs are magnetic, decals, or painted upon an integral part of
the vehicle or equipment as originally designed by the manufacturer, and do not
break the silhouette of the vehicle.
      3.   No portable signs or portable reader board signs are located in or
on the vehicle or trailer.
      4.   The vehicle is in operating condition, currently registered and
licensed to operate on public streets when applicable, and actively used or
available for use in the daily function of the business to which such signs
relate.
      5.   If the vehicle or trailer is not used in the daily function of the
business, the vehicle or trailer parked as a stationary display is limited to
seven (7) days within a sixty (60) day period and then must be moved away from
the public street.
   L.   Wall Murals: Wall murals that bear a printed message shall require a
sign permit. The mural must be of one uniform, continuous design. The printed
or logo advertising message may account for no more than twenty percent (20%)
of the painted area and is limited to the same height restrictions as any other
wall sign as designated in this code.
   M.   Construction Areas:
      1.   Informational Signs: A construction zone may have one informational
sign listing the name or names of the developer, general contractor,
subcontractors, financial institutions, sales agents, consultants, or other
professionals involved with the project.
         a.   Emergency Contact Information: An emergency contact person or
entity and phone number is required to be displayed on the sign in a minimum of
one inch (1") characters.
         b.   Murals: Murals or similar displays may be painted on or attached
to a construction barricade subject to the approval of the city council.
         c.   Posters Prohibited: No posters shall be permitted on a
construction barricade.
         d.   Removal: For all signs provided for in this section, regardless
of the durations permitted therein, no sign shall be allowed to remain for more
than thirty (30) days after completion of the project or issuance of a
certificate of occupancy.
      2.   Commercial/Industrial Projects: Temporary construction and
development signs in subdivisions, advertising the prospective sale or lease of
a group of lots or dwellings within a tract or apartment complex shall be
permitted, subject to the following sign restrictions:
         a.   Any such sign shall be located on the premises being developed,
sold, or leased;
         b.   The sign shall not be illuminated;
         c.   The maximum number of such signs allowed shall be two (2): one
primary and one secondary sign;
         d.   The maximum height of any such sign shall be twelve feet (12');
         e.   The maximum area for a primary sign shall be sixty four (64)
square feet. The maximum area for a secondary sign shall be thirty two (32)
square feet;
         f.   No such sign shall be erected or maintained without first having
obtained a sign permit. The permit shall allow the sign to remain only as long
as property remains undeveloped, unsold, or not leased for the first time
within the tract, but not to exceed one year. Such permit may be renewed up to
two (2) times for an additional period of one year for each renewal, provided
that proof is submitted that the sign is being maintained.
      3.   Off Premises Signs Allowed During Public Road Construction: If a
property owner is affected by public road construction and the property is
directly adjacent to the public road construction, the council may allow off
premises signage to ensure adequate advertising. Signage shall be limited to
the period of construction, shall be constructed of durable materials, designed
and lettered in a professional manner, erected according to sound structural
practices and kept in good repair.
   N.   Event Locator Signs: Temporary signs announcing upcoming events may be
erected subject to the following conditions:
      1.   The signs may only convey the name and/or logo of the event,
pertinent information directing people to the event and the timing of the
event.
      2.   The signs may be erected on private property with the written
consent of the property owner, or in public rights of way with an encroachment
permit and the consent of the city council.
      3.   The signs must be located on the route of the event or at other key
access points to the event.
      4.   The signs may be in place for one business day prior to the event,
during the event and one business day following the event.
   O.   Temporary Promotion Signs:
      1.   Duration And Number Of Permits Per Year: A permit for each temporary
sign shall be valid for two (2) weeks and no more than four (4) such permits
may be issued to any one entity in any calendar year.
      2.   Upkeep And Maintenance: Any temporary sign that is defaced, damaged,
or in any manner in violation of this chapter may be directed to be removed by
the city. The cost of upkeep and maintenance of temporary signs may be assessed
in the manner provided in all sections of this chapter.
      3.   Nontraditional Signs: Nontraditional (including inflatable) signs
may be used as a temporary promotional display for special events without a
special use permit. A nontraditional sign may have a maximum height of fifteen
feet (15') from ground level measured immediately adjacent to the sign.
      4.   Location: All temporary signs must be attached to a permanent
building structure (fences and light standards are not permanent building
structures). No freestanding temporary signs will be permitted.
      5.   Size: Temporary signs may be up to fifty percent (50%) of the size
of any permanent sign which could be permitted for the same location.
   P.   Political Signs:
      1.   One permit per candidate or position on issue shall be sufficient
for all temporary political signs erected during any one campaign.
      2.   Political signs of eight (8) square feet in area or less may be
erected on private property with the consent of the property owner.
      3.   Political signs may be erected for sixty (60) days prior to the
decision in which such candidates or issues are to be decided upon. Such signs
shall be removed not later than the fourth day following such election. Any
such signs which have not been removed by the fifth day following such decision
may be removed by the city's building official. The sponsoring organization
shall be assessed the cost of removing each sign according to the fee schedule
adopted by Council resolution.
   Q.   Vision Triangle Standards:
      1.   No sign face shall be within the clear space of three feet (3') from
ground level to eight feet (8') from ground level.
      2.   No sign structural support (poles or frame) shall be more than one
foot (1') in diameter.
      3.   A-frame signs including frame and structural support shall not
exceed thirty six inches (36") or three feet (3') in height when located within
the vision triangle. (Ord. 219, 7-5-2012; amd. Ord. 277, 6-9-2022)
5-11-12: MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards For Maintenance:
      1.   All signs, together with their supports, braces, guys and anchors,
shall be well maintained and in a safe condition.
      2.   All signs and the site upon which they are located shall be
maintained in a neat, clean and attractive condition. Signs shall be kept free
from rust, corrosion, peeling paint or other surface deterioration. The display
surfaces of all signs shall be kept neatly painted or posted.
      3.   All permanent freestanding signs shall have concrete footings unless
approved by the building official.
      4.   All exposed parts of any sign shall be constructed of such materials
or treated in such a manner that normal rainfall or other moisture shall not
harm, deface or otherwise affect the sign.
   B.   Damaged Signs; Repair; Replacement Or Removal: Any sign or sign
structure which is torn, damaged, defaced or destroyed shall be repaired,
replaced or removed in a manner in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and within seven (7) days after damage occurs. After seven (7) days,
such sign shall be considered an illegal sign subject to removal.
   C.   Removal Of Unsafe Or Illegal Signs; Written Notice To Comply: The city
shall give written notice to the owner or lessee of a sign or to the owner of
the building, structure or premises on which the sign is located if the city
finds that such sign, by reason of its condition or location, is an unsafe sign
or that such sign is an illegal sign which is erected or maintained in
violation of the provisions of this chapter. If the sign is not either removed
or altered to comply with this chapter, within thirty (30) days after mailing
of written notice, such sign may be removed or altered to comply by the city.
Notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner or lessee.
   D.   Removal Of Dangerous Signs Without Notice: No sign shall be erected or
maintained in any manner which will create a hazard or risk to the safety of
motor vehicle or pedestrian traffic. When, in the judgment of the city, a sign
has been erected or maintained in a manner that creates an imminent hazard or
risk to public safety, the city may remove the sign immediately with or without
notice to the permit holder or business manager. If the sign has been erected
or maintained in a manner that creates a hazard or risk to public safety that
is not imminent, the city will provide notice to the permit holder at the
address on the permit application notifying the permit holder of the hazard and
providing a date by which the sign must be repaired or replaced. If the sign is
not repaired or replaced by the date given, the city may remove the sign. The
city may dispose of the sign if the permit holder has not claimed the sign and
reimbursed the city for the removal costs within thirty (30) days of the sign's
removal.
   E.   Cost Of Removal; Notice; Refusal To Comply: Whenever any person
neglects or refuses to remove or alter any sign after written notice by the
city to the owner of the building, structure or premises, the costs sustained
by the city shall be a lien on the real property and be certified for
collection to the county treasurer as provided in Idaho Code section 50-1008.
   F.   Storage Of Removed Signs; Time Limit; Reclamation; Sale Or Destruction:
      1.   The city shall store any sign removed by it for a period of thirty
(30) days from the time the person responsible for such sign is notified as
provided in this chapter. The city shall continue to store such sign for an
additional period pending final decision of the city council on an appeal of an
aggrieved person. At the expiration of the time specified in this subsection,
if the person responsible for the sign or other interested person has not
reclaimed the sign, the city may destroy the sign or sell or salvage the sign
with any proceeds applied toward the cost of compliance.
      2.   To reclaim any sign removed by the city, the person reclaiming the
sign shall pay to the city an amount equal to the entire costs incurred by the
city in seeking compliance with respect to the sign.
   G.   Removal Of Abandoned And Obsolete Signs: No sign shall be maintained
which advertises a business which is no longer conducted or a product which is
no longer sold. Any person who leases or owns a sign shall remove such sign
within thirty (30) days after cessation of the business or discontinuing sale
of an advertised product. Owners of business signs that are located solely on
the business property and business signs that otherwise conform to all other
sign requirements as set forth in this chapter may sign a maintenance agreement
with the city which will allow the owners to maintain the sign structure
portion only of the sign until a new business occupant may be found. Except for
a sign structure under such a written agreement, all signs shall be considered
illegal signs subject to removal.
   H.   Repainting: If required by the city, all originally painted parts or
supports of the sign shall be repainted at least once every five (5) years.
Galvanized steel, aluminum or other similar elements of the sign need not be
painted if not originally painted.
   I.   Painting Over Signs: Painting over any sign painted on any building
shall constitute removal under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 219, 7-5-
2012)
5-11-13: SIGNS AS PART OF MERCHANDISE:
Any sign that is combined with, or can otherwise be taken as part of, any
merchandise for sale must meet all of the regulations for signs. (Ord. 219, 7-
5-2012)
5-11-14: PERMIT APPLICATION; PLANS:
Applications for a sign permit shall be made in writing upon forms furnished by
the city through the office of the city clerk. Such application shall contain
the location and street address of the sign, as well as the name and address of
the sign owner and the building owner. The city may require the filing of plans
or other pertinent information where such information is necessary to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
   A.   Permit Fees; Designated: All applications for sign permits shall be
accompanied by the appropriate fee according to the permit fee schedule
established by resolution of the Dalton Gardens city council.
   B.   Permit; Authority To Revoke Or Seek Revocation: The city is authorized
and empowered to revoke any permit issued by it upon failure of the holder
thereof to comply with any provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Permit; Issuance: The city shall issue a permit upon application duly
made, payment of the required fee and compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   D.   Permit; Expiration:
      1.   Permits for permanent signs shall be valid for a period of six (6)
months from date of issue. Work under such permit shall be completed within
that period of time unless the permit is extended by the city for good cause
shown and its finding that the sign still complies with this chapter.
      2.   Permits for temporary sign displays and temporary promotional sign
displays shall be valid for sixty (60) days from date of issue.
      3.   No person shall erect, alter, replace, relocate, reconstruct, or
perform any electrical wiring in or upon any sign without first obtaining a
permit.
      4.   No permit is required to repair or maintain an existing sign as long
as it is not an alteration, replacement, relocation, or reconstruction, noted
in subsection D3 of this section, which would require a permit.
   E.   Electrical Permits: Where electrical permits are required for sign
erection or repair, they shall be obtained from the state electrical official
prior to making the final electrical connections from the sign to the
electrical power source.
   F.   Permits; Separate Permit Required; Multiple Sign Structures: Except for
exempted signs or for signs displayed in a temporary promotional, political, or
attention getting display, each individual sign erected requires a permit. Each
sign in a multiple display requires a separate permit. For the sign support
structure and/or wall facades that display multiple signs, a separate permit is
required. Wall facades, in addition to a sign permit, require a building
permit. (Ord. 219, 7-5-2012)
5-11-15: ENFORCEMENT:
The provisions of this chapter may be enforced in any manner allowed by law
including, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person violating any of the sign code
provisions set out in this chapter may be given written notice to come into
compliance within a set period of time.
   B.   Infraction: Any person violating any of the sign code provisions set
out in this chapter may be assessed an infraction payable to the city within
thirty (30) days of the citation. Each day after thirty (30) days is considered
a separate violation and is subject to all infraction fines.
   C.   Other Penalties: Any person who fails to pay the penalty, or fails to
file an appeal to the violation within thirty (30) days shall be subject to
other penalties as delineated in title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
   D.   Enforcement; Injunction: Civil action may be brought on behalf of the
city in the appropriate court to enjoin violation of this chapter or for an
order requiring removal of any sign in violation of this chapter. In any such
action the city, if successful, may be awarded its costs and a reasonable
attorney fee as provided by the court. (Ord. 219, 7-5-2012)
CHAPTER 12
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-12-1: Title And Purpose
5-12-2: Prohibitions
5-12-3: Temporary No Parking Zones
5-12-4: Designated Disabled Parking
5-12-5: Off Street Parking And Loading Areas Required
5-12-6: Location Of Off Street Parking
5-12-7: Parking Plan Required
5-12-8: Off Street Loading Areas
5-12-9: Off Street Parking Requirements
5-12-10: Size Of Spaces
5-12-11: Shared Parking Facilities
5-12-12: Violation Of Traffic Or Parking Provisions; Penalty
5-12-13: Charges For Violation
5-12-14: Vehicle Ownership As Evidence
5-12-15: Impoundment Of Vehicles; Authority
5-12-16: Expenses, Owner Responsibility
5-12-1: TITLE AND PURPOSE:
The provisions of this chapter shall be known as PARKING REGULATIONS. The
purpose of these regulations is to provide minimum standards for parking of
vehicles within the city of Dalton Gardens.
   A.   To require off street parking;
   B.   To specify minimum requirements of parking and loading for uses
indicated in this title;
   C.   To reduce traffic congestion;
   D.   To reduce pollution and dust and to increase the safety of lots
requiring them to meet the standards required in this chapter. (Ord. 206, 4-1-
2010; amd. Ord. 272, 9-14-2021)
5-12-2: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Except in emergency situations, or at the direction of a police officer
or traffic control device, no person shall park a vehicle in any of the
following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk;
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      3.   Within an intersection; or within thirty feet (30') of an
intersection;
      4.   On a crosswalk;
      5.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      6.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      7.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
      8.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant;
      9.   Within thirty feet (30') of any flashing signal, stop sign, yield
sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a street;
      10.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station.
      11.   Within any city-owned right of way at any time there is measurable
snow on the ground.
   B.   No person shall drive, operate or park a motorized vehicle upon any
officially marked bicycle lane, bicycle path, footpath or other separate right
of way specifically set aside for use by pedestrians or nonmotorized vehicles
except at an intersection or when entering or leaving a roadway at a driveway,
private road or alley. This section shall not apply to authorized emergency
vehicles meeting the conditions specified in title 49 of the Idaho Code, or
authorized maintenance and construction vehicles while actually engaged in work
upon a roadway or nonmotorized right of way.
   C.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area.
   D.   No vehicle shall be parked at the same location on any public street in
the city continuously for more than twenty four (24) hours.
   E.   No vehicle shall be parked upon the private property of another without
the consent of the owner of such property, and the designated law enforcement
officer or official designated by the city is hereby authorized to remove said
vehicle therefrom and cause the same to be stored; provided, the owner of said
private property has first complained against the owner or operator of such
vehicle. (Ord. 206, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 272, 9-14-2021)
5-12-3: TEMPORARY NO PARKING ZONES:
The Kootenai County sheriff or other official designated by the city is
authorized to indicate temporary zones where vehicles shall not be parked when,
in the opinion of the Kootenai County sheriff or other official designated by
the city, it is necessary to prevent temporarily the parking of vehicles on any
street or portion of such street. The Kootenai County sheriff or other official
designated by the city may do so either by placing appropriate signs or placing
barricades or officers at such places. It is unlawful for any person to park
any vehicle at such time and at such designated places. The Kootenai County
sheriff or other official designated by the city is authorized to remove such
illegally parked vehicles and the owner thereof shall pay the cost of such
removal. (Ord. 206, 4-1-2010)
5-12-4: DESIGNATED DISABLED PARKING:
   A.   Parking a vehicle, on public or private property open to the public, in
a space reserved for the disabled, which space is marked in conformance with
the requirements specified in the Idaho Code section 49-213, or any subsequent
Idaho Code section which specifies the manner of marking or signing disabled
parking, is prohibited, unless a vehicle is momentarily in the space for the
purpose of allowing a disabled person to enter or leave the vehicle, or unless
a special license plate, card, or temporary card for the disabled as prescribed
in Idaho Code section 49-410, or any subsequent Idaho Code sections which
provide for the issuance of a special license plate, card, or temporary card
for a person with a disability, is displayed on the vehicle. The registered
owner of a vehicle parked in violation of the provisions of this section is
guilty of an infraction.
   B.   Law enforcement officials or officials designated by the city are
empowered to enter upon private property open to the public to enforce the
provisions of this section. (Ord. 206, 4-1-2010)
5-12-5: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING AREAS REQUIRED:
Off street parking and loading areas conforming to the provisions of this
chapter shall be provided in commercial zones when a building is constructed,
enlarged or undergoes a change of use. (Ord. 206, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 272, 9-
14-2021)
5-12-6: LOCATION OF OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Off street parking shall be provided on the commercial lot and under
the same ownership as the use it serves, except that two (2) or more uses may
share a parking area where:
      1.   The total number of spaces provided is not less than the sum of the
parking spaces required for all buildings or uses served, and
      2.   A contract providing for shared parking is executed before approval
of a permit and recorded before the issuance of an occupancy permit.
   B.   Required off street parking spaces for commercial or industrial uses
shall be within five hundred feet (500') of a main entrance of the building or
use being served. (Ord. 206, 4-1-2010)
5-12-7: PARKING PLAN REQUIRED:
   A.   When Required; Contents: When a building is constructed, erected or
enlarged, when the capacity of a building or structure is increased, or when
the use of the building or structure is changed a detailed written report and
drawing shall be submitted to and approved by the city. The written report and
drawing shall contain the following information:
      1.   The proposed use of the land and/or structures;
      2.   A proposed plan for handling any parking or traffic flow problems
that may be generated by this use. The proposed use shall not cause congestion
of adjacent streets or alleyways;
      3.   Consideration for snow storage or removal must be determined; and
      4.   Compliance with title 4, chapter 3 of this code (stormwater
management).
   B.   Standards: The drawing shall be professionally prepared, drawn to
appropriate scale and shall show all parking spaces and their dimensions,
access aisles, and entrances and exits to the site. The parking plan drawing
may be combined with the plan required under title 4, chapter 3 of this code
(stormwater management). Parking provided shall conform to the following
standards:
      1.   Each required off street parking space shall have access to a public
street, alley or private driveway;
      2.   Disabled parking shall be installed in accordance with the standards
of Idaho Code 49-213, and Americans with disabilities act of 1990, as amended;
      3.   The snow storage area shall drain to, but shall not be located on,
the site of stormwater treatment area (grass swales);
      4.   All parking areas shall be surfaced and maintained with asphalt or
concrete;
      5.   No parking spaces shall be located in the clear sight area
immediately adjacent to an exit to a public right of way as determined by the
Planning Administrator;
      6.   Service drives shall be designed and constructed to facilitate the
flow of traffic, provide maximum safety for traffic ingress and egress, and
provide maximum safety for pedestrian and vehicular traffic on site;
      7.   All parking areas will have specific points designated as ingress or
egress areas. Driveways with a one-way access in and out of the parking lot
shall be at least twelve feet (12') wide. Driveways with a two-way access in
and out of the parking lot shall be at least twenty feet (20') wide. No access
point from a parking area to any street shall be within twenty feet (20') of a
local street intersection or alley. No access point shall be within forty feet
(40') of an intersection with a collector street or sixty feet (60') of an
intersection with an arterial street. The distance from an access driveway to
an intersection is measured from the junction of the corner lot lines at the
intersection, to the nearest side of the driveway. The parking area shall be
planned so that vehicles leaving the parking area and entering a public right
of way shall have the opportunity to exit in a forward direction;
      8.   All parking lot approaches shall conform to the most current
standards provided in the highway standards for the associated highway
districts, Kootenai County, Idaho, or the jurisdiction that owns the right of
way; and
      9.   Parking facilities shall be used for vehicle parking only. No
permanent automobile sales, equipment or machinery sales are allowed in parking
facilities nor shall they be used for storage of any type, repair work or
vehicle dismantling. (Ord. 206, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 272, 9-14-2021)
5-12-8: OFF STREET LOADING AREAS:
Loading areas shall be provided for all commercial and industrial buildings and
uses. A larger area may be required in any case where approval of a special use
permit is involved.
   A.   On the same premises with every building hereafter erected which
contains more than fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet and which is designed
to be occupied by any use requiring regular receipt or dispatch of merchandise
by truck, there shall be provided and maintained at least one loading area, not
less than thirty feet (30') in length, ten feet (10') in width, and fourteen
feet (14') in vertical clearance, exclusive of access platform and maneuvering
area.
   B.   No vehicle parked in a required off street loading area shall extend
into a public right of way. (Ord. 206, 4-1-2010)
5-12-9: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum number of parking spaces to be provided under this chapter shall be
as follows:
Auto or equipment repair. Three (3) spaces for every repair or cleaning bay,
plus one space for every employee on the largest shift.
Civic, religious and community uses. One space for every four (4) seats or one
space for every four hundred (400) square feet of gross floor area, whichever
is greater. Public schools require two (2) spaces for each classroom and one
space for every five (5) students.
Ministorage. No off street parking required; however, driveways between
ministorage buildings on the same site and between ministorage buildings and
any property line shall be paved and have a minimum width of twenty four feet
(24').
Professional office. One parking space for every three hundred thirty (330)
square feet of gross floor area.
Retail sales and services. One parking space for every three hundred thirty
(330) square feet of gross floor area.
Restaurants, taverns and lounges. One parking space for every two hundred fifty
(250) square feet of gross floor area.
Storage. One parking space for every one thousand (1,000) square feet of gross
floor area.
Vehicular storage. One space for every employee on the largest shift plus one
space for every vehicle stored.
Wholesale, manufacturing and assembly. One parking space for every five hundred
(500) square feet of gross floor area is required.
For other, unlisted uses, the Planning Administrator shall determine the number
of spaces based on the most similar use. (Ord. 206, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 272, 9-
14-2021)
5-12-10: SIZE OF SPACES:
The sizes of off street parking spaces are:
   A.   Off street parking spaces, other than parallel and compact spaces,
shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') wide and twenty feet (20') deep;
   B.   Compact parking spaces shall be a minimum of eight feet (8') wide and
fifteen feet (15') deep;
   C.   Parking spaces located parallel to and adjoining private driveways
shall be a minimum of eight feet (8') wide and twenty three feet (23') deep;
   D.   For unenclosed parking spaces, the sides of which abut a building,
fence, landscaping or other obstruction, add two feet (2') to the width of the
parking space, for perpendicular (0 degree) parking spaces, add one foot (1')
to the width of angle parking spaces;
   E.   Compact parking spaces shall be limited to twenty five percent (25%) of
the total required spaces. (Ord. 206, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 272, 9-14-2021)
5-12-11: SHARED PARKING FACILITIES:
The city may, upon application by the owner or lessee of any property,
authorize the shared use of parking facilities. "Shared use parking" is defined
as the sharing of parking spaces by adjacent, nonconflicting land uses at
different periods of the day under the conditions specified herein. If
different uses within a development share parking, the city may reduce the
total amount of required spaces by up to twenty percent (20%).
   A.   Up to fifty percent (50%) of the parking facilities required for a use
considered to be primarily a daytime use may be provided by the parking
facilities of a use considered to be primarily a nighttime use or vice versa,
provided, that the shared parking area shall be subject to any and all
conditions set forth by the city.
   B.   The applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city that
there is no substantial conflict in the principal operating hours of the
buildings or uses for which the shared use of the parking facility is proposed.
   C.   Parties jointly using off street parking facilities, as provided for
herein, shall execute a legal easement regarding their shared use agreement.
The agreement shall run with the land and not be terminable without
authorization being given by the city council, based upon changed conditions.
   D.   Changes of use shall require reevaluation of shared use parking. Any
subsequent change in land uses within a mixed use development will require
proof that sufficient parking will be available. (Ord. 206, 4-1-2010)
5-12-12: VIOLATION OF TRAFFIC OR PARKING PROVISIONS; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the traffic or parking provisions set out in this
chapter shall have committed an infraction unless other penalty is provided by
state law, and, upon being found to have violated a provision of this chapter,
shall be penalized as allowed by state law. (Ord. 206, 4-1-2010)
5-12-13: CHARGES FOR VIOLATION:
   A.   Any person violating any of the parking provisions set out in this
chapter shall be assessed charges as delineated in parking fines resolution as
adopted by the Dalton Gardens city council.
   B.   Any police or sheriff's officer or other person(s) designated by the
city observing any of the foregoing violations may issue a ticket describing
such violation, and the charge assessed for the violation to the persons
committing the violation. The ticket shall be payable to the city clerk within
ten (10) days of the violation. Failure to pay the civil assessment set forth
on the parking ticket shall result in further action being taken by the city as
set forth in subsection C of this section.
For violations of Idaho Code 49-659, 49-660 or 49-661 officers may complete the
uniform citation with as much information as is available, sign the citation as
served and place the defendant's copy conspicuously on the offending vehicle.
This service will be the same as if the officer signed the citation and
personally delivered it to the registered owner.
   C.   Failure To Pay Civil Penalty For Parking Violation:
      1.   In the event any person fails or refuses to pay the civil penalty
assessed for a parking violation, the city shall take such action as is
necessary for collection of the civil assessment.
      2.   Collection actions may include, but are not limited to, initiating
collection procedures via a debt collection service and filing a civil lawsuit
for collection of the unpaid penalty(ies). Provided, further, the city shall be
entitled to all fees, costs, and attorney fees incurred in the collection of
such fees and, upon entry of judgment, the city shall have each, every, and all
rights of enforcement of a judgment as provided by Idaho Code. (Ord. 206, 4-1-
2010)
5-12-14: VEHICLE OWNERSHIP AS EVIDENCE:
   A.   In any prosecution against the registered owner of a motor vehicle
charging a violation of any regulation governing the standing or parking of a
vehicle under any ordinance of the city, proof that the particular vehicle
described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such ordinance,
together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was, at the time
of parking, the registered owner of the vehicle, shall constitute prima facie
evidence that the registered owner of the vehicle was the person who parked or
placed the vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, the
violation occurred. For the purposes of this subsection, proof that a person is
the registered owner of a vehicle is not prima facie evidence that the
registered owner has violated any other provision of law. Proof of a written
lease or of a rental agreement for a particular vehicle described in the
complaint on the date and time of the violation, which lease or rental
agreement includes the name and address of the person to whom the vehicle is
leased or rented, shall rebut the prima facie evidence that the registered
owner was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the time and place
where the violations occurred.
   B.   In any prosecution against the lessee or renter of a motor vehicle
charging a violation of any regulation governing the standing or parking of a
vehicle under any ordinance of the city, proof that the particular vehicle
described in the complaint was parked in violation of any provision of the
ordinance, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was,
at the time of parking, the lessee or renter of the vehicle, shall constitute
prima facie evidence that the lessee or renter of the vehicle was the person
who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where, and for the time during
which, the violation occurred. For the purposes of this subsection, proof that
a person is the lessee or renter of a vehicle is not prima facie evidence that
the lessee or renter has violated any other provision of this law.
   C.   Any charge under such ordinance shall be dismissed when the person
charged has made a bona fide sale or transfer of the vehicle, has delivered
possession thereof to the purchaser, and has complied with the requirements of
chapter 4, title 49 of the Idaho Code prior to the date of the alleged
violation and has advised the court of the name and address of the purchaser
and the date of the sale. (Ord. 206, 4-1-2010)
5-12-15: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES; AUTHORITY:
The Kootenai County sheriff's department or, to the extent permitted by law,
other person(s) designated by the city are authorized, in their discretion, to
remove and impound at such place as may be designated by the Kootenai County
sheriff's department any vehicle found abandoned or parked in violation of any
provision of this code. (Ord. 206, 4-1-2010)
5-12-16: EXPENSES, OWNER RESPONSIBILITY:
All costs and expenses of taking and keeping any such vehicle, including the
costs and expenses of towing, keeping and storing, shall be paid by the owner
of such vehicle and shall constitute a lien in favor of the city upon and
against such vehicle. (Ord. 206, 4-1-2010)
CHAPTER 13
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITIES
SECTION:
5-13-1: Telecommunications Towers and Personal Wireless Service Facility
Requirements
5-13-2: Purpose and Legislative Intent
5-13-3: Definitions; Word Usage
5-13-4: Application Types
5-13-5: Shot Clock Periods
5-13-6: Shot Clock Tolls, Extensions And Reasonable Delay Periods
5-13-7: Application Requirements
5-13-8: Design Standards
5-13-9: Hearings And Public Notice
5-13-10: Factual Determinations To Be Rendered By The Planning And Zoning
Commission
5-13-11: Retention Of Consultants
5-13-12: Setback Requirements
5-13-13: Height Restrictions
5-13-14: Environmental Impacts
5-13-15: Historic Site Impacts
5-13-16: Force Majeure
5-13-17: Eleventh Hour Submissions
5-13-18: Prohibition Against Illegally Excessive Emissions And RF Radiation
Testing
5-13-19: Bond Requirements And Removal Of Abandoned Facilities And Reclamation
5-13-20: General Provisions
5-13-1: TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITY
REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No telecommunication tower or other personal wireless service facility
shall be sited, constructed, reconstructed, installed, materially changed or
altered, expanded, or used unless in conformity with this section.
   B.   The installation, construction, erection, relocation, substantial
expansion, or material alteration of any personal wireless service facility
(PWSF) within the City shall require a special use permit pursuant to the
provisions of Dalton Gardens City Code 5-7 unless otherwise provided herein
below.
   C.   The performance of maintenance, routine maintenance, in-kind
replacement of components, and/or repairs (as defined herein) to an existing
personal wireless service facility and/or existing personal wireless service
equipment shall not require a special use permit except for enlargement and/or
expansion as detailed herein.
   D.   Each application for a special use permit under this chapter, and each
individual personal wireless service facility for which a special use permit is
applied, shall be considered based upon the individual characteristics of each
respective installation at each proposed location, as an individual case. In
other words, each installation, at each proposed location, shall be reviewed
and considered independently for its own characteristics and potential impacts,
irrespective of whether the proposed facility is designed and intended to
operate independently or whether the installation is designed and/or intended
to operate jointly as part of a distributed antenna system. (Ord. 278, 6-30-
2022)
5-13-2: PURPOSE AND LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
   A.   The purpose of this section is: to promote the health, safety, and
general welfare of the people of the City of Dalton Gardens; to protect
property rights; and to protect the important environmental features and
scenic, historical, natural, and man-made character and appearance of the City;
while simultaneously ensuring adequate public facilities and services by
providing standards for the safe provision, monitoring, and removal of cell
towers and other personal wireless service facilities consistent with
applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations.
   B.   Consistent with the balancing of interests which the United States
Congress intended to embed with the TCA, Chapter 13 is intended to serve as a
Smart Planning Provision, designed to achieve the four (4) simultaneous
objectives of:
      1.   Enabling personal wireless service providers to provide adequate
personal wireless services throughout the City so that City residents can enjoy
the benefits of same, from any FCC licensed wireless carrier from whom they
choose to obtain such services; while
      2.   Minimizing the number of cell towers and/or other personal wireless
service facilities needed to provide such coverage;
      3.   Preventing, to the greatest extent reasonably practical, any
unnecessary adverse impacts upon the City's communities, residential areas, and
individual homes; while
      4.   Complying with all of the legal requirements which the federal
Telecommunications Act of 1996 (hereinafter "the TCA") imposes upon the City,
when the City receives, processes and determines applications seeking approvals
for the siting, construction and operation of cell towers and/or other personal
wireless service facilities.
   C.   The City seeks to minimize, to the greatest extent possible, any
unnecessary adverse impacts caused by the siting, placement, physical size,
and/or unnecessary proliferation of, personal wireless service facilities,
including, but not limited to, adverse aesthetic impacts, adverse impacts upon
property values, adverse impacts upon the character of any surrounding
properties and communities, and the exposure of persons and property to
potential dangers such as structural failures, icefall, debris fall, and fire.
   D.   The City also seeks to ensure that, in applying this section, the
Planning and Zoning Commission is vested with sufficient authority to require
applicants to provide sufficient, accurate, and truthful probative evidence, to
enable the Commission to render factual determinations consistent with both the
provisions set forth herein below and the requirements of the TCA, when
rendering decisions upon such applications.
   E.   To achieve the objectives stated herein, the City seeks to employ the
"General Authority" preserved to it under Section 47 U.S.C.A. § 332(c)(7)(A) of
the TCA to the greatest extent which the United States Congress intended to
preserve those powers to the City, while simultaneously complying with each of
the substantive and procedural requirements set forth within the subsection 47
U.S.C.A. §332(c)(7)(B) of the TCA. (Ord. 278, 6-30-2022)
5-13-3: DEFINITIONS; WORD USAGE:
For purposes of this article, and where not inconsistent with the context of a
particular section, the defined terms, phrases, words, abbreviations, and their
derivations, shall have the meaning given in this section. When not
inconsistent with the context, words in the present tense include the future
tense, words used in the plural number include words in the singular number,
and words in the singular number include the plural number. The word "shall" is
always mandatory and not merely directory. The definitions set forth herein
shall supersede any definitions set forth within Chapter 1, and the definitions
set forth herein below shall control and apply to Chapter 13 and all
subparagraphs herein below.
                   An Accessory Facility or Structure serving or being used in conjunction with a
ACCESSORY FACILITY personal wireless service facility or complex and located on the same property or
OR STRUCTURE:      lot as the personal wireless services facility or complex, but not limited to,
                   utility or transmission equipment storage sheds or cabinets.
ACHP:              The federal Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
                   As determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission, adequate coverage means that
                   a specific wireless carrier's personal wireless service coverage is such that the
                   vast majority of its customers can successfully use the carrier's personal
                   wireless service the vast majority of the time, in the vast majority of the
                   geographic locations within the City, that the success rate of using their
                   devices exceeds ninety-seven percent (97%), and that any geographic gaps in a
ADEQUATE COVERAGE: carrier's gaps in personal wireless services are not significant gaps, based upon
                   such factors including, but not limited to, lack of significant physical size of
                   the gap. whether the gap is located upon a lightly traveled or lightly occupied
                   area, whether only a small number of customers are affected by the gap. and/or
                   whether or not the carrier's customers are affected for only limited periods of
                   time. A wireless carrier's coverage shall not be deemed inadequate simply because
                   the frequency or frequencies at which its customers are using its services are
                   not the most preferred frequency of the wireless carrier.
AMEND, AMENDMENT   Means and shall relate to any change, addition, correction, deletion,
and AMENDED:       replacement, or substitution, other than typographical changes of no effect.
                   An apparatus designed for the purpose of emitting radio frequency (RF) radiation,
ANTENNA:           to be operated or operating from a fixed location, for the provision of personal
                   wireless service.
                   Any individual, corporation, limited liability company, general partnership,
                   limited partnership, estate, trust, joint-stock company, association of two or
APPLICANT:         more persons having a joint common interest, or any other entity submitting an
                   application for a Special Use Permit, site plan approval, variance, building
                   permit, and/or any other related approval, for the installation, operation and/or
                   maintaining of one or more personal wireless service facilities.
                   Refers to all necessary and required documentation and evidence that an applicant
APPLICATION:       must submit to receive a special use permit, building permit, or other approval
                   for personal wireless service facilities from the City.
                   A common test performed to provide some visual depiction of the height for a
                   proposed new cell tower or PWSF, wherein the applicant floats a helium balloon,
                   typically five (5) feet in diameter, tied to a string or rope, affixed to the
                   ground at the precise location where they are seeking to install their new cell
BALLOON TEST:      tower or other PWSF. Advance notice of the test is provide to the public, nearby
                   property owners and the local board(s) deciding any zoning applications for such
                   facility, and the balloon is floated for a minimum period of several hours. To
                   ensure that members of the public have a fair opportunity to view same, such
                   tests are often conducted on a Saturday.
                   A free-standing, guy-wired, or otherwise supported pole, tower, or other
                   structure designed to support or employed to support, equipment and/or antennas
CELL TOWER:        used to provide personal wireless services, including, but not limited to a pole,
                   monopole, monopine, slim stick, lattice tower or other types of standing
                   structures.
CEQ:               The Council on Environmental Quality established under NEPA.
CFR:               The Code of Federal Regulations
CITY:              The Incorporated City of Dalton Gardens.
CODE and/or the    The Code of the City of Dalton Gardens.
CODE:
                   To install, mount or add new or additional equipment to be used for the provision
COLOCATION and/or  of personal wireless services to a pre-existing structure, facility, or complex
CO-LOCATE:         which is already built and is currently being used to provide personal wireless
                   services, by a different provider of such services, wireless carrier or site
                   developer.
COMMISSION:        The Planning and Zoning Commission of the City of Dalton Gardens.
                   An application that contains all the necessary and required information, records,
                   evidence, reports, and/or data necessary to enable an informed decision to be
                   made with respect to an application. Where any information is provided pursuant
COMPLETE           to the terms of this Article and the Planning Administrator or the City's expert
APPLICATION,       or consultant or the Planning Commission determines, based upon information
COMPLETED          provided, that any additional, further or clarifying information is needed as to
APPLICATION:       one or more aspects, then the application will be deemed incomplete until that
                   further or clarifying information is provided to the satisfaction of the Planning
                   Administrator, Planning and Zoning Commission or the City's expert or consultant
                   or the Commission.
COMPLEX:           The entire site or facility, including all structures and equipment, located at
                   the site.
                   DBM stands for decibel milliwatts, which is a concrete measurement of the
DBM (dBm):         wireless signal strength of wireless networks. Signal strengths are recorded in
                   negative numbers, and can range from approximately -30 dBm to -110 dBm. The
                   closer the number is to 0, the stronger the cell signal.
DEPLOYMENT:        The placement, construction, or substantial modification of a personal wireless
                   service facility.
DISTRIBUTED        A network of spatially separated antenna nodes connected to a common source via a
ANTENNA SYSTEM,    transport medium that provides personal wireless services within a geographic
DAS:               area.
                   A finding by the Planning and Zoning Commission that, based upon an applicant's
                   submission of sufficient probative, relevant, and sufficiently reliable evidence,
                   and the appropriate weight which the Commission deems appropriate to afford same,
                   an applicant has established that an identified wireless carrier does not have
                   adequate coverage as defined hereinabove, but suffers from a significant gap in
                   its personal wireless services within the City and that a proposed installation
EFFECTIVE          by that applicant would be the least intrusive means of remedying that gap, such
PROHIBITION:       that a denial of the application to install such installation would effectively
                   prohibit the carrier from providing personal wireless services within the City.
                   Any determination of whether an applicant has established, or failed to
                   establish, both the existence of a significant gap and whether its proposed
                   installation, at the site chosen, the specific location on that proposed site,
                   and the proposed minimum height for the new facility, shall be based upon
                   substantial evidence, as is defined herein above.
                   An applicant's submission of new and/or additional materials in support of an
                   application within forty-eight (48) hours of the expiration of an applicable shot
ELEVENTH HOUR      clock, or at an otherwise unreasonably short period of time before the expiration
SUBMISSIONS:       of the shot, making it impracticable for the Planning and Zoning Commission to
                   adequately review and consider such submissions due to their complexity, volume,
                   or other factors, before the expiration of the shot clock.
ENURE:             To operate or take effect. To serve to the use, benefit, or advantage of a person
                   or party.
EPA:               The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
FAA:               The Federal Aviation Administration, or its duly designated and authorized
                   successor agency.
FACILITY:          A set of wireless transmitting and/or receiving equipment, including any
                   associated electronics and electronics shelter or cabinet and generator.
FCC:               The Federal Communications Commission.
GENERAL            The applicable radiofrequency radiation exposure limits set forth within 47 CFR §
POPULATION/UNCONT  1.1310(e)(1), Table 1 Section (ii), made applicable pursuant to 47 CFR § 1.1310
ROLLED EXPOSURE    (e)(3).
LIMITS:
                   When referring to a tower, personal wireless service facility, or personal
                   wireless service facility structure, the height shall mean the distance measured
                   from the pre-existing grade level to the highest point on the tower, facility, or
HEIGHT:            structure, including anything attached to the top of the structure, including,
                   but not limited to, any accessory, fitting, fitment, extension, addition, addon,
                   antenna, whip antenna, lightning rod or other types of lightning-protection
                   devices.
HISTORIC           Any structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places or eligible for
STRUCTURE:         inclusion upon same.
ILLEGALLY
EXCESSIVE RF       RF radiation emissions at levels that exceed the legally permissible limits set
RADIATION or       forth within 47 CFR § 1.1310(e)(1), Table 1 Sections (i) and (ii), as made
ILLEGALLY          applicable pursuant to 47 CFR § 1.1310(e)(3).
EXCESSIVE
RADIATION:
IN-KIND            The replacement of a malfunctioning component(s) with a properly functioning
REPLACEMENT:       component of substantially the same weight, dimensions, and outward appearance.
MACROCELL:         A cellular base station that typically sends and receives radio signals from
                   large towers and antennas.
                   Plumbing, electrical or mechanical work that may require a building permit but
MAINTENANCE or     that does not constitute a modification to the personal wireless service
ROUTINE            facility. It includes work necessary to assure that a wireless facility and/or
MAINTENANCE:       telecommunications structure exists and operates reliably and in a safe manner,
                   presents no threat to persons or property, and remains compliant with the
                   provisions of this chapter and FCC requirements.
                   What is technologically required for the equipment to function as designed by the
                   manufacturer, and that anything less will result in prohibiting the provision of
NECESSARY or       service as intended and described in the narrative of the application.
NECESSITY or NEED: "Necessary" or "need" does not mean what may be desired, preferred, or the most
                   cost-efficient approach and is not related to an applicant's specific chosen
                   design standards. Any situation involving a choice between or among alternatives
                   or options is not a need or a necessity.
NEPA:              The National Environmental Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. § 4321 et seq.
NHPA:              The National Historic Preservation Act, 54 U.S.C. 300101 et seq, and 36 CFR Part
                   800 et seq.
                   A fixed antenna and related equipment installation that operates as part of a
                   system of spatially separated antennas, all of which are connected through a
NODE, DAS NODE:    medium through which they work collectively to provide personal wireless
                   services, as opposed to other types of personal wireless facilities, such as
                   macrocells, which operate independently.
                   An address, which is required to be provided by an applicant at the time it
                   submits an application for any type of approval from the Planning and Zoning
                   Commission, at which the commission and/or a Planning Administrator can mail
NOTICE ADDRESS:    notice, and the mailing of any notice to such address by first-class mail shall
                   constitute sufficient notice to any and all applicants, co-applicants, and or
                   their attorneys, to satisfy any notice requirements under this Chapter, as well
                   as any notice requirements of any other local, state and/or federal law.
NOTICE OF          A written notice, mailed by first class mail, to an applicant seeking an approval
INCOMPLETENESS,    for the installation of a PWEF, wherein the sender advises the applicant that its
NOTICE OF          application is either incomplete, the wrong type of application, or is otherwise
INCOMPLETE         defective, and setting for the reason or reasons why the application is
APPLICATION:       incomplete and/or defective.
                   A written notice which is required to be provided to the City at the time of the
                   filing of any application, by all applicants at seeking any approval, of any
NOTICE OF          type, for the siting, installation and/or construction of a PWSF, wherein the
EFFECTIVE          respective applicant asserts, claims or intends to assert or claim, that a denial
PROHIBITION        of their respective application, by any agent, employee, board or body of the
CONDITIONS:        City, would constitute an "effective prohibition" within the meaning of the TCA,
                   and concomitantly, that a denial of their respective application or request would
                   violate Section 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(B)(i)(II) of the TCA.
OCCUPATIONAL/CONT  The applicable radiofrequency radiation exposure limits set forth within 47 CFR §
ROLLED EXPOSURE    1.1310(e)(1), Table I Section (i), made applicable pursuant to 47 CFR § 1.1310(e)
LIMITS:            (2).
                   A facility or facilities used for the provision of personal wireless services,
                   within the meaning of 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(c)(ii). It means a specific location
                   at which a structure that is designed or intended to be used to house or
PERSONAL WIRELESS  accommodate antennas or other transmitting or receiving equipment is located.
SERVICES FACILITY, This includes, without limitation, towers of all types and all kinds of support
PERSONAL WIRELESS  structures, including but not limited to buildings, church steeples, silos, water
SERVICES           towers, signs, utility poles, or any other structure that is used or is proposed
FACILITIES or      to be used as a telecommunications structure for the placement, installation and/
PWSF:              or attachment of antennas or the functional equivalent of such. It expressly
                   includes all related facilities and equipment such as cabling, radios and other
                   electronic equipment, equipment shelters and enclosures, cabinets, and other
                   structures enabling the complex to provide personal wireless services.
PERSONAL WIRELESS  Commercial mobile services, unlicensed wireless services, and common carrier
SERVICE, PERSONAL  wireless exchange access services, within the meaning of 47 U.S.C. §332(c)(7)(c)
WIRELESS SERVICES: (i), and as defined therein.
PLANNING           A Planning Administrator appointed or contracted pursuant to Section
ADMINISTRATOR:     1-10-1 of the Code.
PLANNING
COMMISSION,        The City of Dalton Gardens Planning and Zoning Commission
COMMISSION:
                   Probative evidence is evidence that tends to prove facts. The more a piece of
PROBATIVE          evidence or testimony proves a fact, the greater its probative value, as shall be
EVIDENCE:          determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission, as the finder-of-fact in
                   determining whether to grant or deny applications for special use permits under
                   Chapter 5-7 of the Dalton Gardens City Code.
                   The dismantling and taking away or getting rid of a PWSF, including, but not
REMOVAL:           limited to, all of its components, support structures, wiring, enclosures and any
                   other portions of any such facility.
                   The replacement or repair of any components of a wireless facility or complex
                   where the replacement is substantially identical to the component or components
                   being replaced, or for any matters that involve the normal repair and maintenance
REPAIRS:           of a wireless facility or complex without the addition, removal, or change of any
                   of the physical or visually discernible components or aspects of a wireless
                   facility or complex that will impose new visible intrusions of the facility or
                   complex as originally permitted.
RF:                Radiofrequency.
                   Radiofrequency radiation, that being electromagnetic radiation which is a
RF RADIATION:      combination of electric and magnetic fields that move through space as waves, and
                   which can include both Non-Ionizing radiation and Ionizing radiation.
SECTION 106        A review under Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act.
REVIEW:
                   For purposes of special permit applications, a setback shall mean the distance
                   between:
                   A.   Any portion of a personal wireless facility and/or complex, including but
                   not limited to any and all accessory facilities and/or structures; and
                   B.   The exterior boundary of any parcel of real property or part thereof which
                   is owned by, or leased by, an applicant seeking a special permit to construct or
SETBACK:           install a personal wireless facility upon such real property or portion thereof.
                   In residential zones, setback shall also include the distance from any adjacent
                   residential dwellings or structures.
                   In the event that an applicant leases only a portion of real property owned by a
                   landlord, the setback shall be measured from the facility to the line of that
                   portion of the real property which is actually leased by the applicant, as
                   opposed to the exterior lot line of the non-leased portion of the property owned
                   by the landlord.
                   The applicable period which is presumed to be a reasonable period within which
                   the City is generally required to issue a final decision upon an application
SHOT CLOCK:        seeking special permit approval for the installation or substantial modification
                   of a personal wireless services facility or structure, to comply with Section 47
                   U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(B)(ii) of the TCA.
SHPO:              The Idaho State Historic Preservation Office
                   Individuals and/or entities engaged in the business of constructing wireless
SITE DEVELOPER or  facilities and wireless facility infrastructure and leasing space and/or capacity
SITE DEVELOPERS:   upon, or use of, their facilities and/or infrastructure to wireless carriers.
                   Unlike wireless carriers, site developers generally do not directly provide
                   personal wireless services to end-use consumers.
                   A fixed cellular base station that typically sends and receives radio signals and
SMALL CELL:        which are mounted upon poles or support structures at substantially lower
                   elevations than macrocell facilities.
                   A personal wireless service facility that meets all of the following criteria:
                   A.   The facility does not extend the height of an existing structure to a total
                   cumulative height of more than fifty (50) feet, from ground level to the top of
                   the structure and any equipment affixed thereto;
                   B.   Each antenna associated with the deployment is no more than three (3) cubic
SMALL WIRELESS     feet in volume;
FACILITY, SWF:     C.   All wireless equipment associated with the facility, including any pre-
                   existing equipment and any proposed new equipment, cumulatively total no more
                   than twenty-eight (28) cubic feet in volume;
                   D.   The facility is not located on tribal land; and
                   E.   The facility will not result in human exposure to radiofrequency radiation
                   in excess of the applicable FCC safety standards set forth within Table 1 of 47
                   CFR § 1.1310(E)(1).
                   The official document or permit granted by the Planning and Zoning Commission
                   pursuant to Dalton City Code Section 5-7 et seq., in which an applicant is
SPECIAL USE        allowed to file for and obtain a building permit to construct and use a personal
PERMIT:            wireless services facility, personal wireless service equipment, and/or any
                   associated structures and/or equipment which are used to house, or be a part of,
                   any such facility or complex, or to be used to provide personal wireless services
STATE:             The State of Idaho
                   A design or treatment that minimizes adverse aesthetic and visual impacts on the
STEALTH or STEALTH land, property, buildings, and other facilities adjacent to, surrounding, and
TECHNOLOGY:        generally in the same area as the requested location of such personal wireless
                   service facilities. This shall mean building the least visually and physically
                   intrusive facility and complex under the facts and circumstances.
STRUCTURE:         A pole, tower, base station, or other building, physical support of any form used
                   for, or to be used for, the provision of personal wireless service.
SUBSTANTIAL        Substantial evidence means such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might
EVIDENCE:          accept as adequate to support a conclusion. It means less than a preponderance
                   but more than a scintilla of evidence.
TCA:               The Telecommunications Act of 1996, 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)
                   The pausing of the running of the time period permitted under the applicable shot
                   clock for the respective application for a personal wireless services facility.
                   Where a shot clock is tolled because an application has been deemed incomplete
TOLLING or TOLLED: and timely notice of incompleteness was mailed to the applicant, the submission
                   of additional materials by the applicant to complete the application will end the
                   tolling, thus causing the shot clock period to resume running, as opposed to
                   causing the shot clock to begin running anew.
TOWER,             Any structure designed primarily to support one or more antennas and/or equipment
TELECOMMUNICATIONS used or designed for receiving and/or transmitting a wireless signal.
TOWER:
                   Any application for an approval from the planning and zoning commission seeking
UNDERTAKING:       commission approval for the installation of a personal wireless services facility
                   licensed under the authority of the FCC shall constitute an undertaking within
                   the meaning of NEPA, in accord with 42 CFR § 137.289 and 36 CFR § 800.16.
WIRELESS CARRIERS  Companies that provide personal wireless services to end-use consumers. (Ord.
or CARRIER:        278, 6-30-2022)
 
5-13-4: APPLICATION TYPES:
There shall be four (4) specific types of applications for Special Use Permits
for PWSF's under this section, which shall include Type I, Type II, Type III,
and Type IV applications. It shall be the obligation of any applicant to
explicitly and correctly identify which type of application they are filing.
   A.   Type I Applications Colocations of Small Wireless Facilities:
      1.   Type I applications shall be limited to applications wherein an
applicant is seeking to co-locate a a new Small Wireless Facility, as defined
in this Section
5-13-3, by installing new personal wireless service equipment upon an already
existing small personal wireless services facility structure.
      2.   If the completed facility would still meet the physical limits and
requirements to meet the definition of a Small Wireless Facility after the
installation of the new equipment, then the application to install such new
equipment is a Type I application.
      3.   Type I applications for co-location of a Small Wireless Facility in
a Commercial District or a Utility District shall be a permitted use with a
building permit and shall not require a Special Use permit.
      4.   Type I applications for co-location of a Small Wireless Facility in
a Residential District shall be a special use permit use, requiring an
applicant to obtain a Special Use permit from the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   B.   Type II Applications Co-Iocations which do not meet the definition of a
Small Wireless Facility:
      1.   Type II applications shall be limited to applications wherein an
applicant is seeking to co-locate new personal wireless service equipment, by
installing such new wireless equipment upon an already existing personal
wireless services facility structure, tower, or complex, which does not meet
the definition of a Small Wireless facility or which will not meet the
definition of a Small Wireless Facility if and when the proposed new personal
wireless service equipment is installed upon the existing facility and/or
structure.
      2.   Type II applications for co-location of a Wireless Facility that do
not meet the definition of an SWF in a Commercial District or a Utility
District shall be a permitted use with a building permit and shall not require
a Special Use permit.
      3.   Type II applications for co-location of a Wireless Facility that do
not meet the definition of an SWF in a residential district shall be a special
use permit use. requiring an applicant to obtain a Special Use permit from the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
   C.   Type Ill Applications New Small Wireless Facilities:
      1.   Type III Applications shall be limited to applications seeking to
install and/or construct a new Small Wireless Facility as defined in Section
5-13-3 hereinabove.
      2.   Type III applications for the installation of a new Small Wireless
Facility in a Commercial District or a Utility District shall be a permitted
use with a building permit and shall not require a Special Use permit.
      3.   Type III applications for the installation of a new' Small Wireless
Facility that does not meet the definition of an SWF in a residential district
shall be a special use permit use which shall require an applicant to obtain a
Special Use permit from the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   D.   Type IV Applications New PWSF Towers and All Other PWSFs:
      1.   Type IV Applications shall include applications for the installation
of a new Telecommunications Tower, personal wireless service facility, complex,
structure, or equipment, which does not meet the criteria for Type I, Type II,
or Type III applications.
      2.   Type IV Applications are a special permit use for which applicants
are required to obtain a Special Use permit from the Planning and Zoning
Commission. (Ord. 278, 6-30-2022)
5-13-5: SHOT CLOCK PERIODS:
To comply with the requirements of Section 47 U.S.C. 332(c)(7)(B)(ii) of the
TCA, the following shot clock periods set forth herein below shall be presumed
to be reasonable periods within which the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
render determinations upon special permit applications for personal wireless
service facilities.
The Planning and Zoning Commission shall render determinations upon such
applications within the periods set forth hereinbelow, unless the applicable
shot clock period list below is tolled, extended by agreement or the processing
of the application is delayed due to circumstances beyond the Commission and/or
City's controls, as addressed within subsections
5-13-15 through
5-13-18 herein below.
   A.   Type I Applications Colocations of Small Wireless Facilities Sixty (60)
Days:
      1.   Unless extended by agreement, tolled, or subject to reasonable
delays, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall issue a written decision upon
a Type I application within sixty (60) days from the date when the City
receives a Type I application.
      2.   Upon receipt of a Type I application, the Planning Administrator
shall review the application for Completeness. If the Planning Administrator
determines the application is:
         a.   Incomplete;
         b.   Missing required application materials;
         c.   Is the wrong type of application; or
         d.   Is otherwise defective, then, within ten (10) days of the City's
receipt of the application, the Planning Administrator, or his designee, shall
mail the Applicant a Notice of Incompleteness by first class mail to the Notice
Address provided by the applicant.
      3.   Within such Notice of Incompleteness, the Planning Administrator
shall advise the applicant, with reasonable clarity, the defects within its
application, including a description of such matters as what items are missing
from the application and/or why the application is incomplete and/or defective.
      4.   The mailing of a Notice of Incomplete Application by the Planning
Administrator shall toll the sixty (60)-day shot clock, which shall not
thereafter resume running unless and until the Applicant tenders an additional
submission to the Planning Administrator to remedy the issues the building
official identified in the Notice of Incomplete Application, which he had
mailed to the applicant.
      5.   The submission of any responsive materials by the applicant shall
automatically cause the shot clock period to resume running.
      6.   If upon receipt of any additional materials from the Applicant, the
Planning Administrator determines that the application is still incomplete and/
or defective, then the Planning Administrator shall, once again, mail a Notice
of Incompleteness within ten (10) days of the applicant having filed its
supplemental or corrected materials to the City and the Shot Clock shall once
again be tolled, and the same procedure provided for hereinabove shall be
repeated.
   B.   Type II Applications Colocations on existing Towers, Structures or
other Facilities which do not meet the definition of a Small Wireless Facility,
Ninety (90) Days:
      1.   Unless extended by agreement, tolled, or subject to reasonable
delays, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall issue a written decision upon
a Type II application within ninety (90) days from the date when the City
receives a Type II application.
      2.   Upon receipt of a Type II application, the Planning Administrator
shall review the application for Completeness. If the Planning Administrator
determines the application is:
         a.   Incomplete;
         b.   Missing required application materials;
         c.   Is the wrong type of application; or
         d.   Is otherwise defective, then, within thirty (30) days of the
City's receipt of the application, the Planning Administrator, or his designee,
shall mail the applicant a Notice of Incompleteness by first class mail, to the
Notice Address provided by the Applicant.
      3.   Within such Notice of Incompleteness, the Planning Administrator
shall advise the applicant, with reasonable clarity, the defects within its
application, including a description of such matters as what items are missing
from the application and/or why the application is incomplete and/or defective.
      4.   The mailing of a Notice of Incomplete application by the Planning
Administrator shall toll the ninety (90)-day shot clock, which shall not
thereafter resume running unless and until the Applicant tenders an additional
submission to the Planning Administrator to remedy the issues the Planning
Administrator identified in the Notice of Incomplete Application, which he had
mailed to the Applicant.
      5.   The submission of any responsive materials by the Applicant shall
automatically cause the shot clock period to resume running.
      6.   If upon receipt of any additional materials from the Applicant, the
Planning Administrator determines that the application is still incomplete and/
or defective, then the Planning Administrator shall, once again, mail a Notice
of Incompleteness within ten (10) days of the applicant having filed its
supplemental or corrected materials to the City. The Shot Clock shall once
again be tolled, and the same procedure provided hereinabove shall be repeated.
   C.   Type III Applications New Small Wireless Facilities Ninety (90) Days:
      1.   Unless extended by agreement, tolled, or subject to reasonable
delays, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall issue a written decision upon
a Type III application within ninety (90) days from the date when the City
receives a Type III application.
      2.   Upon receipt of a Type III application, the Planning Administrator
shall review the application for Completeness. If the Planning Administrator
determines the application is:
         a.   Incomplete;
         b.   Missing required application materials;
         c.   Is the wrong type of application; or
         d.   Is otherwise defective, then, within ten (10) days of the City's
receipt of the application, the Planning Administrator, or his designee, shall
mail the Applicant a Notice of Incompleteness by first class mail, to the
Notice Address which the applicant has provided.
      3.   Within such Notice of Incompleteness, the Planning Administrator
shall advise the applicant, with reasonable clarity, the defects within its
application, including a description of such matters as what items are missing
from the application and/or why the application is incomplete and/or defective.
      4.   The mailing of a Notice of Incomplete Application by the Planning
Administrator shall reset the ninety (90)-day shot clock, which shall start
running anew, if and when the applicant tenders an additional submission to the
Planning Administrator to remedy the issues the Planning Administrator
identified in the Notice of Incomplete Application, which he had mailed to the
applicant.
      5.   The submission of any responsive materials by the Applicant shall
automatically cause the shot clock period to resume running.
      6.   If upon receipt of any additional materials from the applicant, the
Planning Administrator determines that the application is still incomplete and/
or defective, then the Planning Administrator shall, once again, mail a Notice
of Incompleteness within ten (10) days of the applicant having filed its
supplemental or corrected materials to the City and the Shot Clock shall be
tolled, and the same procedure provided for hereinabove shall be repeated.
   D.   Type IV Applications New Towers and All Other Wireless Facilities One
Hundred Fifty (150) Days:
      1.   Unless extended by agreement, tolled, or subject to reasonable
delays, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall issue a written decision upon
a Type IV application within one hundred fifty (150) days from the date when
the City receives a Type IV application.
      2.   Upon receipt of a Type IV application, the Planning Administrator
shall review the application for Completeness. If the Planning Administrator
determines the application is:
         a.   Incomplete;
         b.   Missing required application materials;
         c.   Is the wrong type of application; or
         d.   Is otherwise defective, then, within thirty (30) days of the
City's receipt of the application, the Planning Administrator, or his designee,
shall mail the applicant a Notice of Incompleteness by first class mail to the
Notice Address provided by the applicant.
      3.   Within such Notice of Incompleteness, the Planning Administrator
shall advise the Applicant, with reasonable clarity, the defects within its
application, including a description of such matters as what items are missing
from the application and/or why the application is incomplete and/or defective.
      4.   The mailing of a Notice of Incomplete application by the Planning
Administrator shall toll the one hundred and fifty (150)-day shot clock, which
shall not thereafter resume running unless and until the Applicant tenders an
additional submission to the Planning Administrator to remedy the issues the
Planning Administrator identified in the Notice of Incomplete Application,
which he had mailed to the applicant.
      5.   The submission of any responsive materials by the Applicant shall
automatically cause the shot clock period to resume running.
      6.   If upon receipt of any additional materials from the Applicant, the
Planning Administrator determines that the application is still incomplete and/
or defective, then the Planning Administrator shall, once again, mail a Notice
of Incompleteness within ten (10) days of the Applicant having filed its
supplemental or corrected materials to the City and the Shot Clock shall once
again be tolled, and the same procedure provided for hereinabove shall be
repeated.
      7.   Upon their acceptance of an application that appears to be complete,
the Planning Administrator shall transmit the application to the Planning and
Zoning Commission for review and determination. (Ord. 278, 6-30-2022)
5-13-6: SHOT CLOCK TOLLS, EXTENSIONS AND REASONABLE DELAY PERIODS:
Consistent with the letter and intent of Section 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(B)(ii)
of the TCA, each of the shot clock periods set forth within Section
5-13-5 hereinabove shall generally be presumed to be sufficient periods within
which the Planning and Zoning Commission shall render decisions upon special
use permit applications.
Notwithstanding same, the applicable shot clock periods may be tolled, extended
by mutual agreement between any applicant and/or its representative and the
Planning and Zoning Commission and the Planning and Zoning Commission shall not
be required to render its determination within the shot clock period presumed
to be reasonable for each type of application, where the processing of such
application is reasonably delayed, as described hereinbelow.
   A.   Tolling of the Applicable Shot Clock Due to to Incompleteness and/or
Applicant Error:
      1.   As provided for within Section
5-13-5 hereinabove, in the event that the Planning Administrator deems an
application incomplete, the Planning Administrator shall send a Notice of
Incompleteness to the applicant to notify the applicant that its application is
incomplete and/or contains material errors, and shall reasonably identify the
missing information and/or documents and/or the error(s) in the application.
      2.   If the Planning Administrator mails a Notice of Incompleteness as
described hereinabove, the applicable shot clock shall automatically be tolled,
meaning that the applicable shot clock period within which the Planning and
Zoning Commission is required to render a final decision upon the application
shall immediately cease running and shall not resume running unless and until
the City receives a responsive submission from the applicant.
      3.   If and when the applicant thereafter submits additional information
in an effort to complete its application, or cure any identified defect(s),
then the shot clock shall automatically resume running, but shall not be deemed
to start running anew.
      4.   The applicable shot clock period shall, once again, be tolled if the
Planning Administrator thereafter provides a second notice that the application
is still incomplete or defective, despite any additional submissions which have
been received by the City, from the applicant, up to that point.
   B.   Shot Clock Extension by Mutual Agreement:
      1.   The Planning and Zoning Commission, in its sole discretion, shall be
free to extend any applicable shot clock period by mutual agreement with any
respective applicant. This discretion on the part of the Commission shall
include the Commission's authority to request, at any time, and for any period
of time the Planning and Zoning Commission may deem reasonable or appropriate
under the circumstances, consent from a respective applicant, to extend the
applicable shot clock period, to enable the Commission, the applicant, or any
relevant third party, to complete any type of undertaking or task related to
the review, analysis, processing, and determination of the particular
application, which is then pending before the Commission, to the extent that
any such undertaking, task or review, is consistent with, or reasonably related
to, compliance with any federal, state, or local law, and/or the requirements
of any provision of the City Code, including but not limited to this Article.
      2.   In response to any request by the Commission, the applicant, by its
principal, agent, attorney, site acquisition agent, or other authorized
representative can consent to any extension of any applicable shot clock by
affirmatively indicating its consent either in writing or by affirmatively
indicating its consent on the record at any public hearing or public meeting.
The Planning and Zoning Commission shall be permitted to reasonably rely upon a
representative of the applicant indicating that they are authorized to grant
such consent on behalf of the respective applicant, on whose behalf they have
been addressing the Commission within the hearing process.
   C.      Reasonable Delay Extensions of Shot Clock Periods:
      1.   The City recognizes that there may be situations wherein, due to
circumstances beyond the control of the City and/or the Planning and Zoning
Commission, the review and issuance of a final decision upon a special use
permit application for a personal wireless facility cannot reasonably be
completed within the application shot clock periods delineated within Section
5-13-5 hereinabove.
      2.   If, despite the exercise of due diligence by the City and the
Planning and Zoning Commission, the determination regarding a specific
application cannot reasonably be completed within the applicable shot clock
period, the Commission shall be permitted to continue and complete its review
and issue its determination at a date beyond the expiration of the applicable
period, if the delay of such final decision is due to circumstances including,
but not limited to, those enumerated hereinbelow, each of which shall serve as
a reasonable basis for a reasonable delay of the applicable shot clock period.
      3.   Reasonable delays which may constitute proper grounds for extending
the presumed sufficient periods for rendering determinations under the
applicable shot clock periods may include, but are not necessarily limited to
those set forth within Sections
5-13-14,
5-13-15,
5-13-16 and
5-13-17 herein below. (Ord. 278, 6-30-2022)
5-13-7: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Applications for special use permits under Chapter 13 shall be made to the
Planning Administrator, who shall initially determine whether or not the
application is complete and/or free of defects upon receipt of the same.
If the Planning Administrator determines that the application is defective or
incomplete, they shall promptly mail a Notice of Incompleteness to the
applicant, to toll the applicable shot clock, to ensure that the City and the
Planning and Zoning Commission are afforded sufficient time to review and
determine each respective application.
Each application shall include the following materials, the absence of any one
of which listed hereinbelow, shall render the respective application
incomplete:
   A.   Special Use Permit Application: Completed applications for a special
use permit shall identify all applicants, coapplicants, site developer(s), and
wireless carrier(s) on whose behalf the application is being submitted, as well
as the property owner of the proposed site.
   B.   Filing Fees: The appropriate filing fees then being charged by the City
for applications for special permit applications and other related
applications.
   C.   A "'Notice Address": A "Notice Address," that being a specific address
to which the City, Planning and Zoning Commission, and/or Planning
Administrator may mail any type of notice, and that the mailing of same to such
address shall constitute sufficient notice to any applicant, co-applicant, and/
or their attorney, to comply with any requirement under this section as well as
any local, state and/or Federal law
   D.   Proof of Authorization for Site Occupancy:
      1.   Where an applicant is not the owner of the real property upon which
it seeks to install its equipment or facility, they shall submit proof of
authorization to occupy the site at issue. If the applicant is leasing all or a
portion of real property upon which it intends to install its new facility or
equipment, then the applicant shall provide a written copy of its lease with
the owner of such property. The applicant may redact any financial terms
contained within the lease, but it shall not redact any portion of the lease
which details the amount of area leased, its duration nor the specific portion
of the real property which the applicant has obtained the right to occupy,
access, or preclude others from entering.
      2.   Where an applicant is seeking to simply co-locate new equipment into
an existing facility, it shall provide a copy of its written co-location
agreement with the owner of such pre-existing facility, from which it may
redact any financial terms.
   E.   A Drawn-To-Scale Depiction:
      1.   The applicant shall submit drawn-to-scale depictions of its proposed
wireless support structure and all associated equipment to be mounted thereon,
or to be installed as part of such facility, which shall clearly and concisely
depict all equipment and the measurements of same, to enable the Planning
Administrator to ascertain whether the proposed facility would qualify as a
small wireless facility as defined under this Article.
      2.   If the applicant claims that its proposed installation qualifies as
a Small Wireless Facility within this Article, the drawn-to-scale depiction
shall include complete calculations for all of the antennas and equipment of
which the facility will be comprised, depicting that, when completed, the
installation and equipment will meet the physical size limitations which enable
the facility to qualify as a Small Wireless Facility.
   F.   Site Plan: The applicant shall submit a site development plan which
shall meet the requirements of the Planning Administrator. The site plan shall,
at a minimum, show all existing and proposed structures and improvements,
including antennas, roads, buildings, guy wires and anchors, parking, and
landscaping, utilities, boundary lines, and easements and shall include grading
plans for new facilities and roads. Any methods used to conceal the
modification of the existing facility shall be indicated on the site plan.
   G.   Engineer's Report: To the extent that an application proposes the co-
location of new equipment onto an existing tower or facility, the applicant
shall provide an engineer's report certifying that the proposed shared use will
not diminish the structural integrity and safety of the existing structure and
explaining what modifications, if any, will be required in order to certify to
the above.
   H.   Visual Impact Analysis: A completed visual impact analysis, which, at a
minimum, shall include the following:
   I.   For Small Wireless Facilities: For applications seeking approval for
the installation of a Small Wireless Facility, the applicant shall provide a
visual impact analysis which shall include photographic images taken from the
perspectives of the properties situated in closest proximity to the location
being proposed for the siting of the facility, as well as those properties
which would reasonably be expected to sustain the most significant adverse
aesthetic impacts due to such factors as their close proximity to the site,
their elevation relative to the site, the existence or absence of a "clear line
of sight" between the tower location and their location.
   J.   For Telecommunications Towers and Personal Wireless Service Facilities
which do not meet the definition of a Small Wireless Facility:
      1.   For applications seeking approval for the installation of a
Telecommunications Tower or a personal wireless service facility that does not
meet the definition of a Small Wireless Facility, the applicant shall provide:
         a.   A "Zone of Visibility Map" to determine locations from where the
new facility will be seen.
         b.   A visual impact analysis which shall include photographic images
taken from the perspectives of the properties situated in closest proximity to
the location being proposed for the siting of the facility, as well as those
properties which would reasonably be expected to sustain the most significant
adverse aesthetic impacts due to such factors as their close proximity to the
site, their elevation relative to the site, the existence or absence of a
"clear line of sight" between the tower location and their location.
      2.   The photographic images shall depict the height at which the
proposed facility shall stand when completed, including all portions and
proposed attachments to the facility, including, but not limited to, the main
support structure, all antennas, transmitters, whip antennas, lightning rods,
t-bars, crossbars, and cantilever attachments which shall, in whole or in part,
be affixed to it, any and all surrounding equipment compound(s), fencing,
cellular equipment cabinets, transformers, transformer vaults and/or cabinets,
sector distribution boxes, ice bridges, backup generators, including but not
limited to equipment boxes, switch boxes, backup generators, ice bridges, etc.,
to the extent that any of such compound and/or equipment will be visible from
properties other than the property upon which the proposed tower and compound
are to be installed.
      3.   The visual impact analysis shall include an assessment of
alternative designs and color schemes, as well as an assessment of the visual
impact of the proposed facility, taking into consideration any supporting
structure which is to be constructed, as well as its base, guy wires, accessory
structures, buildings, and overhead utility lines from abutting properties and
streets.
   I.   Alternative Site Analysis:
      1.   A completed alternative site analysis of all potential less
intrusive alternative sites which the applicant has considered, setting forth
their respective locations, elevations, and suitability or unsuitability for
remedying whatever specific wireless coverage needs the respective applicant or
a specific wireless carrier is seeking to remedy by the installation of the new
facility which is the subject of the respective application for a special Use
permit.
      2.   If, and to the extent that an applicant claims that a particular
alternative site is unavailable, in that the owner of an alternative site is
unwilling or unable to accommodate a wireless facility upon such potential
alternative site, the applicant shall provide probative evidence of such
unavailability, whether in the form of communications or such other form of
evidence that reasonably establishes same.
      3.   The alternative site analysis shall contain:
         a.   An inventory of all existing tall structures and existing or
approved communications towers within a two-mile radius of the proposed site.
         b.   A map showing the exact location of each site inventoried,
including latitude and longitude (degrees, minutes, seconds), ground elevation
above sea level, the height of the structure and/or tower, and accessory
buildings on the site of the inventoried location.
         c.   An outline of opportunities for shared use of an existing
wireless facility as opposed to the installation of an entirely new facility.
         d.   A demonstration of good-faith efforts to secure shared use from
the owner of each potential existing tall structure and existing or approved
communications tower, as well as documentation of the physical, technical, and/
or financial reasons why shared usage is not practical in each case.
   J.   FCC Compliance Report:
      1.   An FCC Compliance Report, prepared and stamped by a qualified Idaho
licensed engineer, and certified under penalties of perjury, that the content
thereof is true and accurate, wherein the licensed engineer shall certify that
the proposed facility will be FCC compliant as of the time of its installation,
meaning that the facility will not expose members of the general public to
radiation levels that exceed the permissible radiation limits which the FCC has
set.
      2.   If it is anticipated that more than one carrier and/or user is to
install transmitters into the facility that the FCC Compliance Report shall
take into account anticipated exposure from all users on the facility and shall
indicate whether or not the combined exposure levels will, or will not exceed
the permissible general population exposure limited, or alternatively, the
occupational exposure limits, where applicable.
      3.   Such FCC Compliance Report shall provide the calculation or
calculations with which the engineer determined the levels of RF radiation and/
or emissions to which the facility will expose members of the general public.
      4.   On the cover page of the report, the report shall explicitly
specify:
         a.   Whether the applicant and their licensed engineer are claiming
that the appliable FCC limits based upon which they are claiming FCC compliance
are the General Population Exposure Limits or the Occupational Exposure Limits.
If the applicant and/or their engineer are asserting that the Occupational
Exposure Limits apply to the proposed installation, they shall detail a factual
basis as to why they claim that the higher set of limits is applicable;
         b.   The exact minimum distance factor, measured in feet, which the
applicant's engineer used to calculate the level of radiation emissions to
which the proposed facility will expose members of the general public. The
minimum distance factor is the closest distance (i.e., the minimum distance) to
which a member of the general public shall be able to gain access to the
transmitting antennas mounted upon, or which shall be a part of, the proposed
facility.
   K.   FCC License: A copy of any applicable Federal Communications Commission
license possessed by any carrier named as an applicant, co-applicant, or whose
equipment is proposed for installation as of the time the application is being
filed with the City.
   L.   Effective Prohibition Claims:
      1.   The City is aware that applicants seeking approvals for the
installation of new wireless facilities often assert that federal law, and more
specifically the TCA, prohibits the local government from denying their
respective applications.
      2.   In doing so, they assert that their desired facility is "necessary"
to remedy one or more significant gaps in a carrier's personal wireless
service, and they proffer computer-generated propagation maps to establish the
existence of such gaps purportedly.
      3.   The City is additionally aware that, in August 2020, driven by a
concern that propagation maps created and submitted to the FCC by wireless
carriers were inaccurate, the FCC caused its staff to perform actual drive
tests, wherein the FCC staff performed twenty-four thousand six hundred and
forty-nine (24,649) tests, driving nearly ten thousand (10,000) miles through
nine (9) states, with an additional five thousand nine hundred and sixteen
(5,916) stationary tests conducted at forty-two (42) locations situated in nine
(9) states.
      4.   At the conclusion of such testing, the FCC Staff determined that the
accuracy of the propagation maps submitted to the FCC by the wireless carriers
had ranged from as little as 16.2% accuracy to a maximum of 64.3% accuracy.
      5.   As a result, the FCC Staff recommended that the FCC no longer accept
propagation maps from wireless carriers without supporting drive test data to
establish their accuracy. A copy of the FCC Staffs sixty-six (66)-page report
is available from the Federal Communications Commission public website as
Mobility Fund Phase II Coverage Maps Investigation Staff Report (GN Docket No.
19-367) and is incorporated herein. The City considers it of critical import
that applicants provide truthful, accurate, complete, and sufficiently reliable
data to enable the Planning and Zoning Commission to render determinations upon
applications for new wireless facilities consistent with both the requirements
of this Article and the statutory requirements of the TCA.
      6.   Consistent with same, if, at the time of filing an application under
this Article, an applicant intends to assert before the Planning and Zoning
Commission or the City that:
         a.   An identified wireless carrier suffers from a significant gap in
its personal wireless services within the City;
         b.   That the applicant's proposed installation is the least intrusive
means of remedying such gap in services; and/or
         c.   That under the circumstances pertaining to the application, a
denial of the application by the Planning and Zoning Commission would
constitute an "effective prohibition" under Section 47 U.S.C. § 332 the TCA,
then, at the time of filing such application, the applicant shall be required
to file a written statement which shall be entitled: "Notice of Effective
Prohibition Conditions"
      7.   If an applicant files a Notice of Effective Prohibition Conditions,
then the applicant shall be required to submit probative evidence to enable the
Planning and Zoning Commission to reasonably determine:
         a.   Whether or not the conditions alleged by the respective applicant
exist;
         b.   Whether there exists a significant gap or gaps in an identified
wireless carrier's personal wireless services within the City;
         c.   The geographic locations of any such gaps; and
         d.   The geographic boundaries of such gaps, to enable the Planning
and Zoning Commission to determine whether granting the respective application
would be consistent with the requirements of this Article and the legislative
intent behind same, and whether or not federal law would require the Planning
and Zoning Commission to grant the respective application, even if it would
otherwise violate the City's zoning code, including, but not limited to, this
Article.
      8.   The additional materials which the applicant shall then be required
to provide shall include the following:
         a.   Drive Test Data and Maps: If, and to the extent that an applicant
claims that a specific wireless carrier suffers from a significant gap in its
personal wireless services within the City, the applicant shall conduct or
cause to be conducted a Drive Test within the specific geographic areas within
which the applicant is claiming such gap or gaps exist, for each frequency at
which the carrier provides personal wireless services. The applicant shall
provide the City and the Planning and Zoning Commission with the actual drive
test data recorded during such drive test, in a simple format which shall
include, in table format:
            (1)   The date and time for the test or test;
            (2)   The location, in longitude and latitude of each point at
which signal strength was recorded; and
            (3)   Each signal strength recorded, measured in DBM, for each
frequency.
Such data is to be provided in a separate table for each frequency at which the
respective carrier provides personal wireless services to any of its end-use
customers.
            (1)   The applicant shall also submit Drive Test Maps, depicting
the actual signal strengths recorded during the actual drive test, for each
frequency at which the carrier provides personal wireless services to its end-
use customers.
            (2)   If an applicant claims that it needs a "minimum" signal
strength (measured in DBM) to remedy its gap or gaps in service, then for each
frequency, the applicant shall provide three (3) signal strength coverage maps
reflecting actual signal strengths in three (3) DBM bins, the first being at
the alleged minimum signal strength, and two (2) additional three (3) DBM bin
maps depicting signal strengths immediately below the alleged minimum signal
strength claimed to be required.
            (3)   By way of example, if the applicant claims that it needs a
minimum signal strength of - 95 DBM to remedy its alleged gap in service, then
the applicant shall provide maps depicting the geographic area where the gap is
alleged to exist, showing the carrier's coverage at 95 to -98 DBM, -99 to -101
DBM and -102 to -104 DBM or each frequency at which the carrier provides
personal wireless services to its end-use customers.
         b.   Denial of Service and/or Dropped Call Records: If and to the
extent that an applicant claims that a specific wireless carrier suffers from a
capacity deficiency, or a gap in service that renders the carrier incapable of
providing adequate coverage of its personal wireless services within the City,
then the applicant shall provide dropped call records and denial of service
records evidencing the number and percentage of calls within which the
carrier's customers were unable to initiate, maintain and conclude the use of
the carrier's personal wireless services without actual loss of service, or
interruption of service.
   M.   Estimate for Cost of Removal of Facility: A written estimate for the
cost of the decommissioning, removal of the facility, including all equipment
that comprises any portion or part of the facility, compound and/or complex, as
well as any Accessory Facility or Structure, including the cost of the full
restoration and reclamation of the site, to the extent practicable, to its
condition before development in accord with the decommissioning and reclamation
plan required herein
   N.   Property' Owner Consent And Liability Acknowledgement: A signed written
consent from each owner of the subject real property upon which the respective
applicant is seeking installation of its proposed personal wireless service
facility, wherein the owner or owners, both authorize the applicant to file and
pursue its special permit application and acknowledge the potential landowner's
responsibility, under section
5-13-11 for engineering, legal and other consulting fees incurred by the City.
   O.   Noise Analysis: As needed, the applicant may be required to submit a
written noise analysis showing the noise levels of any proposed equipment,
including back up power sources at the distance of three hundred feet (300')
from the proposed location of the improvements. (Ord. 278, 6-30-2022)
5-13-8: DESIGN STANDARDS:
The following design standards shall apply to all applications for the siting,
construction, maintenance, use, erection, movement, reconstruction, expansion,
material change, or structural alteration of a personal wireless service
facility.
   A.   Small Wireless Facilities: Small Wireless Facilities (SWF) shall be
sited to inflict the minimum adverse impacts upon individual residential
properties, and specifically, to minimize, to the greatest extent reasonably
feasible, adverse aesthetic impacts upon residential homes or reductions in the
property values of same.
SWFs attached to pre-existing wooden and non-wooden poles shall conform to the
following criteria:
      1.   Proposed antenna and related equipment shall meet:
         a.   Design standards which the City may maintain and update as
needed, provided that the City makes its designed standards publicly available
for review by any potential application seeking approval for the installation
of an SWF within the City; and
         b.   National Electric Safety Code (NESC) standards; and
         c.   National Electrical Code (NEC) standards
      2.   Antennas and antenna equipment, including but not limited to radios,
cables, associated shrouding, disconnect boxes, meters, microwaves, and conduit
which are mounted on poles shall be mounted as close to the pole as technically
feasible, and shall not be illuminated except as required by municipal, federal
or state authority, provided this shall not preclude deployment on a new or
replacement street light. Any proposed lighting shall also comply with the
City's light trespass restrictions and comprehensive plan policies to minimize
and/or eliminate any light intrusion on adjacent properties.
      3.   Antennas and associated equipment enclosures must be camouflaged to
appear as an integral part of the pole or be mounted as close to the pole as
feasible. Conduits and cabinets shall cover all cables and wiring to the extent
that it is technically feasible if allowed by the pole owner. The number of
conduits shall be minimized to the extent technically feasible. To the extent
technically feasible, antennas, equipment enclosures, and all ancillary
equipment, boxes, and conduits shall match the approximate material and design
of the surface of the pole or existing equipment on which they are attached
SWFs attached to replacement poles and new poles shall conform to the criteria
set forth herein above for SWF's attached to pre-existing wooden and non-wooded
poles, but shall additionally conform to the following criteria:
         a.   The City prefers that wireless providers and site developers
install SWF's on existing or replacement poles instead of installing new poles,
and accordingly, to obtain approval for the installation of a new pole, the
provider shall be required to document that installation on an existing or
replacement pole is not technically feasible.
         b.   To the extent technically feasible, all replacement poles and new
poles and pole-mounted antennas and equipment shall substantially conform to
the material and design of the pole being replaced, or in the case of a new
pole, it shall conform to the nearest adjacent pole or poles.
         c.   The height of replacement poles and new poles shall conform with
the height limitations application to the district within which the applicant
seeks to install their proposed SWF unless the applicant obtains a variance to
obtain relief from any such limitation(s).
   B.   Telecommunications Towers and Personal Wireless Service Facilities
which do not meet the definition of a Small Wireless Facility: The design of a
proposed new Telecommunications Tower or Personal Wireless Service Facility
shall comply with the following.
      1.   The choice of design for the installation of a new Personal Wireless
Service Facility or the substantial modification of an existing Personal
Wireless Service Facility shall be chosen to minimize the potential adverse
impacts that the new or expanded facility may, or is likely to, inflict upon
nearby properties.
      2.   Any new Telecommunications Tower shall be designed to accommodate
future shared use by other providers of communications.
      3.   Unless specifically required by other regulations, a
Telecommunications Tower shall have a finish (either painted or unpainted) that
minimizes its degree of visual impact.
      4.   Notwithstanding the height restrictions listed elsewhere in this
chapter, the maximum height of any new Telecommunications Tower shall not
exceed that which shall permit operation without artificial lighting of any
kind or nature, in accordance with municipal, state, and/or federal law and/or
regulation.
      5.   Accessory structures
         a.   Accessory structures shall maximize the use of building
materials, colors, and textures designed to blend with the natural
surroundings. The use of camouflage communications towers may be required by
the Planning Commission to further blend the communications tower and/or its
accessory structures into the natural surroundings. "Camouflage" is defined as
the use of materials incorporated into the communications tower design that
give communications towers the appearance of tree branches and bark coatings,
church steeples and crosses, sign structures, lighting structures, or other
similar structures.
         b.   Accessory structures shall be designed to be architecturally
similar and compatible with each other and shall be no more than twelve (12)
feet high or the allowed height of an accessory structure in the applicable
zoning district, whichever is less. The buildings shall be used only to house
equipment related to the particular site. Whenever possible, the buildings
shall be joined or clustered so as to appear as one building.
         c.   No portion of any Telecommunications Tower or accessory structure
shall be used for a sign or other advertising purpose, including but not
limited to the company name, phone numbers, banners, and streamers, except the
following: A sign of no greater than two square feet indicating the name of the
facility owner(s) and a twenty-four-hour emergency telephone number shall be
posted adjacent to any entry gate. In addition, "no trespassing" or other
warning signs may be posted on the fence. All signs shall conform to the sign
requirements of the City.
      6.   Towers must be placed to minimize visual impacts. Applicants shall
place towers on the side slope of the terrain so that, as much as possible, the
top of the tower does not protrude over the ridgeline, as seen from public
ways.
      7.   Existing vegetation. Existing on-site vegetation shall be preserved
to the maximum extent possible. No cutting of trees shall take place on a site
connected with an application made under this article prior to the approval of
the special permit use.
      8.   Screening.
         a.   Deciduous or evergreen tree plantings may be required to screen
portions of the Telecommunications Tower and accessory structures from nearby
residential property as well as from public sites.
         b.   Where a site adjoins a residential property or public property,
including streets, screening suitable in type, size and quantity shall be
required by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
         c.   The applicant shall demonstrate to the Commission that adequate
measures have been taken to screen and abate site noises such as heating and
ventilating units, air conditioners, and emergency power generators and that
there is no interference with other known wireless systems (such an existing
SCADA system, or wireless meter system).
Telecommunications Towers shall comply with all applicable sections of this
chapter as it pertains to noise control, fumes and/or odors and abatement.
      9.   Lighting. Telecommunications Towers shall not be lighted except
where FAA/FCC required lighting of the Telecommunications Tower is necessary.
No exterior lighting shall spill from the site in an unnecessary manner.
      10.   Access:
         a.   Adequate emergency and service access shall be provided and
maintained. Maximum use of existing roads, public or private, shall be made.
Road construction shall, at all times, minimize ground disturbance and
vegetation cutting to the toe of fill, the top of cuts, or no more than 10 feet
beyond the edge of any pavement. Road grades shall closely follow natural
contours to assure minimal visual disturbance and reduce soil erosion
potential.
         b.   To the extent feasible, all network interconnections to and from
the telecommunications site and all power to the site shall be installed
underground. At the initial construction of the access road to the site,
sufficient conduit shall be laid to accommodate the maximum possible number of
telecommunications providers that might use the facility.
      11.   Parking. Parking shall be provided to assure adequate emergency and
service access. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall determine the number
of required spaces in accordance with the underlying zone, but in no case shall
the number of parking spaces be less than two spaces.
      12.   Fencing. The Telecommunications Tower and any accessory structures
shall be adequately enclosed by a fence, the design of which shall be approved
by the Planning and Zoning Commission. This requirement may be waived by the
Planning and Zoning Commission if the applicant demonstrates that such measures
are unnecessary to ensure the security of the facility. (Ord. 278, 6-30-2022)
5-13-9: HEARINGS AND PUBLIC NOTICE:
   A.   Public Hearings: The Planning and Zoning Commission shall conduct a
public hearing upon each special use permit application, consistent with
Chapter 7 of the code, except the Planning and Zoning Commission shall have
authority to schedule such additional or more frequent public hearings as may
be necessary to comply with the applicable shot clocks imposed upon the City
and the Planning and Zoning Commission under the requirements of the TCA.
   B.   Required Public Notices:
      1.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall ensure that both the public
and property owners whose properties might be adversely impacted by the
installation of a wireless facility receive Notice of any public hearing
pertaining to same and shall ensure that they are afforded an opportunity to be
heard concerning same.
      2.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall mail a written Notice of
Public Hearing to property owners, which shall provide:
         a.   The applicant's name;
         b.   The address of the property , or another general description by
which the public can identify the property, that is the subject of the hearing;
         c.   The present land use of the property;
         d.   A brief description of the type of personal wireless facility for
which the applicant seeks a special use permit; and
         e.   The date, time, and place of the hearing.
      3.   The face of each envelope containing the notices of the public
hearing shall state, in all bold typeface, in all capital letters, in a font
size no smaller than twelve (12) point, the words: "NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
FOR NEW WIRELESS FACILITY"
      4.   For Type I and Type III applications, notices of public hearing
shall be mailed to all property owners whose real properties are situated
within 300 feet of the exterior property line of the real property upon which
the applicant seeks to install its new wireless facility.
      5.   If the site for the proposed facility is situated on, or adjacent
to, a residential street containing twelve (12) houses or less, the Planning
and Zoning Commission shall additionally mail a copy of such notices to all
homeowners on that street, even if their home is situated more than 300 feet
from any property line of the property upon which the applicant proposes to
install its facility.
      6.   For Type II and Type IV applications, the applicant shall mail such
notices of public hearing to all property owners whose real properties are
situated within one thousand five hundred (1,500) feet of any property line of
the real property upon which the applicant seeks to install its new wireless
facility.
      7.   The Applicant shall additionally post a notice upon the proposed
site advising the public of the public hearing, in accord with Section
5-10-3-3 of the Code.
      8.   At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time
and place and a summary of the proposal shall be published in the official
newspaper of general circulation. (Ord. 278, 6-30-2022)
5-13-10: FACTUAL DETERMINATIONS TO BE RENDERED BY THE PLANNING AND ZONING
COMMISSION:
   A.   Evidentiary Standards: In determining special use permit applications
for personal wireless service facilities, the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall have sole discretion to determine what probative evidence it shall
require each applicant to produce in support of its application to enable the
Commission to make each of the factual determinations enumerated below.
      1.   By way of common examples of the types of evidence which the
Commission may require an applicant to produce, are the following:
         a.   Where an applicant is not the owner of the real property upon
which it proposes to install a new wireless facility, the Commission can
require the applicant to provide a copy of the applicant's lease with the
property owner (including any schedules, property descriptions, Appendixes or
other attachments), from which the applicant may censor or delete any financial
terms which would be irrelevant to the factual issues which the Commission is
required to determine;
         b.   Where the Commission deems it appropriate, the Commission can
require the applicant to perform what is commonly known as a "balloon test" and
to require the applicant to publish reasonably sufficient advance public notice
of same, to enable the Commission, property owners, and the community, an
opportunity to assess the actual adverse aesthetic impact which the proposed
facility is likely to inflict upon the nearby properties and surrounding
community;
         c.   Where the applicant asserts a claim that a proposed facility is
necessary to remedy one or more existing significant gaps in an identified
wireless carrier's personal wireless services, the Commission may require the
applicant to provide DriveTest generated coverage maps, as opposed to computer-
generated coverage maps, for each frequency at which the carrier provides
personal wireless services, to show signal strengths in bins of three (3) DBM
each, to enable the Commission to assess the existence of such significant gaps
accurately, and/or whether the carrier possesses adequate coverage within the
geographic area which is the subject of the respective application.
         d.   Where the applicant asserts that a potential less intrusive
alternative location for a proposed facility is unavailable because the owner
of the potential alternative site is incapable or unwilling to lease space upon
such site to the applicant, the Commission may require the applicant to provide
proof of such unwillingness in the form of communications to and from such
property owner, and/or a sworn affidavit wherein a representative of the
applicant affirms, under penalty of perjury, that they attempted to negotiate a
lease with the property owner, what the material terms were of any such offer
to the property owner, when the offer was tendered, and how, if at all, the
property owner responded to such offer.
      2.   The Commission shall have sole discretion to determine, among other
things, the relevance of any evidence presented, the probative value of any
evidence presented, the credibility of any testimony provided, whether expert
or otherwise, and the adequacy of any evidence presented.
      3.   The Commission shall not be required to accept, at face value, any
unsupported factual claims asserted by an applicant but may require the
production of evidence reasonably necessary to enable the Commission to
determine the accuracy of any factual allegations asserted by each respective
applicant.
      4.   Conclusory factual assertions by an applicant shall not be accepted
as evidence by the Commission.
   B.   Factual Determinations:
      1.   To decide applications for special permits under this section, the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall render factual determinations, which shall
include two (2) specific types of factual determinations, as applicable.
      2.   First, the Commission shall render its local zoning determinations
according to Section B.9.a. hereinbelow.
      3.   Then, if, and only if, an applicant asserts claims that:
         a.   Its proposed wireless facility or installation is necessary to
remedy a significant gap in personal wireless services for an explicitly
identified wireless carrier; and
         b.   That its proposed installation is the least intrusive means of
remedying a specifically identified significant gap or gaps, the Commission
shall additionally render TCA determinations, in accord with Section (B)(ii)
hereinbelow.
      4.   The Commission shall separately record each factual determination it
makes in a written decision and shall reference, or make note of, the evidence
based upon which it rendered each of its factual determinations.
      5.   Each factual determination made by the Commission shall be based
upon substantial evidence.
      6.   For purposes of this provision, "substantial evidence" shall mean
such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support
a conclusion. It means less than a preponderance but more than a scintilla of
evidence.
      7.   Evidence which the Commission may consider shall include any
evidence submitted in support of an application and any evidence submitted by
anyone opposing a respective application, whether such evidence is in written
or photographic form, or whether it is in the form of testimony by any expert,
or any person who has personal knowledge of the subject of their testimony. The
Commission may, of course, additionally consider as evidence any information or
knowledge which they, themselves, personally possess, and any documents,
records or other evidence which is a matter of public record, irrespective of
whether such public record is a record of the City, or is a record of or is
maintained by, another federal, state and/or other governmental entity and/or
agency which maintains records which are available for, or subject to, public
review.
      8.   The requirements for specific factual determinations set forth below
are intended to enure to the benefit of the City, its residents, and property
owners, and not applicants.
      9.   If, and to the extent that the Planning and Zoning Commission fails
to render one or more of such determinations, that omission shall not
constitute grounds upon which the respective applicant can seek to annul,
reverse or modify any decision of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
         a.   Local Zoning Determinations: The Commission shall make the
following factual determinations as to whether the application meets the
requirements for granting a special use permit under this Article.
            (1)   Consistent with the Legislative Intent Set Forth within
Section
5-13-2:
               (A)   Whether granting the application would be consistent with
the legislative intent set forth within Section
5-13-2 hereinabove.
               (B)   Whether the proposed installation will meet each of the
conditions and standards set forth within this Section in the absence of which
the Planning and Zoning Commission is not authorized to grant a special use
permit.
            (2)   Potential Adverse Aesthetic Impacts: Whether the proposed
installation will inflict a significant adverse aesthetic impact upon
properties that are located adjacent to, or in close proximity to, the proposed
site, or any other properties which are situated in a manner that they would
sustain significant adverse aesthetic impacts by the installation of the
proposed installation facility.
            (3)   Potential Adverse Impacts Upon Real Estate Values: Whether
the proposed installation will inflict a significant adverse impact upon the
property values of properties that are located adjacent to, or in close
proximity to the proposed site, or properties that are otherwise situated in a
manner that would cause the proposed installation to inflict a significant
adverse impact upon their value.
            (4)   Potential Adverse Impact Upon the Character of the
Surrounding Community: Whether the proposed installation will be incompatible
with the use and/or character of properties located adjacent to or in close
proximity to the proposed site or other properties situated in a manner that
would cause the proposed installation to be incompatible with their respective
use.
            (5)   Potential Adverse Impacts Upon Historic Properties or
Historic Districts: Whether the proposed installation will be incompatible with
and/or would have an adverse impact upon, or detract from the use and enjoyment
of, and/or character of a historic property, historic site, and/or historic
district, including but not limited to historic structures, properties and/or
districts which are listed on, or are eligible for listing on, the National
Register of Historic Places.
            (6)   Potential Adverse Impacts Upon Ridgelines or Other Aesthetic
Resources of The City: Whether the proposed installation will be incompatible
with and/or would have an adverse aesthetic impact upon or detract from the use
and enjoyment of, and/or character of, recognized aesthetic assets of the City,
including but not scenic areas and/or scenic ridgelines, scenic areas, public
parks, and/or any other traditionally or historically recognized valuable
scenic assets of the City.
            (7)   Sufficient Fall Zones: Whether the proposed installation
shall have a sufficient fall zone and/or safe zone around the facility to
afford the general public safety against the potential dangers of structural
failure, icefall, debris fall, and fire.
            (8)   Mitigation: Whether the applicant has mitigated the potential
adverse impacts of the proposed facility to the greatest extent reasonably
feasible. To determine mitigation efforts on the part of the applicant, the
mere fact that a less intrusive site, location, or design would cause an
applicant to incur additional expense is not a reasonable justification for an
application to have failed to propose reasonable mitigation measures.
If when applying the evidentiary standards set forth in subparagraph A
hereinabove, the Planning and Zoning Commission determines that the proposed
facility shall inflict one or more of the adverse impacts described hereinabove
to such a substantial extent that granting the respective application would
inflict upon the City and/or its citizens and/or property owners the types of
adverse impacts which this provision was enacted to prevent, the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall deny the respective application for a special permit
unless the Commission additionally finds that a denial of the application would
constitute an effective prohibition, as provided for in Section (B)(ii)
immediately hereinbelow.
         b.   TCA Determinations: In cases within which an applicant has filed
a Notice of Effective Prohibition Conditions,'' the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall make three (3) additional factual determinations, as listed
herein below:
            (1)   Adequate Personal Wireless Services Coverage: Whether the
specific wireless carrier has adequate personal wireless services coverage
within the geographic areas for which the applicant claims a significant gap
exists in such coverage.
            (2)   Significant Gap in Personal Wireless Services of an
Identified Carrier:
               (A)   Whether the applicant has established, based upon
probative evidence provided by the applicant and/or its representative, that a
specific wireless carrier suffers from a significant gap in its personal
wireless services within the City.
               (B)   In rendering such determination, the Commission shall
consider factors including, but not necessarily limited to:
                  i.   Whether the identified wireless carrier which is alleged
to suffer from any significant gap in their personal wireless services has
adequate service in its personal wireless services at any frequency being used
by the carrier to provide personal wireless services to its end-use customers;
                  ii.   Whether any such alleged gap is relatively large or
small in geographic size;
                  iii.   Whether the number of the carrier's customers affected
by the gap is relatively small or large;
                  iv.   Whether or not the location of the gap is situated on a
lightly traveled road, or sparsely or densely occupied area; and/or
                  v.   Overall, whether the gap is relatively insignificant or
otherwise relatively de minimis.
               (C)   A Significant Gap cannot be established simply because the
carrier's customers are currently using the carrier's personal wireless
services, but the frequency at which the customers are using such services is
not the frequency most desired by the carrier.
            (3)   Least Intrusive Means of Remedying Gap(s) in Service:
               (A)   Whether the applicant has established based upon probative
evidence provided by the applicant and/or its representative, that the
installation of the proposed installation, at the specific site proposed by the
applicant, and the specific portion of the site proposed by the applicant, and
at the specific height proposed by the applicant is the least intrusive means
of remedying whatever significant gap or gaps which the applicant has
contemporaneously proved to exist as determined by the Planning and Zoning
Commission based upon any evidence in support of, and/or in opposition to, the
subject application.
               (B)   In rendering such determination, the Commission shall
consider factors including, but not necessarily limited to:
                  i.   Whether the proposed site is the least intrusive
location at which a facility to remedy an identified significant gap may be
located, and the applicant has reasonably established a lack of potential
alternative less intrusive sites and lack of sites available for co-location;
                  ii.   Whether the specific location on the proposed portion
selected site is the least intrusive portion of the site for the proposed
installation;
                  iii.   Whether the height proposed for the facility is the
minimum height actually necessary to remedy an established significant gap in
service;
                  iv.   Whether or not a pre-existing structure can be used to
camouflage the facility and/or its antennas;
                  v.   Whether or not, as proposed, the installation mitigates
adverse impacts to the greatest extent reasonably feasible, through the employ
of stealth design, screening, use of color, noise mitigation measures, etc.;
and/or
                  vi.   Overall whether or not there is a feasible alternative
to remedy the gap through alternative, less intrusive substitute installations,
such as the installation of multiple shorter installations, instead of a single
microcell facility.
         c.   Finding of Effective Prohibition or Lack of Effective
Prohibition:
            (1)   If, when applying the evidentiary standards set forth in
subparagraph A hereinabove, the Planning and Zoning Commission affirmatively
determines that the applicant has failed to establish either:
               (A)   That an identified wireless carrier suffers from a
significant gap(s) in its personal wireless services within the City; and/or
               (B)   That the applicant has failed to establish that the
proposed installation is the least intrusive means of remedying any such gap or
gaps, then the Planning and Zoning Commission may deny the application pursuant
to Section B.9.a. hereinabove, and such denial shall not constitute an
"effective prohibition."
            (2)   If when applying the evidentiary standards set forth in
subparagraph A hereinabove, the Planning and Zoning Commission affirmatively
determines that the applicant has established both:
               (A)   That an identified wireless carrier suffers from a
significant gap in personal wireless services within the City; and
               (B)   That the proposed installation is the least intrusive
means of remedying such significant gap or gaps, then the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall grant the application, irrespective of any determinations the
Commission may make pursuant to Section B.9.a. hereinabove, because any such
denial would constitute an "effective prohibition." (Ord. 278, 6-30-2022)
5-13-11: RETENTION OF CONSULTANTS:
   A.   Use of Consultants: Where deemed reasonably necessary by the Planning
and Zoning Commission and/or the City, the Planning and Zoning Commission and/
or the City may retain the services of independent professional consultants to
assist the Planning and Zoning Commission in carrying out its duties in
deciding special permit applications for personal wireless service facilities.
Where the Planning and Zoning Commission uses the services of private
engineers, attorneys, or other consultants for purposes of engineering,
scientific, land use planning, environmental, legal, or similar professional
reviews of the adequacy or substantive aspects of applications or of issues
raised during the course of review of applications for special permit approvals
of personal wireless service facilities, the applicant and landowner, if
different, shall be jointly and severally responsible for payment of all the
reasonable and necessary costs incurred by the City for such services. In no
event shall that responsibility be greater than the actual cost to the City of
such engineering, legal, or other consulting services.
   B.   Advance Deposits for Consultant Costs: The City and/or Planning and
Zoning Commission may require advance periodic monetary deposits held by the
City on account of the applicant or landowner to secure the reimbursement of
the City's consultant expenses. The City shall establish policies and
procedures for the fixing of escrow deposits and the management of payment from
them. After audit and approval of itemized vouchers by the City Treasurer as to
reasonableness and necessity of the consultant charges, the City may make
payments from the deposited funds for engineering, legal or consultant
services. Upon receiving a request by the applicant or landowner, the City
shall supply copies of such vouchers to the applicant and/or landowner
reasonably in advance of audit and approval, appropriately redacted where
necessary to shield legally privileged communications between City officers or
employees and the City's consultant. When it appears that there may be
insufficient funds in the account established for the applicant or landowner by
the City to pay current or anticipated vouchers, the City shall cause the
applicant or landowner to deposit additional sums to meet such expenses or
anticipated expenses in accordance with policies and procedures established by
the City. Consultants shall undertake no review on any matter scheduled before
the Planning and Zoning Commission until the initial escrow deposit has been
made or requested replenishment of the escrow deposit has been made. No
reviewing agency shall be obligated to proceed unless the applicant complies
with escrow deposit requirements.
   C.   Reasonable Limit Upon Consultant Expenses:
      1.   A consultant expense or part thereof is reasonable in amount if it
bears a reasonable relationship to the customary fee charged by engineers,
attorneys, or planners within the region for services performed on behalf of
applicants or reviewing Commissions in connection with comparable applications
for land use or development.
      2.   The City may also take into account any special conditions for
considerations as it may deem relevant, including but not limited to the
quality and timeliness of submissions on behalf of the applicant and the
cooperation of the applicant and agents during the review process.
      3.   A consultant expense or part thereof is necessarily incurred if it
was charged by the engineer, attorney or planner, or other consultants for a
service which was rendered to assist the Planning and Zoning Commission in:
         a.   Making factual determinations consistent with the goals of
protecting or promoting of the health, safety or welfare of the City or its
residents;
         b.   Accessing potential adverse impacts to historic properties,
structures and/or districts; and/or
         c.   Assessing and determining factual issues relevant to effective
prohibition claims, as addressed herein, to enable the Commission to best
comply with the letter and intent of the provision of the TCA which is relevant
thereto.
   D.   Audits Upon the Request of an Applicant: Upon request of the applicant
or landowner, the City shall review and audit all vouchers and determine
whether such engineering, legal and consulting expenses are reasonable in
amount and necessarily incurred by the City in connection with the review and
consideration of a special permit application for personal wireless service
facility. In the event of such a request, the applicant or landowner shall be
entitled to be heard by the City on reasonable advance notice.
   E.   Liability for Consultant Expenses:
      1.   The owner(s) of the subject real property, if different from the
applicant, shall be jointly and severally responsible for reimbursing the City
for funds expended to compensate services rendered to the City under this
section by private engineers, attorneys, or other consultants. For a land-use
application to be complete, the applicant shall provide the written consent of
all owners of the subject real property, both authorizing the applicant to file
and pursue land development proposals and acknowledging potential landowner
responsibility, under this section, for engineering, legal, and other
consulting fees incurred by the City. The applicant and the owner shall remain
responsible for reimbursing the City for its consulting expenses,
notwithstanding that the escrow account may be insufficient to cover such
expenses. No building permit or other permit shall be issued until
reimbursement of costs and expenses determined by the City to be due. In the
event of failure to reimburse the City for such fees, the following shall
apply:
      2.   The City may seek recovery of unreimbursed engineering, legal, and
consulting fees by court action in an appropriate jurisdiction, and the
defendant(s) shall be responsible for the reasonable and necessary attorney's
fees expended by the City in prosecuting such action. (Ord. 278, 6-30-2022)
5-13-12: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Small Wireless Facilities
      1.   Within a Commercial District or a Utility District, the minimum
setback shall be fifty (50) feet unless the facility is being installed upon a
pre-existing utility pole or other utility structure.
      2.   Within all residentially-zoned districts, all Small Wireless
Facilities shall be setback a minimum of one hundred fifty (150) feet from any
exterior boundary and any adjacent residential dwelling or structure unless the
facility is being installed upon a pre-existing utility pole.
   B.   Cell Towers and all personal wireless service facilities that do not
meet the definition of a Small Wireless Facility:
      1.   Each proposed wireless personal service facility and personal
wireless service facility structure, compound, and complex shall be located on
a single lot and comply with applicable setback requirements. Adequate measures
shall be taken to contain on-site all icefall or debris from tower failure and
preserve the privacy of any adjoining residential properties.
      2.   Each lot containing a wireless personal service facility and
personal wireless service facility structure, compound, and complex shall have
the minimum area, shape, and frontage requirements generally prevailing for the
zoning district where located.
      3.   Telecommunications towers shall comply with the following special
minimum setback requirements within Commercial District or a Utility District:
         a.   Street line: height of the tallest tower or self-standing or guy-
wired wireless support structure plus fifty (50) feet.
         b.   Side and rear lines: half the height of the tallest tower or
self-standing or guy-wired wireless support structure
         c.   Setback from adjoining residential zoning district: height of the
tallest tower or self-standing or guy-wired wireless support structure plus
fifty (50) feet.
         d.   The minimum front, side, and rear yard setback requirements for
telecommunications towers and located within a Residential Zoning District
shall be one hundred and ten percent (110%) of the height of the tower. (Ord.
278, 6-30-2022)
5-13-13: HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Small Wireless Facilities: Personal Wireless Service Facilities which
meet the definition of a Small Wireless Facility shall not exceed a maximum
height of fifty (50) feet about ground elevation in a Commercial District or a
Utility District and shall not exceed a maximum height of forty-five (45) feet
within a Residential District.
   B.   Non-Small Wireless Facilities: Personal Wireless Service Facilities
which do not meet the definition of a Small Wireless Facility shall not exceed
a maximum height of one hundred and fifty (150) feet about ground elevation in
a Commercial District. Facility shall not exceed a maximum height of one
hundred (100) feet above ground elevation within a Utility District or within a
Residential District. (Ord. 278, 6-30-2022)
5-13-14: ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS:
   A.   If, and to the extent that, the Planning and Zoning Commission
determines that a proposed installation bears the potential for a significant
adverse impact upon the environment within the meaning of NEPA, then the
Commission shall be expected to consider:
      1.   The extent of adverse impacts upon the environment; and
      2.   What mitigation measures the applicant should be required to
undertake, to minimize the adverse environmental impacts of the proposed
facility.
   B.   The Planning and Zoning Commission may make direct requests to the FCC
for their review of the application.
   C.   So long as the Planning and Zoning Commission acts with reasonable
diligence in securing potential NEPA review from the FCC, if such environmental
review requires a period of effort that extends beyond the expiration of the
applicable shot clock period, the delays beyond such period shall be deemed
reasonable. (Ord. 278, 6-30-2022)
5-13-15: HISTORIC SITE IMPACTS:
   A.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider the potential adverse
impacts of any proposed facility upon any historic site, structure, or
district.
   B.   If, and to the extent that, the Planning and Zoning Commission
determines that a proposed installation bears the potential for a significant
adverse impact upon a historic site or a historic district within the City,
then the Commission may consult with SHPO and the FCC to obtain their review of
the proposed project, and to ascertain:
      1.   The extent of adverse impacts upon the historic properties; and
      2.   What mitigation measure might the applicant be required to undertake
to minimize the adverse environmental impacts and/or adverse impacts upon
historic sites, structures and/or district.
   C.   A request by the Commission to the FCC may include, but not be limited
to, a request to the FCC for a Section 106 review, as defined in this Article,
as the City recognizes each application for a special permit for the
installation of a personal wireless services facility shall constitute an
undertaking for purposes of compliance with the National Historic Preservation
Act.
   D.   So long as the Planning and Zoning Commission acts with reasonable
diligence in completing its Historic preservation review, if obtaining SHPO
and/or FCC review requires a period of effort that extends beyond the
expiration of the applicable shot clock period, the delays beyond such period
shall be deemed reasonable. (Ord. 278, 6-30-2022)
5-13-16: FORCE MAJEURE:
In the event that the rendering of a final decision upon a special permit
application under this Article is delayed due to natural and/or unnatural
events and/or forces which are not within the control of the City or the
Planning and Zoning Commission, such as the unavoidable delays experienced in
government processes due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and/or mandatory compliance
with any related federal or state government orders issued in relation thereto,
such delays shall constitute reasonable delays which shall be recognized as
acceptable grounds for extending the period for review and the rendering of
final determinations beyond the period allotted under the applicable shot
clock. (Ord. 278, 6-30-2022)
5-13-17: ELEVENTH HOUR SUBMISSIONS:
   A.   In the event that an applicant tenders eleventh-hour submissions to the
City and/or the Planning Commission in the form of:
      1.   Expert reports;
      2.   Expert materials; and/or
      3.   Materials which require a significant period for review due either
to their complexity or the sheer volume of materials which an applicant has
chosen to provide to the Commission at such late point in the proceedings, the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall be afforded a reasonable time to review
such late-submitted materials.
   B.   If reasonably necessary, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be
permitted to retain the services of an expert consultant to review any late-
submitted expert reports which were provided to the Commission, even if such
review or services extend beyond the applicable shot clock period, so long as
the Commission completes such review and retains and secures such expert
services within a reasonable period of time thereafter, and otherwise acts with
reasonable diligence in completing its review and rendering its final decision.
(Ord. 278, 6-30-2022)
5-13-18: PROHIBITION AGAINST ILLEGALLY EXCESSIVE EMISSIONS AND RF RADIATION
TESTING:
   A.   As disclosed upon the FCC's public internet website, personal wireless
services facilities erected at any height under two hundred (200) feet are not
required to be registered with the FCC.
   B.   Of even greater potential concern to the City is the fact that the FCC
does not enforce the RF radiation limits codified within the CFR by either:
      1.   Testing the actual radiation emissions of wireless facilities either
at the time of their installation or at any time thereafter; or
      2.   Requiring their owners to test them. See relevant excerpts from the
FCC's public internet website at www.fcc.gov addressing lack of registration
requirements for Wireless Facilities less than two hundred (200) feet in height
(ARS) and the lack of enforcement of exposure limits (RF Safety).
   C.   This means that when wireless facilities are constructed and operated
within the City, the FCC will have no idea where they are located and no means
of determining, much less ensuring, that they are not exposing residents within
the City and/or the general public to illegally excessive levels of RF
Radiation.
   D.   The City deems it to be of critical importance to the health, safety,
and welfare of the City, its residents, and the public at large that personal
wireless service facilities do not expose members of the general public to
levels of RF radiation that exceed the limits which have been deemed safe by
the FCC, and/or are imposed under CFR.
   E.   In accord with the same, the City enacts the following RF Radiation
testing requirements and provisions set forth hereinbelow.
   F.   No wireless telecommunications facility or combination of facilities
shall at any time be permitted to emit illegally excessive RF Radiation as
defined in 5-13-3 or to produce power densities that exceed the legally
permissible limits for electric and magnetic field strength and power density
for transmitters, as codified within 47 CFR § 1.1310(e)(1), Table 1 Sections
(i) and (ii), as made applicable pursuant to 47 CFR § 1.1310(e)(3).
   G.   To ensure continuing compliance with such limits by all owners and/or
operators of personal wireless services facilities within the City, all owners,
and operators of personal wireless service facilities shall submit reports as
required by this section.
   H.   As set forth hereinbelow, the City may additionally require, at the
owner and/or operator's expense, independent verification of the results of any
analysis set forth within any reports submitted to the City by an owner and/or
operator.
   I.   If an operator of a personal wireless service facility fails to supply
the required reports or fails to correct a violation of the legally permissible
limits described hereinabove, following notification that their respective
facility is believed to be exceeding such limits, any special permit or other
zoning approval granted by the Planning and Zoning Commission or any other
Commission or representative of the City is subject to modification or
revocation by the Planning and Zoning Commission following a public hearing.
      1.   Initial Certification of Compliance with Applicable RF Radiation
Limits:
         a.   Within forty-five (45) days of initial operation or a substantial
modification of a personal wireless service facility, the owner and/or operator
of each telecommunications antenna shall submit to the Planning Administrator a
written certification by a licensed professional engineer, sworn to under
penalties of perjury, that the facility's radio frequency emissions comply with
the limits codified within 47 CFR § 1.1310(e)(1), Table 1 Sections (i) and
(ii), as made applicable pursuant to 47 CFR § 1.1310(e)(3).
         b.   The engineer shall measure the emissions of the approved
facility, including the cumulative impact from other nearby facilities, and
determine if such emissions are within the limits described hereinabove.
         c.   A report of these measurements and the engineer's findings with
respect to compliance with the FCC's Maximum Permissible Exposure (MPE) limits
shall be submitted to the Planning Administrator.
         d.   If the report shows that the facility does not comply with
applicable limits, then the owner and/or operator shall cease operation of the
facility until the facility is brought into compliance with such limits. Proof
of compliance shall be a certification provided by the engineer who prepared
the original report. The City may require, at the applicant's expense,
independent verification of the results of the analysis.
      2.   Random RF Radiofrequency Testing:
         a.   At the operator's expense, the City may retain an engineer to
conduct random unannounced RF Radiation testing of such facilities to ensure
the facility's compliance with the limits codified within 47 CFR § 1.1310(e)(1)
et seq.
         b.   The City may cause such random testing to be conducted as often
as the City may deem appropriate. However, the City may not require the owner
and/or operator to pay for more than one test per facility per calendar year
unless such testing reveals that one or more of the owner and/or operators
facilities are exceeding the limits codified within 47 CFR § 1.1310(e)(1) et
seq., in which case the City shall be permitted to demand that the facility be
brought into compliance with such limits, and to conduct additional tests to
determine if, and when, the owner and/or operator thereafter brings the
respective facility and/or facilities into compliance.
         c.   If the City at any time finds that there is good cause to believe
that a personal wireless service facility and/or one or more of its antennas
are emitting RF radiation at levels in excess of the legal limits permitted
under 47 CFR § 1.1310(e)(1) et seq., then a hearing shall be scheduled before
the Planning and Zoning Commission at which the owner and/or operator of such
facility shall be required to show cause why any and all permits and/or
approvals issued by the City for such facility and/or facilities should not be
revoked, and a fine should not be assessed against such owner and/or operator.
         d.   Such hearing shall be duly noticed to both the public and the
owner and/or operator of the respective facility or facilities at issue. The
owner and/or operator shall be afforded not less than two (2) weeks written
notice by first-class mail to its Notice Address.
         e.   At such hearing, the burden shall be on the City to show that, by
a preponderance of the evidence, the facility's emissions exceeded the
permissible limits under 47 CFR § 1.1310(e)(1) et seq.
         f.   In the event that the City establishes same, the owner and/or
operator shall then be required to establish, by clear and convincing evidence,
that a malfunction of equipment caused their failure to comply with the
applicable limits through no fault on the part of the owner/operator.
         g.   If the owner and/or operator fails to establish same, the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the power to, and shall, revoke any
special permit, variance, building permit, and/or any other form of zoning-
related approval(s) which the Planning and Zoning Commission, Zoning Commission
of Appeals, Planning Administrator and/or any other representative of the City
may have then issued to the owner and/or operator, for the respective facility.
         h.   In addition, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall impose a
fine of not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), nor more than five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for such violation of subparagraph 1. hereinabove,
or, in the case of a second offense within less than five (5) years, a minimum
fine of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), nor more than twenty-five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00).
         i.   In the event that an owner or operator of one or more personal
wireless facilities is found to violate subparagraph 1. hereinabove, three or
more times within any five (5) year period, then in addition to revoking any
zoning approvals for the facilities which were violating the limits codified in
47 CFR § 1.1310(e)(1) et seq., the Planning and Zoning Commission shall render
a determination within which it shall deem the owner/operator prohibited from
filing any applications for any new wireless personal services facilities
within the City for a period of five (5) years. (Ord. 278, 6-30-2022)
5-13-19: BOND REQUIREMENTS AND REMOVAL OF ABANDONED FACILITIES AND RECLAMATION:
   A.   Bond Requirement:
      1.   At, or prior to the filing of an application for a special use
permit for the installation of a new personal wireless service facility, each
respective applicant shall provide a written estimate for the cost of the
decommissioning, removal of the facility, including all equipment that
comprises any portion or part of the facility, compound and/or complex, as well
as any Accessory Facility or Structure, including the cost of the full
restoration and reclamation of the site, to the extent practicable, to its
condition before development in accord with the decommissioning and reclamation
plan required herein. This estimate shall be reviewed by the Planning and
Zoning Commission's engineer.
      2.   Upon receiving a special permit approval from the Planning and
Zoning Commission, and a building permit, prior to the commencement of
installation and/or construction of such facility or any part thereof, the
applicant shall file with the City a bond for a length of no less than three
years in an amount equal to or exceeding the estimate of the cost of removal of
the facility and all associated structures, fencing, power supply, and other
appurtenances connected with the facility. The bond must be provided within
thirty (30) days of the approval date and before any installation or
construction begins.
      3.   Replacement bonds must be provided ninety (90) days prior to the
expiration of any previous bond.
      4.   At any time the City has good cause to question the sufficiency of
the bond at the end of any three-year period, the owner and/or operator of the
facility, upon request by the City, shall provide an updated estimate and bond
in the appropriate amount.
      5.   Failure to keep the bonds in effect is cause for removal of the
facility at the owner's expense. A separate bond will be required for each
facility, regardless of the number of owners or the location.
   B.   Removal of Abandoned Facilities:
      1.   Any personal wireless service facility that is not operated or used
for a continuous period of twelve (12) consecutive months shall be considered
abandoned. At the owner's expense, the owner of said facility shall be required
to remove the facility and all associated equipment buildings, power supply,
fence, and other items associated with such facility, compound and/or complex,
and permitted with, the facility.
      2.   If the facility is not removed within ninety (90) days, the bond
secured by the tower owner shall be used to remove the facility and any
Accessory Equipment and Structures. (Ord. 278, 6-30-2022)
5-13-20: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Balancing of Interests:
      1.   The City formally recognizes that, as has been interpreted by
federal courts within the Second Circuit, when it enacted the TCA, Congress
chose to preserve local zoning authority over decisions regarding the
placement, construction, and modification of personal wireless facilities, 47
U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(A), subject only to the limitations set forth in subsection
§ 332(c)(7)(b), consistent with the holding of the United States Court of
Appeals in Sprint Spectrum L.P, v. Willoth, 176 F3d 630 (2nd Cir. 1999) and its
progeny, and the City has relied upon such federal courts' interpretations of
the TCA in enacting Chapter 13.
      2.   The City similarly embraces the federal courts' determinations that
the TCA was created to effectuate a balancing between the interests of
facilitating the growth of wireless telephone service nationally and
maintaining local control over the siting of wireless personal services
facilities, as the Court additionally articulated in Omnipoint Communications
Inc, v. The City of White Plains. 430 F3d. 529 (2nd Cir. 2005), which includes
preserving to local governments, including the City of Dalton Gardens, the
power to deny applications for the installation of wireless personal services
facilities, based upon traditional grounds of zoning denials, including, but
not limited to, the potential adverse aesthetic impacts, or a reduction in
property values which the construction of any proposed structure may inflict
upon nearby properties or the surrounding community.
      3.   This additionally includes the recognition that, under this
balancing of interest test, "once an area is sufficiently serviced by a
wireless service provider, the right to deny applications (for new wireless
facilities) becomes broader'' Crown Castle NG East LLC v. The City of
Hempstead. 2018 WL 6605857.
      4.   It is the intent of the City that the City's Zoning Code be applied
in a manner consistent with the balancing of interests codified within the TCA.
      5.   Consistent with same, the City rejects and shall reject any current
and/or future FCC interpretations of any provision of the TCA which are clearly
inconsistent with, and/or are clearly contrary to, both the language of the TCA
and binding decisions of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit and United States District Courts within the Second Circuit.
      6.   This includes a rejection of any FCC interpretations inconsistent
with Willoth and any claims that the FCA legally prohibits the Planning and
Zoning Commission from denying a special permit application, based solely upon
a claim that an applicant desires the installation of its new facility for
"densification" of its existing personal wireless services, or to offer a new
service, irrespective of whether or not the carrier already possesses adequate
coverage within the City, and irrespective of the potential adverse impact
which the installation of such new facility or facilities would inflict upon
the City, its property owners, citizens and/or communities.
   B.   Conflict With Federal or State Laws: To the extent that any provision
of this Article is found to conflict with any applicable federal or state law,
it is the intent of the City that the remaining portion of this Article which
has not been found to conflict with such law be deemed to remain valid and in
full force and effect. (Ord. 278, 6-30-2022)
TITLE 6
LAND SUBDIVISIONS
General Subdivision Provisions   1
Subdivision Plats And Procedures   2
Design Standards   3
Required Improvements   4
Administration And Enforcement   5
Short Subdivisions   6
Condominiums   7
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Short Title
6-1-2: Authority
6-1-3: Interpretation, Purpose And Scope
6-1-4: Definitions
6-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited as the SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE OF THE
CITY OF DALTON GARDENS. (Ord. 226, 11-1-2012)
6-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to title 50, chapter 13 of the Idaho Code,
title 67, chapter 65 of the Idaho Code and article 12, section 2 of the Idaho
constitution, as amended or subsequently codified. (Ord. 226, 11-1-2012)
6-1-3: INTERPRETATION, PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title
shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the protection of the
public health, safety and welfare. To protect the public, among other purposes,
such provisions are intended to provide for permanently wholesome community
environment, adequate municipal services and safe streets.
   B.   This title shall not apply to any lot or lots forming a part of a
subdivision created and recorded prior to the original effective date of March
4, 1982, nor is it intended by this title to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any
way impair or interfere with existing provisions of other laws or ordinances,
except those specifically repealed by this title, or with private restrictions
placed upon property by deed, covenant or other private agreement or with
restrictive covenants running with the land to which the city is a party. Where
this title imposes a greater restriction upon land than is imposed or required
by such existing provision of law, ordinance, contract or deed, the provisions
of this title shall control.
   C.   Except as provided in this title, no person shall subdivide any tract
of land which is located within the city except in conformity with provisions
of this title. (Ord. 226, 11-1-2012)
6-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
   BLOCK: The space along one side of a street between the two (2) nearest
intersecting streets, or between an intersecting street and a right of way,
waterway or other similar barrier, whichever is lesser.
   CITY: The city of Dalton Gardens.
   CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Dalton Gardens.
   CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer or building inspector of the city of Dalton
Gardens.
   CLERK: The city clerk of the city of Dalton Gardens.
   COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission of the city of Dalton
Gardens.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A comprehensive plan prepared by the commission which
indicates the general locations recommended for the various functional classes
of public works, places and structures and for the general physical development
of the city and includes any unit or part of such plan separately adopted and
any amendment to such plan or parts thereof. The comprehensive plan also
includes goals and policies for the future development of the community.
   CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of: a) an undivided interest in common in
real property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any
combination thereof, together with b) a separate interest in real property, in
an interest or interests in real property, or in any combination thereof.
   CONDOMINIUM PLAT: A division of units in a structure or structures for
condominium ownership purposes without a subdivision of the land upon which the
structure or structures sit.
   DEDICATION: The deliberate appropriation of land by an owner for any general
and public uses, reserving to himself no other rights than such as are
compatible with the full exercise and enjoyment of the public uses to which
such property has been devoted. The intention to dedicate shall be evidenced by
the owner by the presentment for filing of a final plat or short plat showing
the dedication thereon; and, the acceptance by the public shall be evidenced by
the approval of such plat for filing by the city.
   DIVISION OF LAND: Any transaction or action, not otherwise exempt or
provided for under the provisions of this chapter, which alters or affects the
shape, size or legal description of any part of an owner's "land" as defined
herein. Rental or lease of a building, facility or structure which does not
alter or affect the legal description of an owner's "land" shall not constitute
a division of land.
   EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner to specific persons or to the public
to use land for a specific purpose or purposes.
   FINAL PLAT: The final map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider's plan
of subdivision is presented to the city for approval, and which, if approved,
will be submitted to the county clerk for recording.
   GOVERNING BODY: The city council of the city of Dalton Gardens.
   LOT: The contiguous parcel of land on which a principal building and its
accessory buildings are placed or are to be placed, together with the required
open spaces, or a "lot" designated as such on an officially recorded plat.
"Lot" also means a portion of a plat or subdivision to be transferred or
developed as a single unit. This term shall include tracts or parcels. Each
unit created for condominium ownership purposes shall be considered as a lot.
      Any subdivision of land by metes and bounds description prior to the
effective date hereof and held under one ownership separate and distinct from
the adjoining or abutting land shall be considered a lot as shown by the last
conveyance of record.
      For the purpose of determining the location of the required yards, a lot
shall be considered to be as shown on the official recorded plat of the
property, regardless of any metes and bounds subdivision of said property
subsequent to the effective date hereof.
      When a tract of land consisting of more than one platted lot held under
one ownership is to be developed as one unit, all the parcels or lots shall be
considered as one lot for the purposes of this title.
      Corner Lot: A zoning lot which adjoins the point of intersection of two
(2) or more street lines and which the interior angle formed is one hundred
thirty five degrees (135°) or less.
      Front Lot Line: For an interior lot, a front lot line is the access point
of the nearest driveway to the street. On a corner lot, the applicant may
select either street line as a front lot line.
      Interior Lot: Any zoning lot which is not a corner lot.
      Rear Lot Line: The back lot line or back line parallel to the front line.
      Side Lot Line: Any lot line which is not a front lot line or a rear lot
line.
   OFFICIAL MAP: The map established by the city council showing the streets,
highways and parks theretofore laid out, adopted and established by law and any
amendments thereto adopted by the city council or additions thereto resulting
from the approval of subdivision plats by the commission and the subsequent
filing of such approved plats.
   OWNER: Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, copartnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary
interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain
proceedings to subdivide the same under this title.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT: The preliminary map, drawing or chart indicated for the
proposed layout of the subdivision to be submitted to the commission for its
consideration.
   PRIOR DIVISION OF LAND: Either of the following:
   A.   A division initiated by sale, lease, transfer or option contract
executed prior to the effective date hereof which presently remains a binding
and enforceable commitment as between the parties thereto, their successors or
assigns. If the applicable instrument does not specifically designate separate
units of property but does describe separate and defined lots, tracts, parcels,
sites or divisions of land which are contiguous, they shall constitute prior
divisions of land only if each conforms with this title and the zoning
ordinance lot size and width requirements in effect at the time of application
for exemption and each is provided with adequate access.
   B.   A taxation parcel of any size which is surrounded by prior divisions of
land as defined by subsection A of this definition.
   C.   A taxation parcel of any size which was created prior to the effective
date hereof for the purpose of creating divisions of land which were exempt
from platting requirements. Taxation parcels which were administratively
created by the assessor's office solely for tax purposes shall not be afforded
the status of prior divisions for subdivision purposes. Examples of taxation
parcels created solely for tax purposes include senior citizen segregations,
special district segregations, deed of trust or mortgage segregations
administratively effected by one other than the landowner or agent and
segregation for tax exemption purposes.
   D.   A taxation parcel created in the assessor's office for description
purposes because of section lines if it conforms with the lot size and width
requirements of this title and the zoning ordinance in effect at the time of
application for exemption.
   SHORT PLAT: A document consisting of a map of a short subdivision, together
with written certificates and data, showing thereon the division of a tract of
land into lots.
   SHORT SUBDIVISION: Every division of land for the purpose of lease or sale
into two (2), three (3) or four (4) lots, plots, sites, parcels or tracts
within the residential district of the incorporated area of Dalton Gardens and
where no new dedications are required.
   STREET: A way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a street,
highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane,
place, or however otherwise designated.
      Alley: A minor way which is used primarily for vehicular service access
to the back or the side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
      Arterial Street: A fast or heavy traffic street of considerable
continuity and used primarily as a traffic artery for intercommunication among
large areas.
      Collector Street: A street which carries traffic from minor streets to
arterial streets, including the principal entrance streets of a residential
development and streets for circulation within such a development.
      Cul-De-Sac Or Dead End Street: A minor street with only one outlet.
      Marginal Access Street: A minor street which is parallel and adjacent to
arterial streets and which provides access to abutting properties and
protection from through traffic.
      Minor Street: A street used primarily for access to the abutting
properties.
      Width Of Street: The shortest distance between the lines delineating the
right of way of a street.
   SUBDIVIDER: Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, corporation, trust
or any other legal entity commencing proceedings under this title to effect a
subdivision of land hereunder for himself or for another.
   SUBDIVISION: The division of a parcel of land for the purpose of transfer of
ownership or building development. The term includes resubdivision and, when
appropriate to the context, shall relate to the process of subdividing or to
the land subdivided.
   SUBDIVISION EXEMPTIONS: If a new street is involved, any division of a
parcel of land; provided, that a division of land which may be ordered or
approved by a court or effected by testamentary or intestate provisions or a
division of land for agricultural purposes into lots or parcels of five (5)
acres or more and not involving a new street, shall not be deemed a
subdivision. (Ord. 226, 11-1-2012)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Preliminary Plat
6-2-2: Final Plat
6-2-3: Completion Of Improvements; Guarantee
6-2-1: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Form: The preliminary plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn. The plat
of a subdivision containing five (5) acres or less shall be drawn at a scale of
one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50'). All other subdivisions shall be drawn at
a scale of one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), unless otherwise
required by the city council. The plat shall conform to and contain the
essentials set forth in Idaho Code 50-1304.
   B.   Map Contents: The preliminary plat shall show, on a map, all the facts
needed to enable the city council to determine whether or not the proposed
layout of the land in a subdivision is satisfactory from the standpoint of
public interest. At a minimum, the preliminary plat shall contain the following
information:
      1.   Description:
         a.   Proposed Name Of Subdivision: Proposed name of the subdivision.
The name shall not duplicate, be the same in spelling or alike in pronunciation
with any other recorded subdivision.
         b.   Identification Of Adjacent Subdivisions; Parcels And Land: Names
of adjacent subdivisions and owners of adjoining parcels or unsubdivided land.
         c.   Identification Of Subdivider, Owner And Engineer: Names and
addresses of the subdivider, owner and engineer.
         d.   Location: Location by section, range, township, town, county,
state.
         e.   Street Names: Names of streets within the adjoining plat.
         f.   Title Report: All preliminary plats must be accompanied by a
title report.
      2.   Existing Conditions:
         a.   Boundaries of the subdivision indicated by a heavy line and the
approximate acreage.
         b.   Location, widths and names of existing or platted streets,
railroad rights of way, easements, parks, permanent buildings, section and
corporation lines.
         c.   Zoning districts.
      3.   Survey Data: Existing contours with intervals of not more than five
feet (5') where the slope is greater than two percent (2%) and not more than
two feet (2') where the slope is less than two percent (2%). Elevations are to
be based on NAVD 88 datum.
         a.   Drainage channels, wooded areas, power transmission poles and
lines, telephone, fiber optic, water, sewer, storm and any other significant
utilities and items should be shown.
         b.   Vicinity sketch.
      4.   Drafting Of Plat: Date of preparation, scale of map, north arrow.
      5.   Proposals: Location and principal dimensions for all proposed
streets, alleys, easements, lot lines and areas to be reserved for public use.
   C.   Other Information:
      1.   Statement of the proposed use of lots so as to reveal the effect of
the development on traffic, fire hazards or congestion of population.
      2.   Proposed covenants and restrictions.
      3.   Source of water supply.
      4.   Provisions for sewage disposal, drainage and flood control.
      5.   If any zoning changes are contemplated, the proposed zoning plan for
the areas, including dimensions.
      6.   All other requirements of plats as contained in Idaho Code 50-1304.
      7.   The subdivision shall also provide a list of names and addresses of
all persons owning real property situated within three hundred feet (300') of
the external boundaries of the subdivision, as their names appear on the
Kootenai County tax rolls.
   D.   Preparation: The preliminary plat shall be prepared, stamped and signed
by an Idaho professional surveyor, with all improvements prepared, stamped and
signed by an Idaho professional engineer.
   E.   Filing: The subdivider, shall file an application for preliminary
approval with the planning and zoning commission and as many copies of the
preliminary plat as may be required by the city, according to the standards and
other provisions of these regulations. The preliminary plat shall be considered
officially filed after it is examined by the city and is found to be in full
compliance with the formal provisions of these regulations.
   F.   Staff Approval:
      1.   Official Recommendation: The city shall transmit copies of the plat
for study and recommendations to the:
         a.   City clerk.
         b.   Commission.
         c.   Each company, agency, municipality or department furnishing
water, sewer, electric or gas service.
         d.   Panhandle health district.
         e.   Such other official, body, company or agency as may be directed
by the city.
The commission shall consider the completed subdivision application and plat at
its next scheduled meeting which shall be a public hearing as delineated in
title 5, chapter 10 of this code. The commission shall submit to the city
council its written findings and recommendations regarding the preliminary
plat. After receiving the findings and recommendations of the commission, a
public hearing shall be held before the city council.
      2.   Notice And Hearing: The applicant and the city shall follow the
procedures delineated in title 5, chapter 10 of this code for public hearing
notifications.
      3.   Notice Of Action Taken: The city council shall determine whether the
preliminary plat shall be approved, approved with modifications or disapproved
and shall give notice to the subdivider in the following manner:
         a.   If approved, the city clerk shall affix his signature to the plat
and attach thereto a notation that the plat has received preliminary approval
of the city council and return it to the subdivider for compliance with final
approval requirements.
         b.   If approved with modifications or disapproved, the city shall
attach to the plat a statement of the reasons for such action and return it to
the subdivider.
In any case, a notation of the action taken and requisite reasons therefor
shall be entered in the records of the city clerk.
      4.   Effect Of Approval: Approval of the preliminary plat by the city
council shall not constitute final acceptance of the subdivision plat by the
city council.
      5.   Right Of Subdivider After Approval: Preliminary approval shall
confer upon the subdivider the right for a one year period from the date of
approval that the general terms and conditions under which the preliminary
approval was granted will not be changed by the city council without reason.
The city, upon application by the subdivider, may grant two (2) extensions not
exceeding six (6) months each in duration upon payment of a new subdivision fee
for each extension period. (Ord. 227, 11-1-2012)
6-2-2: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Scope: The final plat will have incorporated all changes or
modifications required by the city council. Otherwise, it shall conform to the
preliminary plat, and it may constitute only that portion of the approved
preliminary plat which the subdivider proposed to record and develop at the
time; provided, that such portion conforms with all the requirements of this
title.
   B.   Form: The final plat shall conform to and contain the essentials set
forth in Idaho Code 50-1304. The map of a subdivision containing five (5) acres
or less shall be drawn at a scale of one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50'). All
other subdivisions shall be drawn at a scale of one inch equals one hundred
feet (1" = 100') unless otherwise required by the city council.
   C.   Map Contents: The final plat shall conform with Idaho Code title 50,
chapter 13 and contain:
      1.   Description:
         a.   Name of the subdivision.
         b.   Names of adjacent subdivisions and owners of adjoining parcels of
unsubdivided land.
         c.   Names and addresses of the owner, surveyor and engineer.
         d.   Location by section, range, township, town, county and state.
         e.   Names of streets within the adjoining plat.
      2.   Survey Data:
         a.   Length of all arcs, radii, internal angles, points of curvature
and tangent bearings.
         b.   When lots are located on a curve or when side lot lines are at
angles other than ninety degrees (90°), the width at the building line shall be
shown.
         c.   All lot numbers and lines, with accurate bearings to the nearest
second and distance to two (2) decimal places.
      3.   Drafting Of Plat: Date of preparation, scale of map, north arrow.
      4.   Proposals:
         a.   All easements for rights of way provided for public services or
utilities and any limitations of such easements.
         b.   Accurate outlines and dimensions of any areas to be dedicated or
temporarily reserved for public use with the purpose indicated thereon
including vision triangle restrictions, fire lane access, parking lot outlines
with care capacity estimates, landscaping outline to show conformance to
regulations.
   D.   Other Information:
      1.   The recording information for any protective covenants shall be
identified on the plat.
      2.   City surveyor and engineer's certificate as required under
subsection F1d of this section.
      3.   Certification shall be furnished from the county treasurer that all
taxes and assessments have been paid on the land within the proposed
subdivision.
      4.   If a zoning change is involved, certification from the commission
shall be furnished indicating that the change requested has been approved and
is in effect.
      5.   Certification by a professional land surveyor to the effect that the
plat represents a survey made by him and that all monuments shown thereon
actually exist and that their location is correctly shown.
      6.   An acknowledgment by the owner or owners of his or their adoption of
the plat and of the dedication of streets and other public areas.
      7.   Certification by the city clerk of the approval of the plat by the
city council.
      8.   Those certificates required of plats as set forth in title 50,
chapter 13, Idaho Code.
   E.   Preparation: The final plat shall be prepared by a professional land
surveyor.
   F.   Filings:
      1.   Required Matter: After receiving notice of the action of the city
council approving the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall proceed to file
with the city council:
         a.   Copies of the final plat in the amount required by the city
council.
         b.   A written application for final approval.
         c.   Cross sections and profiles of streets and all other construction
drawings as deemed necessary by the city related to the improvements to be
constructed in the subdivision.
         d.   A statement by the city engineer certifying that he is in receipt
of a map showing all utilities, identifying those portions already installed
and those to be installed and that the subdivider has complied with section
6-2-3 of this chapter.
      2.   Time Limits: The final map shall be filed not later than one year
after the date of approval of the preliminary plat. Otherwise, it will be
considered void, unless an extension is requested in writing, by the subdivider
and for good cause granted by the city council. The final plat shall be filed
at least twelve (12) working days prior to the meeting at which it is to be
considered.
The final plat shall be considered officially filed after it is examined by the
city and is found to be in full compliance with the formal provisions of these
regulations.
   G.   Approval:
      1.   Official Recommendation: Cross sections, profiles and other
construction drawings shall be forwarded to the city engineer for his study and
recommendations. The city engineer shall, within thirty (30) days after the
filing of the final plat, transmit copies of the plat for their study and
recommendations to the:
         a.   City clerk.
         b.   County surveyor.
         c.   Each company, agency, municipality or department furnishing
water, sewer, electric or gas service.
         d.   Panhandle health district.
         e.   Such other official, body, company or agency as may be directed
by the city council.
      2.   Notice And Hearing: The applicant and the city shall follow the
procedures delineated in title 5, chapter 10 of this code for public hearing
notifications.
      3.   Final Tracing: After receiving a written report from each official,
body, company or agency enumerated in subsection G1 of this section, the city
council shall notify the subdivider of any recommended changes or suggestions
so that the subdivider may correct the final approval.
      4.   Time Requirements: The final plat, in the form of a final tracing,
shall then be resubmitted to be considered by the city council. The city
council shall act on the final plat within forty five (45) days after filing,
unless such time is extended by agreement with the subdivider or his agent.
      5.   Notice Of Action Taken: The city council shall determine whether the
final plat shall be approved or disapproved and shall give notice to the
subdivider in the following manner:
         a.   If approved, the city clerk shall affix his signature to the plat
and attach thereto a notation that it has received final approval by the city
council and return it to the subdivider for compliance with recording
requirements.
         b.   If disapproved, the city shall attach to the plat a statement of
the reasons for such action and return it to the subdivider.
In any case, a notation of the action taken and requisite reasons therefor
shall be entered in the records of the city clerk.
      6.   Recording: The subdivider shall record the final plat in the office
of the county recorder within ninety (90) days after the date of the approval.
Otherwise, the final plat shall be considered void.
      7.   Recorded Copy: The subdivider shall provide to the city a recorded
copy of the final plat with corresponding instrument number within fifteen (15)
days of recordation. (Ord. 227, 11-1-2012)
6-2-3: COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS; GUARANTEE:
   A.   Acceptable Financing: In lieu of the actual installation of required
public improvements prior to approval and filing of the final plat, the council
may permit the subdivider to provide a financial guarantee of performance in
one or more of the following methods:
      1.   Surety Bond: Surety bond meeting the following requirements:
         a.   The bond shall accrue to the city and shall cover construction of
any required public improvements.
         b.   The bond shall be in an amount equal to one hundred fifty percent
(150%) of the total estimated cost of completing construction of the specific
public improvements, as estimated by the city building official and the city
engineer and approved by the city council.
         c.   The bond shall be in full force and effect for a period to be
specified by the council.
         d.   The bond shall be written by a surety company authorized to do
business in the state and acceptable to the council.
      2.   Cash Deposit, Certified Check, Negotiable Bond Or Letter Of Credit:
Cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of
credit may be accepted by the council. If accepted, the subdivider shall
proceed as follows:
         a.   A cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond or irrevocable
bank letter of credit shall be deposited with an escrow agent or trust company.
         b.   The dollar value of the cash deposit, certified check, negotiable
bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be equal to one hundred fifty
percent (150%) of the estimated cost of construction for the specific public
improvements, as estimated by the city and approved by the council.
         c.   The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified check, negotiable
bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be for a period to be specified
by the council.
         d.   By an agreement entered into between the council and the
subdivider, provision for progressive payment out of the cash deposit, or
reduction of the certified check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of
credit, to the extent of the cost of the completed portion of the public
improvements may be made.
Unless one or more of the above specified financial guarantees of improvement
completion has been accomplished, no approval of the final plat, nor recording
thereof, shall be permitted unless the subdivider provides satisfactory proof
that all required public improvements and facilities have been fully and
satisfactorily constructed and installed.
   B.   Agreement For Inspection: Before approving a final plat, construction
plan and specifications for public improvements, an agreement between the
subdivider and the council shall be made to provide for inspection of the
construction to ensure its conformity to the submitted plans.
   C.   Failure To Complete Improvements: In the event the subdivider shall, in
any case, fail to complete such work within the period of time required by the
conditions of guarantee for the completion of public improvements, it shall be
the responsibility of the city council to proceed to have such work completed.
In order to accomplish this, the city council shall reimburse itself for the
cost and expense thereof by appropriating the cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit which the subdivider may
have deposited in lieu of a surety bond, or may take such steps as may be
necessary to require performance by the bonding or surety company. (Ord. 227,
11-1-2012)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Conformity With Comprehensive Plan And Official Map
6-3-2: Streets
6-3-3: Alleys
6-3-4: Easements
6-3-5: Blocks
6-3-6: Lots
6-3-7: Public Sites And Open Spaces
6-3-1: CONFORMITY WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND OFFICIAL MAP:
The proposed subdivision shall conform to the comprehensive plan and official
map. (Ord. 228, 11-1-2012)
6-3-2: STREETS:
   A.   Conformity: The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and
location of all streets shall conform to the official map and comprehensive
plan and shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets,
to topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety and in their
appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by such
streets. Where not shown on the official map or comprehensive plan, the
arrangement and other design standards of streets shall conform to the
provisions found herein. All new streets should conform to a north-south or
east-west directional grid.
   B.   Relation To Adjoining Street System: The arrangement of streets in new
subdivisions shall make provision for the continuation of the existing streets
in adjoining areas, unless delineated as a cul-de-sac in the commercial or
light industrial districts.
   C.   Projection Of Streets: Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the
arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision for the proper
projection of streets.
   D.   Streets Carried To Property Lines: When a new subdivision adjoins
unsubdivided land susceptible of being subdivided, then the new streets shall
be carried to the boundaries of the tract proposed to be subdivided.
   E.   Street Jogs: Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one
hundred twenty five feet (125') shall be avoided.
   F.   Dead End Streets Or Cul-De-Sacs: Dead end streets or cul-de- sacs,
designed to be so permanently, except the extension of Dalton Avenue, Hanley
Avenue, 18th Street and Woodland Drive, shall not be allowed in the residential
district.
   G.   Marginal Access Streets: Where a subdivision abuts or contains an
existing arterial street, the city council may require marginal access streets
or other such treatment as may be necessary for adequate protection of
residential properties and to afford separation of through and local traffic.
   H.   Minor Streets: Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by
through traffic will be discouraged.
   I.   Street Widths: Street widths for new publicly dedicated streets shall
be sixty feet (60') wide and shall meet the requirements of Lakes highway
district for paved roadways and shall comply with the requirements of the
city's stormwater ordinance in title 4, chapter 3 of this code.
   J.   Reverse Curves: A tangent at least one hundred feet (100') long shall
be introduced between reverse curves on arterial and collector streets.
   K.   Subdivision Into Large Tracts: Where a tract is subdivided into larger
parcels than ordinary building lots, such parcels shall be arranged so as to
allow the opening of future streets and logical further resubdivision.
   L.   Reserve Strips: Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be
prohibited except under conditions approved by the city council.
   M.   Street Grades: No street grade shall be less than one percent (1%) and
shall not exceed the following, with due allowance for reasonable vertical
curves:
 
Street Type     Percent Grade
Arterial        6
Collector       8
Minor           10
Marginal access 6
 
   N.   Railroad On Or Abutting Subdivision: Where a subdivision borders on or
contains a railroad right of way or limited access highway right of way, the
city council may require a street approximately parallel to and on each side of
such right of way, at a distance for the appropriate use of the intervening
land, as for park purposes in residential districts, or for commercial or
industrial purposes in appropriate districts. Such distances shall also be
determined with due regard for the requirements of approach grades and future
grade separations.
   O.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential
to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations and where the city council finds it will be
practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided. Wherever a half street is adjacent to a tract to be
subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within such tract.
   P.   Street Names And Numbers: Names of new streets shall not duplicate
existing or platted street names, unless a new street is a continuation of or
in alignment with the existing or platted street. House numbers shall be
assigned in accordance with the house numbering system now in effect in the
city. All new streets shall be named by the subdivider subject to the approval
of the city.
   Q.   Access To Streets Across Ditches: The subdivider shall provide access
to all proposed streets across all ditches in a standard method approved by the
city engineer, and such access shall be in full compliance with the city's
stormwater ordinance in title 4, chapter 3 of this code.
   R.   Vacation Of Streets: The city council shall not authorize the vacation
of any street or part of a street so dedicated for public use if such vacation
interferes with the uniformity of the existing street pattern or any future
street plans prepared for the area.
   S.   Private Streets: Private streets shall not be approved nor shall public
improvements be approved for any private street in the residential district.
   T.   Hardship To Owners Of Adjoining Property Avoided: The street
arrangements shall not be such as to cause hardship to owners of adjoining
property in platting their own land and providing convenient access to it.
(Ord. 228, 11-1-2012)
6-3-3: ALLEYS:
   A.   Alleys In Zoning Districts:
      1.   Residential Districts: Alleys shall not be permitted in residential
areas.
      2.   Commercial And Industrial Districts: Alleys shall be provided in
commercial and industrial districts; except, that the city council may waive
this requirement where other definite and assured provisions are made for
service access, such as off street parking, loading and unloading consistent
with and adequate for the uses proposed.
   B.   Width: The right of way width of an alley shall meet the international
fire code as adopted by the city.
   C.   Dead End Alleys: Dead end alleys shall not be permitted; except, that
the city council may waive this requirement where such dead end alley is
unavoidable and where adequate turnaround facilities have been provided. (Ord.
228, 11-1-2012)
6-3-4: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Required For Utilities: Easements with a minimum right of way width of
ten feet (10') shall be provided adjacent to all road rights of way and if
there will be utilities along the rear lot lines a minimum of ten feet (10') on
each side of all rear lot lines and along certain side lot lines where
necessary for utilities.
   B.   Required For Drainage; Provide For Drainage: Where a subdivision is
traversed by a watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream, there shall be
provided a stormwater easement or drainage right of way conforming
substantially with the lines of such watercourse and such further width or
construction or both as will be adequate for the purpose. (Ord. 228, 11-1-2012)
6-3-5: BLOCKS:
   A.   Factors Governing Dimensions: Block length and width or acreage within
bounding roads shall be such as to accommodate the size of lot required in the
area by the zoning ordinance and to provide for convenient access, circulation
control and safety of street traffic.
   B.   Lengths: Block lengths shall not exceed one thousand four hundred feet
(1,400') or be less than three hundred thirty feet (330').
   C.   Arrangement: A block shall be so designed as to provide two (2) tiers
of lots.
   D.   Crosswalks: In blocks over six hundred feet (600') long, pedestrian
crosswalks may be required by the commission in locations deemed necessary to
public health, convenience and necessity. Such crosswalks shall be in
conformation with the manual of "Uniform Control Devices", latest edition.
(Ord. 228, 11-1-2012)
6-3-6: LOTS:
   A.   Dimensions: Lot dimensions and area shall not be less than the
requirements of the zoning ordinance.
   B.   Size: All residential lots shall have one hundred ten feet (110')
frontage on a public street and shall contain not less than one acre.
Commercial and light industrial lots shall meet the size and dimensions of
their respective zoning districts.
   C.   Location: All residential lots shall abut by their full frontage on a
publicly dedicated street or a street that has received the legal status as
such.
   D.   Side Lot Lines: Side lot lines shall be no more than ten degrees (10°)
from right angles to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   E.   Corner Lots: Corner lots for residential use shall have extra width to
permit appropriate building setback from and orientation to both streets. Lots
abutting on a pedestrian walkway shall be treated as a corner lot.
   F.   Uninhabitable Lots: Lots subject to flooding and lots deemed by the
city council to be uninhabitable shall not be platted for residential occupancy
nor for such other uses as may increase danger to health, life or property or
aggravate the flood hazard, but such land within the plat shall be set aside
for such uses as shall not be endangered by periodic or occasional inundation
or shall not produce unsatisfactory living conditions.
   G.   Lot Remnants: All remnants of lots below minimum size left over after
subdividing of a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots rather than
allowed to remain unusable parcels.
   H.   Lot Line Adjustment: A lot line adjustment is adjustment of an existing
lot line.
      1.   Lot line adjustments are allowed only under the following
conditions:
         a.   Does not result in the creation of any additional building sites.
         b.   A parcel of land that is not buildable because it does not
conform to municipal code regulations, or was created improperly, cannot be
converted to a buildable parcel through a lot line adjustment.
         c.   Lot line adjustments require review and approval by the city.
Adjustments are accomplished by recording a deed of conveyance for the property
that will be transferred, and then, for the receiving parcel, recording a
second deed describing the new, exterior parcel boundaries (so that an
additional parcel of land is not inadvertently created). Deeds shall be
submitted to the city for review and approval prior to recordation.
      2.   The following shall require replatting or filing an amended plat and
shall not be considered a lot line adjustment:
         a.   A change in a lot line that results in a change in the location
of an approach, utilities, easements and/or septic tank or drain field.
         b.   An increase or decrease in any lot size of more than twenty
percent (20%).
         c.   Any adjustments between a platted lot and an unplatted lot.
         d.   An increase or reduction in the number of lots within a
subdivision. (Ord. 228, 11-1-2012)
6-3-7: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
   A.   Shown On Comprehensive Plan: Where a proposed park, playground, school
or other public use shown on the comprehensive plan is located in whole or in
part within a subdivision, the subdivision will dedicate or reserve adequate
space for such purpose in such area within the subdivision when the city
council finds the requirement to be reasonably necessary to the public health
and welfare.
   B.   Dedication Of Public Spaces: The requiring of the dedication of public
spaces as provided herein shall not constitute an acceptance of the dedication
by the city, unless said dedication is accepted by the city council. (Ord. 228,
11-1-2012)
CHAPTER 4
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Improvements Required
6-4-1: IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
Prior to the granting of final approval, the subdivider shall have installed or
shall have furnished adequate bond for the ultimate installation of the
following:
   A.   Monuments: Monuments shall be placed at all block corners, angle
points, points of curves in streets and at intermediate points as shall be
required by the city surveyor. The monuments shall be of such material, size
and length as may be approved by the city surveyor.
   B.   Streets:
      1.   Surfacing: All publicly dedicated streets shall be surfaced in
accordance with applicable standard specifications of the Lakes highway
district which shall include paving the surface. Such construction shall be
subject to inspection and approval by the city engineer and Lakes highway
district's designated engineer.
      2.   Gutters And Drainage: Gutters and drainage and drainage structures
shall be provided in accordance with title 4, chapter 3 of this code. Such
construction shall be subject to the inspection and approval of the city
engineer.
      3.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall be placed at all street
intersections within or abutting the subdivision. Such signs shall be of a type
approved by the city and shall be placed in accordance with standards of the
Lakes highway district.
   C.   Water Supply:
      1.   Accessible Public Water Supply: Where a public water system approved
by the city is reasonably accessible, each lot within the subdivision area
shall be provided with a connection thereto.
      2.   Nonaccessible Public Water Supply: In a proposed subdivision,
pending accessibility of a public water supply, the subdivider may be required
to construct wells or a private water supply system in such a manner that an
adequate water supply of potable water will be available to every lot in the
subdivision at the time improvements are erected thereon. The adequacy,
healthfulness and potability of the water supply shall be subject to the
approval of the Panhandle health district or as provided by the city. The water
supply system shall be constructed under the direction and control of the
Panhandle health district, and all construction shall be subject to the
approval of the city engineer.
      3.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be installed and connected to
adequate water supplies in all subdivisions. Fire hydrant standards shall be
subject to the approval of the fire district serving the city and the city
engineer.
   D.   Sanitary Sewer System: Where a public sanitary sewer is reasonably
accessible for a commercial subdivision, each lot within the subdivided area
shall be provided with a connection thereto. All connections shall be subject
to the approval of the city engineer.
   E.   Pedestrian And Bicycle Paths: Bicycle paths shall be constructed eight
feet (8') in width in accordance with the specifications of the city and on
such side of each street as determined by the city.
Any of the foregoing improvements may be waived by the city council in
compliance with section
6-5-4 of this title. (Ord. 229, 11-1-2012)
CHAPTER 5
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
6-5-1: Administration Of Provisions
6-5-2: Required Approval And Recordation Of Plats
6-5-3: Revision Of Plat After Approval
6-5-4: Variances
6-5-5: Fees
6-5-6: Violation And Penalty
6-5-1: ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS:
This title shall be administered by the mayor and council. (Ord. 230, 11-1-
2012)
6-5-2: REQUIRED APPROVAL AND RECORDATION OF PLATS:
   A.   Approval Prior To Recordation: No plat of any subdivision shall be
entitled to record in the county recorder's office or have any validity until
it shall have been approved as provided in this title. In the event any such
unapproved plat is recorded, it shall be considered invalid, and the city
council shall institute proceedings to have the plat stricken from the records
of Kootenai County, Idaho.
   B.   Sale Of Land In Subdivisions: No owner or agent of the owner of any
land located within a subdivision shall transfer, sell, agree to sell or
negotiate to sell any land by reference to, exhibition of or by the use of a
plan or plat of a subdivision before such plan or plat has been approved and
recorded in the manner prescribed by this title. Any sale or transfer contrary
to the provisions of this title is void. The description of such lot or parcel
by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other documents used in
the process of selling or transferring shall not exempt the transaction from
the provisions of this title.
   C.   Building Permits: The building inspector shall not issue building or
repair permits for any structure on a lot in a subdivision for which a plat has
not been approved and recorded in the manner prescribed herein.
   D.   Public Improvements: The city hereby defines its policy to be that the
city will withhold all public improvements of whatsoever nature, including the
maintenance of streets and the furnishing of sewerage facilities and water
service, from all subdivisions which have not been approved and from all areas
dedicated to the public which have not been accepted by the city council in the
manner prescribed herein. (Ord. 230, 11-1-2012)
6-5-3: REVISION OF PLAT AFTER APPROVAL:
No changes, erasures, modifications or revisions shall be made in any plat of a
subdivision after approval has been given by the city council and endorsed, in
writing, on the plat, unless the said plat is first resubmitted to the city
council. (Ord. 230, 11-1-2012)
6-5-4: VARIANCES:
   A.   Generally: The city council may authorize a variance from these
regulations when, in its opinion, undue hardship may result from strict
compliance. In granting any variance, the city council shall prescribe only
conditions that it deems necessary to or desirable for the public interest. In
making its findings, as required hereinbelow, the city council shall take into
account the nature of the proposed use of land and the existing use of land in
the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the proposed
subdivision and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic
conditions in the vicinity. No variance shall be granted unless the city
council finds:
      1.   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this title would
deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his land.
      2.   That the variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of
a substantial property right of the petitioner.
      3.   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which said
property is situated.
   B.   Complete Neighborhood: The city council may authorize a variance from
these regulations in case of a plan for a complete community or neighborhood
which, in the judgment of the city council, provides adequate public spaces and
includes provisions for efficient circulation, light and air and other needs.
In making its findings, as required hereinbelow, the city council shall take
into account the nature of the proposed use of land and the existing use of
land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the proposed
subdivision and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic
conditions in the vicinity.
The city council shall find that:
      1.   The proposed project will constitute a desirable and stable
community development.
      2.   The proposed project will be in harmony with adjacent areas.
   C.   Application For Variance:
      1.   Generally: Application for any such variance shall be submitted, in
writing, by the subdivider at the time when the preliminary plat is filed for
the consideration of the city. The petition shall state fully the grounds for
the application and all the facts relied upon by the petitioner.
      2.   Complete Neighborhood: Application for any such variance shall be
made, in writing, by the subdivider at the time when the preliminary plat is
filed for the consideration of the city stating fully and clearly all facts
relied upon by the petitioner and shall be supplemented with maps, plans or
other additional data which may aid the city in the analysis of the proposed
project. The plans for such development shall include such covenants,
restrictions or other legal provisions necessary to guarantee the full
achievement of the plan. (Ord. 230, 11-1-2012)
6-5-5: FEES:
   A.   Preliminary Plat: The subdivider shall pay a filing fee as set by
resolution of the city council.
   B.   Investigations, Etc.: The subdivider shall pay to the city the actual
cost of checking, investigating and pay to the city the costs of other matters
required by law and these regulations as set by resolution of the city council.
(Ord. 230, 11-1-2012)
6-5-6: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this title shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalties in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 230, 11-1-2012)
CHAPTER 6
SHORT SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Application Of Provisions; Exemptions
6-6-2: Application For Short Subdivision
6-6-3: Minimum Lot Size And Width Requirements
6-6-4: Administration Of Provisions
6-6-5: Appeals
6-6-6: Violation And Penalties
6-6-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Every division of land for the purpose of sale or transfer into two
(2), three (3) or four (4) lots, tracts or parcels within the residential
district in the incorporated area of Dalton Gardens, where no new dedications
are required, shall proceed in compliance with this chapter. No short
subdivisions in the commercial district are allowed.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
      1.   Any division of land for the purpose of adjusting the boundary line
or the transfer of land between two (2) adjacent property owners which does not
result in the creation of any additional building site.
      2.   Any division of land made by testamentary provision, the laws of
descent or upon court order.
      3.   Any acquisition or division of land by a public agency for public
right of way purposes.
      4.   Any application for a division of land that is deemed complete prior
to the adoption of this chapter shall be vested under the previously adopted
ordinance. (Ord. 225, 11-1-2012)
6-6-2: APPLICATION FOR SHORT SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Form And Fees: Any person who undertakes a "short subdivision" as
defined in section
6-1-4 of this title shall submit to the commission a completed application form
provided by the commission accompanied by a nonrefundable fee in an amount to
be established by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Contents Of Application; Plats And Plans Required: The drawing, map and
accompanying material submitted with an application for short subdivision
approval shall include, at a minimum, the following information:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
property owner if different than the applicant.
      2.   A legal description of the entire area being subdivided and a legal
description for each of the proposed lots.
      3.   The size of each lot indicated by square footage computation
sufficiently accurate to determine that each lot meets the minimum established
lot size requirements.
      4.   A copy of any existing or proposed restrictions or covenants.
      5.   A survey by a licensed engineer or surveyor of the property
containing the following:
         a.   Boundaries and dimensions of the entire area being subdivided and
the proposed boundaries and dimensions of the proposed lots.
         b.   All existing buildings and structural improvements.
         c.   The location of any roads, easements or rights of way that exist
or are proposed to serve the short subdivision.
         d.   Proposed access and approach areas.
         e.   Location of all water and sewer lines servicing the proposed
lots.
         f.   A space for approval of the commission.
   C.   Approval Or Denial Of Application:
      1.   Distribution Of Plats And Plans: Upon receipt of a completed
application for short subdivision approval, the commission shall forward copies
of the proposal to the following agencies for comment:
         a.   Dalton Water Association.
         b.   Panhandle health district.
         c.   Kootenai County fire and rescue.
         d.   Other appropriate agencies, including the city of Coeur d'Alene
wastewater treatment official and the city of Coeur d'Alene street department
or similar agency having jurisdiction over granting approaches off of
Government Way.
Agencies requested to review a proposed short subdivision will have thirty (30)
days upon receipt of a request for review in which to return their written
comments. Failure by an agency to reply within the established review period
shall be interpreted to mean that the particular agency has no concern over the
proposal.
      2.   Decision; Time Limitation: Within thirty (30) days after receipt of
a completed application or at its next regular meeting, the commission shall
approve or disapprove the proposed short subdivision and shall immediately
notify the applicant, in writing, of such decision. If an application is
disapproved, the commission shall cite the specific reason for disapproval.
      3.   Requirements For Approval: The commission shall not approve a short
plat unless:
         a.   The proposed lots meet all established lot size and width
requirements.
         b.   Adequate water supply and sewage disposal are available.
         c.   The decision to approve a short subdivision will not be contrary
to the public interest.
         d.   Newly dedicated roads are improved and paved according to
standards set by Lakes highway district.
         e.   No cul-de-sacs or dead end streets are allowed, unless they
comply with this subdivision ordinance, and shall only be allowed in the
commercial and light industrial zones.
      4.   Filing: Upon approval of a short subdivision, the commission shall
transmit a copy of the approved application and plans to the county recorder
for filing. The fee collected at the time the application was submitted will be
used to cover the cost of filing. The commission shall also forward a copy of
the approved short subdivision to the city clerk for permanent file at the city
clerk's office.
   D.   Variance Request: In the event the application for short subdivision
does not meet the requirements of section
6-6-3 of this chapter, the person requesting the short subdivision shall apply
for a variance before the city council and the provisions of section
6-5-4 of this title shall apply to the variance request. (Ord. 225, 11-1-2012)
6-6-3: MINIMUM LOT SIZE AND WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
All lots within a short subdivision shall have one hundred ten feet (110') of
frontage on a publicly created and maintained street and contain not less than
one acre, less such portions which may have been granted, dedicated or conveyed
for use as road right of way or other easement. Nonconforming lots shall not be
created. (Ord. 225, 11-1-2012)
6-6-4: ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS:
The planning and zoning commission, herein referred to as the commission, is
vested with the authority to summarily approve or disapprove proposed short
subdivisions. The commission shall prepare and require the use of such forms as
necessary to administer this chapter. (Ord. 225, 11-1-2012)
6-6-5: APPEALS:
Appeals concerning interpretation, administration or decisions rendered
pursuant to this Chapter shall be processed in accordance with Section
1-11-1. (Ord. 225, 11-1-2012; amd. Ord. 264, 3-5-2020)
6-6-6: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   No person shall sell or transfer any land subject to the requirements
of this chapter until a short subdivision has been approved and filed.
   B.   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor and subject the
offender to penalties in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this code. The landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder, public official
or any other person who commits, participates in, assists in or maintains such
violation may be found guilty of a separate offense.
   C.   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the council or any other public
official or private citizen from taking such lawful action as is necessary to
restrain or prevent any violation of this chapter or of the Idaho Code.
   D.   Further, no short subdivision required by this chapter shall be
recorded by the county recorder until such short subdivision has received
approval by the commission.
   E.   No public board, agency, commission, official or other authority shall
authorize any improvements on any land in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 225,
11-1-2012)
CHAPTER 7
CONDOMINIUMS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Application; Submittal
6-7-2: Plat Requirements
6-7-3: Certificates, Dedications And Deed Restrictions
6-7-4: Required Improvements
6-7-5: Additional Requirements For Phased Condominiums
6-7-6: Approval By City Engineer
6-7-7: Decision By Council
6-7-8: Map; Copy Distribution
6-7-1: APPLICATION; SUBMITTAL:
   A.   Applicability: This procedure applies to any subdivision for
condominium ownership purposes if the condominium plat is located on a single
lot and consists of a division of units without a division of the land on which
the structure or structures are located. If the condominium plat does not meet
these criteria, it must be approved as a regular plat.
   B.   Application Requirements:
      1.   The subdivider shall make application on a form prescribed by the
city. The application shall contain four (4) copies of the proposed condominium
plat map. At the time of filing a condominium plat application, the subdivider
shall pay to the city such fees as are provided in the fee schedule approved by
resolution of the city council.
      2.   A condominium plat application will not be processed until all maps
and information required by this title have been filed, checked and accepted by
the city surveyor and engineer, and the required fees paid. (Ord. 231, 11-1-
2012)
6-7-2: PLAT REQUIREMENTS:
The condominium plat shall contain and be accompanied by the information
required in the final plat section of chapter 2 of this title. (Ord. 231, 11-1-
2012)
6-7-3: CERTIFICATES, DEDICATIONS AND DEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The plat shall contain the same certificate that is required for a
regular plat of this title. Any other certificate required by Idaho Code title
50, chapter 13. The city clerk may require additional certificates, affidavits,
or endorsements as they may become necessary for the reasonable enforcement of
these regulations.
   B.   The plat shall contain a statement by the owner of the land dedicating
all rights of way and other appropriate sites and easements for the public use.
(Ord. 231, 11-1-2012)
6-7-4: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
Street, curbing, water, sanitary sewer and storm sewer improvements are
required as part of a condominium plat and required public improvements will be
included as part of any building permit issued for a condominium project. (Ord.
231, 11-1-2012)
6-7-5: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PHASED CONDOMINIUMS:
   A.   If the condominium project will contain more than one phase, the
condominium plat for the first phase and each subsequent phase must include the
following information required by this chapter:
      1.   All future buildings planned for the site showing appropriate
dimensions and locations.
      2.   Identification of the order in which subsequent buildings will be
constructed.
      3.   A statement that each phase will be superseded by the subsequent
phase.
   B.   If the initial condominium plat was required to be approved by a
regular plat, subsequent phases may be approved under this chapter so long as
the plat does not further divide land and the city determines that the
condominium plat does not significantly deviate from the plat of the previous
phase or any conditions of approval for the initial phase. (Ord. 231, 11-1-
2012)
6-7-6: APPROVAL BY CITY ENGINEER:
   A.   The city engineer may only approve and affix his certificate of
approval on the plat if he or she finds the plat to conform to the requirements
of this title.
   B.   If the city engineer finds that the criteria required by this chapter
have not been met, he or she may either disapprove the application or require
the applicant make the necessary changes to allow approval. If the application
is denied by the city engineer, the applicant may file a plat with the planning
commission in accordance with the provisions of this title. (Ord. 231, 11-1-
2012)
6-7-7: DECISION BY COUNCIL:
   A.   Once the completed application has been checked and approved by the
city staff, the condominium plat will be placed on the next regularly scheduled
city council agenda for public hearing and subsequent decision. The applicant
will be notified of the date of the city council hearing once it is scheduled.
   B.   Following review by the city council, the applicant will be notified in
writing of the decision of the city council. (Ord. 231, 11-1-2012)
6-7-8: MAP; COPY DISTRIBUTION:
One print and the original of the approved map shall be returned to the
applicant. The original shall be submitted to the Kootenai County recorder's
office who may accept it for filing and record only if all requirements stated
have been completed. The city requires a conformed copy with corresponding
instrument number of the recorded plat to be returned to the city for filing
within sixty (60) days of the recordation. (Ord. 231, 11-1-2012)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
General Health And Safety Provisions   1
Animal Control   2
Private Sewage Disposal Systems   3
Subsurface Sewage Disposal Systems   4
Graffiti   5
Sewer Use   6
Feeding Deer   7
Nuisances   8
Residential District   8A
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL HEALTH AND SAFETY PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Fireworks
7-1-2: Discharge Of Firearms
7-1-3: Hunting Prohibited
7-1-4: Penalty
7-1-1: FIREWORKS:
It shall be unlawful to possess, sell, give away or discharge any fireworks as
defined in sections 39-2607, 39-2608, 39-2609 and 39-2610 of the Idaho Code
within the municipal limits of the city. (Ord. 245, 12-3-2015)
7-1-2: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS:
   A.   Definition: Whenever the term "firearms" is used in this section, said
term shall mean any instrument used in the propulsion of shot, pellets, bullets
or other harmful objects by the action of gunpowder exploded within it, or by
the action of compressed air within it, or by the power of springs, excluding
what are commonly known as air rifles and BB guns.
   B.   Discharge Of Firearms Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person
to discharge firearms within the limits of the municipality.
   C.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to:
      1.   Peace officers in the discharge of their duties;
      2.   A person may discharge a firearm on properties that are zoned to
allow agricultural use if discharge of the firearm is for the purpose of
slaughtering animals raised on the property for the purpose of human
consumption and the person discharging the firearm complies with the following
conditions:
         a.   The discharge of the firearm is aimed away from persons,
vehicles, roadways, buildings constructed for human occupancy, and other
animals; and
         b.   The person discharging the firearm provides prior notice to the
applicable law enforcement agency for the city (Kootenai County sheriff).
      3.   A person discharging a firearm in the lawful defense of person or
persons or property. (Ord. 245, 12-3-2015)
7-1-3: HUNTING PROHIBITED:
It is prohibited and shall be a misdemeanor for any person to hunt wildlife in
Dalton Gardens. "Hunting" as defined by Idaho fish and game means chasing,
driving, flushing, attracting, pursuing, worrying, following or on the trail
of, shooting at, stalking, or lying in wait for any wildlife whether or not
such wildlife is then subsequently captured, killed, taken or wounded. Nothing
herein shall prohibit the stalking, attracting, searching for or lying in wait
for any wildlife by an unarmed person solely for the purpose of observing or
photographing that wildlife. (Ord. 245, 12-3-2015)
7-1-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalties in accordance with
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 245, 12-3-2015)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
7-2-1: Title
7-2-2: Authority
7-2-3: Purpose
7-2-4: Appointment Of Animal Control Officer
7-2-5: Adoption Of Codes
7-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE of Dalton Gardens.
(Ord. 212, 1-6-2011)
7-2-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is authorized under the provisions of Idaho Code title 25 and all
applicable chapters including, but not limited to, chapter 28 and chapter 35.
(Ord. 212, 1-6-2011)
7-2-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter shall be to secure and maintain such levels of
animal control within the incorporated areas of the city for the purpose to the
greatest degree practicable to prevent injury to persons and property. To this
end, it is the purpose of this chapter to adopt title 5, chapter 1 and title 5,
chapter 1, article B of the Kootenai County code to provide a means of
licensing certain animals and controlling errant animal behavior so that it
shall not become a public nuisance. (Ord. 212, 1-6-2011)
7-2-4: APPOINTMENT OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
The city hereby enables the Kootenai County sheriff's department as the
official empowered to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
The sheriff's department or city designee shall have the power and
responsibility to render interpretations of the adopted codes and enforce rules
and supplemental regulations in order to clarify the application of their
provisions.
One copy of each standardized code adopted herein shall be duly filed for use
by the public at city hall. (Ord. 212, 1-6-2011)
7-2-5: ADOPTION OF CODES:
Dalton Gardens hereby adopts the following codes and standards and shall
enforce them with regard to all animal control in the incorporated areas of
Dalton Gardens:
   A.   Chapter Adopted: Kootenai County code title 5, chapter 1.
   B.   Article Adopted: Kootenai County code title 5, chapter 1, article B.
In addition to the above delineated code, the city in conjunction with the
Kootenai County sheriff's department shall regulate:
   C.   Dogs In Parks: No owner or keeper of a dog, leashed or unleashed, shall
allow or permit such animal to be upon the premises of any city of Dalton
Gardens park with the exception of the Dalton Gardens Arena. This subsection
shall not apply to dogs used for law enforcement purposes or dogs trained and
used by sensory impaired or disabled individuals. Special exceptions to this
prohibition in the form of organized animal shows, competitions or events may
be granted by express written authority of the city council when the use or
activity is of general community benefit or of particular benefit to the city.
Any such request must be made in writing setting forth the circumstances and
control measures which will be in force if animals are permitted within a park.
The council may authorize the number of dogs which may be allowed, the control
measures which must be employed, and the fees or deposits which may be required
to defray costs which the city might incur by virtue of allowing animals in a
park. Approval of any such request shall be evidenced by a letter of
authorization to that effect which shall be exhibited to any officer of the
city upon request.
   D.   Commercial Dog Kennel Operations: Commercial dog kennel operations are
prohibited within the corporate limits of Dalton Gardens as defined in Kootenai
County code section
5-1-3.
   E.   Numbers Of Dogs: It shall be unlawful for any family to harbor or keep
in excess of three (3) dogs on any lot in the city, however, the litter of a
female dog may be kept with the dog, and the litter, together with the mother,
shall count as one dog until the litter reaches six (6) months of age. (Ord.
212, 1-6-2011)
CHAPTER 3
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Purpose
7-3-2: Application of Provisions
7-3-3: Definition
7-3-4: Unlawful Acts
7-3-5: Annual Report to Health District
7-3-6: Violation and Penalty
7-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to insure that the disposal of sewage shall be
accomplished in a safe and sanitary manner in order to protect the public
health, safety and welfare to the greatest possible extent. (Ord. 70, 9-7-78)
7-3-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This Chapter is applicable to all underground individual sewage disposal
systems installed or to be constructed after the effective date hereof. (Ord.
70, 9-7-78)
7-3-3: DEFINITION:
The term "individual subsurface sewage disposal system" shall mean any system
of piping, treatment devices or other facilities (excluding chemical toilets)
that store, convey, treat or dispose of sewage. (Ord. 70, 9-7-78)
7-3-4: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to do any of the following acts:
   A.   To install or allow to continue in operation any subsurface individual
sewage system if effluent loading exceeds the equivalent of one house to the
acre, other than Municipally owned systems.
   B.   To construct any subsurface individual sewage system in any other
manner than:
      1.   A separate tank with a manhole riser to within six inches (6") of
the ground surface and an inspection riser to ground surface.
      2.   Record the date of installation, location, size and type of
component in the system, together with load size, at the City Hall.
   C.   To fail to pump all systems when the sludge depth is one-third (1/3) of
the liquid depth of the tank or every five (5) years, whichever event occurs
first.
   D.   To fail to report to the City Hall when an existing system is pumped
and to install inspection risers to surface and manhole risers to within six
inches (6") of the surface and to record the condition, location, size and type
of tank and disposal system and the date of pumping. (Ord. 70, 9-7-78)
7-3-5: ANNUAL REPORT TO HEALTH DISTRICT:
The City Clerk shall, annually, report the number of systems installed,
repaired or pumped to the Panhandle Health District #1. (Ord. 70, 9-7-78)
7-3-6: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalties in accordance with
Section
1-4-1 of this City Code. (1991 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SUBSURFACE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Operation And Maintenance Requirements For All Properties
7-4-2: Commercial District Procedures
7-4-3: Noncompliance; Commercial Property
7-4-4: Appeal
7-4-1: OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL PROPERTIES:
   A.   Residential properties shall not exceed one single-family dwelling unit
per acre or single lot, whichever is less. Accessory dwelling units are
prohibited. Living in any structure other than the primary residence is
prohibited.
   B.   Notice shall be sent by the city to all property owners reminding them
to pump their sewage systems every five (5) years.
   C.   When an existing subsurface sewage disposal system is pumped, a manhole
riser to within six inches (6") of the surface and an inspection riser to the
surface shall be installed.
   D.   All septic pumpers doing business in Dalton Gardens should report to
the city the condition, location, size and type of tank and disposal system,
and date of pumping.
   E.   Nondomestic wastewater disposal onto the ground or into the ground
subsurface is prohibited. “Nondomestic wastewater” is defined as any wastewater
that is not produced as sanitary wastewater from restroom facilities, showers
or kitchens. Critical materials disposal onto the ground or into the ground
subsurface is prohibited. “Critical materials” are defined as any liquid,
semiliquid, flowable or water soluble solid that is listed on the most current
superfund amendments and reauthorization act, title III (SARA III) “List Of
Lists” published by the office of toxic substances, U.S. environmental
protection agency, Washington D.C., or is required by the U.S. occupational
safety and health administration to have a material safety data sheet (MSDS).
   F.   A method to determine wastewater flows from nonresidential uses must be
implemented by nonresidential users to assure that effluent loading does not
exceed that of two hundred fifty (250) gallons per acre per day. The health
district must have access to this information prior to their approval of new
commercial facilities or changes in use of existing commercial facilities.
(Ord. 178, 11-3-2005; amd. Ord. 276, 5-12-2022)
7-4-2: COMMERCIAL DISTRICT PROCEDURES:
   A.   The following enforcement procedures will be utilized in the commercial
zoned district to address wastewater quantity overage issues. It shall be the
property owner's and business license holder's responsibility to correct
wastewater quantity overage issues.
   B.   All property owners and business license applicants who own or lease
commercially zoned property within Dalton Gardens shall sign a copy of the
wastewater restriction document at every new application or renewal. Each
property owner and business license applicant shall receive a copy of the water
conservation methods brochure. The wastewater restriction document explains the
requirements of the sewer management agreement which the city has in force with
the Panhandle health district.
   C.   For business license renewal purposes, water readings shall occur in
March of each calendar year. For use in determining wastewater quantity, water
readings from the Dalton water association will be available by March 31 of
each year. The business license renewal process will use the March readings for
wastewater quantity compliance. Other methods approved by the city shall be
considered in determining the wastewater quantity. Business licenses are to be
issued July 1 of each year.
   D.   Wastewater quantity must be in compliance by July 1 of each year for
the city to be able to issue the standard business license.
   E.   The city will contact property owners in writing, by April 15 of each
year to inform them of any wastewater quantity overage. It is up to the
property owner to determine the cause of the wastewater quantity overage. The
contact will initially be in the form of a notice that is sent to the property
owner. The notice will state that the property is currently in violation of the
sewer management agreement and that it is the property owner's responsibility
to rectify the wastewater quantity overage and that if not rectified by July 1,
the business owners on the property will be unable to renew their business
license. This notice shall also contain a copy of the signed wastewater
agreement and the water conservation methods flier.
   F.   The city shall notify the Panhandle health district of any noncompliant
property owners.
   G.   The city will attempt to contact the noncompliant property owners in
person by April 15 to begin a wastewater quantity assessment. The assessment
will determine how water is being used on the property and whether or not there
is water leakage on the property. The property owner will complete the
assessment and return the report to the city by May 1 of each year.
   H.   Once the property owner has determined the cause of the wastewater
quantity overage, the property owner will take steps to resolve the issue.
   I.   The property owner shall maintain regular contact with the city during
the period of determining compliance.
   J.   Once the property owner believes that it has resolved the issue and
achieved compliance, the property owner shall provide proof of wastewater
quantity compliance to the city by the second week of June of each year to be
placed on the council agenda for the first Thursday in July. Proof may be, but
is not limited to, receipts of plumbing (leaks repaired) or daily/weekly water
meter readings. The city shall forward a report to the Panhandle health
district on the progress of the property owner's compliance with the
regulations. If compliance has been achieved, and all other health district
regulations have been met, the district shall "sign off" on the business
license application or renewal.
   K.   If the property owner has not achieved compliance by June 15, the
property owner has the option of requesting an extension to achieve compliance.
The extension request shall be in writing and considered by the city council at
their July meeting. (Ord. 178, 11-3-2005)
7-4-3: NONCOMPLIANCE; COMMERCIAL PROPERTY:
In the event a commercial property owner has not achieved compliance as above
set forth, the city shall have the right to withhold, or refuse to renew, a
business license until compliance is actually achieved. (Ord. 178, 11-3-2005)
7-4-4: APPEAL:
Any appeal shall be as set forth in section
1-11-1. (Ord. 178, 11-3-2005; amd. Ord. 264, 3-5-2020)
CHAPTER 5
GRAFFITI
SECTION:
7-5-1: Title
7-5-2: Authority
7-5-3: Purpose
7-5-4: Definitions
7-5-5: Prohibition Against Graffiti
7-5-6: Removal Of Graffiti
7-5-7: Parental Civil Responsibility
7-5-8: Reward For Information/Restitution
7-5-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the GRAFFITI ORDINANCE of Dalton Gardens. (Ord.
188, 8-3-2006)
7-5-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is authorized under the provisions of Idaho Code section 67-6511
and 67-6512. (Ord. 188, 8-3-2006)
7-5-3: PURPOSE:
It is the intent of this chapter to provide peace, quiet, and domestic
tranquility, and to protect the public from anything which is injurious to
health, or is indecent, or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the
free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life
or property by an entire community or neighborhood.
The Dalton Gardens city council finds that the presence of graffiti on public
and private property within the city can cause the aesthetic deterioration of
neighborhoods and commercial areas, creates blight and, if not promptly abated,
may lead to further placement of graffiti and the aesthetic deterioration of
areas within the city of Dalton Gardens. The purpose of this chapter is to
establish rules and procedures for graffiti removal and to address the costs of
such removal. (Ord. 188, 8-3-2006)
7-5-4: DEFINITIONS:
   GRAFFITI: Includes, but is not limited to, any form of painting, writing, or
inscription regardless of the content or the nature of the materials used which
is applied to any public or private surface without the consent of the owner of
the property.
   GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT: Any items that are reasonably known to be used to cause
graffiti, including, but are not limited to, such items as aerosol paint
containers, paint sticks, or markers.
   TAG: Graffiti that typically features a word or words instead of pictures or
graphics. For example, a tag usually includes a name of the author. (Ord. 188,
8-3-2006)
7-5-5: PROHIBITION AGAINST GRAFFITI:
   A.   No person may put "graffiti", as defined in this chapter, on any
property, real or personal, where they will be visible from public property. It
is unlawful for any person or group of persons to apply or cause or attempt to
apply or cause graffiti or to tag including, but not limited to, any of the
following acts:
      1.   Drawing, scribing, etching, marking, painting, staining, sticking or
adhering by any means whatsoever, any unauthorized inscription, symbol, design,
and/or any markings of any kind including, but not limited to, configuration of
letters and/or numbers upon any surface, whether publicly or privately owned,
including, but not limited to, trees, mailboxes, signs, poles, fixtures,
utility boxes, trash containers, fences, walls, windows, roofs, paths, walks,
streets or pavement, under/overpasses, tunnels, bridges, trestles, drainage
facilities, buildings and/or the interior or exterior of any other structures
or surfaces.
      2.   Attempting to draw, scribe, etch, mark, paint, stain, stick or
adhere by any means whatsoever, any unauthorized markings of any kind
including, but not limited to, inscription, symbol, design, and/or
configuration of letters and/or numbers upon any surface, whether publicly or
privately owned, including, but not limited to, trees, mailboxes, walls,
windows, roofs, paths, walks, streets, tunnels, bridges, trestles, drainage
facilities, buildings and/or the exterior or interior of any other structures
or surfaces.
      3.   Conspiring to, or participating in any way in causing or attempting
to cause graffiti, including, but not limited to, acting as a "lookout". (Ord.
188, 8-3-2006)
7-5-6: REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI:
   A.   Prohibition Against Allowing Graffiti To Remain: It shall be unlawful
for any owner, occupant, lessee, lessor, renter, tenant or person otherwise in
charge or control of any property within the city to permit any graffiti to
exist, or to allow any graffiti to remain on any surface located on such
property when the graffiti constitutes a public nuisance and notice of removal
has been given under subsection B of this section.
   B.   Removal From Noncity Property:
      1.   It is the duty of every property owner, occupant, lessee, lessor,
renter, tenant, or person otherwise in charge or control of any property within
the city to remove graffiti promptly from his or her property in a manner
acceptable to the city. When graffiti constitutes a public nuisance, the city
may cause a written notice to be served upon the property owner, occupant,
lessee, lessor, renter, tenant, or any person otherwise in charge or control of
the affected property requesting removal of the graffiti.
      2.   If such property owner, occupant, lessee, lessor, renter, tenant, or
person otherwise in charge or control of the property, fails to remove the
graffiti within seventy two (72) hours after receipt of the notice requesting
the removal of the graffiti, the graffiti may be abated by the city and the
cost of abatement may be billed to the property owner. The city may utilize any
enforcement or collection techniques legally available to it.
      3.   When the city determines to remove graffiti at the city's expense,
and the owner of the property consents to such removal and executes the
necessary documents, the city or its contractor is authorized to provide for
the removal of the graffiti.
      4.   Prior to the removal of graffiti from property not owned by the
city, the city or its contractor shall obtain written consent of the owner,
occupant, lessee, lessor, renter, tenant, or other person in charge or control
of the property who shall execute a release and waiver approved as to form by
the city attorney.
   C.   Notice: Notice pursuant to this section shall be deemed given upon
personal service, or forty eight (48) hours after being deposited in the United
States mail, first class, postage prepaid, directed to the intended individual
or after posting the property position. (Ord. 188, 8-3-2006)
7-5-7: PARENTAL CIVIL RESPONSIBILITY:
In situations where graffiti is wilfully caused by individuals under the age of
eighteen (18), the parent or legal guardian of said minor shall be responsible
for its removal or payment for the cost thereof. The city may recover such
costs up to two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) (or as otherwise
determined by law) in a civil action in addition to any other remedies provided
by law. (Ord. 188, 8-3-2006)
7-5-8: REWARD FOR INFORMATION/RESTITUTION:
   A.   The city council may, by resolution, offer and pay a reward for
information leading to the apprehension and conviction of any person who places
"graffiti" or other inscribed material as defined herein upon public or
privately owned structures within the city. In addition to any fines levied by
the city for violation of the division, any person who has damaged property by
inscribing graffiti on public or private property shall be liable for the
amount of any reward paid.
   B.   As a part of any sentence or other penalty imposed, the court may also
order that restitution be paid to the victim by the admitted or convicted
perpetrator, and in the case of a perpetrator who is a minor, by the minor's
parent or lawfully designated guardian or custodian. (Ord. 188, 8-3-2006)
CHAPTER 6
SEWER USE
SECTION:
7-6-1: Purpose Of Provisions
7-6-2: Definitions
7-6-3: Pretreatment Controls And Wastewater Requirements
7-6-4: Connection To City Of Coeur d'Alene Sewer System Required; When
7-6-5: Failure To Connect; Connection Made By City Of Dalton Gardens
7-6-6: City Of Coeur d'Alene Is Designated Agent
7-6-7: Agent Duties
7-6-8: Capitalization Fee Schedule Designated
7-6-9: Payment Of Capitalization Fee
7-6-10: City Of Coeur d'Alene Wastewater Funds
7-6-11: Disposition Of Funds
7-6-12: User Charges
7-6-13: Service Charges And Fees
7-6-14: Unpaid Fees And Charges; Lien
7-6-15: Delinquency
7-6-16: Disconnection For Nonpayment
7-6-17: Responsibility For Individual Sewer Service Connections
7-6-18: Violation; Penalty
7-6-1: PURPOSE OF PROVISIONS:
It has been determined that a commercial/industrial sewer main has been or will
be installed under Government Way, and that the commercial and/or light
industrial areas of the city will have such sewer line available to connect to
for sanitary sewage disposal. The city of Coeur d'Alene has required, as a part
of the commercial/industrial users in the city of Dalton Gardens connecting to
the city of Coeur d'Alene's wastewater collection and treatment system, that an
ordinance be passed which will be no less stringent and as broad in base as the
city of Coeur d'Alene's sewer use ordinance.
Further, it has been determined that the cost of operation, maintenance and
improvement of the wastewater collection and treatment works is largely
dependent upon the quantity and quality of effluent discharged by the various
users into the system; and that the charging of a fee based upon the quantity
of wastewater discharged and the strength of effluent discharged by such users
will result in an equitable distribution of the costs amongst the users. To
equitably establish such fees, sewer users have been classified in several
classes according to volume and strength of effluent received. (Ord. 224, 11-1-
2012)
7-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
   BUILDING PLUMBING: The sewer plumbing within the building foundation and
extending five feet (5') beyond the building foundation.
   COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL: Shall have the same meaning for the purpose of
this chapter.
   SEWER MAIN: The public or nonpublic sewer main designed and constructed in
accordance with IDEQ rules.
   SEWER SERVICE CONNECTION: The pipe, fittings and appurtenances from the
sewer main to the pipe extended five feet (5') beyond the building foundation.
(Ord. 224, 11-1-2012)
7-6-3: PRETREATMENT CONTROLS AND WASTEWATER REQUIREMENTS:
After passage of this chapter, all commercial/industrial users of the city of
Coeur d'Alene sewer system are subject to the pretreatment controls and those
provisions in uniform wastewater requirements, Coeur d'Alene municipal code
title 13, chapter 20 now in effect or as subsequently amended. (Ord. 224, 11-1-
2012)
7-6-4: CONNECTION TO CITY OF COEUR D'ALENE SEWER SYSTEM REQUIRED; WHEN:
The owner of any property within the 2012 commercial district of the city of
Dalton Gardens as shown in exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein,
the use of which property results in the generation or existence of sewage,
which property abuts a public street (including, but not limited to, Dalton
Avenue, Hanley Avenue, Prairie Avenue, Canfield Avenue, Aqua Circle, Deerhaven
Avenue, Wilbur Avenue and/or Government Way), alley, or easement in which there
is a municipal sewer collector line shall at the owner's expense connect the
sewage generating facilities on such property to the city of Coeur d'Alene
sewer system if any of the following conditions hereafter exist:
   A.   A failing septic system as defined in IDAPA 58.01.03.003.13;
   B.   The actual or proposed generation of nondomestic wastewater on the
parcel;
   C.   The actual or proposed wastewater flow over two hundred fifty (250)
gallons per day per acre, subject to the provisions of this chapter and the
current sewer management agreement with Panhandle health district on file with
the city clerk;
   D.   A new use on the property including a new structure with plumbing;
   E.   A parcel subdivision;
   F.   Expiration of the fifteen (15) year grace period for connection, or
September 30, 2027, whichever occurs first. (Ord. 224, 11-1-2012)
7-6-5: FAILURE TO CONNECT; CONNECTION MADE BY CITY OF DALTON GARDENS:
Should the owner of any property within the commercial district of the city of
Dalton Gardens, described in the foregoing section, fail to connect all sewage
generating facilities on such property to the sewer system of the city of Coeur
d'Alene after notice within any required time limit, the city of Dalton Gardens
may cause such facilities to be so connected and assess the cost of connecting
such facilities to the owner of the property on which the facilities are
located, which costs shall thereafter be a lien on said property and may be
collected as provided by Idaho Code section 50-1008 or in any other manner
allowed by law. Alternatively, the city of Dalton Gardens shall have the right
to institute action for injunction, abatement, or other action to prevent,
enjoin, abate or remove such unlawful use, and the city of Dalton Gardens shall
have the further right to withhold or refuse to renew a business license until
compliance is achieved. (Ord. 224, 11-1-2012)
7-6-6: CITY OF COEUR D'ALENE IS DESIGNATED AGENT:
City of Dalton Gardens designates city of Coeur d'Alene as the agent of city of
Dalton Gardens for the purposes of implementation and enforcement of this city
of Dalton Gardens sewer use ordinance against commercial/industrial users
located in city of Dalton Gardens. City of Coeur d'Alene may take any action
under this city of Dalton Gardens sewer use ordinance that could have been
taken by city of Dalton Gardens, including the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 224, 11-1-2012)
7-6-7: AGENT DUTIES:
City of Coeur d'Alene, on behalf of and as agent for city of Dalton Gardens,
will perform technical and administrative duties necessary to implement and
enforce city of Dalton Gardens sewer use ordinance. City of Coeur d'Alene will:
a) update the industrial waste survey; b) issue permits to all industrial users
required to obtain a permit; c) conduct inspections, sampling and analysis; d)
take all appropriate enforcement action as outlined in city of Coeur d'Alene's
enforcement response plan and provided for in city of Dalton Gardens sewer use
ordinance; e) issue plumbing permits and collect plumbing permit fees, review
plumbing plans and perform plumbing inspections; and f) perform any other
technical or administrative duties the cities deem appropriate. In addition,
city of Coeur d'Alene may, as agent of city of Dalton Gardens, take emergency
action to stop or prevent any discharge which presents or may present an
imminent danger to the health or welfare of humans, which reasonably appears to
threaten the environment, or which threatens to cause interference, pass-
through, or sludge contamination. (Ord. 224, 11-1-2012)
7-6-8: CAPITALIZATION FEE SCHEDULE DESIGNATED:
The owners of property connecting to the Coeur d'Alene sewer system, directly
or by connecting to a private system that connects to the city of Coeur d'Alene
sewer system shall be assessed a sewer capitalization fee in an amount as set
forth by the city of Coeur d'Alene capitalization fee schedule under title 13,
chapter 16 of the Coeur d'Alene municipal code. (Ord. 224, 11-1-2012)
7-6-9: PAYMENT OF CAPITALIZATION FEE:
The sewer capitalization fee provided in the Coeur d'Alene municipal code title
13, chapter 16 shall be paid to the city of Coeur d'Alene treasurer upon
connection to the Coeur d'Alene city sewer under the criteria as set forth in
Coeur d'Alene municipal code section 13.16.050. (Ord. 224, 11-1-2012)
7-6-10: CITY OF COEUR D'ALENE WASTEWATER FUNDS:
All sewer capitalization fees and user service charges received and collected
under authority of this chapter shall be deposited and credited in their
respective special funds designated as the city of Coeur d'Alene wastewater
funds. (Ord. 224, 11-1-2012)
7-6-11: DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
All charges received and collected pursuant to this chapter, other than
plumbing permit fees, shall be by the city of Coeur d'Alene treasurer deposited
and credited to either a special fund, to be designated as the sewer system
capital improvement fund, which fund is established pursuant to Idaho Code
section 50-236, or the wastewater user charge fund. These sewer system funds
shall be used only for uses authorized by Idaho Code or city of Coeur d'Alene
municipal code. (Ord. 224, 11-1-2012)
7-6-12: USER CHARGES:
The city of Coeur d'Alene shall assess commercial/industrial user charges for
wastewater use, collection, and treatment as determined by the city of Coeur
d'Alene under its municipal code title 13, chapter 8. (Ord. 224, 11-1-2012)
7-6-13: SERVICE CHARGES AND FEES:
The monthly service charges or fees levied and assessed for use of the Coeur
d'Alene sewer system shall be as set by the Coeur d'Alene municipal code title
13, chapter 8, and as provided by sections 13-8-040 and 13-8-050 (as amended),
and include fees and charges for billing, delinquency, and penalty charges.
(Ord. 224, 11-1-2012)
7-6-14: UNPAID FEES AND CHARGES; LIEN:
The owner, to the extent permitted by law, and occupant of any such premises
using the sanitary sewer system shall be jointly and severally liable for all
fees and charges assessed by the city of Dalton Gardens. Such charges shall
become a lien upon and against the property against which the charge or fee is
levied to the extent permitted by the laws of the state and the ordinances of
the city of Dalton Gardens or the city of Coeur d'Alene and may be collected in
any manner permitted or hereafter permitted by law. (Ord. 224, 11-1-2012)
7-6-15: DELINQUENCY:
In case of nonpayment or delinquency in payment of charges provided herein, the
city of Dalton Gardens may discontinue sewer services to the property for which
such charge is made. (Ord. 224, 11-1-2012)
7-6-16: DISCONNECTION FOR NONPAYMENT:
In case of nonpayment or delinquency in the payment of sewer charges or fees
imposed, the wastewater department of the city of Coeur d'Alene is authorized
and directed to. upon ten (10) days' notice to the owner, occupant or person in
charge of the premises, disconnect and plug the sewer connection with the sewer
system of the city of Coeur d'Alene and such sewer shall remain disconnected
until such fees adopted in accordance with the City's fee schedule have been
paid to the treasurer of the city of Coeur d'Alene. (Ord. 224, 11-1-2012; amd.
Ord. 277, 6-9-2022)
7-6-17: RESPONSIBILITY FOR INDIVIDUAL SEWER SERVICE CONNECTIONS:
The lot owner is responsible for maintenance and replacement as necessary for
the sewer service connection that connects a dwelling or business to the
connection at the public sewer main including any necessary maintenance and/or
replacement within the public rights of way and public utility easements. Any
work within the public rights of way or public utility easements must be
approved by the city of Coeur d'Alene engineer or his/her designee prior to the
commencement of work. (Ord. 224, 11-1-2012)
7-6-18: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to penalty as provided
for in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 224, 11-1-2012)
CHAPTER 7
FEEDING DEER
SECTION:
7-7-1: Purpose
7-7-2: Definitions
7-7-3: Conduct Declared Unlawful
7-7-4: Exceptions
7-7-5: Investigations And Complaints
7-7-6: Citations And Penalties
7-7-1: PURPOSE:
The city hereby determined that an increasing population of deer within the
city poses a threat to public safety by increasing the likelihood of deer-
vehicle collisions, direct deer-human and deer-pet conflicts, the risk of
attracting increased predator populations, potential transmission of disease to
humans from deer; poses a threat of damage to ornamental plants and gardens,
and overbrowsing of limited existing natural habitat. This chapter is intended
to reduce these threats by restricting supplement and intentional feeding of
deer, which results in unnatural concentrations of deer and can affect the
normal movement of deer within the community. (Ord. 240, 12-4-2014)
7-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates, the following
terms shall have these meanings:
   ATTRACTANT(S): Any substance, including, but not limited to, food, garbage,
or salt lick, which draws deer to a particular location.
   FEED: A substance composed of grain, mineral, salt, fruit, vegetable, hay,
or any other food material or combination of these materials, whether natural
or manufactured, that may attract deer.
   FEEDING: The intentional depositing, distributing, or tending of feed in an
area frequented by deer. (Ord. 240, 12-4-2014)
7-7-3: CONDUCT DECLARED UNLAWFUL:
   A.   No person shall purposely, knowingly or intentionally provide access to
"feed" (as defined in section
7-7-2 of this chapter) to any deer in the city, on lands either publicly or
privately owned.
   B.   It is unlawful to intentionally feed, provide feed or other
attractants, excluding fruit trees, ornamental plants, vegetable gardens and
properly hung bird feeders, to deer within the city limits. No person shall
purposely or knowingly leave or store any refuse, garbage, food product, pet
food, forage product or supplement, salt, seed or birdseed, fruit, or grain in
a manner that would constitute an attractant to any deer.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall apply to: 1) any agent of the city
authorized to implement an alternative control method set forth in any approved
community based deer management plan endorsed by the state of Idaho fish and
game department in accordance with the provisions of Idaho statutes on wildlife
or 2) any hunter engaging in hunting pursuant to a valid hunting license issued
in accordance with the provisions of this code and Idaho statutes. (Ord. 240,
12-4-2014)
7-7-4: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to the feeding of domestic livestock. (Ord. 240,
12-4-2014)
7-7-5: INVESTIGATIONS AND COMPLAINTS:
Upon receipt of a complaint alleging the illegal feeding of deer, the city
shall investigate the complaint to determine if there has been a violation of
this chapter. (Ord. 240, 12-4-2014)
7-7-6: CITATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any city representative or law enforcement officer observing or upon
investigation, determining that a violation of this chapter has occurred shall:
   A.   On the first substantiated violation, the property owner shall be cited
by the city for a violation with a warning that subsequent violations will
incur a monetary penalty. As part of the citation, the property owner shall be
encouraged to visit the city office for educational materials.
   B.   On the second separate violation and any subsequent substantiated
violations, the city or designee shall issue an infraction citation describing
such violation and allowing the person cited to post and forfeit the sum of one
hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 240, 12-4-2014)
CHAPTER 8
NUISANCES
ARTICLE A. RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
7-8A-1: Findings
7-8A-2: Definitions
7-8A-3: Nuisances On Real Properties In The Residential District
7-8A-4: Enforcement
7-8A-5: Penalties
7-8A-1: FINDINGS:
The city council of the city of Dalton Gardens does hereby find that it is
necessary to provide for the abatement of nuisances on real properties in the
residential zoning district including those which have a detrimental effect on
the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Dalton Gardens, Idaho,
specifically this addresses such issues which are hazardous or injurious to the
health, safety or welfare of the general public, and have the potential of
harboring insects and attracting vermin and therefore, are hereby declared to
be a nuisance. The city council also finds that any condition or use of real
property which is detrimental to the normal use and enjoyment of adjacent and
surrounding real property can be declared a nuisance. (Ord. 244, 12-3-2015)
7-8A-2: DEFINITIONS:
   ABATEMENT: For purposes of this article, the ending or resolution of a
nuisance complaint or violation.
   CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY: Property on which three (3) or more unresolved
substantiated nuisance violations occur or exist during a consecutive one year
(365 day) period.
   CONSIDERABLE NUMBER OF PERSONS: More than five (5) individuals.
   GARBAGE: Any spoiled or waste food, whether the same be for animal or human
consumption, which results from either the handling, preparation, cooking,
consumption or disposal of such food.
   IMMINENT NUISANCE: Immediate or imminent threat to the public health and
safety as determined by law enforcement or fire district.
   LITTER: Garbage, trash, refuse, rubbish, sand, gravel, slag, bric-a-brac,
waste material, tin cans, trash, debris, dead animals, dead trees, weeds, junk
vehicles or parts from junk vehicles, or discarded items or materials of any
kind of description which have been set in a disorderly state which would tend
to create a danger to the public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of
this county.
   NUISANCE: Anything which is injurious to health, or is indecent, or
offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property by an
entire community or neighborhood, or by any considerable number of persons.
   REFUSE: Anything that is thrown away or rejected as worthless or useless
such as trash, rubbish, garbage, including any solid waste and any property
held for salvage purposes.
   RUBBISH: Any solid waste which is not susceptible to becoming putrid and
consists of such things as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans,
wood, glass, bedding (coverings for beds and furniture), crockery and similar
materials which are rejected or thrown away as worthless. (Ord. 244, 12-3-2015)
7-8A-3: NUISANCES ON REAL PROPERTIES IN THE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances if the health and
safety of the public is affected or there is substantial reduction of property
values of adjoining properties. Whoever by his/her act or failure to perform
does any of the following is guilty of creating or maintaining a nuisance. The
determination of a nuisance shall be made by the city, which includes, but is
not limited to, city employees, agents, or elected officials.
      1.   Accumulations of litter, trash, rubbish, garbage, packing material,
plastic, tires, or any other unused or abandoned items in which flies,
mosquitoes, disease carrying insects, rats or other vermin can breed, live,
nest or seek shelter or failure to keep that waste, refuse or garbage in an
enclosed building or properly contained in a closed container designed for such
purposes;
      2.   Accumulations of dismantled, dilapidated or broken appliances and
all unsecured appliances with doors that latch that are easily accessible to
children or pets;
      3.   Any accumulation of hazardous or chemical/biological materials
(paints, corrosives or flammable liquids) not properly stored or discharged
into the environment or found in such concentrations as to endanger the public;
      4.   Accumulation of carcasses of animals, birds or fowl not intended for
human consumption which are not buried or otherwise disposed of in a sanitary
manner within twenty four (24) hours after death or as required by the state of
Idaho;
      5.   Accumulations of excrement from humans or domestic animals including
dogs and cats which is stored in quantities that create extreme noxious odor
perceptible at property line;
      6.   Any condition or situation as determined by the city building
inspector or state health official which renders a structure or any part
thereof unsanitary, unhealthy or unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use,
or renders any property unsanitary or unhealthy;
      7.   Accumulation and/or storage of abandoned or inoperable vehicles or
parts on private or public property that endangers the health and safety of
persons as delineated in title 8, chapter 3 of this code; and
      8.   Accumulations of noxious weeds or unkempt landscaping that
constitute a fire hazard as deemed in the international fire code. (Ord. 244,
12-3-2015)
7-8A-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Upon receipt of a complaint of a nuisance from the public or city
employees, agents, or elected officials, the city shall investigate and make a
determination whether or not there is validity to the complaint.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided herein, the provisions of this chapter
shall be enforced by city employees, agents, or elected officials. In the
enforcement of this chapter such persons may enter upon private property with
the permission of the property owner or public property to examine the
property, to obtain information related to the health and safety threat because
of the condition of the property. If permission by the property owner is not
granted to enter onto the property, then the city or its designee, including
the Kootenai County sheriff's department, may obtain a court order or warrant
to enter the premises for inspection purposes.
   C.   Upon a valid determination of a nuisance by the city, the abatement of
all such aforementioned nuisances may be ordered by the city as herein
provided. It shall be the duty of the city to enforce the provisions of this
article; however, the first choice of the city shall always be to pursue
informal negotiations prior to issuing an infraction or civil and criminal
penalties. The city is authorized to enforce the provisions of this article
through education, negotiation and may issue notification of nuisance
violations; issue orders for abatement; issue citations for violations, and do
what is necessary to abate nuisances, which also includes, but is not limited
to, civil action and recovery of any costs associated with enforcement.
   D.   The city shall not issue building or business permits or licenses of
any kind until the nuisance is resolved or abated and the use of the land shall
conform in all respects to this code. Exceptions for permits will be allowed
only to resolve or rectify the nuisance. (Ord. 244, 12-3-2015)
7-8A-5: PENALTIES:
Once the determination has been made by the city that there is a nuisance
violation as delineated in section
7-8A-4 of this article and documented efforts have been made by the city to
enforce this article through education, negotiation and ultimately a formal
declaration of a nuisance by the city council, and the owners, tenants or
occupants continue to allow said nuisance to exist or fail to abate the
nuisance, they and each of them shall be guilty of an infraction under title 1,
chapter 4 of this code and upon being found liable thereof shall be subject to
an infraction penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00). Each day that a
violation of this chapter exists may be charged as a separate infraction or
misdemeanor violation, as appropriate and determined by the city.
Any nuisance, which is in violation of this chapter and which constitutes an
immediate hazard to the public health and safety; or which continues to exist
after a finding of guilt in three (3) or more prior infraction proceedings by
the city council will be deemed a chronic nuisance, which may constitute a
criminal misdemeanor and subject the violator to misdemeanor penalties under
title 1, chapter 4 of this code. In addition, the violator may face civil
penalties as delineated in title 1, chapter 4 of this code, including all court
costs, and any assessments or liens. (Ord. 244, 12-3-2015)
TITLE 8
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
Motor Vehicle Code   1
General Traffic Provisions   2
Abandoned And Inoperable Vehicles   3
CHAPTER 1
MOTOR VEHICLE CODE
SECTION:
8-1-1: State Laws Adopted
8-1-2: Penalties
8-1-1: STATE LAWS ADOPTED:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
City Clerk, and designated as Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws, Rules of the Road,
chapters 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 13 and 14, title 49 Idaho Code, published by authority
of the Department of Law Enforcement, Boise, Idaho, is hereby adopted as the
Motor Vehicle Code of the City for the regulation of motor vehicles within the
Municipality. (1991 Code)
8-1-2: PENALTIES:
A violation of any of the traffic provisions set out in this code shall be an
infraction unless another penalty is provided by state law, and, upon being
found to have violated a traffic provision of this code, shall be penalized as
allowed by state law. (Ord. 71, 10-5-78; amd. Ord. 271, 9-2-2021)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Speed Limits
8-2-2: Commercial Vehicles
8-2-3: Load Limits
8-2-4: Use Of Air Compression Brakes Prohibited
8-2-5: Speed Limits; School Zones
8-2-1: SPEED LIMITS:
It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle on any of the streets in the city at
a speed in excess of twenty five (25) miles per hour, except on streets and
thoroughfares where the speed limit is posted as thirty five (35) miles per
hour. (Ord. 190, 9-7-2006; amd. Ord. 265, 4-2-2020; Ord. 288, 12-18-2024)
8-2-2: COMMERCIAL VEHICLES:
   A.   No commercial vehicle in excess of twenty six thousand (26,000) pounds
gross weight capacity or licensed capacity shall be allowed to drive, operate
or park on any street within the corporate limits other than for the purpose of
loading or unloading cargo, except upon Prairie Avenue from Government Way to
Baillie Street; Dalton Avenue from 4th Street to 16 th Street; and within the
Aqua Circle Commercial Park.
   B.   Residents who own commercial vehicles and are driving to and from their
place of residence are exempt from this regulation.
   C.   Commercial vehicles making deliveries or transacting other business at
property located within the municipal boundaries of the city are exempt from
this regulation. Deliveries to properties outside of city limits which are
accessed off of Wilbur Avenue Totten Lane or Hanley Avenue are also exempt.
   D.   Street maintenance equipment, and vehicles which because of inclement
road conditions are directed by the city. to utilize alternate routes are
exempt from the prohibitory provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 190, 9-7-2006;
amd. Ord. 365, 4-2-2020)
8-2-3: LOAD LIMITS:
   A.   Whenever the city of Dalton Gardens declares and establishes load
limits on the streets within its jurisdiction, the city shall post the streets
within the city with the same limits, and said limits established by the city
of Dalton Gardens shall then apply to the streets within Dalton Gardens.
   B.   When the city receives a request that would exceed load limits, the
Mayor shall review each request and have authority to issue a permit to the
individual or entity allowing for an exception to the load limits in effect.
Failure to comply with the conditions of this permit will revoke the permit.
   C.   Below are exceptions to posted vehicle weight and speed restrictions as
allowed by Idaho Code 49-1005:
      1.   Vehicle weight and speed restrictions shall not apply to emergency
vehicles.
      2.   Vehicle weight restrictions shall not apply to school buses.
      3.   Providers of essential services shall be allowed to apply tar a
permit that will allow the provider to haul half-loads at restricted speeds.
Each vehicle must be issued separate permits. Each vehicle must have a valid
permit on board during vehicle operations within the boundaries of the city of
Dalton Gardens. Failure to comply with the conditions of this permit will
revoke the permit and result in full weight enforcement under Idaho Code 49-
1005. The following vehicles are entitled to apply for essential service
permits: providers of heating fuel and propane; hay or feed providers: septic
pumping services: and garbage trucks. (Ord. 190, 9-7-2006; amd. Ord. 365, 4-2-
2020)
8-2-4: USE OF AIR COMPRESSION BRAKES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
   COMPRESSION BRAKE: Any engine brake, air compression brake or mechanical
exhaust braking device designed to aid in the braking or deceleration of any
vehicle that results in excessive, loud, unusual, or explosive noise from such
vehicle.
   DESIGNATED ROADWAY: Any public highway, as defined in Section 40-117, Idaho
Code, within the City of Dalton Gardens city limits.
   B.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use
or operate or cause to be used or operated a vehicle compression brake within
any designated roadway except under emergency circumstances where the use of a
compression brake is necessary to prevent an accident or injury to persons or
property. Emergency vehicles, street maintenance equipment, and City vehicles
are exempt from the prohibitory provisions of this Section.
   C.   Violation: Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall
be deemed guilty of an infraction punishable pursuant to Section
1-4-1 of this Code unless otherwise provided under state law. (Ord. 261, 7-11-
2019; amd. Ord. 271, 9-2-2021)
8-2-5: SPEED LIMITS; SCHOOL ZONES:
   A.   Speed Limit: The reasonable and safe maximum speed limit for all
residential school zones shall be twenty (20) miles per hour or as otherwise
posted. The time for enforcement for school zone speed limits shall be between
seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. Monday through
Friday when school is in session. School zones speed limit is also in effect
during school activities when students are present.
   B.    Violation: Any person who violates any provision of this section shall
be deemed guilty of an infraction punishable pursuant to Idaho Code 49-658.
(Ord. 273, 1-6-2022; amd. Ord. 281, 11-14-2022)
CHAPTER 3
ABANDONED AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES
SECTION:
8-3-1: Findings And Purpose
8-3-2: Standards
8-3-3: Nuisance Declared
8-3-4: Definitions
8-3-5: Exceptions
8-3-6: Chapter Not Exclusive
8-3-7: Enforcement; Right Of Entry
8-3-8: Removal
8-3-9: Notice To Property Owner
8-3-10: Hearing Time
8-3-11: Hearing Notice
8-3-12: Notification Of Decision
8-3-13: Abatement By City
8-3-14: Costs
8-3-15: Notice To Law Enforcement
8-3-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
The city council of the city of Dalton Gardens does hereby find that it is
necessary to provide for the abatement of abandoned and inoperable vehicles
which are offensive or annoying to the senses, detrimental to property values
and community appearance, an obstruction to or interference with the
comfortable enjoyment of adjacent property or premises, or hazardous or
injurious to the health, safety or welfare of the general public in such ways
to constitute a public nuisance; and, to provide standards to safeguard life,
health and public welfare in keeping with the character of the city by allowing
for the maintenance of property or premises. (Ord. 195, 2-7-2008)
8-3-2: STANDARDS:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall
be held to be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public
health, safety and general welfare. Whenever the requirements of this chapter
conflict with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules,
regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the most restrictive or that imposing
the highest standard shall govern. (Ord. 195, 2-7-2008)
8-3-3: NUISANCE DECLARED:
The accumulation and/or storage of abandoned or inoperable vehicles or parts
thereof on private or public property creates a condition tending to reduce the
value of surrounding private property in the vicinity, and/or promotes blight
and/or deterioration, and/or creates fire hazards and/or constitutes an
attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the health and/or safety of minors, or
is a harborage for rodents and/or insects injurious to the health, safety and/
or general welfare of the public and is, therefore, a public nuisance within
the meaning of Idaho Code section 50-334. (Ord. 195, 2-7-2008)
8-3-4: DEFINITIONS:
   ABANDONED VEHICLE: Any vehicle observed by an authorized officer or reported
by a member of the public to have been left within the limits of any highway or
upon the property of another without the consent of the property owner for a
period of twenty four (24) hours or longer, except that a vehicle shall not be
considered abandoned if its owner-operator is unable to remove it from the
place where it is located and has notified a law enforcement agency and
requested assistance in a timely manner. For purposes of this chapter, "timely
manner" means that the removal of the vehicle is completed within seventy two
(72) hours of contact.
   HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part is open to the use of the public for vehicular travel,
with jurisdiction extending to the adjacent property line, including sidewalks,
shoulders, berms and rights of way not intended for motorized traffic. The term
"street" is interchangeable with highway and/or a street or travel area located
on private property open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular
travel.
   INOPERABLE: Incapable of being operated legally on a public highway,
including, but not limited to, not having a valid, current registration. A
vehicle which is not able to perform its normal function.
   NUISANCE: A vehicle described in this chapter.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any property not privately owned exclusive of highways.
   VEHICLE: Any device designed to move or propel persons or property or to be
drawn upon a highway or public or private road. For purposes of this chapter,
vehicle does not include a device designed to be propelled or moved by human
power, such as wagons, tricycles, bicycles, or a device to be used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 195, 2-7-2008)
8-3-5: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   A vehicle or part thereof which is completely enclosed within a
building.
   B.   Not more than three (3) vehicles or parts thereof that are not visible
from the street or other public or private property; completely screened by at
least a seventy five percent (75%) sight obscuring fence.
   C.   A licensed vehicle that is visible from the street or other public/
private property which is in the process of being repaired or restored within a
reasonable time. For purposes of this chapter, reasonable time is considered to
be sixty (60) days.
   D.   Recreational vehicles, such as, but not limited to, ATVs, boats,
snowmobiles and motor homes are exempt from this chapter, provided a valid
current registration and license is obtained yearly. The amount of recreational
vehicles visible from the street or public/private property is limited to three
(3) total recreational vehicles. All other vehicles shall be completely
enclosed within a building or completely screened by at least a seventy five
percent (75%) sight obscuring fence. Note: Any recreational vehicle that does
not require a registration or license shall be completely enclosed within a
building. (Ord. 195, 2-7-2008)
8-3-6: CHAPTER NOT EXCLUSIVE:
This chapter shall not be deemed to be the exclusive method of abating
abandoned, dismantled or inoperable vehicles within the city, but shall
supplement and be in addition to all other provisions of this code and statutes
of the state of Idaho. (Ord. 195, 2-7-2008)
8-3-7: ENFORCEMENT; RIGHT OF ENTRY:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the provisions of this chapter shall be
enforced by persons employed or otherwise engaged by the city. In the
enforcement of this chapter such persons may enter upon private or public
property to examine the vehicle or parts thereof, or obtain information as to
the identity of the vehicle, and when directed by the council, remove or cause
to be removed such vehicle or part thereof declared to be a nuisance pursuant
to this chapter. (Ord. 195, 2-7-2008)
8-3-8: REMOVAL:
Such vehicles as are declared to be a nuisance may be removed by an employee of
the city, or the council may contract with any person or persons for such
removal. (Ord. 195, 2-7-2008)
8-3-9: NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNER:
Upon the city's receipt of a written complaint by a city resident or member of
the public, the persons charged with enforcing this chapter shall inspect the
vehicle and make an initial determination of abandonment or inoperability.
After making an initial determination of violation, the city shall notify the
property owner in writing of the violation, the hearing and appeal procedures.
(Ord. 195, 2-7-2008)
8-3-10: HEARING TIME:
If the nuisance has not been abated as provided in this chapter, any of the
persons enforcing this chapter shall notify the mayor of the nuisance. The
mayor shall set a time for a public hearing in the council chambers to be held
on the question of whether or not the vehicle is a nuisance, the manner in
which it may be abated, and the time within which it shall be abated. (Ord.
195, 2-7-2008)
8-3-11: HEARING NOTICE:
Notice of such hearing as mentioned in this chapter shall be given to the owner
of the property, as disclosed by the records of the county assessor, and to the
occupant of the property upon which the vehicle is parked, at least ten (10)
days before the hearing, either by certified mail or personal service and to
the owner of the vehicle if such owner can be identified. (Ord. 195, 2-7-2008)
8-3-12: NOTIFICATION OF DECISION:
At the public hearing any interested party may be represented by counsel and
introduce evidence by testimony or otherwise, or may submit his position on the
question by written statement. The council shall determine whether, in its
opinion, the vehicle is a nuisance, and if it is so found, declare the same to
be a nuisance, and notify the persons or parties upon whom notice has been
served or who appeared at the hearing in defense of the declaration of a
nuisance of its decision and may impose such conditions, take such action as it
deems appropriate under the circumstances to carry out the purpose of this
chapter. It shall state the manner in which the nuisance may be abated and the
time within which it should be abated. If an interested party makes a written
presentation at the hearing but does not appear, he shall be notified of the
decision by the council by written decision mailed to the party by certified
mail. If the party maintaining the nuisance does not remedy the situation or
abate the nuisance within the time prescribed by the decision of the council,
which time limit shall not be less than ten (10) days, the owner of the vehicle
will thereby forfeit all right, title and interest therein. (Ord. 195, 2-7-
2008)
8-3-13: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
The persons enforcing this chapter shall cause the abatement of the nuisance by
the removal of the vehicle by city employees or by contractor. (Ord. 195, 2-7-
2008)
8-3-14: COSTS:
The cost of removal plus actual costs sustained by the city associated with
administration of this chapter shall be paid by the party found to have caused
or maintained the nuisance within thirty (30) days of the hearing.
Should it appear at the hearing that the party permitting or causing the
nuisance is the owner of the property from which the vehicle was removed,
either as record owner or contract buyer, and the costs provided for in this
section are not paid within thirty (30) days, the costs shall be levied as a
special assessment against such property and certified to the tax collector of
the county by the clerk as provided by Idaho Code section 50-1008. Whether or
not the costs are levied as a special assessment, the council in its discretion
may order such costs to be collected by civil action. (Ord. 195, 2-7-2008)
8-3-15: NOTICE TO LAW ENFORCEMENT:
Within five (5) days after the abatement of the nuisance, notice shall be given
to the state of Idaho department of law enforcement identifying the vehicle, or
part thereof, removed, as fully as possible. At the same time any registration
certificate or license plates found shall be transmitted to the state of Idaho
department of law enforcement. (Ord. 195, 2-7-2008)
TITLE 9
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Streets And Public Ways   1
Public Parks   2
CHAPTER 1
STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Access From Private Property To Public Ways And Private Streets;
Approach
9-1-2: View At Intersections
9-1-3: Deposits On Public Ways
9-1-4: Beer, Wine Or Liquor Prohibited In Vehicles
9-1-5: Street Cut Requirements
9-1-6: Violation And Penalty
9-1-1: ACCESS FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY TO PUBLIC WAYS AND PRIVATE STREETS;
APPROACH:
   A. Definitions:
 
APPROACH:             A point of vehicular access from private property onto a
                      public right-of-way.
                      A means of vehicular access from private property that is
                      zoned commercial or a business that carries an active
DRIVEWAY, COMMERCIAL: business license within the City that services one or
                      more lots or parcels onto a public or private road or
                      street.
                      A right-of-way open to the public and under the
                      jurisdiction of a public agency, where the public agency
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF- WAY: has no obligation to construct or maintain said right-of-
                      way for vehicular traffic, nor shall there be any
                      liability for any injury or damage for failure to
                      maintain it or any highway signs 1 .
                      A parcel of land dedicated or reserved for use as a
RIGHT-OF-WAY:         public way, which normally includes streets, sidewalks,
                      utilities or other service functions.
 
   B.   Permit Required:
      1.   All vehicular approaches (private, common, commercial or public
driveways) shall obtain an approach permit prior to construction of the
approach.
      2.   Approaches for a residential parcel are exempt from the requirement
for a separate approach permit, when shown on the site plan and submitted as
part of a building permit issued by the City for a primary structure. All the
requirements of the approach standards shall continue to apply.
   C.   Permit Application:
      1.   Commercial and shared commercial approaches. No approach permit for
a commercial or shared commercial approach under this chapter shall be issued
unless a written application for the issuance of an approach permit is
submitted to the City. The application shall be reviewed by the City. Prior to
permit issuance, the applicant shall mark the driveway location for a site
inspection by the City. The City may require a traffic study to determine
impacts and applicable mitigation of impacts. The City Clerk shall issue the
permit only after all application items have been completed or satisfactorily
addressed, all reviews have been completed and all fees have been paid.
      2.   Approaches to residential properties. No approach permit for an
approach to a residential parcel under this chapter shall be issued unless a
written application for the issuance of an C approach permit is submitted to
the City. The application shall be reviewed by the City. Prior to permit
issuance, the applicant shall mark the driveway location for a site inspection
by the City. The City may accept photos in lieu of a site inspection. The City
Clerk shall issue the permit only after all application items have been
completed or satisfactorily addressed. all reviews have been completed and all
fees have been paid.
   D.   Approach Standards:
      1.   No parcel located outside of the incorporated city limits of Dalton
Gardens shall be eligible for an approach onto a right-of-way owned by the City
of Dalton Gardens, unless that is the only access to the parcel. Such parcels
shall not be eligible for more than one approach.
      2.   The width of a single private driveway approach shall meet the
requirements of the fire protection district.
      3.   Commercial accesses and other off street parking areas shall have a
minimum width of 20 feet, and a maximum width of 28 feet.
   E.   Permit Fees: Fees for an approach permit and inspections related to
such permits shall be as set forth in the duly adopted fee resolution for the
City. (Ord. 198, 9-4-2008; amd. Ord. 268, 10-1-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§ 40-117(6), 40-202(4), 50-1301(7).
9-1-2: VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Obstructions Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant
of any property within the city to maintain, construct or permit any building,
structure, article or articles of personal property, trees, shrubs and growing
plants of a height in excess of thirty six inches (36") from the level of the
street and within twenty five feet (25') in any direction from the property
lines of said property, which in any manner obstruct or interfere with the
vision of a roadway at an intersection or to maintain, construct or permit any
such obstruction of view in either the front yard or the side yard of any
property adjacent to a public street.
   B.   Trees To Be Trimmed: All trees located within twenty five feet (25') of
the property lines of any property at an intersection of one or more public
streets within the city shall have all foliage, including leaves and branches,
trimmed up to a point eight feet (8') above the level of the street under or
near said trees.
   C.   Removal Of Obstructions, Charges And Assessments: Upon failure or
refusal of any person maintaining, constructing or permitting any building,
structure, article or articles of personal property, trees, shrubs or growing
plants in violation of the provisions of this section to cut or remove the
same, on ten (10) days' notice in writing so to do, the city council shall have
the right to remove or trim any said obstruction or any part thereof and shall
assess all of the costs, charges and expenses incurred and incidental thereto
to the owner of said property in the same manner as any other special
assessment, and the same shall be collected as any other special assessment.
(Ord. 198, 9-4-2008)
9-1-3: DEPOSITS ON PUBLIC WAYS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cast, throw, dump or deposit any glass,
bottles, cans, boards, trash, debris, garbage, junk, dirt, sod, stones, gravel,
grass clippings, brush, limbs, branches, foliage, leaves or any other substance
whatsoever in or upon the ditches of the streets and highways of the city or
any part of the rights of way for such streets and highways.
It shall be unlawful for any person to push or stockpile snow from private
property into public streets, highways, or rights of way. (Ord. 198, 9-4-2008;
amd. Ord. 272, 9-14-2021)
9-1-4: BEER, WINE OR LIQUOR PROHIBITED IN VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person to consume any beer, wine or intoxicating liquor
or have in his possession any opened or open containers or receptacles
containing beer, wine or intoxicating liquor in any motor vehicle moving or
parked on a public thoroughfare, street or highway in the City. (Ord. 255, 8-
23-2018)
9-1-5: STREET CUT REQUIREMENTS:
It is unlawful for any person, association or utility to make or cause or
permit to be made any excavation in or under the surface of any public street
or other public place for the installation, repair or removal of any pipe,
conduit, duct or tunnel or for any other purpose without first obtaining from
the City Clerk a written permit to make such excavation and pay such fees as
are prescribed by the City to cover the cost of inspection.
   A.   Permit Requirements: The City Clerk shall, before issuing such permit,
require:
      1.   Application for the permit shall be made in writing to the City
Clerk on forms furnished by the City. The application shall contain such
information as the City may require. The application shall include three (3)
sets of proposed plans and be filed with the City for processing.
      2.   If an emergency street cut or excavation is made, application for a
permit shall be made on the next working day.
      3.   If the street cut, opening or excavation is to be made in a State
highway, the permittee shall also comply with all lawful regulations of the
Idaho Department of Transportation.
   B.   Exceptions: Exceptions may be made in the following instances:
      1.   Water or sewer main or service breaks, gas and electric main or
service breaks, leaks and similar emergency repairs that occur outside of
office hours.
      2.   Other reasonable exceptions that may be made by the City Council.
   C.   Standards For Cuts And Restoration: The applicant shall follow the
Dalton Gardens street cut policy, as amended.
   D.   Review, Inspections And Approval: The City Engineer shall conduct
application and plan reviews and conduct inspections as necessary for the work
performed. (Ord. 198, 9-4-2008)
9-1-6: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor
and shall subject the offender to penalties in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 198, 9-4-2008)
CHAPTER 2
PUBLIC PARKS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Use Restrictions
9-2-2: Reserved Areas
9-2-1: USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Hours: It is unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle, use any
equipment, facilities, accessories, or appliances for camping purposes,
sleeping, or preparing meals, in Ward Newcomb Memorial Park between ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., or at the Dalton Gardens Riding
Arena from sunset to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. Special exceptions to this
prohibition may be granted by express authority of the City Council when the
use or activity is of general community benefit or of particular benefit to the
City. Approval of any such exception shall be evidenced by a permit or letter
of authorization to that effect which shall be exhibited to any peace officer
or employee of the City upon request. Appeal of any denial of such a request
may be made to the City Council.
   B.   Alcoholic Beverages:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession open
containers or receptacles of beer, intoxicating liquor or wine, or to consume
such beverages on the grounds, buildings or thoroughfares or within a motor
vehicle moving or parked within any City park or upon other premises owned or
subject to exclusive management by the City of Dalton Gardens, except as
otherwise authorized by a permit approved by an authorized representative of
the City to dispense and consume alcoholic beverages in designated City park
areas or other designated public places. Such permit may place reasonable
restrictions on the time, location and other parameters. The permit issued by
the City shall be posted at the site at all times during the event where
alcohol is permitted. Such permit is granted only so long as the conduct
engaged in at the site, and in the park generally, conforms to standards which
do not cause inconvenience to or disturb the peace of others. The authorization
for use of alcohol may be revoked by a peace officer or by an employee of the
City for cause, in which case such permission shall be deemed terminated
immediately and the consumption and possession of alcohol shall be concluded
upon order of said peace officer or City employee. Consumption, possession of
open containers and/or dispensing of alcohol may be further restricted or
prohibited in any park or public place by posting signs providing notice of
such restriction.
      2.   Requests for such permits shall be on a form provided by the City
and shall be applied for at least two (2) weeks prior to the event. The City
Council shall hear any appeals regarding the issuance or denial of permits as
authorized by this section or contesting limitations on such permits. The
Council may establish fees for such permits by resolution.
      3.   The City shall not be required to obtain a permit for City functions
in the park.
   C.   Animals In Parks: Animals are generally prohibited at the Ward Newcomb
Memorial Park, located at 6360 N. 4th Street. Dogs may be permitted in
designated areas for special events with special permission from the City
Council.
At the Dalton Gardens Riding Arena, located at 7344 N. 16th Street, dogs are
allowed, provided they are on a leash at all times.
   D.   Damaging Or Destroying Public Property: It is unlawful for any person
to willfully damage, mutilate or destroy any bench, trash can, playground
equipment, tree, shrub or any other improvement or fixture on any City owned,
leased or maintained natural area, park, playground or play field.
(Ord. 255, 8-23-2018; Ord. 260, 7-11-2019)
9-2-2: RESERVED AREAS:
   A.   Areas Designated: The City may designate one or more area within the
Ward Newcomb Memorial Park, or the Dalton Gardens Riding Arena that can be
reserved for use. Such areas will be designated by appropriate signage posted
by the City.
   B.   Reservation Procedure: Any individual or group wishing to reserve one
of the areas available for reservation shall apply to the City Clerk. The
application must be approved by the City Clerk and all fees paid before a
reservation permit will be issued for any area.
   C.   Fees And Deposits: The City Council may, from time to time, enact
recreation and park use fees and deposits by resolution. Reservation or park
use fees may be waived by the Mayor for charitable or community benefit
activities that serve the public interest. The Mayor shall report any such
waivers to the City Council.
   D.   Permit Necessary For Reservation: It is unlawful for any individual or
group to reserve, attempt to reserve, or in any way prevent any other person
from using any area of the parks unless such individual or group has first
received written permission from the City Clerk to reserve the area. Any
individual or group authorized by the City Clerk to reserve an area shall make
the permit available for inspection by any employee of the City upon request.
(Ord. 255, 8-23-2018)
 
