CITY OF DIETRICH, IDAHO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 90.03, passed 4-9-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title
   
10.02   Acceptance
   
10.03   Amendments
   
10.04   Maintenance of city code
   
10.05   Repeal of general ordinances
   
10.06   Public utility ordinances
   
10.07   Saving clause
   
10.08   General constructional rule
   
10.09   Plural and singular words
   
10.10   Masculine and feminine gender
   
10.11   Priority of ordinance
   
10.12   Definitions
   
10.13   Captions
   
10.14   Severability
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE.
   This codification of the general ordinances of the City of Dietrich is
declared to be the official City Code of the City of Dietrich.
§ 10.02 ACCEPTANCE.
   Any official copy of the code shall be received without further proof in all
courts and in all administrative tribunals of the state.
§ 10.03 AMENDMENTS.
   Any ordinance amending the code shall set forth the title, chapter, and
section number of the section or sections to be amended. All such ordinances
shall comply with the provisions of the code and Idaho Code Title 50, Ch. 9,
regarding passage, execution, and publication of ordinances. All such
amendments shall be promptly forwarded to the codifiers by the City Clerk and
such ordinance shall be promptly published and inserted in its proper place in
each copy of the city code.
§ 10.04 MAINTENANCE OF CITY CODE.
   Upon receipt of each published ordinance from the codifiers, the City Clerk
shall promptly forward a copy of each page thereof to each person having an
official copy of the city code. The City Clerk may collect a fee for each copy
of the city code and an annual fee for maintenance thereof; provided, such fees
shall be established by resolution or ordinance duly passed by the City
Council.
§ 10.05 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   All general ordinances of the city are hereby repealed, except as herein
specifically preserved or are, by implication, reserved from repeal, subject to
the saving clauses herein contained, excluding without limitation the special
ordinances relating to the following subjects: tax levies; appropriation of
public moneys; boundaries, and annexations; franchises; ordinances granting
special rights to persons or correspondence; contracts; issuance of warrants;
public salaries; ordinances establishing name or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement districts; bonds; local elections; the sale or
exchange of real estate; sign ordinances; economic development; urban renewal;
public utilities; zoning; and all special ordinances of any kind, except for
those provisions in such special ordinances which the code expressly amends.
§ 10.06 PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance or section thereof relating to railroad or railroad crossings
of streets and other public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service,
or rates of public utilities, shall be repealed by the adoption of the code or
by §
10.05 of this chapter, except as this code specifically provides for such
repeal.
§ 10.07 SAVING CLAUSE.
   Any ordinance amending or repealing any section of the code shall not be
deemed or construed to abate any pending action based upon such amended or
repealed section, nor shall the passage of such ordinance prevent the arrest,
prosecution, and punishment of any violation of such section committed prior to
the effective date of such ordinance.
§ 10.08 GENERAL CONSTRUCTIONAL RULE.
   Except as expressly stated in the code, all words shall have their ordinary,
generally accepted meaning.
§ 10.09 PLURAL AND SINGULAR WORDS.
   Whenever any word in the code is used in either the singular or in the
plural form, then such word shall be deemed to include both the plural and
singular forms of such word, unless the context indicates an intent otherwise.
§ 10.10 MASCULINE AND FEMININE GENDER.
   When any person is referred to in any section of the code by use of the
masculine gender, then such reference shall be deemed to include the feminine
gender unless the context indicates an intent otherwise.
§ 10.11 PRIORITY OF ORDINANCE.
   In the event of any discrepancy or conflict between the code and any
ordinance passing or amending the same section of the code, then the provisions
of the ordinance shall prevail.
§ 10.12 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
   CITY. The City of Dietrich, Lincoln County, State of Idaho.
   CITY ATTORNEY. An attorney appointed by the Mayor to provide general counsel
and legal assistance to the city and to prosecute or defend all civil actions
in which the city is a party.
   COUNCIL or BOARD. The lawfully elected governing body of Dietrich, Idaho.
   COUNTY. The County of Lincoln, Idaho.
   CRIME. An act in violation of this code.
   FELONY. A crime as defined under Idaho Code § 18-111.
   IDAPA. Idaho Administrative Regulations. A numbering designation for all
administrative rules in Idaho which denotes rules promulgated in accordance
with the Idaho Administrative Procedure Act, Title 67, Chapter 52, Idaho Code.
   INFRACTION. A civil public offense, not constituting a crime, which is
punishable only by a penalty not exceeding $100 and for which no incarceration
may be imposed.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, trade,
profession, or occupation.
   MISDEMEANOR. Every crime, except a felony.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or
land, whether alone or with others.
   OFFENSE. A crime or other violation of this code.
   OPERATOR. The person who is generally in charge of or responsible for
conducting any business, profession, or enterprise.
   OWNER. Any person owning real or personal property, including any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, remainderman, or person
holding a life estate or reversionary interest of any kind.
   PERSON. A human being and any public or private corporation, firm,
partnership, trust, estate, sole proprietorship, association, organization,
government, or any other entity recognized under state law.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Money, goods, chattels, effects, rights in action, and
all written instruments evidencing any pecuniary obligation.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STATE. The State of Idaho.
   STREET. All public roads, ways, alleys, and rights-of-way used for the
movement of vehicular traffic, including any public sidewalks adjacent thereto.
   TENANT. Any person who occupies any building or real property for a
consideration to the owner.
   UNIFORM BUILDING CODE. The codes adopted by the city under §
150.01 of this code of ordinances.
   UNIFORM FIRE CODE. The codes adopted by the city under §
150.03.
   UNIFORM RESIDENTIAL CODE. The codes adopted by the city under §
150.02.
§ 10.13 CAPTIONS.
   The captions and titles used at the commencement of each section or division
of the code are used only to indicate the content of the section and shall not
limit, modify, or in any manner affect the scope, meaning, or intent of the
provisions thereafter.
§ 10.14 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable and if
any provision of this chapter or the application of such provision to any
person or circumstance is declared invalid for any reason, such declaration
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter.
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Misdemeanor penalty. Whenever any act or omission constitutes a crime
not constituting a felony or infraction and no specific penalty is stated in
the code, such crime shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $300 or by
imprisonment for not more than six months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment for any single violation.
   (B)   Infractions. Whenever any person commits an infraction and no specific
penalty is provided for such act, such person shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding $100 and no imprisonment may be imposed.
   (C)   Applicability of penalty. The penalties provided in this section shall
be applied as though they were a part of every separate section of the code.
   (D)   Multiple violations. Whenever the same person violates the same
section of the code on two or more days, then each violation on each day shall
be deemed a separate offense and shall be separately punishable for each such
offense.
   (E)   Prosecutorial discretion. Whenever the same offense, act, or omission
is punishable under different sections of the code, the city may elect under
which section to proceed; but no more than one sentence of imprisonment may be
imposed against the same person for the same offense; provided that, revocation
of a license or permit shall not be considered a penalty so as to bar
imposition of a penalty under the code.
   (F)   Penalty against officers. The penalty provisions of this section shall
not apply to any section of the code which designates the duties of any officer
or employee of the city unless the intention to impose a fine or penalty is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNING BODY AND OFFICIALS
      
31.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNING BODY AND OFFICIALS
Section
   
30.01   Regular meetings of the City Council
   
30.02   Salaries
§ 30.01 REGULAR MEETINGS OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
   The regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the first Monday
of each month at the City Hall.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-16-1968)
§ 30.02 SALARIES.
   The Mayor shall receive an annual salary in the sum of $700 and each member
of the Council shall receive an annual salary in the sum of $350.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 8-17-2017)
CHAPTER 31: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
31.01   Planning and Zoning Commission
§ 31.01 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Planning and Zoning Commission
consisting of five members and the City Liaison. The Commission shall consist
of two members with one-year terms, two members with three-year terms and one
member with a five-year term.
   (B)   The Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of the
City Council. In the event the City Council does not approve the appointment of
a member, the Mayor will select an alternative nominee.
(Res. 2005-01, passed 9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 32: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
   
32.01   Disability nondiscrimination policy
   
32.02   Official bank
   
32.03   Official newspaper
   
32.04   County multi-hazard mitigation plan adoption
   
32.05   Establishing polling hours
   
32.06   HUD implementation
§ 32.01 DISABILITY NONDISCRIMINATION POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city that all programs and activities shall be
accessible to, and usable by, qualified persons with disabilities, in
accordance with § 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, being 29 U.S.C. 794
(“Section 504"), and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42
U.S.C. 12101 et seq. (“ADA”).
   (B)   The city shall conduct a self-evaluation, with the assistance of a
citizens review committee involving individuals with disabilities, of its
programs, policies, procedures, and facilities to determine those areas where
discrimination may occur.
   (C)   The city shall conduct a self-evaluation plan, make revisions,
modifications, or other changes so as to fully comply with the letter and
intent of § 504 and the ADA.
   (D)   Further, the city shall, where building modifications are required,
develop and implement a transition plan for eliminating structural barriers in
a timely manner in accordance with § 504 of the ADA.
(Res. 2014-01, passed 2-3-2014)
§ 32.02 OFFICIAL BANK.
   The First Federal Savings Bank of Twin Falls is hereby designated as the
official depository for the care and safe keeping of all public funds of the
city.
(Ord. 27, passed 2-16-1968)
§ 32.03 OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER.
   The Courier News shall be and is the official newspaper for the city.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 32.04 COUNTY MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN ADOPTION.
   The City Council does hereby adopt, support, and will facilitate the Lincoln
County Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan’s implementation as deemed appropriate.
(Res. 2008-02, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 32.05 ESTABLISHING POLLING HOURS.
   The polls for all general and special city elections shall be open from 12:
00 p.m., and remain open until 8:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 32.06 HUD IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   The Housing Authority of the City Council and the Housing Authority of
the County are the designated local agencies eligible to implement the
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) $1 Home Sales to local
governments programs.
   (B)   The Mayor or his or her designee is authorized to implement strategies
consistent with the HUD $1 Home Sales to local governments program.
   (C)   The Mayor or his or her designee is authorized to amend the agency
budget to appropriate $1 from the general budget for the purchase of foreclosed
properties in the city from the Federal Housing Administration under the HUD $1
Home Sales to local government programs.
(Res. 2003-02, passed 8-4-2003)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND SEWER GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWER GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definition of terms
   
50.02   Connection to water system required
   
50.03   Refusal of use of system
   
50.04   Subdivision developer’s or property owner’s responsibility
   
50.05   Citation; appearance
   
50.06   Failure to appear unlawful
Accounts; Billing; Fees and Rates
   
50.20   Account set up fees
   
50.21   Service call charge
   
50.22   Billing procedures and periods
   
50.23   Due date/disconnection for late payment
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Water Superintendent of the city or his or her duly
authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   BACKFLOW. The flow other than the intended direction of flow, of any foreign
liquids, gases, or substances into the distribution system of the city water
supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device to counteract back pressure or prevent
back siphonage.
   CITY. The City of Dietrich, Idaho.
   COMMERCIAL BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter, or
enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind or for any
type of business, enterprise, or for any other purposes not otherwise described
or covered under DWELLINGS.
   COMMERCIAL USER. All persons not specifically classified as a domestic or as
an industrial user.
   CONTAMINATION. The entry into or presence in a city water supply of any
substance which may be deleterious to health or quality of the water.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical arrangement whereby the city water supply is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water supply system, sewer,
drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture, or other device
which contains or may contain contaminated water, sewage, or other wastes or
liquids of unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of imparting
contamination to the city water supply as a result of backflow.
   DOMESTIC WATER USAGE. Water that is used principally for dwellings, business
buildings, institutions, and the like.
   DWELLINGS.
      (1)   AUTO COURT, MOTOR COURT, TRAVEL TRAILER COURT, MOTEL, HOTEL, AND
THE LIKE. The combination or group of two or more dwelling units occupying a
building site or area under one ownership, used for the purpose of furnishing
transient living accommodations.
      (2)   DUPLEX. A building designed, built, rented, or used for occupancy
by two families living independently of each other.
      (3)   MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING or APARTMENT HOUSE. Any building or
portion thereof which is designed, built, rented, leased, let, or hired out to
be occupied or which is occupied as the home or residence of three or more
families or persons living independently of each other and doing their own
cooking within the premises, which shall include townhouses or condominiums.
      (4)   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A building designed for or occupied by one
family for living or sleeping purposes, and having one kitchen or set of
cooking facilities.
      (5)   TRAILER HOUSE or MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle used or so constructed as
to permit its being used as a conveyance upon the public streets or highways
and constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy thereof as a dwelling
or sleeping place for one or more persons.
   MG. Million gallons.
   MGD. Million gallons per day.
   PARTS PER MILLION. A weight-to-weight ratio; the parts per million value
multiplied by the factor 8.345 shall be equivalent to pounds per million
gallons of water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
group, or other entity.
   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM. A water system serving two or more buildings,
residences, or properties, constructed by private contract outside of the
public right-of-way and remaining under private ownership and jurisdiction and
which shall be maintained by said private owners. PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS shall
be designed, constructed, and maintained by said private owners to the same
design, construction, and maintenance standards as are public water systems.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. A water system provided by or subject to the
jurisdiction of the city. It shall also include approved water systems within
the city boundaries that serve one or more persons and obtain their water
supply from the city water system, even though the water system may not have
been constructed with city funds. All public water mains shall be located in
dedicated public rights-of-way or easements. Public water mains shall be at
least six inches in diameter.
   REPLACEMENT. Any expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the water system to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance” includes
REPLACEMENT.
   SERVICE CHARGE. The charge levied on all users of the water system for the
purpose of repayment of city indebtedness for the construction and installation
of the system and for its efficient maintenance and operation. In establishing
such rates and charges, the city has taken into account the cost and value of
the system, operation and maintenance expenses, possible delinquencies, proper
allowance for depreciation, contingencies, and any amounts necessary to retire
all bonds payable from net revenues and the reserve required for these.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. A waterline connected to the water main.
   SERVICE LINE. The extension from the building water system to the public
water main and is sometimes referred to as the WATER SERVICE CONNECTION or
WATER SERVICE LINE.
   WATER. Potable water meeting the requirements of the state for public water
systems.
   WATER DISTRIBUTION AND SUPPLY SYSTEM. All facilities for transporting,
pumping, storing, and pressurizing of water, and includes water main as well as
the water supply system.
   WATER MAIN. The pipe laid in a street, road, alley, or easement and running
approximately parallel to the street, road, alley, or easement for the
distribution of water to the customers, and which is owned, operated,
controlled, and maintained by the city.
   WATER METER. A device which is calibrated and constructed to measure the
exact amount of water that flows through the device in total gallons. The WATER
METER, when used, shall include the actual meter plus yoke, remote read-out
device, and meter box, if required.
   WATER SUPERINTENDENT. The Public Works Superintendent of the city.
   WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. An assemblage of wells, pumps, devices, structures,
equipment, and tanks for providing water for domestic, commercial, or
industrial uses.
   WATER SYSTEM. A water mainline that conveys potable water to a residence,
commercial user, industry, or other establishment for consumptive use,
irrigation, process, or similar uses.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992)
§ 50.02 CONNECTION TO WATER SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   Every parcel of land or premises within the boundaries of the city that is
improved for occupancy after May 1, 1992 by any person or persons in charge of
such land shall make or cause to be made such connection before such land is
occupied for a dwelling or commercial building. All such connections to the
city’s mains (water and/or sewer) shall be properly designed and constructed in
conformity with requirements specified by the city. If a parcel of land is not
within 300 feet of a water main, connection is optional.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 REFUSAL OF USE OF SYSTEM.
   The Water Superintendent may prohibit the connection to the public water
system for any user that does not comply with the limitations set forth in this
chapter.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992)
§ 50.04 SUBDIVISION DEVELOPER’S OR PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Any owner of property who has connected to the city’s domestic water
system shall be responsible for payment of all water used and/or delivered to
the property as well as the sewer fees.
   (B)   A property owner may authorize a tenant to be his or her legally
authorized agent with a written letter to such effect on record at City Hall.
In the event such legally authorized agent fails to pay charges for water,
sewer, and other city utilities, the property owner shall be ultimately
responsible.
   (C)   In the event an account shall become delinquent, the City Clerk shall
notify the property owner and the legally authorized agent.
   (D)   In the event of a non-payment of water bill, the city may discontinue
service to the property and may refuse to reestablish water services to the
property until the bill is paid in full. The city may refuse to reestablish
water service even though the property has been sold or transferred to a new
owner.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 6-4-2015)
§ 50.05 CITATION; APPEARANCE.
   Whenever it is determined by any police officer or other duly authorized
officer that any person or persons have violated any provisions of this
chapter, the said officer shall provide in quadruplicate and serve upon such
person or persons a written citation containing a notice to appear in a
designated court of competent jurisdiction within the city. This citation shall
contain the name and address of the person charged, the offense charged, the
time and place when and where the offense charged occurred, and the time when
the person charged shall appear in said court, and such other pertinent
information as may be necessary; and such person or persons shall appear in
said court within five days after such citation is issued and served. The
issuance of a citation shall not be the exclusive method of summoning offenders
hereunder.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 FAILURE TO APPEAR UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to fail to neglect to appear
in response to and as required by the citation regardless of the disposition of
the charge upon which such citation was originally issued. Appearance in court
shall be deemed complied with upon appearance by the person cited or his or her
attorneys.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992) Penalty, see §
50.99
ACCOUNTS; BILLING; FEES AND RATES
§ 50.20 ACCOUNT SET UP FEES.
   (A)   All new users requesting water and/or sewer hook-ups to the city
system shall pay a $100 account set up fee.
   (B)   The account set up fee shall be returned to the user if the user
promptly pays his or her sewer bill in a timely fashion for 72 consecutive
months.
   (C)   The City Council is authorized to establish by resolution, subsequent
increases or decreases in fees set forth above.
(Ord. 2011-01, passed 1-3-2011)
§ 50.21 SERVICE CALL CHARGE.
   The Water Superintendent may require a service charge in an amount not to
exceed the actual cost to the city for service calls which are only for the
convenience and benefit of the customer.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992)
§ 50.22 BILLING PROCEDURE AND PERIODS.
   Water and sewer bills shall be combined and billed on a regularly
established day of each and every month in the month succeeding the month in
which the service is rendered.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-7-1997) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23 DUE DATE/DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
      (2)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, the past due amount
will be noted on the next month’s billing. If the entire amount of the current
bill and the past due bill are not paid in full
on the due date set forth on the bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the
absence of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure
provided herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified. But in no
event until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   Requests for delays or waivers must be in writing and submitted to the
Clerk. The Clerk will present the request to the City Council for approval or
disapproval of such request.
   (D)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $100.
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, there shall be subject to the penalties
as provided by law.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 4-1-2013; Ord. 2018-02, passed 8-29-2018)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Water use regulations
   
51.002   Citation; appearance
   
51.003   Failure to appear unlawful
Accounts; Billing; Fees and Rates
   
51.015   Connection fees
   
51.016   Water rates
   
51.017   Monthly water user fee
   
51.018   Water service discontinuance fee
   
51.019   Water System Improvement Fund
Meters and Waterline Service
   
51.030   Independent water service line and meter required
   
51.031   Water service lines installation and maintenance
   
51.032   Injury to or tampering with water systems unlawful
   
51.033   Duties of the Water Superintendent
Planning; Materials; Installation
   
51.045   Water system construction, plans, specification, and inspection
   
51.046   Right to enter premises for inspection
   
51.047   Extension of water mains within the city
   
51.048   Water system materials and installations
   
51.049   Water system design
   
51.050   “As built” drawings and engineer’s certification
Cross-Connections
   
51.065   Purpose and scope
   
51.066   Definitions
   
51.067   Cross-connections
   
51.068   Use of backflow prevention devices and/or assemblies
   
51.069   Cross-connection inspection
   
51.070   Cross-connection installation permits
   
51.071   Additional remedies
Permits
   
51.085   Permits required
   
51.086   Excavation permit required
   
51.087   Service line extension or repair permit required
   
51.088   Right to revoke permissions
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 WATER USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   City residents using city domestic water shall be allowed to sprinkle
or otherwise irrigate outside their home, only after 7:00 p.m. and before 10:00
a.m.
   (B)   Water users with even-numbered addresses shall be allowed to use water
outside during the above hours only on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday of each
week.
   (C)   Water users with odd-numbered addresses shall be allowed to use water
outside during the above hours only on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday of each
week.
   (D)   These regulations shall be in effect between June 1 and August 31 of
each year, beginning June 1, 2007.
   (E)   No outside watering shall be allowed on Sundays.
(Res. 2007-02, passed 7-9-2007) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.002 CITATION; APPEARANCE.
   Whenever it is determined by any police officer or other duly authorized
officer that any person or persons have violated any provisions of this
chapter, the said officer shall provide in quadruplicate and serve upon such
person or persons a written citation containing a notice to appear in a
designated court of competent jurisdiction within the city. This citation shall
contain the name and address of the person charged, the offense charged, the
time and place when and where the offense charged occurred, and the time when
the person charged shall appear in said court, and such other pertinent
information as may be necessary; and such person or persons shall appear in
said court within five days after such citation is issued and served. The
issuance of a citation shall not be the exclusive method of summoning offenders
hereunder.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.003 FAILURE TO APPEAR UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to fail to neglect to appear
in response to and as required by the citation regardless of the disposition of
the charge upon which such citation was originally issued. Appearance in court
shall be deemed complied with upon appearance by the person cited or his or her
attorneys.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992) Penalty, see §
51.999
ACCOUNTS; BILLING; FEES AND RATES
§ 51.015 CONNECTION FEES.
   A $1,500 hook up fee plus the cost of all parts and labor to extend the
waterline from the mainline to the property line, including the vault and
meter, will be charged to the property owner. All work done to get the
waterline to the vault at the property line will be completed by the city or
its designee and charged to the property owner. The owner is responsible for
any labor and material for extending the waterline from the vault to the
desired location on his or her property.
(Res. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 51.016 WATER RATES.
   (A)   Residential. Increase from $42.55 to $43.83.
   (B)   Commercial. Increase from $45.63 to $47.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 51.017 MONTHLY WATER USER FEE.
   (A)   General. Each water user shall be levied a monthly water user fee for
the privilege of utilizing water from the city water system. This water user
fee shall be levied on all users of the water to cover the actual or estimated
cost of operation, maintenance, replacement, and financing of the city’s water
system facilities. Billings will be levied regularly after November 1, 1992 at
intervals set by the City Council, but no more often than monthly. In the event
an owner who has signed a water user agreement fails to connect to the system,
he or she will be assessed a monthly user fee representing actual usage which
shall be estimated using the actual usage for property of like or similar
nature. The actual monthly water user fee to be billed to each property owner
or customer shall be determined by the addition of the calculated monthly base
rate fee and the calculated monthly water usage fee. A description of the base
rate fee and water usage fees to be assessed by this subchapter shall be
described in this subchapter below.
   (B)   Base rate fees. The water base rate fee for each user (or user class)
shall be based on the user’s potential water consumption in comparison to a
standard equivalent connection defined below. Each user (or user class) shall
be assigned a number of equivalent connections to be multiplied by a constant
monthly water base rate factor to determine the base monthly fee. Special users
who consume a flow of water for which the tabulated equivalent connections
below do not apply shall be individually calculated as provided below. The
constant monthly water base rate factor per equivalent connection shall be set
by a separate ordinance defining water user connection and usage fees. The
monthly user base rate fee is, therefore, calculated by multiplying the number
of equivalent connections assessed to each property times the constant monthly
water base rate factor (set by a separate water user connection and usage fee
ordinance).
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         EQUIVALENT CONNECTION. A single-family dwelling unit or a user who
will experience equivalent benefits and monthly water usage. It is estimated
that an equivalent user or connection in the city will use approximately 12,000
gallons of water per month for household use and 13,500 gallons for commercial
use. The basic equivalent connection (a single family-dwelling unit) shall be
subject to revision if population, water usage, and/or other information
indicates flow rates significantly different from that defined herein.
Revisions to the basic EQUIVALENT CONNECTION criteria shall normally only be
made upon the recommendation of a registered professional engineer.
         SPECIAL USER. For any user whose classification is not detailed on the
Equivalent Connection Schedule, the city shall determine his or her equivalent
connection on the basis of the average monthly water usage. The number of
equivalent connections shall be determined by dividing the total average
monthly flow by a factor of 12,000 gallons per month for household use and
13,500 gallons for commercial use. This calculated equivalent number of
connections may be adjusted by the city after the city has recorded the actual
water usage over the first year. A copy of the list of SPECIAL USERS and the
SPECIAL USERS monthly base rate charge shall be kept on file at all times in
the office of the City Clerk.
      (2)   Equivalent connection determination. The number of equivalent
connections to be assigned to each user and/or user class, shall be in
accordance with the following equivalent connection schedule. Assignment of
equivalent connections shall apply for one year until the next annual user
charge review. Users so indicated or not included in this schedule shall be
considered special users and shall be evaluated separately as provided below.
Any of the users in the following schedule may be classified as special users
if information on their water usage indicates a need to do so. The number of
equivalent connections for a single user having more than one classification of
equivalent use shall be calculated by adding the sum of all user
classifications to a total number of equivalent connections. The minimum
monthly water user charge shall be based on one equivalent connection.
EQUIVALENT CONNECT SCHEDULE (1.0 - Minimum)
Classification Units Equivalent Connection
EQUIVALENT CONNECT SCHEDULE (1.0 - Minimum)
Classification                   Units                 Equivalent Connection
Convention facilities                                  
   Meeting room               Each room             1.00
Dwelling units
   Apartment                  Per unit              1.00
   Condominium                Per unit              1.00
   Cottage with bathroom      Each                  0.46
(shower)
   Cottage without bathroom   Each                  0.33
(shower)
   House                      Each                  1.00
   Mobile home                Each                  1.00
Education and religion
   Churches with kitchen      Each                  3.50
   Churches without kitchen   Each                  2.50
   Masonic orders, assembly   Each                  1.00
halls
   Schools                    Per student           0.05
   Travel trailer             Each                  0.33
Food and beverage facility
   Bar                        Per seat              0.06
   Drive-in                   Each                  2.00
   Restaurant                 Up to 50 seats        2.00
                                 Each additional seat  0.06
Lodging
   Campground                 Per site              0.20
   Hotel                      Per unit              0.46
   Motel                      Per unit              0.46
   Overnight trailer park (RV Per site              0.33
park)
   Rooming house              Per unit              0.46
   Sanitary dump station      Each                  1.00
Manufacturing facilities
   Miscellaneous              Per 8,500 gallons per 1.00
                                 month
Open class
   Large irrigated areas      Per 8,500 gallons per 1.00
                                 month
   Larger than 1/2 acre       Per acre              2.00
Professional and medical
   Additional for beds        Per bed               0.50
   Beauty-barber shop         Per chair             0.20
   Doctor’s office          Each                  2.00
   Medical clinic without bedsEach                  3.00
   Professional office        Each                  1.00
Recreation
   Game Rooms                 Each                  1.00
   Health center with showers Each                  2.00
   Museums                    Each                  2.00
   Theater                    Each                  2.00
Retail trade facilities
   Laundries                  Per machine           0.30
   Public shower              Per shower            0.20
   Service station            Each                  2.00
   Walk-in                    Each                  2.00
Stores, retail
   Bank                       Each                  2.00
   Car wash                   Per stall             2.00
   Garage or maintenance shop Each                  2.00
   Large: 1,000 sq. ft. or morEach                  2.00
   Small: 1,000 sq. ft. or lesEach                  1.00
   Store, grocery             Each                  2.00
 
   (C)   Water usage fees. In addition to the monthly base rate fee as defined
above in division (B), each water user shall be charged a monthly water usage
rate that will be calculated by multiplying the number of gallons of water used
each month from the meter reading times a gallonage charge. The gallonage
charge shall be that rate per 1,000 gallons of water used that shall be set,
hereafter, by a separate ordinance defining water user connection and usage
fees.
   (D)   Review and revision of rates. The water user connection and usage fees
shall, as a minimum, be reviewed annually and when required, updated by
resolutions by the city to reflect actual costs of operation, maintenance,
replacement, and financing of the water system. Any revisions of the user
connection and usage fees shall be based on actual operation, maintenance,
replacement, and financing expenses, and/or on significant changes in the total
number of equivalent users and/or the total daily flow. Revisions due only to
changes in expenses and user class shall be made by the city. Revisions
involving user’s base rate or equivalent connection determination shall
normally only be made upon the recommendation of a registered professional
engineer. All changes in user charges applicable to this subchapter shall be
computed by the methods outlined herein.
   (E)   User request for rate change. Any water user, who feels his or her
user charge is unjust and inequitable as applied to his or her premises within
the spirit and intent of the foregoing provisions, may make written application
to the city requesting a review of his or her user charge. Said written request
shall, where necessary, show the actual or estimated average flow water in
comparison with the values upon which the charge is based, including how the
measurements or estimates were made. Any flow measurements shall be approved in
detail by the city and/or its engineer. Review of the request by the city shall
determine if it is substantiated or not, including recommended further study of
the matter for the city and/or user by a registered professional engineer.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.018 WATER SERVICE DISCONTINUANCE FEE.
   When any property owner, person, firm, or business is going to be vacant,
not used, shut down, or similarly not used, for an extended period of time, he
or she shall notify the Water Superintendent. Under these circumstances the
Water Superintendent shall shutoff the water service to the facilities. When
the home, business, or the like, is reoccupied, the Water Superintendent shall
once again be notified, and he or she shall restore water service once again to
the facilities. Since there is significant potential for freezing and thus
damage to the service line in the event of a lengthy shut down period, the
property owner shall be responsible at his or her expense for any water service
line repairs that may be needed to repair the water service line that is
located on city right-of-way properties and also any associated repairs that
are needed on his or her other private property including the cost of replacing
water meter, meter readout, or the like, if it becomes necessary to do so. In
this case where the water service is discontinued, the property owner shall
still be required to pay the monthly water base rate fee even while the
property is vacated.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.019 WATER SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   There is hereby established a Water System Improvement Fund to be maintained
by the City Clerk in managing the fiscal affairs of the city. All revenues
derived from the charging of any fees, charges, and rates as such are set forth
herein shall be deposited in said fund and shall be disbursed only for the
purposes of paying existing or future indebtedness connected with or relating
to maintaining, repairing, studying, controlling, enlarging, extending,
enhancing, or improving the water system of the city.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992)
METERS AND WATERLINE SERVICE
§ 51.030 INDEPENDENT WATER SERVICE LINE AND METER REQUIRED.
   The water mainline and water service line(s) shall be so arranged that there
is a separate and independent water service line and meter to each individual
building, place of business, or tract of land. A separate and independent water
service line and meter shall be provided for every new building connecting to
the water system of the city. Separate service lines and meters are not
required for each trailer space in overnight trailer courts, nor for each cabin
in cabin courts; however, separate water service lines and meters are required
for trailer houses on individual lots or for long-term trailer rental units in
mobile home courts.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992)
§ 51.031 WATER SERVICE LINES INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All water users shall keep their individual water service lines in
good repair and shall keep them in such good condition that they shall not
allow any leakage from the city’s water system.
   (B)   All other property owners desiring water service whether for an
existing dwelling unit, commercial facility, or a newly constructed facility,
shall be required to obtain all permits, licenses, or the like required by this
code and shall be required to installed by a city approved contractor at the
owner’s expense.
      (1)   When a permit for a water service line has been granted, the water
tap at the mainline shall be installed by a city approved excavator/contractor
at the property owner’s expense. The actual service line and all associated
excavation, backfill, street repair and piping shall be completed by the city
approved contractor at the owner’s expense. Thereafter, or after the water
service line has been installed, each water service line within the public
right-of-way or easement shall be maintained by the city at its expense and
kept within and under its exclusive control or jurisdiction.
      (2)   All water service lines within any public right-of-way or easement
shall be constructed by a city-approved contractor hired by the property owner
requesting the water service, and in any new subdivision they may be installed
as part of the construction of the new water distribution system within said
subdivision and provided further that said lines are constructed, inspected,
tested and certified as being in conformance with the state’s public works
standards governing the construction of water service lines.
      (3)   Water service lines may also be installed by a contract in
conjunction with city-sponsored projects or when, in the opinion of the Water
Superintendent, it is in the city’s best interests to have or allow said water
service lines to be installed by someone other than city personnel.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.032 INJURY TO OR TAMPERING WITH WATER SYSTEMS UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful to disturb, destroy, damage, adjust, molest, meddle, or
otherwise interfere with any portion of the city water distribution or supply
system or its appurtenances, located on either public or private property.
Should any damage result, either intentionally or unintentionally, from
handling or otherwise tampering with said water system, the violator shall pay
for all costs incurred in connection with the repairs of said system and/or for
any damages that may result from the tampering with said water system.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.033 DUTIES OF THE WATER SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Water Superintendent of the city is hereby empowered, and it is hereby
made his or her duty, in all cases where there is a public water system within
300 feet, to notify every owner or person in charge of land or premises
requiring a water service building connection to comply with the provisions of
this code within 90 days or cease to use or occupy the land. A lessee of land
shall be deemed to be in charge.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992) Penalty, see §
51.999
PLANNING; MATERIALS; INSTALLATION
§ 51.045 WATER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION, PLANS, SPECIFICATION, AND INSPECTION.
   All construction or reconstruction of public, private, and water service
lines shall be in accordance with the state’s public works standards and
subject to inspection by the city. Plan and profile drawings shall be prepared
for all new water mains, whether public or private, and for all water main
extensions, reconstructions, or renovations; and all such plan and profile
drawings must be reviewed and approved by the City Engineer and the state’s
Division of Environment before any construction work on said waterlines is
started.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.046 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES FOR INSPECTION.
   The Water Superintendent and the city representative assigned to read the
water meters shall have the right to enter upon any premises connected with the
public water system at all reasonable hours to determine that there is
compliance with the provisions of this code. If conflict is noted, the owner of
said premises, or his or her agent, shall be directed to alter, repair, or
reconstruct said water facilities to conform to the requirements of this
chapter within 15 days.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992)
§ 51.047 EXTENSION OF WATER MAINS WITHIN THE CITY.
   The Water Superintendent shall be authorized to construct, or cause to be
constructed, extensions to the water system if any one of the following
conditions exists:
   (A)   The annual anticipated revenue made available to the city from the
customers to be immediately served by such extension is not less than one-tenth
of the actual cost to the city for the construction of said extension;
   (B)   The Water Superintendent declares that the water main extension is
needed for the overall benefit and improvement of the entire water distribution
system; or
   (C)   The city approves a contract for the construction of the extension
with a party or parties desiring water service; provided that, subdividers or
developers within or adjacent to the city shall construct at their own expense
all water mains within their subdivisions or developments. The above-referenced
water connection fee will not apply to or be charged against the reconstruction
of any existing water service line serving any existing dwelling, building, or
the like. It is intended that this water connection fee be charged only where a
new building is being constructed on previously undeveloped property or where
an existing building is being connected to the water system without its
property owner having previously executed a water subscription agreement with
the city.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992)
§ 51.048 WATER SYSTEM MATERIALS AND INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   All water mainlines, valves, fire hydrants, and fitting materials and
their installation shall be in accordance with the state’s public works
standards and the applicable standard drawings depicting various waterline
installation details.
   (B)   All water service line materials and their installation shall be in
accordance with the state’s public works standards and the applicable standard
drawings depicting the various water service line installation details.
   (C)   All water system materials shall be of the class, strength, thickness,
and the like necessary to accommodate or provide for the depth of cover over
the pipe, the anticipated working pressure in the pipe, the type of material
and bedding around the pipe, and the type, magnitude, and extent of the
external loads being applied to the pipe.
   (D)   All materials must be approved by the City Engineer prior to their
installation.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992)
§ 51.049 WATER SYSTEM DESIGN.
   (A)   Plans. The plans for all waterlines, booster stations, and the like
shall be designed, signed, and sealed by a registered professional engineer
licensed in the state.
   (B)   Requirements. All waterlines, booster stations, and the like shall be
designed in accordance with the state’s Division of Environmental Quality
requirements.
   (C)   Pipe sizes. Minimum water main size shall have a six-inch diameter.
Larger sizes shall be as required by the city’s overall Water System Master
Plan or as is needed to provide adequate water carrying capacity for the area
(and surrounding developable area) being developed and/or annexed to the city,
minimum building service line size shall be three-fourths of an inch diameter.
   (D)   Materials.
      (1) Standards or materials selection. Pipe, fittings, valves, and fire
hydrants shall conform to the latest standards issued by the AWWA, if such
standards exist, and be acceptable to the city. In the absence of such
standards, materials meeting applicable product standards and acceptable to the
city may be selected. Special attention shall be given to selecting pipe
materials which will protect against both internal and external pipe corrosion.
      (2)   Preference. Packing and jointing materials used in the joints of
pipe shall meet the standards of the AWWA and the city. Pipe having mechanical
joints or slip-on joints with rubber gaskets is preferred.
   (E)   Water main design.
      (1)   Pressure. All water mains, including those not designed to provide
fire protection, shall be sized after a hydraulic analysis based on flow
demands and pressure requirements. The system shall be designed to maintain a
minimum pressure of 20 psi at ground level at all points in the distribution
system under all conditions of flow. The normal working pressure in the
distribution system should be approximately 60 psi and not less than 35 psi.
      (2)   Diameter. The minimum size of the water main for providing fire
protection and serving fire hydrants shall be six inches in diameter. Larger
size mains will be required if necessary to allow the withdrawal of the
required fire flow while maintaining the minimum residual pressure specified in
division (E)(1) above.
      (3)   Fire protection. When fire protection is to be provided, system
design should be such that fire flows and facilities are in accordance with the
requirements of the State Insurance Services Office.
      (4)   Small mains. Any departure from minimum requirements shall be
justified by hydraulic analysis and future water use, and can be considered
only in special circumstances.
      (5)   Hydrants. Water mains not designed to carry fire-flows shall not
have fire hydrants connected to them.
      (6)   Dead ends. Dead ends shall be minimized by looping of all mains
whenever practical.
      (7)   Flushing. Where dead end mains occur they shall be provided with a
fire hydrant if flow and pressure are sufficient, or with an approved flushing
hydrant or blow-off for flushing purposes. Flushing devices should be sized to
provide flows which will give a velocity of at least two and one-half feet per
second in the water main being flushed. No flushing device shall be directly
connected to any sewer.
   (F)   Valves. Sufficient valves shall be provided on water mains so that
inconvenience and sanitary hazards will be minimized during repairs. Valves
should be located at not more than 500-foot intervals in commercial districts
and at not more than one block or 800-foot intervals in other districts.
   (G)   Hydrants.
      (1)   Location and spacing. Hydrants should be provided at each street
intersection and at intermediate points between intersections as recommended by
the State Insurance Services Office. Generally, hydrant space may range from
350 to 600 feet depending on the area being served.
      (2)   Valves and nozzles. Fire hydrants should have a bottom valve size
of at least five inches, one and one-half inch pumper nozzle, and two two and
one-half inch nozzles.
      (3)   Hydrant leads. The hydrant shall be a minimum of six inches in
diameter. Auxiliary valves shall be installed in all hydrant leads.
      (4)   Drainage. Hydrant drains should be open. A gravel pocket or dry
well shall be provided unless the natural soils will provide adequate drainage.
Hydrant drains shall not be connected to or located within ten feet of sanitary
sewers or storm drains.
   (H)   Air relief valves; valve, meter, and blow-off chambers.
      (1)   Air relief valves. At high points in water mains where air can
accumulate, provisions should be made to remove the air by means of hydrants or
air relief valves. Automatic air relief valves shall not be used in situations
where flooding of the manhole or chamber may occur.
      (2)   Air relief valve piping. The open end of an air relief pipe from
automatic valves shall be extended to at least one foot above grade and
provided with a screened, downward-facing elbow. The pipe from a manually
operated valve should be extended to the top of the pit.
      (3)   Chamber drainage. Chambers, pits, or manholes containing valves,
blow-offs, meters, or other such appurtenances to a distribution system, shall
not be connected directly to any storm drain or sanitary sewer, nor shall blow-
offs or air relief valves be connected directly to any sewer. Such chambers or
pits shall be drained to the surface of the ground where they are not subject
to flooding by surface water or to absorption pits underground.
   (I)   Installation of mains.
      (1)   Standards. Specifications shall incorporate the provision of the
AWWA standards and/or manufacturer’s recommended installation procedures.
      (2)   Bedding. A continuous and uniform bedding shall be provided in the
trench for all buried pipe. Backfill material shall be tamped in layers around
the pipe and to a sufficient height above the pipe to adequately support and
protect the pipe. Stones found in the trench shall be removed for a depth of at
least six inches below the bottom of the pipe.
      (3)   Cover. In general, waterlines shall be sufficiently deep so as to
provide frost protection. Waterlines shall have at least seven feet of cover
(from the top of waterline pipe to the ground or street surface) unless a
special design is approved by the City Engineer.
      (4)   Blocking. All tees, bends, plugs, and hydrants shall be provided
with reaction blocking tie rods, or joints designed to prevent movement.
      (5)   Pressure and leakage testing. All types of installed pipe shall be
pressure tested and leakage tested in accordance with the latest edition of
AWWA Standard C600.
      (6)   Disinfection. All new, cleaned, or repaired water mains shall be
disinfected in accordance with AWWA Standard C601. The specifications shall
include detailed procedures for the adequate flushing, disinfection, and
microbiological testing of all water mains.
   (J)   Separation of water mains, sanitary sewers, and storm sewers.
      (1)   General. The following factors should be considered in providing
adequate separation:
         (a)   Materials and type of joints for water and sewer pipes;
         (b)   Soil conditions;
         (c)   Service and branch connections into the water main and sewer
line;
         (d)   Compensating variations in the horizontal and vertical
separations;
         (e)   Space for repair and alterations of water and sewer pipes; and
         (f)   Off-setting of pipes around manholes.
      (2)   Parallel installation. Water mains shall be laid at least ten feet
horizontally from any existing or proposed sewer. The distance shall be
measured edge to edge. In cases where it is not practical to maintain a ten-
foot separation, the reviewing authority may allow deviation on a case-by-case
basis, if supported by data from the design engineer. Such deviation may allow
installation of the water main closer to a sewer; provided that, the water main
is laid in a separate trench or on an undisturbed earth shelf located on one
side of the sewer at such an elevation that the bottom of the water main is at
least 18 inches above the top of the sewer.
      (3)   Crossings. Water mains crossing sewers shall be laid to provide a
minimum vertical distance of 18 inches between the outside of the water main
and the outside of the sewer. This shall be the case where the water main is
either above or below the sewer. At crossings, one full length of water pipe
shall be located so both joints will be as far from the sewer as possible.
Special structural support for the water and sewer pipes may be required.
      (4)   Exception. The city must specifically approve any variance from the
requirements of divisions (J)(2) and (J)(3) above, when it is impossible to
obtain the specified separation distances.
      (5)   Force mains. There shall be at least a ten-foot horizontal
separation between water mains and sanitary sewer force mains. There shall be
an 18-inch vertical separation at crossings as required in division (J)(3)
above.
      (6)   Sewer manholes. No water pipe shall pass through or come in contact
with any part of a sewer manhole.
   (K)   Surface water crossings. Surface water crossings, whether over or
under water, present special problems. The reviewing authority should be
consulted before final plans are prepared.
      (1)   Above-water crossing. The pipe shall be adequately supported and
anchored, protected from damage and freezing, and accessible for repair or
replacement.
      (2)   Underwater crossings. A minimum cover of five feet shall be
provided over the pipe. When crossing watercourses which are greater than 15
feet in width, the following shall be provided:
         (a)   The pipe shall be of special construction, having flexible and
watertight joints;
         (b)   Valves shall be provided at both ends of water crossings so that
the section can be isolated for testing or repair; the valves shall be easily
accessible, and not subject to flooding, and the valve closest to the supply
source shall be in a manhole; and
         (c)   Permanent taps shall be made on each side of the valve within
the manhole to allow insertion of a small meter to determine leakage and for
sampling purposes.
   (L)   Water services and plumbing.
      (1)   Plumbing. Water services and plumbing shall conform to relevant
local and/or state plumbing codes.
      (2)   Booster pumps. Individual booster pumps shall not be allowed for
any individual service from the public water supply mains.
   (M)   Sanitary waterlines. Sewer lines and waterlines shall, wherever
possible, be located on opposite sides of the street. Preferably, waterlines
shall be located 13 feet west or north of the street centerline and the sewer
line at 13 feet east or south of the street centerline. The above referenced
locations and dimensions may be varied to accommodate unusual circumstances.
   (N)   Drawings.
      (1)   All drawings shall be on linen or Mylar in ink and of such quality
that they clearly show the dimensions, locations, sizes, and the like of all
facilities represented thereon. All mainlines, valves, fire hydrants, building
service lines, and the like shall be clearly shown and identified by name and
by station or other means of horizontal location. Waterlines shall be shown in
both plan and profile unless the length of said waterline or waterline
extension is so short that the City Engineer waives this requirement. If a
profile of the waterline is not provided, it shall be located in the vertical
plane by elevations on the flowline of the pipe at intervals as the City
Engineer may require.
      (2)   Drawings shall be drawn on a scale of one inch equals 50 feet
unless the amount of detail, topography, or other factors necessitates their
being drawn on a larger scale (i.e. one inch equals 30 feet) to provide the
clarity and completeness needed on the drawings.
   (O)   Approval. The design of all waterlines and all waterline plans must be
approved by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.050 “AS BUILT” DRAWINGS AND ENGINEER’S CERTIFICATION.
   (A) “As built” or “record” drawings of waterline plans shall be prepared by
a professional engineer and the “corrected” original drawings (or a duplicate
Mylar copy of the “corrected” original drawings) shall be provided to the city.
   (B) “As built” plans shall include a certification thereon signed by the
registered professional engineer in charge of the work that the “as built”
drawings of the waterlines are true and correct and that he or she (the
registered professional engineer) has inspected the construction of the
waterline installation and that the materials and installation of same were all
done in conformance with the city standard specifications for the construction
of waterline improvements.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992)
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 51.065 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the public health of water
consumers of the city by the control of actual and/or potential cross-
connections and to act in accordance with DEQ rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 8-29-2018)
§ 51.066 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BACKFLOW. The flow, other than the intended direction of flow, of any
foreign liquids, gases, or substances into the distribution system of the city
water supply. This includes back-pressure backflow and back-siphonage backflow.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device to counteract back pressure or prevent
back-siphonage.
   CITY. The City of Dietrich, Idaho and its designated representatives.
   CONTAMINATION. The entry into or presence in a city water supply of any
substance which may be deleterious to health and/or quality of the water.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical arrangement whereby the city water supply is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water supply system, sewer,
drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture, or other device
which contains or may contain contaminated water, sewage, or other waste or
liquids of unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of imparting
contamination to the city water supply as a result of backflow.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 8-29-2018)
§ 51.067 CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or continued
in the city unless the water supply is protected by backflow prevention
assemblies as required by this subchapter, the state’s code, and all standards,
rules, regulations of the state, the state’s Department of Environmental
Quality, and any other federal, state, county, or city authority thereof. The
installation or maintenance of a cross-connection which will endanger the water
quality of the potable water supply of the city shall be unlawful and is
prohibited. Any such cross-connection now existing or hereafter installed is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance and the same shall be abated. The
control or elimination of cross-connections shall be in accordance with this
subchapter, the state’s code, and all standards, rules, and regulations of the
state, the state’s Department of Environmental Quality, and any other federal,
state, county, or city authority or agency thereof, together with the latest
addition of appropriate manuals of standard practice pertaining to cross-
connection control enacted by the city and any applicable county, state, and
federal authorities and agencies. The city shall have the authority to
establish requirements more stringent than state regulations if it deems that
the conditions so dictate.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 8-29-2018) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.068 USE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES AND/OR ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   Backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in connection with
water service connections or within any premises where, in the judgment of the
city, the nature and extent of the activities, or the materials stored on the
premises, would present an immediate and dangerous hazard to health and/or be
deleterious to the quality of water should a cross-connection occur; even
though such cross-connection does not exist at the time the backflow prevention
assemblies shall be installed under circumstances including, but not limited
to, the following:
      (1)   On premises having an auxiliary water supply, a cross-connection is
the physical connection between the public water system and anything else. An
auxiliary water supply that is not part of the drinking water system is a
cross-connection and shall not be allowed without properly protecting the
public water system;
      (2)   Premises having internal cross-connections that are not
correctable, or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to
ascertain whether or not cross-connections exist;
      (3)   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to ensure the cross-connections do not exist;
      (4)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established;
      (5)   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the city water supply, or where a cross-connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters;
      (6)   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
in such a way that if back-siphonage should occur, a serious health hazard
might result; and
      (7)   The following types of facilities will fall into one of the above
categories where a backflow prevention assembly is required to protect the city
water supply. A backflow prevention assembly shall be installed at these
facilities unless the city and applicable state, county, and federal
authorities and agencies determine that no hazard exists:
         (a)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics;
         (b)   Laboratories, including school laboratories;
         (c)   Metal plating industries;
         (d)   Sewage treatment plants;
         (e)   Food or beverage processing plants;
         (f)   Chemical plants using a water process;
         (g)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
         (h)   Car washes;
         (i)   Dry cleaners; or
         (j)   Other premises as specified by the city, where backflow
prevention assemblies are required to protect the city water supply.
   (B)   The type of protective device(s) and/or assemblies required shall
depend on the degree of hazard which exists.
      (1)   An air-gap separation or a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly shall be installed where the city water supply may be
contaminated with sewage, industrial waste of a toxic nature, or other
contaminates which could cause a health or system hazard.
      (2)   In the case of a substance which may be objectionable but not
hazardous to health, a double check valve assembly, air prevention device shall
be installed.
   (C)   Backflow prevention assemblies required by this subchapter shall be
installed at the meter, at the property line of the premises when meters are
not used, or at a location designated by the city. The assembly shall be
located so as to be readily accessible for maintenance and testing and,
furthermore, where no part of the assembly will be submerged.
   (D)   Backflow prevention assemblies required by this subchapter shall be
installed under the supervision of, and with the approval of, the city.
   (E)   Any protective device required by this subchapter shall be approved by
the city, applicable state, county, and federal authorities and comply with the
University of Southern California Foundation for Cross-Connections Control and
Hydraulic Research standards. These assemblies shall be furnished and installed
by and at the expense of the landowner.
   (F)   Backflow prevention device assemblies installed pursuant to this code
shall be inspected and tested annually, or more often if necessary.
Inspections, tests, and maintenance shall be at the landowner’s expense, and by
an IBOL licensed tester retained and paid for by the landowner. Whenever the
assemblies are found to be defective, they shall be repaired, overhauled, or
replaced at the landowner’s expense. Assemblies that cannot pass annual
inspections or are defective shall be repaired, replaced, or isolated within
ten business days of the testing results. Inspections, tests, repairs, and
records thereof shall be accomplished in accordance with all standards, rules,
and regulations of this code of ordinances, the state’s code, the state’s
Department of Environmental Quality, and any other federal, state, county or
city authority and comply with the University of Southern California Foundation
for Cross-Connections Control and Hydraulic Research standards and paid by the
landowner.
   (G)   No underground sprinkling device will be installed without adequate
backflow prevention assemblies at the point from which the water for irrigation
is taken from the city water supply.
   (H)   Failure of the landowner to cooperate in the installation,
maintenance, testing, or inspection of backflow prevention assemblies required
by this subchapter, the state’s code, and all standards, rules, and regulations
of the state, the state’s Department of Environmental Quality, and any other
federal, state, county, or city authority or agency thereof shall be grounds
for the termination of water service to the premises.
   (I)   In the event that documentation of tests and repairs are not received
by June 15 of the year when required, the city, at the property owner’s
expense, may hire a state licensed backflow prevention tester to test the
backflow assemblies and add the cost of the tests, plus a handling fee of $10
to the property owner’s utility bill.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 8-29-2018) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.069 CROSS-CONNECTION INSPECTION.
   (A)   No water shall be delivered to any structure hereafter built within
the city or within areas served by city water until the same shall have been
inspected by the city for possible cross-connections and have been approved as
being free of the same.
   (B)   Any construction for industrial or other purposes which is classified
as hazardous facilities pursuant to §
51.068(A)(7) of this code of ordinances, where it is reasonable to anticipate
cross-connections, or as determined by the city, shall be protected by the
installation of one or more backflow prevention assemblies at the point of
service from the city water supply or any other location designated by the
city, and applicable county, state, and federal authorities and agencies.
   (C)   Inspections may be made periodically of all buildings, structures, or
improvements of any nature now receiving water through the city’s system, for
the purpose of ascertaining whether cross-connections exist. Such inspections
shall be made by the city or applicable county, state, and federal authorities
and agencies as required by IDAPA 58.01.08.552.06.3.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 8-29-2018) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.070 CROSS-CONNECTION INSTALLATION PERMITS.
   (A)   If cross-connection control assemblies are found to be necessary, the
owner of the property served must apply to the city for a specific installation
permit. Private system users are to utilize cross-connection standards pursuant
to UPC.
   (B)   The city shall be responsible for correcting non-service type cross-
connections and the city is responsible for installing suitable assemblies on
non-service type cross-connections that must be tested initially and annually
by a state-certified tester. Installation, modification, and amendments to the
public system must be done in accordance to IDAPA 58.01.08.
   (C)   All installations, modifications, and amendments to any water service
line shall be performed in accordance with the Uniform Plumbing Code, as
amended or adopted by the state.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 8-29-2018)
§ 51.071 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   In the event an improper cross-connection is not corrected with the time
limits set by the city or in the event the city is refused access to any
property for the purpose of determining whether or not cross-connections exist,
the city shall cease delivery of water to the property until the deficiency is
corrected to the city’s satisfaction. In addition, the city, without waiving
any terms of this subchapter may, but shall not be required to, effect the
necessary repairs or installations at the expense of the property owner and
refuse delivery of water to the property until the cost thereof shall have been
paid. Violations of this subchapter are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and
the city, after notice to the customer or property owner to remove or correct
the violation, may prevent, remove, and abate the same at the expense of the
party creating or maintaining the same, in which event the city may levy a
special assessment as provided in the Idaho Code § 50-1008 on the land or
premises whereon the nuisance is situated to defray the cost or to reimburse
the city for the cost of abating the same.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 8-29-2018) Penalty, see §
51.999
PERMITS
§ 51.085 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to install or alter any water system or service
line within the city, or to tap onto or connect to any waterline whether
lateral or main, without having first obtained from said city a permit
therefor.
   (B)   An application for a connection to the city water system shall be made
at the office of the Water Superintendent and no connection shall be made to
any water main without a valid permit therefor having been issued by the Water
Superintendent.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to uncover, make any connection
with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public water mainline or
appurtenance thereof, without first obtaining a written permit to perform said
work from the Water Superintendent.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.086 EXCAVATION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No permit shall be granted to do waterline work in any street, alley, or
public easement until the applicant has first obtained an excavation permit.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992)
§ 51.087 SERVICE LINE EXTENSION OR REPAIR PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   When any water service line or private water system connected with any
public water main is leaking, broken, or out of order, on private property
(outside of any public right-of-way or easements) the owner, agent, or tenant
of such premises shall repair the same at his or her own expense. No person
shall construct, re-lay, repair, or extend any water service connection or
private water system until the person doing said work has obtained the
appropriate water permit for the same.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to extend any private service line
beyond the limits of the building or property for which a permit has been given
without obtaining a new permit for the desired extension. The existence of a
water permit shall in no way be construed as making permissible any work for
which an Excavation Permit may be required by the city.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992)
§ 51.088 RIGHT TO REVOKE PERMISSIONS.
   Permission given to connect to the water main shall be upon the express
condition that the Water Superintendent may for good cause revoke the same and
the person making such connection, or his or her successor in interest, shall
have no right to claim any damage in consequence of such permission being
revoked.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to hook-up to the water system will result in a civil penalty
of $100 per day for each day the water is not hooked onto the city system. This
civil penalty shall not commence until the property owner has been advised of
the need to hook-up and had been given a time frame in which to complete the
hook-up. There will be separate civil penalties for failing to hook-up to the
sewer system and water system.
   (B)   In addition to, or in lieu of the foregoing, the city may bring any
appropriate civil action, including, but not limited to, abatement and/or
injunction for damages, in which event the city shall be entitled to all costs
including attorney fees in the prosecution of such action.
   (C)   In addition to the foregoing, any person violating the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
there shall be subject to the penalties as provided by law.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 4-1-2013; Ord. 2018-02, passed 8-29-2018)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Connection to sanitary sewer required
   
52.02   Refusal of use of system
   
52.03   Prohibited discharges
   
52.04   Industrial wastes
   
52.05   Citation; appearance
   
52.06   Failure to appear unlawful
Accounts; Billing; Fees and Rates
   
52.20   Sewer rates
   
52.21   Sewer connection fees
   
52.22   Wastewater Collection and Treatment System Improvement Fund
   
52.23   Connection regulations
Meters and Sewer Service Lines
   
52.35   Independent sewer service line required
   
52.36   Sewer service line maintenance
   
52.37   Injury to or tampering with sanitary sewer system unlawful
   
52.38   Installation and maintenance of sewer service line
   
52.39   Metered service
Planning; Materials; Installation
   
52.50   Grease traps required
   
52.51   Interceptor or removal facilities required to remove harmful
ingredients
   
52.52   Sewer construction, plans, specifications, and inspection
   
52.53   Rights to enter for inspection
   
52.54   Record drawings and engineer’s certification
Permits
   
52.65   Permits required
   
52.66   Right to revoke permissions
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 CONNECTION TO SANITARY SEWER REQUIRED.
   Every parcel of land or premises within the boundaries of the city, improved
for occupancy and occupied or used by any person or persons, or as a commercial
business, shall be connected to the public sanitary sewer system on or about
December 31, 1999. Thereafter, any owner or person in charge of any parcel of
land to be improved for human occupancy or business shall make or cause to be
made such connection within 60 days after receiving official notice from the
city to so connect. All charges associated with the laying of pipe from the
home or facilities to be served to the city’s mains and all other costs
incurred in connecting to said mains shall be borne by the property owner. All
such connections to the city’s mains shall be properly designed and constructed
in conformity with requirements specified by the city; provided, however, that,
potato warehouses shall not be required to hook-up to the line for other than
restroom facilities.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-7-1997) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 REFUSAL OF USE OF SYSTEM.
   The city may prohibit the discharge into the public sewer of sewage that
does not comply with the limitations set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-7-1997) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge, or cause to be
discharged, any storm water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
cooling water, or other unpolluted water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of the following described wastewater to the wastewater
collection and treatment system:
      (1)   Any solids, liquids, or gases which may, by themselves or by
interaction with other substances, cause fire or explosive hazards or in any
other way be injurious to person, property, or the operation of the wastewater
collection and treatment system;
      (2)   Any noxious or malodorous solids, liquids, or gases which either
singly or by interaction with other substances are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life, or preventing entry into sewers for their
maintenance or repair;
      (3)   Any solids, greases, waxes, slurries, or viscous material of such
character or in such quantity that it may cause an obstruction to the flow in
the sewer or otherwise interfere with the proper functioning of the wastewater
collection and treatment system;
      (4)   Any toxic substance, chemical elements, or compounds in quantities
sufficient to impair the operation or efficiency of the wastewater treatment
facilities and cause the effluent thereof to exceed the state’s Board of Health
requirements for the receiving stream;
      (5)   Any liquids, having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0, or
having any corrosive property capable or causing damage or hazards to
structures, equipment, or personnel of the wastewater collection and treatment
system;
      (6)   Any radioactive isotopes;
      (7)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature greater than 140°F;
      (8)   Any garbage that has not been properly ground to such degree that
all particles will be carried freely in suspension under the flow conditions
normally prevailing in public sewers with no particle greater than one-half
inch any dimension; or
      (9)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, hair, or other material capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with proper
operation of the wastewater collection and treatment system.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-7-1997) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (A)   Each person or firm desiring to make a connection to the public sewer
for the purpose of discharging industrial wastes thereto shall prepare and file
with the City Engineer a report that shall include actual or predicted data
relating to the quantity and characteristics of the waste to be discharged. The
city may authorize private treatment facilities; provided that, all federal,
state, and local laws and regulations are fully complied with.
   (B)   Industrial waste charges may be based upon the amount of flow,
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), suspended solids, or any combination thereof
as may be recommended by the City Engineer or this chapter.
   (C)   Pretreatment of industrial wastes shall be prerequisite to discharge
into the city sewer system. Pretreatment of all industrial wastes shall comply
with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-7-1997)
§ 52.05 CITATION; APPEARANCE.
   Whenever it is determined by any police officer or other duly authorized
officer that any person or persons have violated any provisions of this
chapter, the said officer shall provide in quadruplicate and serve upon such
person or persons a written citation containing a notice to appear in a
designated court of competent jurisdiction within the city. This citation shall
contain the name and address of the person charged, the offense charged, the
time and place when and where the offense charged occurred, and the time when
the person charged shall appear in said court, and such other pertinent
information as may be necessary; and such person or persons shall appear in
said court within five days after such citation is issued and served. The
issuance of a citation shall not be the exclusive method of summoning offenders
hereunder.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 FAILURE TO APPEAR UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to fail to neglect to appear
in response to and as required by the citation regardless of the disposition of
the charge upon which such citation was originally issued. Appearance in court
shall be deemed complied with upon appearance by the person cited or his or her
attorneys.
(Ord. 4-3, passed 9-8-1992) Penalty, see §
52.99
ACCOUNTS; BILLING; FEES AND RATES
§ 52.20 SEWER RATES.
   (A)   General. This is a user charge system for a small community which
follows model number one in Appendix B of the Federal Register dated September
27, 1978. This treatment works is primarily flow dependent and will utilize the
equivalent user concept. The equivalent user system has been set up based on
flow.
   (B)   Sewer user charge. A sewer user charge shall be levied on all users of
the sewage collection and treatment facilities to cover the actual or estimated
costs of operation, maintenance, replacement, and financing of this facility.
The user charge system shall distribute these costs to each user or user class
in approximate proportion to such user’s contribution to the total wastewater
load of such facilities. By reference, the city’s sewer user charge system (on
file in the office of the City Clerk) is hereby made a part of this code of
ordinances. A copy of the current user charge system shall be mailed to each
user with the first billing of each new fiscal year.
   (C)   Basis for rates. The sewer user rates for each user (or user class)
shall be based on the user’s contribution to the total wastewater loading of
the treatment facilities in comparison to a standard equivalent user as defined
below. Each user (or user class) shall be assigned a number of equivalent users
to be multiplied by a constant monthly cost factor to determine the basic user
monthly rate. Special users contributing sewage of excessive flow and/or
strength, for which the tabulated equivalent users below do not apply, shall be
individually calculated as provided below. The constant monthly cost factor
shall be set by Resolution of the City Council. In addition to the monthly rate
computed for a user outside the city limits, such users shall pay an additional
amount each month of 60% of the monthly fee. This additional amount shall be
applied to bond repayment and the Reserve Capital Improvement Fund.
   (D)   Equivalent user. One equivalent user shall be defined as contributing
350 gallons per day of wastewater containing not more than 0.7 pounds of five-
day BOD and 0.7 pounds of suspended solids. The equivalent user flow has been
developed from population and sewer usage records, which indicate an average
single dwelling unit has 3.5 people contributing 100 gallons per day, per
person. Standard engineering data indicates 0.2 pounds of suspended solids
respectively per person, per day. The basic equivalent user shall be subject to
revision if population, water usage, sewage volume, and/or other information
indicate flow and/or strength significantly different from that defined herein.
Revisions of the base equivalent user criteria shall normally only be made upon
the recommendation of a registered professional engineer and as approved and
adopted by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   Equivalent user schedule.
      (1)   The number of equivalent users to be assigned each user and/or user
class shall be in accordance with the following equivalent user schedule.
Assignment of equivalent users shall apply for one year until the next annual
user charge review. Users so indicated, or not included in this schedule, shall
be considered special users and shall be evaluated separately as provided
below. The information indicates that if the strength of sewage contributed by
any of the following users is in excess in comparison with the allowable limits
listed above, then a surcharge shall be levied against such users as provided
below. Any of the users in the following schedule may be classified as special
users if information on their contribution flow and/or strength indicates a
need to do so. A single user having more than one classification of use shall
be the sum of the fees. The minimum monthly sewer user charge shall be one
equivalent user. No quantity discounts will be allowed.
      (2)   The equivalent user schedule (1.0 minimum) and classification of
equivalent users is as follows:
         (a)   Residential: 1.0;
         (b)   Commercial:
            1.   Small: 1.0; and
            2.   Large: 1.0.
         (c)   Industrial: 1.0; and
         (d)   Public building: 1.0.
   (F)   Surcharge for excessive strength.
      (1)   When any user contributes wastewater having an average BOD and/or
suspended solids loading in excess of the designated allowable limits
hereinafter designated, a surcharge shall be levied against such user. Said
surcharge shall be based on the average degree of excess loading and applied as
a percentage of the basic user charge as provided in the above schedule, or
otherwise for special users. The BOD and suspended solids loading shall be
determined from estimates or tests made by city officials or its engineer. The
user’s monthly surcharge shall be computed by a use of the following equation:
US= [(b/B)-1)+(s/S)-1Ws/S)-1] x (U.C.)
      (2)   Where:
         B. The allowable limit of BOD loading above which a user’s surcharge
shall be levied, hereby designated as being 200 parts per million.
         b. The average BOD loading above which is a user’s wastewater
contribution expressed in parts per million.
         b/B or s/S. Shall not be less than 1.0.
         S. The allowable limit of suspended solids loading above which a
user’s surcharge shall be levied, hereby designated as being 200 parts per
million.
         s. The average suspended solids loading of the user’s wastewater
contributions, expressed in parts per million.
         U.C. The basic user’s monthly charge (for treatment only) computed as
provided above.
         US. The user’s monthly surcharge to be added to the basic user’s
monthly charge.
      (3)   A copy of the list of users surcharged, the characteristics of
their sewage, and the surcharge for each shall be kept on file at all times in
the office of the City Clerk.
   (F)   Special users. If, in addition to excessive strength, a user is
determined to add flow to the lagoon in excess of 10,000 gallons per month, the
above formula shall be multiplied by a factor of total flow divided by 10,000
gallons per month. In order to determine the flow of this special user, the
city may monitor sewage and water flow in order to determine total flow. The
value of U.C. used in the formula above will be the same value as assigned
single dwelling units. A copy of the list of special users, the characteristics
of their sewage, and the special user’s monthly charge shall be kept on file at
all times in the office of the City Clerk. There shall be no discounts
permitted for quantity flows.
   (G)   Review and revision of rates. The sewer user charges shall, as a
minimum, be reviewed annually and updated by resolution of the Council to
reflect actual costs of operation, maintenance, replacement, and financing of
the sewage collection and treatment facilities. Any revisions of the user
charges shall be based on actual operation, maintenance, replacement, financing
expenses, and/or on significant changes in the total number of equivalent
users, the total daily flow, the total daily BOD, and/or the total daily
suspended solids. The city may install flow-measuring devices and/or collect
wastewater samples at any time in any user’s service line to determine actual
usage as a basis for revisions of the user’s charge. Revisions due only to
changes in expenses and user class shall be made by the city. Revisions
involving user’s flow, BOD and/or suspended solids shall normally only be made
upon the recommendation of a registered professional engineer. All changes in
user charges applicable to this subchapter shall be computed by the methods
outlined herein.
   (H)   User request for rate change. Any sewer user who feels his or her user
charge is unjust and inequitable as applied to his or her premises within the
spirit and intent of the foregoing provisions may make written application to
the City Council requesting a review of his or her user charge. Said written
request shall, where necessary, show the actual or estimated average flow and
strength of his or her wastewater in comparison with the values upon which the
charge is based, including how the measurements or estimates were made. Any
flow measurements and/or testing of wastewater shall be approved in detail, by
the city and/or its engineer. Review of the request by the City Council shall
determine if it is substantiated or not, including recommended further study of
the matter for the city and/or user by a registered professional engineer.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-7-1997)
§ 52.21 SEWER CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   Sanitary Sewer-four inch line. A $500 hook up fee plus the cost of all
parts and labor to extend the sewer line from the main line to the property
line will be charged to the property owner.
   (B)   Sanitary Sewer-eight inch line. A $800 hook up fee plus the cost of
all parts and labor to extend the sewer line from the main line to the property
line will be charged to the property owner.
   (C)   Connections. All connections to the main line and work done to get the
sewer line to the property line will be completed by the City of Dietrich or
its designee and charged to the property owner. The owner is responsible for
any labor or material for extending the sewer line from the property line to
the desired location on his or her property .
(Ord. 50, passed 8-7-1997; Ord. 2011-01, passed 1-3-2011; Res. 2010-03, passed
3-1-2010)
§ 52.22 WASTEWATER COLLECTION AND TREATMENT SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   There is hereby established a Wastewater Collection and Treatment System
Improvement Fund to be maintained by the City Clerk in managing the fiscal
affairs of the city. All revenues derived from the charging of any fees,
charges, rates, or the like, as such are set forth herein, shall be deposited
in said fund, and shall be disbursed only for the purposes of paying existing
or future indebtedness connected with or relating to maintaining, repairing,
studying, controlling, enlarging, extending, enhancing, or improving the
wastewater collection and treatment system of the city.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-7-1997)
§ 52.23 CONNECTION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any owner of property who has a drinking well and properly functioning
septic tank/drain field, must hook-up to city sewer within 60 days after
written notice of availability has been served on the property owner.
   (B)   In the event water only is available to the property, the existing
septic tank and drain field may be used. Such septic tank and drain field shall
be inspected every third year by a licensed installer of such septic systems
until such time the city can provide sewer service to the property owner. At
the time sewer services become available through the city, the property owner
must hook-up to the city sewer service.
   (C)   All septic tank and drain field inspections must be completed by July
1 every third year and the property owner must submit the inspection
certificate to the city by that date.
   (D)   The costs of the inspection will be the responsibility of the property
owner.
   (E)   If the property owner fails to inspect or does not submit
certification, the city will pay to have the inspection done and charge the
property owner and submit the same to the County Tax Assessor for placement on
the property owner’s property tax bill.
   (F)   Failure to hook-up to the sewer will result in a civil penalty of $100
per day for each day the sewer is not hooked onto the city system. This civil
penalty shall not commence until the property owner has been advised of the
need to hook-up and given a time frame in which to complete the hook-up. There
will be separate civil penalties for failing to hook-up to the sewer system and
water system.
   (G)   HOOK-UP shall mean having the city provide a legal, and city approved,
connection to the city sewer system. The property owner shall pay for the
connection fee and the monthly charge.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 4-1-2013) Penalty, see §
52.99
METERS AND SEWER SERVICE LINES
§ 52.35 INDEPENDENT SEWER SERVICE LINE REQUIRED.
   The sewer mainline and sewer service line(s) shall be so arranged that there
is a separate and independent sewer service line to each individual building,
place of business, or tract of land. After the effective date of this code of
ordinances, a separate and independent side sewer (building service line) shall
be provided for every new building connecting to the sanitary sewer system of
the city. Separate side sewers are not required for each trailer space in
overnight trailer courts, nor for each cabin in cabin courts; however, separate
side sewers (sewer service lines) are required for trailer houses on individual
lots or for long-term trailer rental units in mobile home courts.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-7-1997)
§ 52.36 SEWER SERVICE LINE MAINTENANCE.
   All sewer users shall keep their individual sewer service line in good
repair and shall be responsible for all costs associated with maintaining the
service line for all portions of the line outside the city easements or rights-
of-way.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-7-1997) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.37 INJURY TO OR TAMPERING WITH SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to disturb, destroy, damage, adjust,
molest, meddle, or otherwise interfere with any portion of the city sewage
collection or treatment system or its appurtenances, located either on public
or private property.
      (2)   Should any damage result, either intentionally or unintentionally,
from handling or otherwise tampering with or plugging said sewer system, the
violator shall pay for all costs incurred in connection with the repairs of
said system and/or for any damages that may result from the tampering with or
plugging of said sewer system.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any substance which may
tend to obstruct the flow of the sewer, in any sewer opening.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-7-1997) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.38 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SEWER SERVICE LINE.
   (A)   When a permit for a sewer service line (side sewer) has been granted,
the sewer tap at the sewer main and the sewer service line from the sewer main
to a point ten feet beyond the street or alley right-of-way line or sewer
easement line shall be installed by the city at the expense of the person or
firm desiring sewer service, but thereafter the sewer service line within the
public right-of-way or easement shall be maintained by the city at its expense
and kept within and under its exclusive control and jurisdiction.
   (B)   (1)   All sewer service lines (side sewers) within any public rights-
of-way or easements shall be constructed by the city: except that sewer service
lines in any new subdivisions may be installed as part of the construction for
the new sewer collection system within said subdivisions and provided, further,
that said service lines are constructed, inspected, tested, and certified as
being in conformance with the city’s standard drawings and the state’s standard
specifications governing the construction of sewer service lines.
      (2)   Sewer service lines may also be installed by contract in
conjunction with city-sponsored projects or when, in the opinion of the city,
it is in the city’s best interest to have or allow said sewer service lines to
be installed by other than city personnel.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-7-1997)
§ 52.39 METERED SERVICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Council shall deem it appropriate and in the best
interests of the city and its citizens to require a user to have the sewer
service to his or her facilities metered to more appropriately determine the
amount of service provided such user by the system, the Council may, by
resolution, require the said user to install a meter and/or meters which will
accurately measure the service provided.
   (B)   The cost of the meter and its installation shall be borne by the user.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-7-1997)
PLANNING; MATERIALS; INSTALLATION
§ 52.50 GREASE TRAPS REQUIRED.
   In all cases where a building is used as a hotel, boarding house,
restaurant, service station, garage, or the like, the owner or occupant shall
provide a properly constructed grease trap through which all wastes of a greasy
nature shall be drained.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-7-1997)
§ 52.51 INTERCEPTOR OR REMOVAL FACILITIES REQUIRED TO REMOVE HARMFUL
INGREDIENTS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors or other necessary removal facilities
shall be installed on the premises when in the opinion of the city, they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in
excessive amounts, high concentrations of blood, fruit, vegetable, or grain
liquors, milk wastes, or any flammable wastes, sand, and other harmful
ingredients. All interceptors or removal facilities shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the city and shall be so located as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Where installed, the owner shall
maintain oil and sand interceptors at his or her expense, in continuously
efficient operation at all times.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-7-1997)
§ 52.52 SEWER CONSTRUCTION, PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS, AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   All construction or reconstruction of public, private, and side sewers
shall be in accordance with the city’s standard drawings and the state’s
standard specifications, and subject to inspection by the city.
   (B)   Plan and profile drawings shall be prepared for all new sewer mains
(whether public or private) and for all sanitary sewer extensions,
reconstructions, or renovations; and all such plan and profile drawings must be
reviewed and approved by the City Engineer and the state’s Department of Health
and Welfare before any construction work on said sewer lines is started.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-7-1997)
§ 52.53 RIGHTS TO ENTER FOR INSPECTION.
   The city shall have the right to enter upon any premises connected with any
public sewer at all reasonable hours to determine that there is compliance with
the provisions of this chapter. If conflict is noted, the owner of said
premises or his or her agent shall be directed to alter, repair, or reconstruct
said sewer facilities to conform to the requirements of this chapter within 15
days.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-7-1997)
§ 52.54 RECORD DRAWINGS AND ENGINEER’S CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Record drawings for sewer line plans shall be prepared by a
professional engineer and the corrected original drawings or a duplicate Mylar
copy of the corrected original drawing(s) shall be provided to the city.
   (B)   Record plans shall include a certification thereon signed by the
registered professional engineer in charge of the work that the record plans of
the sewer lines are true and correct and that the registered professional
engineer has inspected the construction of the sewer line installation and that
the materials and retaliation of same were all done in conformance with the
specifications approved by the city for the construction of sanitary sewers.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-7-1997)
PERMITS
§ 52.65 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to install or alter any sanitary sewer or
plumbing within the city, or to tap onto or connect to any sanitary sewer line
whether lateral, main, or interceptor, without having first obtained from said
city a permit therefor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to uncover, make any connection
with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance
thereof, without first obtaining a written permit to perform said work from the
city.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-7-1997) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.66 RIGHT TO REVOKE PERMISSIONS.
   Permission given to connect sewers and drains shall be upon the express
condition that the city may for good cause revoke the same and the person
making such connection, or his or her successor in interest, shall have no
right to claim any damage in consequence of such permission being revoked.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-7-1997)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, may be punished by a fine of not
more than $300 or by imprisonment for not more than 30 days or by both such
fine and imprisonment. Each day said violation occurs shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   The proper local authorities of the city, county, or state, in
addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceedings
to correct or abate any violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-7-1997)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Speed limit within city limits
§ 70.01 SPEED LIMIT WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   No vehicle shall be driven within the city limits at a speed in excess of 25
mph.
(Ord. 3, passed 2-4-1947)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   RECREATION AND LEISURE
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   License and registration
   
90.04   Kennel regulations
   
90.05   Running at large prohibited
   
90.06   Provisions regulating suspected or actual rabid animals
   
90.07   Sheriff Department
   
90.08   Vicious or dangerous dogs
   
90.09   Impounded animals
   
90.10   Violations
Other Animals
   
90.20   Keeping of livestock
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this subchapter are to:
   (A)   Promote public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize
public and private losses due to dogs at large, vicious dogs, and/or unlicensed
dogs;
   (B)   Protect human life, health, and property; and
   (C)   Provide particularized standards for the keeping of dogs within the
limits of the City of Dietrich.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 4-8-2024)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, terms are defined as follows:
   COMMERICAL DOG KENNEL. A kennel where dogs are bred and/or raised
specifically for sale to the public.
   DOG.  Any male, female, spayed female or neutered male dog of any age.
   DOG AT LARGE.  Any dog which is not confined within a fenced or completely
enclosed area or on a chain or leash.
   DOG KENNEL. A premises where more than three dogs over the age of six months
are raised, kept, housed, or boarded at any point in time.
   DOG OF LICENSING AGE. Any dog which has attained the age of six months.
   IMPOUNDED.  Having been received into the custody of the Sheriff Department
or any authorized agent or representative thereof.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association, or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring a dog.
   UNLICENSED DOG.  A dog for which the license of the current year has not
been paid, or to which the tag provided for in this chapter is not attached.
   VICIOUS DOG.  A dog that has bitten, clawed, or otherwise harmed, or
constitutes a physical threat to persons, other animals, and/or property or a
dog who endangers or menaces any person, property, or other animal without
provocation by such person or animal.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 4-8-2024)
§ 90.03 LICENSE AND REGISTRATION.
   (A)   License and registration required. Every dog that has reached the age
of six months or older, kept, harbored, or maintained by any person in the
city, shall be licensed and registered. Dog license shall be issued by the City
Clerk upon payment of a license fee as herein provided in this chapter. Payment
of the license fee shall be made to the City Clerk at the City Hall during
regular business hours.
   (B)   Licensing requirements, fees.
      (1)   The owner, possessor, or keeper of any dog six months of age or
over shall make an application for and obtain a license and registration tag
for such dog.
      (2)   At the time of making application, the owner, possessor, or keeper
of any dog shall:
         (a)   State their name and address; the sex, breed, color, and age of
each dog owned or kept by them.
         (b)   Pay a license fee for each dog licensed. The fee for licenses is
the sum of $10 for every neutered male dog and every spayed female dog, and the
sum of $15 for every unneutered male dog and unspayed female dog. Proof of the
dog having been neutered or spayed must be presented before issuance of the
license.
         (c)   Provide proof of current rabies vaccination for the animal being
licensed.
         (d)   All licenses are valid for one year and shall expire on April 1
of each year. No notices will be sent by the city concerning expiration of
licenses.
     (C)   License exemption. The following dogs need not be licensed:
      (1)   Any dog not yet six months of age.
      (2)   Any dog whose owner, keeper or possessor is a nonresident of the
city and who is temporarily within the city for 30 days or less.
      (3)   Any dog which has been duly or properly trained to assist the
blind, physically or mentally disabled and is acting in that capacity shall be
licensed without fee.
   (D)   Owner's certificate, dog collar and tag. Upon payment of the license
fee, the City Clerk shall issue to the owner a metallic tag for each dog so
licensed and a receipt noting the information as outlined in division (B)(2)(a)
above. The tag shall have stamped thereon the words “City of Dietrich dog tag”
and the tag number. Every owner shall be required to provide each dog with a
collar and tag which are constantly worn by the dog.
   (E)   Dog tags.
      (1)   Duplicate dog tags shall be issued upon payment of $1 for each tag
so issued to replace the original tag that was lost or destroyed.
      (2)   Dog tags shall not be transferrable from one dog to another, and no
refunds shall be made on any dog license fee for any reason whatsoever.
      (3)   The original receipt shall be retained by the owner or harborer of
the licensed dog for inspection by the Sheriff Department or agent thereof.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 4-8-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 KENNEL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Kennel fees. Any person conducting, operating, or maintaining a
“commercial dog kennel” or “dog kennel” as herein defined shall pay to the City
Clerk's Office, for the privilege of conducting, operating, or maintaining such
dog kennel, an annual license fee of $100. The annual kennel license fee is in
addition to the license registration fee as outlined in § 90.03(B)(2)(b) above.
All license fees are renewable each year on the anniversary of date of
issuance.
   (B)   Qualifications for issuance of dog kennel license.
      (1)   The City Clerk may issue a kennel license only after receiving a
positive recommendation from the Sheriff Department and/or agent thereof who
has made a personal investigation into each application including an on-site
visit to the kennel area. The City Clerk must receive the proper fee amount. No
license may be issued until the Sheriff has certified to the City Clerk that
all requirements of this subchapter have been complied with. The City Clerk may
deny the issuance of a license if fraudulent or untrue representations have
been made by the applicant, or if the applicant is in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter. All licenses that are issued based upon fraudulent
statements are null and void as if they have never been issued.
      (2)   At least 15 days before applying for a license, the applicant shall
circulate a petition among all households located within 300 feet of any part
of the applicant’s property. The petition shall state the number and types of
dogs the applicant wishes to keep and shall give the legal location of the
property on which the applicant wishes to keep the dogs. The applicant must
obtain the written approval of 75% of the homeowners located within 300 feet of
their property before a kennel license application may be considered.
      (3)   Prior to the license issuance hearing, the Sheriff must inspect
places and premises in the city where any dogs are to be housed under the
license applied for and, if a violation of this subchapter is found to exist,
the Sheriff shall not recommend to the City Clerk that a license be issued.
Kennel licenses shall expire one year from date of issuance and may be reissued
by the City Clerk upon written certification by the Sheriff that the kennel
operator has complied with the kennel rules and conditions contained in this
subchapter for the entire preceding year.
   (C)   Revocation of license.
      (1)   The Sheriff may recommend to the City Clerk the revocation of any
kennel license upon evidence that any of the conditions set forth in this
chapter, as a prerequisite of the issuance of a license, have been violated, or
that that license was issued upon fraudulent or untrue representations by
applicant, or 75% of the homeowners located within 300 feet of the property of
the kennel location, file a petition for such revocation, or that the person
holding the license has violated any of the material provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   All places and premises upon which any of the dogs are kept or
housed shall be open at all reasonable times for inspection by the Sheriff. If,
upon inspection, there is found to exist any violation or any provision of this
chapter, the Sheriff shall give the person responsible for such violation a
written notice specifying the violation in particular and requiring such
offender to abate or correct such problem within the following 24-hour period.
If not abated or corrected, the Sheriff shall recommend to the City Council
that the license of such person be revoked.
      (3)   The City Clerk may revoke any kennel license issued under this
subchapter for violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter or
ordinance of the cty or laws of the State of Idaho. Prior to revocation by the
City Clerk, the Clerk shall notify the applicant in writing, setting forth
specifically the grounds for the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be personally served upon the licensee or mailed
certified mail return receipt requested to the licensee at his/her last known
address at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing. The notice
should set out appeal rights as outlined below.
      (4)   The aggrieved person may file a request for appeal with the City
Council by submitting a written request for a hearing with the City Clerk in
person at the City Hall or by mailing a written request by first class mail to
the City Clerk at the City Hall. Said request must be received within 15 days
of the Clerk's denial. The Clerk shall schedule a hearing as part of the next
regular City Council meeting. The Mayor shall chair the hearing and the city
shall be represented by the City Attorney. The appellant may be represented by
an attorney of choice or by the appellant personally. The rules for
administration hearings under Idaho shall be followed. The decision shall be
made by the City Council in the same manner as it makes all other decisions
with the Mayor having the tiebreaking vote. The order of the City Council shall
be final, however appeal rights to the District Court may exist.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 4-8-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper of any licensed or
unlicensed dog to permit such dog at any time to run at large within the city
limits.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be served with a citation
signed by a law enforcement officer, or a citizen.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 4-8-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 PROVISIONS REGULATING SUSPECTED OR ACTUAL RABID ANIMALS.
    (A)   Reports required. Anyone having knowledge of the animal known to have
or suspected of having rabies shall report the fact immediately to the Sheriff
Department. The Sheriff Department shall likewise be notified of any person or
animal bitten by a rabid or suspected rabid animal. It shall be the duty of all
physicians who treat any person bitten, while within the city limits, by any
animal, to report immediately the name and address of such person to the
Sheriff Department.
   (B)   Quarantine of animal.
      (1)   It is hereby made the duty of the owner of a dog or other animal
showing symptoms of rabies or which has bitten or otherwise attached any person
causing an abrasion of the skin, to surrender the dog or animal for confinement
at the location designated by the Sheriff Department for a period of not less
than ten days. Any dog or animal showing the symptoms of rabies, or which has
bitten or otherwise attacked any person causing an abrasion of the skin shall
be placed in confinement as provided in this section. Any animal of a species
subject to rabies shall in like circumstances be confined as herein provided.
If a dog or other animal is determined to be free of rabies, the dog or animal
shall be returned to the owner upon payment of the regular impoundment fee and
board as provided in this chapter. If such fee is not paid, the dog or animal
shall be subject to disposal as provided by this chapter. At the discretion of
the Sheriff, the quarantine of a dog or animal may be upon the premises of the
owner or the person in charge of the same if securely confined, kept from
contact with other animals and submitted to a veterinarian for examination at
the owner's expense to determine if rapid. If any animal dies or has been
killed, its head shall be removed and immediately taken to the State Health
Laboratory to be examined for rabies.
      (2)   No person shall fail, refuse or neglect to allow the Sheriff and/or
agent to make an inspection or examination at any time during this period. No
dog or animal shall be removed from the place of quarantine without written
permission of the Sheriff Department.
   (C)   Contact with rabid animal. Any animal of a species subject to rabies
which has been bitten by a known rabid animal or has been intimate contact with
a rabid animal shall be isolated in a suitable place approved by the Sheriff
Department for a period of 120 days or destroyed.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 4-8-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 SHERIFF DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Sheriff Department duties. It shall be the duty of the Sheriff
Department:
      (1)   To carry out and enforce all the provisions of this subchapter, and
any amendments hereto, any other ordinance later enacted relating to dogs and
as permitted by law.
      (2)   To enforce the licensing and the control of all dogs in the city as
herein provided.
      (3)   To file complaints and/or issue citations in a court of competent
jurisdiction against any person failing to license any dog as herein provided,
or who otherwise fails to comply with any of the provisions of this subchapter.
      (4)   To capture and secure all dogs found running at large contrary to
the provisions of this subchapter and to remove such dogs in a humane manner to
the confinement area as designated by the Sheriff Department.
      (5)   To pick up, collect the destruction fee and secure the euthanasia
record for all dogs to be destroyed at the owner's request.
      (6)   To be responsible for posting notices concerning impounded dogs as
herein provided.
   (B)   Right of Sheriff Department regarding dogs.
      (1)   Any dog found running at large or dog that is to be impounded,
which, in the opinion of any Sheriff, cannot be safely taken without
tranquilizing, may be tranquilized for the purpose of impounding, by any
Sheriff Officer.
      (2)   In the enforcement of any provisions of this chapter, any Sheriff
Officer and assistants are authorized to enter the premises of any person to
take possession of licensed and unlicensed, fierce, dangerous, or vicious dogs
when in fresh pursuit of such dog at the time the dog goes onto private
property.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 4-8-2024)
§ 90.08 VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   When any dog is defined as vicious by this subchapter, the Sheriff
Department may order the violators post a bond or certificate of insurance in
the amount of $100,000 or more and/or that the owner of the dog prove financial
responsibility for the dog’s actions.
   (B)   In any case where a person has been charged or cited with the offense
of owning or having custody of a vicious or dangerous dog or other animal
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, the City Attorney may file a
motion requesting destruction of the animal prior to a final adjudication of
the criminal charges. The animal shall remain confined in the confinement area
designated by the Sheriff Department pending a final decision on the motion.
The court may order the destruction of the animal upon making a finding that
the animal is “vicious,” as defined in this chapter, and that it poses a danger
to the public if allowed to be released from confinement.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 4-8-2024)
§ 90.09 IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Unclaimed impounded animals. If the owner, harborer, or keeper of the
dog impounded can be ascertained, then notice shall be promptly given the
owner, harborer or keeper stating that unless the dog is reclaimed according to
this subchapter within 72 hours after such notice, the dog will be given to a
local dog rescue group designated by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Reclamation of impounded animals. A dog may be reclaimed by payment of
an impounding fee and costs of keeping the animal until it is reclaimed as
follows. For the first occurrence during the license year, a city impound fee
of $15, plus costs. For each subsequent impoundment during the license year,
the city impound fee shall increase by $5 over the first fee paid for such dog,
plus cost of keeping. Persons reclaiming an unlicensed dog must purchase the
required license in addition to all other charges. The fees under this section
shall be collected by the City Clerk and costs paid to the person/entity
housing the animal. Receipt for all necessary fees must be obtained from the
City Clerk before an impounded dog can be reclaimed.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 4-8-2024)
§ 90.10 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Removing a collar or tag. It is a violation for any person to remove
or cause to be removed the collar or metallic tag from any licensed dog without
the consent of the owner.
   (B)   Barking dog. It is a violation for any person to own, keep or harbor
any dog which by loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling, or yelping
shall annoy or disturb any neighborhood or person.
   (C)   Vicious or dangerous dog. It is a violation for any person to own,
have custody of or control of any dog or any other animal which is vicious or
dangerous.
   (D)   Failure to exhibit registration or license. It is a violation for any
person keeping or harboring a dog for which a license is required by this
chapter to fail or to refuse to exhibit the registration receipt or license tag
upon demand by a Sheriff Officer.
   (E)   Torture or mistreating dogs. It is a violation for any person to
maltreat or torture any dog or to willfully and maliciously administer or cause
to be administered poison of any sort whatsoever to any animal that is the
property of another, with the intent to injure or destroy such animal, or to
willfully or maliciously place any poison or poisoned food where the same is
accessible to any such animal.
   (F)   Hindering or delaying a peace officer in duties pursuant to this
subchapter. It is a violation for any person to hinder, delay, interfere with
or obstruct a Peace Officer while said official is performing animal control
duties and for any person to break open or in any manner directly aid, counsel
or advise the breaking open of any dog confinement facility, ambulance, wagon
or vehicle used for the collecting or conveying of dogs.
   (G)   Leaving a dog in an unattended vehicle. 
      (1)   It is a violation for any person to leave or confine in any
unattended motor vehicle under conditions that may endanger the health or well-
being of an animal due to heat, cold, lack of adequate ventilation, or lack of
food or water, or under such other circumstances as could reasonably be
expected to cause suffering, disability, or death to the animal.
      (2)   Sheriff Officers may use reasonable force under the above
circumstances to enter a vehicle and remove the animal after first making a
reasonable attempt to contact the animal's owner. The officer removing the
animal shall use reasonable means to contact the owner of the animal to arrange
for its return home. Absent contact with the owner, the animal shall be taken
to a veterinary clinic if emergency care is needed and after a reasonable
amount of time to the designated confinement facility.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 4-8-2024)
OTHER ANIMALS
§ 90.20 KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these regulations is to provide a definition
of livestock; to set forth reasonable standards for the keeping and care of
livestock; to maintain neighborhood compatibility; and to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the general public.
   (B)   Livestock defined. LIVESTOCK is that class of animals that are kept
and housed outside the home or in enclosures such as pens, barns, corrals or
paddock areas. LIVESTOCK includes, but it not limited to horses, cattle (beef
and dairy), llamas, mules, swine, sheep, goats, rabbits, poultry and domestic
birds. LIVESTOCK includes any other grazing or foraging animal except those
specifically defined as a pet (see division (C) below of this section).
   (C)   Pet defined.  PETS generally include those animals that are housed
indoors. Pets also include certain animals that may be housed outdoors. Those
certain animals are: dogs, cats, up to three chickens, excluding roosters, two
ducks, two rabbits or such equivalent small animals or poultry. Animals deemed
to be pets shall comply with the performance standards as set forth in Section
90.03.040 G.
   (D)   Animal unit defined. ANIMAL UNIT is defined to provide a reasonable
standard for determining allowed livestock densities. Each horse, mule, cow,
llama, or similar sized animal shall represent one animal unit. The number of
smaller animals representing one animal unit is established based upon the size
and characteristics of the animal. The number of smaller animals included
within an animal unit includes four sheep, four goats, two swine, 12 chickens,
12 ducks, six geese, ten rabbits, or equivalent combination of such animals.
The Dietrich City Council shall determine the equivalent number of animals
allowed within an animal unit for animals not listed herein including miniature
forms of large animals. The Dietrich City Council determination should take
into consideration the purpose of this section and the impacts to adjacent
properties as described in division (E) below of this section.
   (E)   Standards for the keeping of livestock.
      (1)   Livestock shall be kept within enclosures which may include fences,
corrals, barns, pens, etc.
      (2)   Livestock enclosures shall not be kept within 100 feet of a
residence now in existence or which may hereafter be constructed other than
that occupied by owner or within 100 feet of a neighboring property boundary.
      (3)   Property owners keeping livestock in accordance with the above
standards must maintain such animals in a manner that does not cause adverse
impact to neighboring properties. Potential negative impacts on adjacent
properties includes odors, noise, drainage, erosion, and flies. Each person who
keeps livestock is responsible for the regular removal and disposal of animal
waste, and control of insects, erosion, and offensive odor.
      (4)   Offensive defined. OFFENSIVE is defined as that condition which, in
the opinion of a majority of the residents living withing 300 feet of the place
where such livestock is kept, is offensive to their senses.
      (5)   Failure to maintain the property in accordance with these
requirements shall be considered a violation of this section.
(Ord. 90.03, passed 4-29-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99 
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of §
90.03 shall be an infraction punished by a fine of $100.
   (C)   A violation of §
90.04, §
90.06, §
90.10(E), or §
90.10(F) shall be punished as a misdemeanor with a maximum penalty of $1000 and
six months in jail.
   (D)   The penalty for conviction of a violation of §
90.05 is as follows:
      (1)   The first violation: $50 plus court costs.
      (2)   The second violation committed within 12 consecutive months of the
date that the first violation was committed: $100 plus court costs.
      (3)   The third and all subsequent violations within 12 consecutive
months of the first and second violations shall be a misdemeanor and shall upon
conviction be fined not more than $300 or imprisoned in the County Jail for a
period of not more than six months, or by both fine and imprisonment.
      (4)   It shall not be required that the subsequent violations be with the
same animal.
   (E)   A violation of §
90.10(A), §
90.10(D), or §
90.10(G) is an infraction punishable with a $100 fine plus court costs.
   (F)   A violation of §
90.10(B) is an infraction punishable with a $100 fine plus court costs. A
subsequent violation and every violation thereafter within a 12-month period
shall be punishable as a misdemeanor with up to a $300 fine and six months in
jail.
   (G)   A violation of §
90.10(C) shall be punishable as a misdemeanor with up to a $1000 fine and six
months in jail in addition to the consequences as outlined in §
90.08 above of this chapter.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 4-8-2024)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Nuisances generally
   
91.02   Noise limitations
   
91.03   Waste water or irrigation water
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 NUISANCES GENERALLY.
   The following conditions, or any combination thereof, are hereby found and
declared to constitute a detriment, danger, or hazard to the health, safety,
and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city and are declared to be a
public nuisance where the conditions may exist.
   (A)   Weeds and grass, not on the state’s noxious weed list, within five
feet of the sides of roads shall not be allowed to exceed one foot in height
and are the responsibility of the occupant or agent in charge of the property
whose property borders the roads to maintain.
   (B)   Weeds on the state’s noxious weed list such as, but not limited to,
puncturevine (goathead), scotch thistle, Canadian thistle, knapweed, and wild
buttercup shall not be allowed anywhere on any property within the city limits
and are the responsibility of the occupant or agent in charge of the property
to maintain.
   (C)   Lines of sight at intersections shall not be obscured by weeds or
other obstacles and are the responsibility of the occupant or agent in charge
of the property to maintain.
   (D)   Storage of old tires or any items that can collect and retain water
which can breed mosquito larva shall not be allowed and are the responsibility
of the occupant or agent in charge of the property to maintain.
   (E)   (1)   Junk shall not be placed upon any property, streets, or other
public grounds of the city within 15 feet of the edge of the road.
      (2)   JUNK is defined to be any used material or any parts of material
units which have become useless, which includes, but is not limited to, the
storage of unlicensed automobiles and any unsightly accumulation of garbage,
rubbish, or debris.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 8-1-2016) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 NOISE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   General provisions. Between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., it
shall be unlawful for any person owning, leasing, operating, or controlling the
source of sound to make, allow, or continue any sound which would endanger or
injure the health of humans, or annoy, disturb, injure, or endanger the peace,
comfort, or repose of a reasonable person of normal sensitivities by the
operation of any radio, phonograph, or other mechanical sound device or
instrument or in the playing of any band, orchestra, musician, or group of
musicians, or in the use of any device to amplify the aforesaid, or the making
of loud outcries, exclamations, other loud or boisterous noises, or loud and
boisterous singing by any person or group of persons or in the use of any
device to amplify the aforesaid noise where the noise is clearly audible at the
property line of the property from which the noise is generated.
   (B)   Notice to owner of rental property. If the violation occurs on the
premises of a rental property, the owner and/or his or her agent of said
property must be notified in writing by certified mail that a violation of
division (A) above has occurred on said rental property, and that a complaint
for violation of said division (A) above may be taken against him or her if
said property owner and/or his or her agent fails to mitigate the activities of
the person or persons who have rented said property.
   (C)   Other prohibited noises.
      (1)   Loading and unloading. It shall be unlawful to load, unload, open,
close, or otherwise handle boxes, crates, containers, building materials, trash
cans, dumpsters, or similar objects between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m. so as to project sound across a real property line, except as exempted
under division (E) below.
      (2)   Power tools. It shall be unlawful to cause a noise disturbance
across a real property line by operating any mechanically powered saw, sander,
grinder, drill, lawnmower, garden tool, or similar device used outdoors, with
the exception of snow blowers, before 7:00 a.m. Monday through Sunday.
      (3)   Radios, television sets, musical instruments, and similar devices.
It shall be unlawful to operate, play, or permit the operation or playing of
any radio, television, phonograph, drum, musical instrument, sound amplifier,
or similar device which produces, reproduces, or amplifies sound between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to create a noise
disturbance across a real property boundary.
   (D)   Noise disturbance. For the purposes of this section, a NOISE
DISTURBANCE is sound which annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the
reasonable quiet, comfort, or repose of a reasonable person of normal
sensitivities or the health or safety of others.
   (E)   Exemptions. The following uses and activities shall be exempt from
this section:
      (1)   Noises of safety signals, warning devices, and emergency pressure
relief valves, when used for such purposes;
      (2)   Noises resulting from any authorized vehicle when responding to an
emergency call or acting in time of emergency;
      (3) Noises resulting from emergency and maintenance work as performed by
the city, by the state, or by public utility companies;
      (4)   Noises resulting from activities of a temporary duration permitted
by law and for which a license or permit therefor has been granted by the city;
      (5)   Parades and public gatherings for which the City Clerk have issued
a permit; and
      (6)   Any event licensed or issued a permit by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 10-5-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 WASTE WATER OR IRRIGATION WATER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to allow or suffer
any water used by him, her, or them for irrigation purposes or any other
purposes, including waste water, to flow into or upon any of the street
roadways or alleys within the city limits.
(Ord. 13, passed 3-3-1953) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be an illegal nuisance for any owner, agent, lessee,
tenant, or other person occupying or having charge or control of any premises
to permit any of the conditions to exist as set forth in §
91.01. If the nuisance is not abated within 30 days, the owner or agent in
charge of the property will be issued an infraction citation payable to the
City Clerk in the amount of $100.
      (2)   The City Council hereby designates the City Superintendent or
Public Works Director or his or her staff with the responsibility for issuing
notices pursuant to §
91.01. The city staff shall notify in writing, by mail or personal service, the
occupant, or agent in charge of any premises located in the city, that such
violation exists. Such notice shall advise as follows:
         (a)   How the owner, occupant, or agent in charge of the property is
in violation of §
90.01;
         (b)   The owner, occupant, or agent in charge of the property has 30
days to abate the nuisance;
         (c)   The owner, occupant, or agent in charge of the property may
request a hearing before the governing board within 15 working days after
receipt of a notice;
         (d)   If the nuisance is not abated within 30 days, the owner or agent
in charge of the property will be issued an infraction citation payable to the
City Clerk in the amount of $100; and
         (e)   If the infraction fine is not paid within ten working days, the
owner, occupant, or agent in charge of the property will be issued an
infraction citation and a hearing will be scheduled pursuant to the infraction
rules of the state.
   (C)   Any person violating §
91.02 shall be punished by a civil penalty of $100 for a first offense, $200
for a second offense, $300 for a third offense and $500 for each subsequent
offense within a 24-month period. Each such act which constitutes a violation
of §
91.02, which either continues or is repeated more than 30 minutes after the
issuance of a warning to cease said activities, shall be considered a separate
offense and shall be prosecuted as a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of §
91.03 shall be fined not less than $1 or no more than $100, recoverable with
costs.
(Ord. 13, passed 3-3-1953; Ord. 2009-02, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2016-01, passed
8-1-2016)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Scope and intent
   
92.02   City assistance and encouragement
   
92.03   Minimum requirements
§ 92.01 SCOPE AND INTENT.
   Discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, gender or national
origin in the sale, rental, leasing, or financing of housing or land to be used
for construction of housing or in the provision of brokerage services is
prohibited by Title VIII of the 1968 Civil Rights Act, being 42 U.S.C. 1404a et
seq. (Federal Fair Housing Law). It is the policy of the city to encourage
equal opportunity in housing for all persons regardless of race, color,
religion, gender, or national origin. The Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988,
being Public Law 100-430, 100th Congress, 102 Stat. 1619 (1988) (amending 42
U.S.C. §§ 3601 through 3619 (1982)), expands coverage to include disabled
persons and families with children.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 92.02 CITY ASSISTANCE AND ENCOURAGEMENT.
   (A)   Within available resources, the city will assist all persons who feel
they have been discriminated against because of race, color, religion, gender,
national origin, disability, or familial status to seek equity under federal
and state laws by referring them to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, Compliance Division.
   (B)   The city shall publicize this chapter and through this publicity shall
encourage owners of real estate, developers, and builders to become aware of
their respective responsibilities and rights under the Federal Fair Housing Law
and amendments and any applicable state or local laws or ordinances.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 92.03 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   The program will, at a minimum, include:
   (A)   Publicizing this chapter;
   (B)   Posting applicable fair housing information in prominent public areas;
   (C)   Providing fair housing information to the public;
   (D)   Preparing a fair housing impediments analysis; and
   (E)   Declaring April as “Fair Housing Month”.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 11-7-2011)
CHAPTER 93: RECREATION AND LEISURE
Section
   
93.01   Hours of operation
   
93.02   Animals and vehicles
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The Dietrich City Park shall be open to the lawful and orderly use and
enjoyment of the public between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. each day
of the year and that it shall be closed to use or occupancy by any person or
persons between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. unless said person or
persons shall have prior thereto secured from the City Clerk a permit in
writing for occupying said park during other hours.
(Ord. 38, passed 7-8-1987) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 ANIMALS AND VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to bring into said park or keep or have
therein at any time any animal or vehicle unless authorized by the City
Council.
(Ord. 38, passed 7-8-1987) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person being in said park between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
without said written permit from the City Clerk, or any person bringing into or
having an animal or vehicle in said park without permission of the City
Council, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished by a fine of not less than $25 or more than $300.
(Ord. 38, passed 7-8-1987)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
[Reserved]
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
   
130.01   Discharging firearms
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   No person not an officer of the law shall discharge any firearms within the
limits of the city.
(Ord. 3, passed 2-4-1947) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of
§
130.01 shall be fined not less than $1 or more than $100.
(Ord. 3, passed 2-4-1947)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
154.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
150.01   Building Code adopted
   
150.02   Residential Code adopted
   
150.03   Fire Code adopted
   
150.04   Building permits and fees
   
150.05   Mobile home standards
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Idaho Building Code (IBC), 2018 edition, shall be adopted by the
city, and shall be the minimum construction standard for all structures built
within the city, its area of impact, and any future area that may come under
the authority or jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   The above code is adopted as published by the International Code
Council together with any amendments or provisions set forth in Idaho Code §
39-4109, including subsequent versions of the International Building Code as
adopted and amended by the state’s Building Code Board.
   (C)   All codes adopted by the city shall be amended and interpreted as set
forth in Idaho Code § 39-4116.
   (D)   The codes adopted by the city under this section shall also be known
as the Uniform Building Code.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 4-6-2015)
§ 150.02 RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Idaho Residential Code (IRC), 2018 edition, shall be adopted by
the city, and shall be the minimum construction standard for all structures
built within the city, its area of impact, and any future area that may come
under the authority or jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   The above codes are adopted as published by the International Code
Council together with any amendments or provisions set forth in Idaho Code §
39-4109, including subsequent versions of the International Residential Code as
adopted and amended by the state’s Building Code Board.
   (C)   All codes adopted by the city shall be amended and interpreted as set
forth in Idaho Code § 39-4116.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 4-6-2015)
§ 150.03 FIRE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The 2018 edition International Fire Code administered by the Idaho
State Fire Marshal shall be adopted by the city, and shall be the minimum
construction standard for all structures built within the city, its area of
impact, and any future area that may come under the authority or jurisdiction
of the city.
   (B)   The above code is adopted as published by the International Code
Council together with any amendments or provisions set forth in Idaho Code §
39-4109, including subsequent versions of the International Building Code as
adopted and amended by the state’s Building Code Board.
   (C)   All codes adopted by the city shall be amended and interpreted as set
forth in Idaho Code § 39-4116.
§ 150.04 BUILDING PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   The following evaluation data is adopted for fee computation; all
other fees and computations are determined by the schedules and provisions of
the 2018 Idaho Residential Code as adopted by the City Council and which are
located at the City Hall.
   (B)   A building permit fee of $25 will be charged in addition to
construction rates, except for manufactured homes, modular homes, and trailer
homes.
   (C)   The administration fee for manufactured homes, modular homes, and
trailer homes will be based on $.15 a square foot in addition to set up fees.
The basis for square foot is to figure construction rate for determining fee
(example: 24 x 60=1440 sq. ft. x $42 - 60,480, the value of home which would
result in a fee of $643.50, plus $25 permit fee for a total of $668.50.).
Apartment houses                                       $40/sq. ft (masonry - $8
                                                       more)
Basements                                              $21/sq. ft.
Canopies or cow shades                                 $10/sq. ft.
Carports                                               $10/sq. ft.
Churches                                               $45/sq. ft. (masonry -
                                                       $8 more)
Commodity barns                                        $10/sq. ft.
Dairy barns                                            $30/sq. ft.
Decks (covered)                                        $15/sq. ft.
Decks (non-covered)                                    $10/sq. ft.
Freestall barns                                        $12/sq. ft.
Garages - detached                                     $16/sq. ft.
Garages - residential                                  $16/sq. ft. (masonry -
                                                       $4 more)
Greenhouse                                             $16/sq. ft.
Horse barn                                             $16/sq. ft.
Hotel/motel                                            $50/sq. ft.
                                                       $42/sq. ft. (masonry -
Houses                                                 $8 more) (basements -
                                                       $21 more)
   Additions to houses                              $42/sq. ft.
   Manufactured home, modular homes and double-wide $100 set up fee
trailers
Industrial shops                                       $25/sq. ft.
Laundromat                                             $35/sq. ft.
Machine shop                                           $16/sq. ft.
Offices                                                $44/sq. ft. (masonry -
                                                       $8 more)
Offices                                                Medical - $48/sq. ft.
                                                       (masonry - $8 more)
Potato cellars                                         $19/sq. ft.
Public building                                        $62/sq. ft.
Restaurants                                            $52/sq. ft. (masonry -
                                                       $8 more)
Schools                                                $46/sq. ft. (masonry -
                                                       $8 more)
Service stations                                       $40/sq. ft. (canopies -
                                                       $15 more)
Single-wide trailers                                   $50 set up fee
Stores of all types                                    $39/sq. ft. (masonry -
                                                       $8 more)
Warehouses and storage building                        $22/sq. ft.
 
(Res. 2003-01, passed 4-7-2003)
§ 150.05 MOBILE HOME STANDARDS.
   (A)   No new or used manufactured home, mobile home, residential home, and/
or commercial building shall be placed in the city without being placed upon a
permanent foundation constructed pursuant to the Idaho Manufactured Home
Installation Standard adopted by the state pursuant to Idaho Code §§ 44-2201 et
seq. with appropriate anchoring approved by the State Building Inspector, as
prescribed in the most currently adopted Idaho Manufactured Home Installation
Standard.
   (B)   Pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-6509A, the Council adopts the following
placement standards for manufactured homes located within the city.
      (1)   All manufactured homes shall enclose a space of not less than 1,000
square feet.
      (2)   All manufactured homes shall be placed on an excavated and
backfilled foundation and enclosed at the perimeter such that the home is
located not more than 12 inches above grade, except when placed on a basement
foundation.
      (3)   Manufactured homes shall have a pitched roof with a slope of three
feet in height for each 12 feet in width. There can be a greater slope, if the
homeowner desires.
      (4)   All manufactured homes shall have exterior siding and roofing which
in color, material, and appearance is similar to the exterior siding and
roofing used on residential dwellings within the city, or which is comparable
to the predominant materials used on surrounding dwellings, as determined by
the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 9-8-2008)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of §
150.04 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Res. 2003-01, passed 4-7-2003)
CHAPTER 151: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
151.01   Area of impact
§ 151.01 AREA OF IMPACT.
   (A)   Recital reference. The recitals set forth in city ordinances and
county ordinances pertaining to the area of city impact, which are on file in
the office of the City Clerk and in the office of the County Clerk, are
incorporated in this document and by this reference are made a part hereof.
   (B)   Geographic city impact zone. The agreed upon city impact zone with its
described boundary is established by the above incorporated ordinances and
documents of the county and the city and are set forth therein.
   (C)   Governing plan and ordinance. The area of impact shall be governed by
the county and its land use ordinances.
   (D) Renegotiation. The city impact zone may be reviewed and renegotiated at
any time upon the request of either the City Council or the County Commission.
(Ord. 60, passed - -)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Authority
   
152.002   Purpose
   
152.003   Jurisdiction
   
152.004   Interpretation
   
152.005   Administration
   
152.006   Definitions
   
152.007   Enforcement
Procedure for Subdivision Approval
   
152.020   Approval required
   
152.021   Pre-application
   
152.022   Preliminary plat
   
152.023   Final plat
Design Standards
   
152.035   Minimum design standards required
   
152.036   Dedication
   
152.037   Location
   
152.038   Specifications
   
152.039   Street names
   
152.040   Intersections
   
152.041   Easements
   
152.042   Pedestrian walkways
   
152.043   Blocks
   
152.044   Lots
   
152.045   Planting strips and reserve strips
   
152.046   Public sites and open spaces
   
152.047   Large scale developments
   
152.048   Improvement standards
Special Development Subdivisions
   
152.060   Purpose
   
152.061   Planned unit and condominium subdivisions
   
152.062   Mobile home parks
   
152.063   Recreational vehicle parks
   
152.064   Large scale development
   
152.065   Cemetery subdivision
   
152.066   Subdivision within a floodplain
Administrative Processes
   
152.080   Vacations and dedications
   
152.081   Variances
   
152.082   Enforcement
   
152.083   Amendments
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 AUTHORITY.
   These regulations are authorized by Idaho Code Title 50, Ch. 13; Idaho Code
Title 67, Ch. 65; and Art. XII, § 2, of the Idaho Constitution, as amended and
subsequently codified.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.002 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of these regulations are to promote the public health, safety,
general welfare, and to provide for:
   (A)   The harmonious development of the area;
   (B)   The coordination of streets and roads within the subdivision with
other existing or planned streets and roads;
   (C)   Adequate open space for travel, light, air, and recreation;
   (D)   Adequate transportation, water drainage, and sanitary facilities;
   (E)   The avoidance of scattered subdivision of land that would result in
either of the following:
      (1)   The lack of water supply, sewer service, drainage, transportation,
or other public services; and
      (2)   The unnecessary imposition of an expenditure of public funds for
the supply of such services.
   (F)   The requirements as to the extent and the manner in which:
      (1)   Roads shall be created and improved; and
      (2)   Water, sewer, and other utility mains, piping connections or other
facilities shall be installed as condition precedent to the approval of the
plot.
   (G)   The manner and form of making and filing of any plat; and
   (H)   The administration of these regulations by defining the procedures for
the equitable review and approval of all plats and subdivisions covered by
these regulations.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.003 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to the subdividing and developing of all land
within the incorporated territory of the city.
   (B)   This chapter also applies to property within the areas of impact, as
negotiated with the county.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.004 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   All subdivisions as herein defined shall be submitted for approval by
the Council and shall comply with the provisions of these regulations.
   (B)   These regulations shall supplement all other regulations, and where at
variance with other laws, regulations, ordinances, or resolutions, the more
restrictive requirements shall apply.
   (C)   This chapter shall not apply to any subdivision or any lot or lots
forming a part of any subdivision created and recorded prior to the effective
date hereof, except for the further dividing of lots.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.005 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint a Planning and Zoning Commission to
carry out the provisions as herein specified. The Commission shall receive and
make recommendations on all subdivision applications or other issues related to
city planning and zoning.
   (B)   In the event the Commission fails to act or carry out its
responsibilities according to the regulations contained herein, the Council
shall assume all the duties of the Commission as herein specified in relation
to the application or issue concerned.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.006 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation. For the purpose of these regulations, certain terms or
words used herein shall be interpreted as follows.
      (1)   The present tense includes the past or future tense, the singular
includes the plural and the plural includes the singular.
      (2)   The word “shall” is mandatory, “may” is permissive, and the word
“should” is preferred.
      (3)   The masculine shall include the feminine.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      100-YEAR FLOOD. Flood having an indicated average frequency of occurrence
once in 100 years, although the flood may occur in any year.
      100-YEAR FLOOD ELEVATION. The maximum high water elevation of the 100-
year flood at any given point on the floodplain.
      BLOCK. A group of lots, tracts, or parcels within well-defined
boundaries, usually streets.
      BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. An imaginary line established by subdivision
regulations and zoning ordinances requiring all buildings to be set back a
certain distance from lot line.
      BUILDING SITE. An area proposed or provided and improved by grading,
filling, excavation, or other means for erecting foundations or pads for
buildings.
      CITY. The City of Dietrich, Idaho, as specified by city ordinance.
      CEMETERY. A lot that has been platted for the selling of sites for the
burial of animal or human remains.
      COMMISSION. Duly authorized City Planning and Zoning Commission or, in
the absence of such, the City Council.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. An adopted document that herein may be referred to as
a COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The document shall show the general location and extent
of present and proposed development, including, but not limited to, housing,
industrial, and commercial uses, streets, parks, schools and other community
facilities.
      CONDOMINIUM. A multi-family dwelling containing two or more dwelling
units in which each unit is under single ownership, excluding the ground
beneath the unit.
      COUNCIL. The City Council of the city.
      COUNTY RECORDER. The office of the County Recorder.
      COVENANT. A written promise or pledge.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A street connected to another street at one end only and
provided with a turn-around space at its terminus.
      CULVERT. A drain that channels water under a bridge, street, road, or
driveway.
      DEAD-END. A street connecting to another street at one end only and not
having provision for vehicular turn-around at its terminus.
      DEDICATION. The setting apart of land or interest in land for use by the
public. Land becomes dedicated, either by ordinance, resolution, or entry in
the official minutes, or by the recording of a plat showing such DEDICATION.
      DEVELOPER. The owner or his or her legally authorized agent of lands that
are being platted or mapped, or authorized agent(s) of a subdivider or the
subdivider himself or herself.
      DWELLING UNIT. A building or separate portion thereof having a single
kitchen and at least one bathroom to be occupied exclusively as a residence.
      EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner to specific persons or to the
public to use land for specific purposes. Also, a right acquired by
prescription.
      ENGINEER. Any person who is licensed in the state to practice
professional engineering.
      FLOOD. General and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry lands from:
         (1)   The overflow of inland waters; and/or
         (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff or surface waters
from any source.
      FLOODPLAIN. A relatively flat area or low land adjoining a body of water,
which has or may be inundated by water from the 100-year flood.
      FLOODWAY. The portion of the flood hazard area that includes the channel
and the portion of the adjacent area that conveys the major portion of the flow
for the 100-year flood.
      FRONTAGE. A minor street, parallel to and adjacent to an arterial street,
which has the primary purpose of providing access to abutting properties.
      GOVERNING BODY. The Mayor and City Council of the city.
      HIGHWAY. A street designated as a highway by an appropriate state or
federal agency.
      HILLSIDE SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision or portion thereof having an
average slope of 10% or more.
      IMPROVEMENT. Any alteration to the land or other physical constructions
associated with subdivision and building site developments.
      LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT. A subdivision, the size of which consists of 50
or more lots or dwelling units.
      LOT. A parcel, plot, tract, or other land area of suitable size as
required in these regulations and the existing zoning ordinance and created by
subdivision for sale, transfer, or lease.
      LOT AREA. The area of any lot shall be determined exclusive of street,
highway, alley, road, or other rights-of-way.
      LOT TYPES. As used in these regulations, LOT TYPES are as follows:
         (a)   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets.
         (b)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on
only one street.
         (c)   REVERSED LOT. A lot with frontage on a side street or other
right-of-way other than interior or corner lot.
         (d)   THROUGH LOT. A lot with frontage on more than one street other
than a corner lot. Also known as DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. As defined in the state’s code.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A park designed and intended for purposes of rental
spaces where residence is in manufactured homes exclusively.
      MOBILE HOME. As defined in the state’s code. No MOBILE HOME may be placed
on a single-family lot or mobile home park within the city after the effective
date of this code of ordinances unless it meets the rehabilitation standard as
specified in Idaho Code Title 44 and also meets the siting standards of a
manufactured home as stated above. MOBILE HOMES do not include recreational
vehicles.
      MONUMENT. Any permanent marker either of concrete, galvanized iron pipe,
or iron or steel rods, used to permanently establish any tract, parcel, lot or
street lines, as specified in Idaho Code § 50-1303.
      OPEN SPACE. An area open to the sky for outdoor recreation activity,
streets, buildings, or other covered structures are not included in computing
these areas.
      ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND. A lot or tract as recorded on any plat or record
on file in the office of the County Recorder, or any unplatted contiguous
parcel of land held in one ownership and of record at the effective date of
this code of ordinances.
      OWNER. The individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, or
corporation having proprietary interest in the land to be subdivided.
      PARTIAL. A dedicated right-of-way providing only a portion of the
required street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract of
land.
      PERFORMANCE BOND. An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by
the subdivider or his or her surety to the City Clerk and/or Recorder which
guarantees that the subdivider will perform all actions required by an approved
plat, and provides that if the subdivider defaults and fails to comply with the
provisions of an approved plat, the subdivider or his or her surety will pay
damages up to the limit of the bond, or the surety will itself complete the
requirements of the approved plat.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISION. A project controlled by one owner,
partnership, or corporation and characterized by a unified site design,
involving varying the normal zoning requirements and restrictions so that the
maximum long-range benefit can be gained and the unique features of the site
preserved and enhanced.
      PLAT. The drawing, mapping, or planning of a subdivision, cemetery,
townsite, or other tract of land or a re-platting of such, including
certifications, descriptions, and approvals:
         (1)   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The first formal presentation by maps or
drawings of a proposed subdivision as required in these regulations; and
         (2)   FINAL PLAT. The final and formal presentation by maps or
drawings of an approved subdivision development, the original and one copy of
which is filed with the County Clerk and Recorder.
      POST. The act of placing posters on or near the property under
construction to be subdivided in a visible location near the closest public
roads.
      PRIVATE. A street which provides vehicular and pedestrian access to one
or more properties, however, not accepted for public dedication or maintenance.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Rental space for recreational vehicles on a
limited basis, generally overnight, but normally not longer than a week. This
may include motor homes and pickup campers.
      RESERVE STRIP. A strip of land between a dedicated street or partial
street and adjacent property which is reserved or held in public ownership for
future street extension or widening.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public
way, which normally includes streets, sidewalks, and other public utilities of
service areas.
      SIDE STREET. A secondary street that provides access to a corner lot of
which the principle building is not oriented toward.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of the street right-of-way outside the street
surface which is improved for pedestrian use.
      STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS. The specifications as may be specified in this
code of ordinances or as officially adopted by the city.
      STATE. The State of Idaho.
      STREET. A right-of-way which provides access to adjacent properties, the
dedication of which has been officially accepted. The term STREET also includes
the terms HIGHWAY, THOROUGHFARE, PARKWAY, ROAD, AVENUE, BOULEVARD, LANE, PLACE
and other such terms.
         (a)   ALLEY. A minor street providing secondary access at the back or
side of a property otherwise abutting a street.
         (b)   ARTERIAL. A street designated for the purpose of carrying
heavier traffic movements.
         (c)   COLLECTOR. A street designated for the purpose of carrying
traffic from minor streets to other COLLECTOR STREETS and/or arterial streets.
         (d)   MINOR. A street which has the primary purpose of providing
access to abutting properties.
      SUBDIVIDER. The individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
syndicate, trust, or other legal entity that executes the application and
initiates proceedings for the subdivision of land in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The SUBDIVIDER need not be the owner of the
property; however, he or she shall be an agent of the owner or have sufficient
proprietary rights in the property to represent the owner.
      SUBDIVISION. The division of a previously un-platted tract of land, which
may or may not include streets, highways, alleys, or other land intended to be
dedicated to the public use.
      SURVEYOR. Any person who is licensed in the state as a public land
surveyor to do professional surveying.
      TRACT. A defined area of land.
      UTILITIES. Installations for conducting water, sewage, gas, electricity,
television, storm water, and similar facilities providing service to and used
by the public.
      VARIANCE. A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations
where such modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where,
owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action
of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would result in
unnecessary and undue hardship.
      VICINITY MAP. A small-scale map showing the location of a tract of land
in relation to a larger area.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.007 ENFORCEMENT.
   No subdivision plat required by this chapter or the state’s code shall be
admitted to the public land records of the county or recorded by the County
Recorder until such subdivision plat has received final approval by the
Council. No public board, agency, commission, official, or other authority
shall proceed with the construction of any of the public improvements required
by this chapter until the final plat has received approval by the Council.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
§ 152.020 APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   Any person desiring to create a subdivision, as herein defined, shall submit
all necessary applications to the city. No final plat shall be filed with the
County Recorder or improvements made on the property until the plat has been
acted upon by the Commission and approved by the Council. No lots shall be sold
until the plat has been recorded in the office of the County Recorder. For
subdivisions less than five units, the Planning and Zoning Commission may be
petitioned to simplify this process.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.021 PRE-APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application. Prior to the filing of an application for approval of the
preliminary plat, the subdivider shall submit eight copies of a sketch plan to
the Commission. The sketch plan shall include the entire developmental scheme
of the proposed subdivision, in schematic form, and include the area proposed
for immediate development in such a form and content as required by the
Commission and shall include the following:
      (1)   The general layout of streets, including proposed street names,
blocks, and lots, all in sketch form;
      (2)   The existing conditions and characteristics of the land on or
adjacent to the proposed subdivision site;
      (3)   Areas set aside for schools, parks, and other public facilities;
and
      (4)   Preliminary plan for providing and funding all necessary utilities
including, but not limited to, electricity, phone, potable water, sanitary
sewer, waste disposal, and irrigation water.
   (B)   Fees. The fees shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   Commission Action. The subdivider shall submit the pre-application to
the members of the Planning and Zoning Commission ten days prior to the regular
meeting. A mailing list can be obtained from the City Clerk. At the regular
meeting the subdivider shall present his or her pre-application and intent to
the Commission for review and comment. The Commission may, if it deems
necessary, request a review of the pre-application by other agencies. The
Commission will review the pre-application to determine its compliance with
this subchapter as well as the following concerns:
      (1)   The compliance of the proposed development with existing local or
state policies, goals, and objectives or development plans;
      (2)   Determination of additional special permits or ordinance conflicts
such as re-zoning, conditional use permits, or variances that may be needed and
the determination of the manner that such requirements can be combined into one
permit;
      (3)   Advise the applicant of any known unique environmental or hazardous
concerns that may be directly or indirectly associated with the subject
property, such as areas that have been designated by the state as areas of
critical environmental concern, unique plant or animal life, floodplain,
airport flight pattern, and the like; and
      (4)   Provide the subdivider with all necessary forms.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.022 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Application. Upon completion of the pre-application procedures, the
subdivider shall file with the Commission a completed subdivision application
form and preliminary plat data as required in this code in such form and
content as required by the Commission.
   (B)   Combining both preliminary and final plats. The applicant may also
request that the subdivision application be processed as both a preliminary and
final plat if the following exists:
      (1)   The proposed subdivision does not exceed ten lots;
      (2)   No new street dedication or street widening is involved;
      (3)   No major special development considerations are involved, such as
development in a floodplain, hillside development, or the like; and
      (4)   All required information for both the preliminary plat and final
plat is complete and in an acceptable form. A request to combine both
preliminary plat and final plat into one application shall be acted upon by the
Commission.
   (C)   Content of preliminary plat. The contents of the preliminary plat and
related information shall be in such a form as stipulated by the Commission;
however, any additional maps or data deemed necessary by the Commission may
also be required. The subdivider shall submit to the Commission at least the
following:
      (1) Eight copies of the preliminary engineering plat of the proposed
subdivision, drawn in accordance with the requirements hereinafter stated;
      (2)   Eight sets of preliminary engineering plans including a master
utility map for streets, water, sewers, sidewalks, and other required public
improvement maps. Said engineering plans shall contain sufficient information
and detail to enable the Commission to make a preliminary determination as to
conformance of the proposed improvements to applicable regulations, ordinances,
and standards as outlined in this chapter;
      (3)   A written application requesting approval of the preliminary plat
on a form prescribed by the Commission; and
      (4)   Appropriate information that sufficiently details the proposed
development within any special development area, such as hillside, planned unit
development, floodplain, cemetery, mobile home, large-scale development,
hazardous and unique areas of development, including any known or potential
conflict with any and all applicable ordinances.
   (D)   Requirement of preliminary plats. The following shall be shown on the
preliminary plat submitted or shall be submitted with the same:
      (1)   The name of the proposed subdivision;
      (2)   The name, address, and telephone number of the subdivider(s), and
the engineer or surveyor who prepared the plat;
      (3)   The name and address of all adjoining owners of property whether or
not bisected by a public right-of-way as shown on record in the County
Assessor’s office;
      (4)   The legal description of the subdivision;
      (5)   A statement of the intended use of the proposed subdivision, such
as: residential single-family, two-family and multiple housing, commercial,
industrial, recreational, or agricultural, and a showing of any sites proposed
for parks, playgrounds, schools, churches, or other public uses. Requested
zoning changes shall be outlined;
      (6)   A map of the entire area scheduled for development if the proposed
subdivision is a portion of a larger holding intended for subsequent
development;
      (7)   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to the
surrounding area (one- half mile minimum radius, scale optional);
      (8)   The land use and existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and
the adjacent land;
      (9)    Streets, street names, rights-of-way, and roadway widths,
including adjoining streets or roadways;
      (10)    Lot lines and the dimensions and numbers of each, and the total
number of lots by block;
      (11)   A site report as required by the South-Central Health District if
wells or septic tanks are proposed;
      (12)   Any proposed or existing utilities, including, but not limited to,
irrigation laterals, ditches, drainages, bridges, culverts, water mains, fire
hydrants, electric power lines, television cable lines, and their respective
profiles or indicated alternative methods;
      (13)   A copy of any proposed or existing restrictive covenants and/or
deed restrictions, or if none, a statement that none are proposed;
      (14)   Any dedications to the public and/or easements together with a
statement of location, dimensions, and purpose of such;
      (15)   Any additional required information for special developments as
specified in this chapter;
      (16)   A statement as to whether or not a variance will be requested with
respect to any provision of this chapter describing the particular provision,
the variance requested, and the reasons therefor; and
      (17)   At the Commission’s or Council’s request the subdivider shall show
contours at five-foot intervals where land slope is greater than 10% and at
two-foot intervals where land slope is greater than 10% or less, with an
established bench mark, including location and elevation.
   (E)   Fee. At the time of submission of an application for a preliminary
plat a nonrefundable fee shall be paid as set by resolution of the City
Council. There shall be no additional fee for the combining of the preliminary
and final plats.
   (F)   Submission requirements. The subdivider shall submit eight copies of
the preliminary plat and required supplemental material, along with the
required fee to the Commission at least ten days prior to the regular
Commission meeting. The submission shall also be in such form as prescribed by
the Commission.
   (G)   Public notification.
      (1)   Notification to property owners. The subdivider shall notify all
adjoining property owners of the Council’s meeting by written notification and
posting of the subject land under consideration. Such written notification and
posting shall be mailed at least 15 days prior to the Commission meeting.
      (2)   Failure to notify. The failure of the subdivider to comply with the
notification provision shall invalidate the Commission’s action.
   (H)   Commission action.
      (1)   At the next regular Commission meeting subsequent to public
notification, the subdivider shall present the preliminary plat for action. The
Commission may recommend that the preliminary plat be approved, conditionally
approved, disapproved, or tabled for additional information. Such action will
occur within 30 days of the date of the regular meeting at which the plat is
first considered. The action and the reasons for such action shall be stated in
writing by the Commission and forwarded to the applicant.
      (2)   The Commission shall also forward a statement of the action taken
and the reasons for such action together with a copy of the preliminary plat to
the Council for their action.
   (I)   Council action.
      (1)   At the next regular Council meeting subsequent to the Commission’s
recommendation to the Council, the subdivider shall present the preliminary
plat for action. The Council may approve, approve conditionally, disapprove, or
table the preliminary plat for additional information. Such action shall occur
within 30 days of the date of the regular meeting when the preliminary plat was
submitted to the Council.
      (2)   If the Commission’s conclusion is favorable to the subdivider’s
request and the recommendation from the Commission is that the submission be
considered as both a preliminary plat and a final plat, then the recommendation
shall be forwarded to the Council in the same manner as herein specified for a
final plat. The Commission may recommend that the combined application be
approved, approved conditionally, disapproved, or tabled for additional
information.
   (J)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any person who appeals in person or writing before the Council may
appeal in writing the decision of the Commission relative to any action taken
by the Council.
      (2)   Such appeal must be submitted to the Council within ten days from
such Commission action.
   (K)   Approval period.
      (1)   Failure to file and obtain the certification of the acceptance of
the final plat application by the developer within one year after action by the
Council shall cause all approvals of said preliminary plat to be null and void
unless an extension of time is applied for and granted by the Council prior to
the expiration date.
      (2)   In the event that the development of the preliminary plat is made
in successive contiguous segments in an orderly and reasonable manner, and
conforms substantially to the approved preliminary plat, such segments, if
submitted within successive intervals of one year or less, may be considered
for final approval without resubmission for preliminary plat approval,
providing each contiguous segment qualifies as a subdivision as specified
herein.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.023 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Application. After the approval or conditional approval of the
preliminary plat, the subdivider may cause the subdivision, or any part
thereof, to be surveyed and a final plat prepared in accordance with the
approved preliminary plat. The subdivider shall submit to the Commission the
following:
      (1)   Three copies and the original of the final plat; and
      (2)   Three copies and the original of the final engineering construction
drawings for streets, water, sewer, sidewalk, and other public improvements.
   (B)   Content of final plat. The final plat shall include and be in
compliance with all items required under Idaho Code Title 50, Ch. 13 and shall
be drawn at such a scale and contain lettering of such size as to enable the
same to be placed on one sheet of 18- by 24-inch drawing paper, with no part of
the drawing nearer to the edge than one inch. The reverse of said sheet shall
not be used for any portion of the drawing, but may contain written matter as
to dedications, certifications, and other information. The final plat shall
include at least the following:
      (1)   A written application for approval of such final plat as stipulated
by the Commission;
      (2)   Proof of current ownership of the real property included in the
proposed final plat;
      (3)   Such other and further information as the Commission may deem
necessary to establish whether or not all proper parties have signed and/or
approved said final plat;
      (4)   Conformance with the approved preliminary plat and meeting all
requirements or conditions thereof; and
      (5)   Conformance with all requirements and provisions of this
subchapter, and acceptable engineering practices and local standards.
   (C)   Fees. As determined by resolution of the City Council.
   (D)   Commission review.
      (1)   Submittal of final plat. The Commission shall review the final plat
for compliance with the approved or conditionally approved preliminary plat. If
the Commission determines that there is substantial difference in the final
plat than that which was considered as a preliminary plat or conditions which
have not been met, the Commission may require that the final plat be
resubmitted in the same manner as required in the preliminary plat process.
      (2)   Submission to the Council. Upon the determination that the final
plat is in compliance with the preliminary plat and all conditional
requirements have been met, the Commission shall place the final plat on the
Council agenda within 45 days for the date that an acceptable final plat
application was received and acknowledged by the Commission.
   (E)   Agency review.
      (1)   The Commission may transmit one copy of the final plat, or other
document submitted, for review and recommendation to the same departments and
agencies, or others as they may deem necessary to ensure compliance with the
preliminary approval and/or conditions of preliminary approval.
      (2)   Such agency review shall also include the construction standards of
improvements, compliance with health standards, the cost estimate for all
improvements, and the legal review of the performance bond.
   (F)   Council action. The Council, at its next meeting following receipt of
the Commission’s report, shall consider comments from concerned persons and
agencies to arrive at a decision on the final plat. If said final plat conforms
to the requirements of this subchapter applicable at the time of approval of
the preliminary plat, all rulings made by the Commission on the preliminary
plat, and the requirements of state law, the Council shall approve, approve
conditionally, disapprove, or table the final plat for additional information
within 30 days of the date of the regular meeting at which the final plat is
first considered by the Council.
   (G)   Approval period.
      (1)   Final plat and covenants, if any, shall be filed with the County
Recorder within one year after written approval by the Council.
      (2)   Otherwise, such approval shall become null and void unless prior to
said expiration date an extension of time is applied for and granted by the
Council.
   (H)   Method of recording. Upon approval of the final plat by the Council,
the subdivider’s prepayment of recording fees, and the inclusion of the
following signatures on the final plat, the final plat shall be submitted to
the County Recorder for recording:
      (1)   Certification and signature of the Council verifying that the
subdivision has been approved;
      (2)   Certification and signature of an engineer or Building Inspector
verifying that the subdivision meets the city requirements and has been
approved by the Council and the Planning and Zoning Commission; and
      (3)   Certification and signature of local or state health agency that
all health requirements have been complied with.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.035 MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS REQUIRED.
   All plats submitted pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, and all
subdivisions, improvements, and facilities done, constructed or made in
accordance with said provisions shall comply with the minimum design standards
set forth hereinafter in this subchapter; provided that, any higher standards
adopted by any Highway District, State Highway Department, or Health Agency
shall prevail over those set forth herein.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.036 DEDICATION.
   Arterial and collector streets shall be dedicated to the public in all
cases; in general, all other streets shall also be dedicated to public use.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.037 LOCATION.
   Street and road location shall conform to the following.
   (A)   Street location and arrangements. When a major street or plan or
comprehensive development plan has been adopted, subdivision streets shall
conform to such plans.
   (B)   Minor streets. Minor streets shall be so arranged as to discourage
their use by through traffic.
   (C)   Stub streets. Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the
arrangement of streets in the new subdivision shall be such that said streets
extend to the boundary line of the tract to make provisions for future
extension of said streets into adjacent areas. A reserve strip may be required
and held in public ownership.
   (D)   Street continuation and extension. The arrangement of streets shall
provide for the continuation of existing streets from adjoining areas into new
subdivisions unless otherwise approved by the commission or department having
jurisdiction over such streets.
   (E)   Relation to topography. Streets shall be so arranged in proper
relation to topography so as to result in usable lots, safe streets, and
acceptable gradients.
   (F)   Alley. Alleys shall be provided in multiple dwellings or commercial
subdivisions unless other provisions are made for service access and off-street
loading and parking. Dead-end alleys shall be prohibited in all cases.
   (G)   Cul-de-sac streets. Cul-de-sac streets shall not be more than 500 feet
in length and shall terminate with an adequate turnaround having a minimum
radius of 60 feet for right-of-way.
   (H)   Half streets. Half streets shall be prohibited, except where unusual
circumstances make such necessary to the reasonable development of a tract in
conformance with this subchapter and where satisfactory assurance for
dedication of the remaining part of the street is provided. Whenever a tract is
to be subdivided borders on an existing half or partial street, the other part
of the street shall be dedicated within such tract.
   (I)   Private streets. Private streets and roads shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.038 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Street right-of-way widths. Street and road right-of-way widths shall
conform to the adopted major street plan or comprehensive development plan and
the rules of the State Department of Highways and the Highway District or
Department having jurisdiction.
      (1)   Highway and street types and widths.
         (a)   Minor arterial: 80 feet;
         (b)   Collector street: 60 feet; and
         (c)   Minor street: 50 feet.
   (B)   Street grades. Street grades shall not exceed 9% on either minor or
collector streets, and 5% for arterial streets. No street grade shall be less
than three-tenths of a foot per 100 feet.
   (C)   Street alignment. Shall be as follows:
      (1)   Horizontal alignment. When street lines deflect from each other by
more than 10° in alignment, the centerlines shall be connected by a curve
having a minimum radius of 500 feet for arterial streets, 300 feet for
collector streets, and 150 feet for minor streets. Between reverse curves on
minor streets there shall be a minimum tangent distance of 100 feet and 200
feet on collector and arterial streets respectively; and
      (2)   Vertical alignment. Minimum sight distances shall be 200 feet for
minor streets and 300 feet for collector and arterial streets.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.039 STREET NAMES.
   The naming of streets shall conform to the following.
   (A)   Street names shall not duplicate any existing street name, except
where a new street is a continuation of an existing street; street names that
may be spelled differently but sound the same as existing streets shall not be
used; and
   (B)   All new streets shall be named as follows:
      (1)   Streets having predominantly north-south direction shall have
phonetic names;
      (2)   Streets having a predominantly east-west direction shall have
numerical names; and
      (3)   Meandering streets shall be named “Drive”, “Lane”, “Path”, and cul-
de-sacs shall be named “Circle”, “Court”, and “Place”.
(Ord.2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.040 INTERSECTIONS.
   Intersections shall conform to the following.
   (A)   Angle of intersection. Streets shall intersect at 90 degrees or as
closely thereto as possible, and in no case shall streets intersect at less
than 80 degrees.
   (B)   Sight triangles. Minimum clear sight distance at all minor street
intersections shall permit vehicles to be visible to the driver of another
vehicle when each is 80 feet from the center of the intersection.
   (C)   Number of streets. No more than two streets shall cross at any one
intersection.
   (D)   “T” intersections. “T” intersections may be used wherever such design
will not restrict the free movement of traffic.
   (E)   Centerline offsets. Street centerlines shall be offset by a distance
of at least 125 feet.
   (F)   Vertical alignment of intersection. A nearly flat grade with
appropriate drainage slopes is desirable within intersections. This flat
section shall be extended a minimum of 100 feet each way from the intersection.
An allowance of 2% maximum intersection grade in rolling terrain, and 4% in
hilly terrain will be permitted.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.041 EASEMENTS.
   Unobstructed utility easements shall be provided along front lot lines, rear
lot lines, and/or side lot lines when deemed necessary; total easement width
shall not be less than 12 feet. Unobstructed drainage way easements shall be
provided as required by the Commission.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.042 PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS.
   Right-of-way for pedestrian walkways in the middle of long blocks may be
required where necessary to obtain convenient pedestrian circulation to
schools, parks, or shopping areas. The pedestrian easement shall be at least
ten feet wide and extend entirely through the block.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.043 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Every block shall be so designed as to provide two tiers of lots,
except where lots back onto an arterial street, natural feature, or subdivision
boundary. Blocks shall not be less than 300 feet long in all cases, nor exceed
600 feet in length.
   (B)   The length, width, and shape of blocks shall be determined with due
regard to adequate sites suitable to the special needs of the type of use
contemplated.
      (1)   The zoning requirements as to lot size and dimensions;
      (2)   The need for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
street traffic; and
      (3)   The limitations and opportunities of topography.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.044 LOTS.
   Lots shall conform to the following.
   (A)   Lot sizes. No subdivision plat in the area included in any zoning
district shall be hereafter be approved by the city unless all lots shown meet
the area requirements specified for that district in the Zoning Code.
   (B)   Lot lines. Side lot lines shall be essentially at right angles to
straight streets and shall conform to the radius of curved streets.
   (C)   Width related to length. Narrow, deep lots shall be avoided.
   (D)   Corner lots. Corner lots shall have sufficient extra width to permit
appropriate building setback from both streets or orientation to both streets.
   (E)   Uninhabitable areas. Land subject to flooding or which shall otherwise
be deemed to be uninhabitable shall not be platted for residential purposes or
for any other uses that may increase or create a danger to health, life, or
property, or which may increase or create a flood hazard. Such land within a
subdivision shall be set aside for other uses such as parks, green belts, or
other open space.
   (F)   Back-up lots. Lots shall not back into such features as highways,
arterial streets, shopping centers, or industrial properties, except where
there is a minor access street provided. If a minor access street is not
provided, such lots shall back into a landscaped easement along the rear at
least 20 feet wide, in addition to the utility easement. This restricted access
will minimize noise and protect the quality of outdoor living areas.
   (G)   Lot frontage. All rectangular lots shall have at least 75 feet of
frontage upon a publicly dedicated street, or 50 feet if frontage is on the
radial portion of a cul-de-sac. Variances may be permitted for an approved
planned unit development.
   (H)   Future arrangements.
      (1)   Where parcels of land are subdivided into unusually large lots
(such as when large lots are approved for septic tank operations), the parcels
shall be divided, where feasible, so as to allow for future subdividing into
smaller parcels. Lot arrangements shall allow for the ultimate extension of
adjacent streets through the middle of wide blocks.
      (2)   Whenever such future subdividing or lot splitting is contemplated,
the plan thereof shall be approved by the Commission prior to the taking of
such action.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.045 PLANTING STRIPS AND RESERVE STRIPS.
   Planting strips and reserve strips shall conform to the following.
   (A)   Planting strips. Planting strips shall be required to be placed next
to incompatible features such as highways, railroads, commercial, or industrial
uses to screen the view from residential properties. Such screens shall be a
minimum of 20 feet wide, and shall not be a part of the normal roadway right-
of-way or utility easement.
   (B)   Reserve strips.
      (1)   Private. Privately held reserve strips controlling access to
streets shall be prohibited.
      (2)    Public. A one foot reserve may be required to be placed at the end
or along “stub”, “dead-end”, or “half streets” which terminate at subdivision
boundaries. These reserves shall be deeded in fee simple to the city for future
street purposes.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.046 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   Public sites and open spaces shall conform to the following.
   (A)   Public uses. Where a proposed park, playground, school, or other
public use shown on the Comprehensive Plan is located in whole or part within a
subdivision, a suitable area for this purpose shall be dedicated to the public
or reserved for public purchase. If within two years of plat recording the
purchase is not agreed on, the reservation shall be canceled or shall
automatically cease to exist.
   (B)   Natural features. Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such
as trees, watercourse, historic spots, and similar irreplaceable assets) shall
be preserved, insofar as possible, in the design of the subdivision.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.047 LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENTS.
   Large scale development shall be governed by the following provisions.
   (A)   Modification. This subchapter may be modified in accordance with the
variance provisions of this subchapter in the case of a subdivision large
enough to constitute a complete community or neighborhood. It must be
consistent with the city’s Comprehensive Plan which provides and dedicates
adequate public open space and improvements for circulation, recreation,
education, light, air, and service needs of the tract when fully developed and
populated.
   (B)   Neighborhood characteristics. A community or neighborhood under this
provision shall be consistent with the Comprehensive Plan, bounded by major
streets or natural physical barriers, and may contain public areas of
sufficient size for school, playgrounds, parks, and other public facilities to
serve its population.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.048 IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to establish and define the
public improvements which will be required to be constructed by the subdivider
as conditions for final plat approval and also to outline the procedures and
responsibilities of the subdivider and the various public officials and
agencies concerned with the administration, planning, design, construction, and
financing of public facilities and to further establish procedures for assuring
compliance with these requirements.
   (B)   Responsibility for plans. It shall be the responsibility of the
subdivider of every proposed subdivision to have prepared by a registered
engineer, a complete set of construction plans, including profiles, cross-
sections, specifications, and other supporting data, for all required public
streets, utilities, and other facilities. Such construction plans shall be
based on preliminary plans which have been approved with the preliminary plat,
and shall be prepared in conjunction with the final plat. Construction plans
are subject to approval by the City Engineer or Building Inspector and other
responsible public agencies. All construction plans shall be prepared in
accordance with the public agency’s standards or specification.
   (C)   Required public improvements. Every subdivider shall be required to
install the following public and other improvements in accordance with the
conditions and specifications as follows.
      (1)   Monuments. Monuments shall be set in accordance with Idaho Code §
50-1313.
      (2)   Street and alleys. All streets and alleys shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the Council.
Vertical curbs and gutters may be required on all collector and arterial
streets.
      (3)   Curbs, gutters, and drainage. Curbs and gutters may be required on
all minor streets and shall be constructed in accordance with the standards and
specifications adopted by the Council. An adequate storm drainage system plan
shall be required in all subdivisions.
      (4)   Installation of public utilities. Underground utilities are
recommended and may be required by the Commission in areas where overhead
facilities would not be compatible with the surrounding properties.
      (5)   Driveways. All driveway openings shall be as specified by the city,
highway district, or the State Highway Department.
      (6)   Water supply system. Where practicable, all subdivisions within
city limits shall hook onto the city water system. When a proposed subdivision
is to be serviced by a public water supply system, fire hydrants and other
required water system appurtenances shall be provided by the subdivider. In
exceptional circumstances, the subdivider may be required to install a water-
supply system for the common use of the lots within the subdivision as approved
by the State Department of Environmental Quality. Individual wells are
discouraged, but must have the approval of the South-Central Health District,
if allowed. At such time as city water becomes available, individual lot owners
will be required to hook up to city services.
      (7)   Sanitary sewer system. Where practicable, all subdivisions within
city limits shall hook onto the city sanitary sewer system. Sanitary sewers and
other required appurtenances thereto shall be provided by the subdivider as
approved by the State Department of Environmental Quality. In exceptional
circumstances, the subdivider may install an individual temporary septic tank
and drain field systems, but must have the approval of the South-Central Health
district, if allowed. At such time as city sewer becomes available, individual
lot owners will be required to hook up to city services.
      (8)   Sidewalks and pedestrian walkways. Sidewalks may be required on
both sides of the street. Where the average width of the lots, as measured at
the frontage line or at the building setback line is over 100 feet, sidewalks
may be required by the Commission. Pedestrian walkways, where required, shall
have easements at least ten feet in width and include a concrete walk at least
five feet in width, located generally along the center line of the easement,
dedicated as a public pedestrian walkway. Sidewalks and crosswalks shall be
constructed in accordance with the standards and specifications as adopted by
the Council.
      (9)   Street lighting. Street lights shall be required to be installed at
intersections throughout the subdivision. In these cases, a subdivider shall
conform to the requirements of the city and the public utility providing such
lighting.
      (10)   Bicycle paths. Bicycle paths should be considered in all
developments and may be required by the Commission.
      (11)   Private improvements and public utilities. It shall be the
responsibility of the subdivider to arrange and provide for the development,
installation, construction, or other improvement of the private facilities and
public utilities within and for the subdivision in accordance with the
applicable standards and requirements.
      (12)   Construction of public works. The scope of this section is to
define the respective areas of responsibility of the subdivider and the city
relative to the installation, construction, or other improvements of public
works en-route to and within the boundaries of a subdivision. In certain
instances, the city may require formal written agreements with the subdivider
that more fully and specifically describe their respective obligations and
responsibilities. It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to complete,
at his or her sole expense, all the development and construction of public
works for and within his or her subdivision except as specifically provided
otherwise to be the obligation and responsibility of the city, or as may be
accepted by the city as being within the spirit and intent of its
responsibilities. The subdivider shall complete the installation or
construction of all the different phases of public works for which he or she is
responsible before the city will accept any of them. This requirement may be
satisfied by completion of a stage, if a staged development is called for in
the approved development plan.
      (13)   Guarantee of completion. Until the public works for which the
subdivider is responsible are completed, or an acceptable stage in accordance
with the approved development plan is completed, the city will issue no
building permits for private construction therein, unless a satisfactory
performance bond or other suitable guarantee of performance acceptable to the
city is provided by the subdivider.
      (14)   Evidence of completion. The subdivider shall notify the city in
writing when the public works for which he or she is responsible have been
completed. The city shall also certify, in writing, a copy of which shall be
sent to the subdivider, that the said public works have been inspected by their
authorized representative, and that said public works have been completed in
accordance with applicable standards and specifications. As-built construction
plans shall be submitted to the city upon completion of the work, if required.
Compliance with the foregoing provisions shall constitute the city’s acceptance
of the public works. The city shall thereby accept said public works and be
responsible for their operation and maintenance in accordance with city
policies.
      (15)   Streets. The subdivider shall perform, install, construct, or
otherwise complete at his or her sole expense the following items relative to
street improvements for and within the boundaries of the subdivision:
         (a)   Route for boundary surveys of the dedicated rights-of-way;
         (b)   Construction surveys of line and grade;
         (c)   Installation of sidewalks, if applicable;
         (d)   Installation of curbs and gutters, if applicable;
         (e)   Preparation of the sub grade;
         (f)   Inspection of the roadway base course;
         (g)   Inspection of all phases of construction to assure compliance
with applicable standards and specifications;
         (h)   Installation of a crushed gravel leveling course to be used as a
temporary wearing surface until permanent asphalt pavement is installed; and
         (i)   Asphalt pavement is to be installed following the installation
of any required curbs and gutters.
      (16)   Sanitary sewage collection system. The subdivider shall be
responsible for the installation of a sanitary sewage collection system within
the boundaries of the subdivision. The subdivider shall perform, install,
construct, or otherwise complete, at his or her sole expense, the following
items relative to sanitary sewers:
         (a)   Preparation of plans and specifications for the construction of
the sanitary sewer system, including extensions from the existing collection
system, and the approval of said plans and specifications by the state’s
Department of Health and Welfare;
         (b)   Construction surveys of line and grade within the subdivision;
         (c)   Installation of the sewer system for and within the subdivision,
including sewers, manholes, and other required appurtenances and, if
applicable, sewage pumping stations;
         (d)   If sewer mains are located in a dedicated street or alley,
installation of a sewer service line to the property line of each lot;
         (e)   Inspection of construction to assure compliance with the plans,
specifications, and applicable standards;
         (f)   Installation of a sewer extension from the existing collection
systems to a designated point of connection near the subdivision; and
         (g)   Connections to the sewers will be in accordance with existing
procedures and policies of the city, and the subdivider will be liable for the
payment of sewer assessment and hookup charges as provided by city ordinances.
      (17)   Water distribution system. The subdivider shall be responsible for
the installation of a culinary water distribution system for and within the
boundaries of the subdivision on public rights-of-way. The subdivider shall
perform, install, construct, or otherwise complete at his or her sole expense
the following items relative to a culinary water distribution system:
         (a)   Preparation of plans and specifications for the construction of
the water distribution system, including any required extensions from the
existing system, and the approval of said plans and specifications by the
state’s Department of Environmental Quality;
         (b)   Construction surveys of line and grade within the subdivision;
         (c)   Installation of the water distribution system within the
subdivision, including water lines, control valves, fire hydrants, and
appurtenant facilities as approved by the city;
         (d)   If water mains are located in a dedicated street or alley,
installation of a water service line to the property lines of each lot;
         (e)   Inspection of construction to assure compliance with the plans,
specifications, and applicable standards;
         (f)   Installation of a water line extension or extensions to a
designated point of connection near the subdivision; and
         (g)   Connections to the water mains shall be in accordance with
existing procedures and policies of the city, and the subdivider shall be
liable for the payment of water assessment and hookup charges as provided by
city ordinances.
      (18)   Reimbursement for over-sizing. In the event the city requires the
subdivider to install oversized pipe lines or other excess facilities to make
provisions for present or future service needs in excess of the requirements
for the subdivision, the city shall reimburse the subdivider for the additional
costs of material and installation resulting therein, providing said future
service needs are not required for property owned by the subdivider, or person,
or persons the subdivider is acting as agent for, and providing that the
property is not currently under application for subdividing.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISIONS
§ 152.060 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to identify the various types of special
developments that normally pose special concerns to the Council and elected
officials when reviewing and acting upon subdivision requests. Therefore, this
subchapter outlines the general plan submittal requirements and design
standards that shall be taken into consideration when acting on special
developments. The provisions of this subchapter are in addition to the plan
requirements and design standards that are required by §§
152.020 through
152.048. The required information shall be submitted to the Council with the
preliminary plat.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.061 PLANNED UNIT AND CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISIONS.
   Planned unit and condominium developments shall be subject to requirements
set forth in the Zoning Code and also subject to all provisions within this
chapter.
   (A)   Minimum area. A planned unit development for the following principal
uses shall contain an area of not less than:
      (1)   Two acres or one normal city block for residential use, or for a
manufactured home subdivision or park;
      (2)   Three acres for residential use with subordinate commercial or
industrial use;
      (3)   Seven acres for commercial use; and
      (4)   Seven acres for light industrial use.
   (B)   Site development plan. The developer shall provide the Council with a
colored rendering of adequate scale to show the completed development that will
include at least the following:
      (1)   Architectural style and building design;
      (2)   Building materials and color;
      (3)   Landscaping and drainage;
      (4)   Screening;
      (5)   Garbage areas;
      (6)   Parking; and
      (7)   Open space.
   (C)   Private streets. Private street construction standards shall be based
upon recommendations from the City Engineer and Council. Adequate construction
standards may vary depending on the size of the development and the demands
placed on such improvements.
   (D)   Home owner’s association. The home owner’s association by-laws and
other similar deed restrictions, which provide for the control and maintenance
of all common areas, recreation facilities, or open space shall meet with the
approval of the Commission. Any and all powers as specified in such agreements
may be required to also be assigned to the jurisdictional agency to insure
continued and adequate maintenance of all such common areas, recreational
facilities, and open space, ability to assess property for delinquencies and
enforcement of motor vehicle speed to protect the best interests of the owners
involved and of the general public.
   (E)   Storage areas. Storage areas shall be provided for the anticipated
needs of boats, campers, and travel trailers. For typical residential
development, one adequate space shall be provided for every three living units.
This may be reduced by the Commission if there is a showing that the needs of a
particular development are less.
   (F)   Parking space. One additional parking space beyond that which is
required by the Zoning Code may be required for every three dwelling units to
accommodate visitor parking.
   (G)   Maintenance building. A maintenance building shall be provided, size
and location to be determined by the type and service needed for the necessary
repair and maintenance of all common areas.
   (H)   Open space. The location of open space shall be appropriate to the
development and shall be of such shape and area to be useable and convenient to
the residents of the development.
   (I)   Control during development. Single ownership or control during
development shall be required and a time limit may be imposed to guarantee the
development is built and constructed as planned.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.062 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   General. Mobile home parks shall in general be treated the same as any
residential subdivision, subject to any special requirements set forth in the
Zoning Code and also subject to the following requirements.
   (B)   Special requirements.
      (1)   Developed as a planned unit development with a minimum lot area for
the planned development of three acres;
      (2)   Essential community facilities and services for the type of
development under consideration are available, or provisions shall be made to
assure that these facilities will be provided;
      (3)   The site shall be suitable for residential development and not be
subject to hazards such as insects or rodent infestation, objectionable smoke,
noxious odors, unusual noise, or the probability of flooding or erosion;
      (4)   Adequacy of provisions for drainage of surface waters and for waste
disposal;
      (5)   Protection of existing ground cover;
      (6)   Screening from adjacent areas, other than subdivisions of the same
type, by aesthetically acceptable fences, walls, living plant areas, and
existing natural or human-made barriers; and
      (7)   The width and construction of access streets shall be suitable for
the vehicular traffic requirements of the property served. No lot within the
development shall have direct vehicular access to a street bordering the
development.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.063 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS.
   (A)   General. Recreational vehicle parks shall in general be treated the
same as any residential subdivision, subject to any special requirements set
forth in the Zoning Code and also subject to the following requirements.
   (B)   Special requirements.
      (1)   Developed as a planned unit development with a minimum lot area for
planned development of two acres;
      (2)   Essential community facilities and services for the type of
development under consideration is available, or provisions shall be made to
assure that these facilities will be provided;
      (3)   Adequate provisions for drainage of surface waters and for waste
disposal;
      (4)   Protection of existing ground cover;
      (5)   Screening from adjacent areas, other than subdivisions of the same
type, by aesthetically acceptable fences, walls, living plant areas, and
existing natural or human-made barriers; and
      (6)   The width and construction of access streets shall be suitable for
the vehicular traffic requirements of the property served. No lot within the
development shall have direct vehicular access to a street bordering the
development.
      (7)   No travel trailer, motor home, or camper shall be parked any closer
than 12 feet to each other.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.064 LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT.
   Due to the impact that large scale development would have on public
utilities and services, the developer shall submit the following information
along with the preliminary plat:
   (A)    Identification of all public services that would be provided to the
development that will occur as a result of the subdivision (i.e., fire
protection, police protection, central water, central sewer, road construction,
recreation, maintenance, schools, and others);
   (B)   Estimate the public service costs to provide adequate service to the
development; and
   (C)   Estimate the tax revenue that will be generated from the development.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.065 CEMETERY SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Function. The developer shall provide the Commission with written
documentation that will sufficiently explain if the proposed cemetery will be
used for either human or animal remains and the functions that are anticipated
on the property.
   (B)   Compliance with the state’s code. The developer shall submit a written
statement that has been prepared by an attorney that adequately assures the
compliance of the proposed cemetery with the procedural management requirements
that are outlined in the state’s code.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.066 SUBDIVISION WITHIN A FLOODPLAIN.
   (A)   Flood areas. For any proposed subdivision that is located within or
partially within a floodplain, the developer shall provide the Commission with
a development plan of adequate scale and supporting documentation that will
show and explain at least the following:
      (1)   Location of all planned improvements;
      (2)   The location of the floodway and the floodway fringe per
engineering practices as specified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA);
      (3)   The location of the present water channel;
      (4)   Any planned rerouting or waterways;
      (5)   All major drainage ways;
      (6)   Areas of frequent flooding,
      (7)   Means of flood-proofing buildings; and
      (8)   Means of insuring loans for improvements within the floodplain. New
construction and substantial improvements of residential structures within the
floodplain shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or
above the level of the 100-year flood; and, for new construction or substantial
improvements of non-residential structures, the lowest floor (including
basement) shall be elevated to or above the level of the 100-year flood, or
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, shall be flood-proofed
up to the level of the 100-year flood.
   (B)   Justification for development. Upon the determination that buildings
are planned within the floodplain or that alterations of any kind are
anticipated within the floodplain area that will alter the flow of water, the
developer shall demonstrate conclusively to the Commission that such
development will not present a hazard to life, limb, or property, or will not
have adverse effects on the safety, use, or stability of a public way or
drainage channel or the natural environment.
   (C)   No subdivision or part thereof shall be approved if levees, fills,
structures, or other features within the proposed subdivision will individually
or collectively significantly increase flood flows, heights, or damages. If any
part of a proposed subdivision can be safely developed, the Commission shall
limit development to that part and shall require that development proceed
consistent with that determination.
   (D)   Subdivisions shall be reviewed to assure that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damages; and
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards. New or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary sewage systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into
the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters, and require on-
site waste disposal systems to be located so as to avoid impairment of them or
contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESSES
§ 152.080 VACATIONS AND DEDICATIONS.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   Any property owner desiring to vacate an existing subdivision,
public right-of-way, or easement, or desiring to dedicate a street right-of-way
or easement shall complete and file an application with the Commission and also
file such other applications as are otherwise required by law.
      (2)   These provisions shall not apply to the widening of any street
which is shown in the Comprehensive Plan, or the dedication of streets, rights-
of-way, or easements to be shown on the recorded plat of a subdivision.
   (B)   Commission recommendation. The Commission shall review the request and
all agency responses and make a recommendation to the Council either to
approve, conditionally approve, or deny the request.
   (C)   Council action.
      (1)   When considering an application for vacation procedures, the
Council shall establish a date for a public hearing and give such public notice
as required by law. The Council may approve, deny, or modify the application.
Whenever public rights-of-way or lands are vacated, the Council shall provide
adjacent property owners with a quit claim deed for said vacated rights-of-way
in such proportions as are prescribed by law.
      (2)   When considering an application for dedication procedures, the
Council may approve, deny, or modify the application. When a dedication is
approved, the required street improvements shall be constructed or a bond
furnished assuring the construction, prior to acceptance of the dedication. To
complete the acceptance of any dedication of land, the owner shall furnish to
the Council a deed describing and conveying such lands to be recorded with the
County Recorder.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.081 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Purpose. The Commission may recommend to the Council a variance from
the provisions of this chapter on a finding that undue hardship may result from
strict compliance with specific provisions or requirements of the chapter or
that application of such provisions or requirements is impractical. Where in
the case of a particular proposed subdivision, it can be shown that strict
compliance with the requirements of this chapter would result in extraordinary
hardship to the subdivider because of unusual topography, other physical
conditions, or other such conditions, which are not self-inflicted, or that
these conditions would result in inhibiting the achievement of the objectives
of this chapter, the Council may declare that variance, modification, or a
waiver of these requirements be granted. The Council shall only recommend
variances that it deems necessary to or desirable for the public interest, in
making its findings, the Council shall take into account the nature of the
proposed use of land and the existing use of land in the vicinity, the number
of persons to reside or work in the proposed subdivision, and the probable
effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity. No
variance shall be recommended unless the Council finds after a public hearing:
      (1)   There are such special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter would
clearly be impracticable, or unreasonable; in such cases, the subdivider shall
first state his or her reasons in writing to the specific provisions or
requirements involved;
      (2)   The granting of the specified variance will not be detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to other property in the area in which said
property is situated;
      (3)   Such variance will not violate the provisions of the state’s code;
or
      (4)   Such variance will not have the effect of nullifying the interest
and purpose of this chapter and the comprehensive land use plan.
   (B)   Planned unit development variance. The developer may request a
variance from specified portions of this chapter in the case of a planned unit
development. Upon considering the request variance, the Commission shall take
into account the nature of the proposed use of the land and existing use of
land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the proposed
subdivision, the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic
conditions in the vicinity, adequate open space, light, air, and other needs.
The Commission’s findings and report to the Council shall include whether:
      (1)   The proposed project will constitute a desirable and stable
community development and be in compliance with the comprehensive development
plan;
      (2)   The proposed project will be in harmony with adjacent areas; and
      (3)   The proposed project will be served with adequate public
facilities.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.082 ENFORCEMENT.
   No subdivision plat required by this chapter or the state’s code shall be
admitted to the public land records of the county or recorded by the County
Recorder, until such subdivision plat has received final approval by the
Council. No public board, agency, commission, official, or other authority
shall proceed with the construction of any of the public improvements required
by this chapter until the final plat has received approval by the Council.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.083 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Amendment procedures. The Council may, from time to time, amend,
supplement, or repeal the regulations and provisions of this chapter in the
manner prescribed by state’s code to better serve the city and outlying
community. A proposed amendment, supplement, or repeal may be originated by the
Council or by petition from the public at large. In all cases, the proposal
shall be reviewed by the Council before any action is taken on the issue.
Adequate public notice shall be given to obtain comments from the public,
either for or against, prior to any action taken.
   (B)   Resubmission of application. No application for amendment which has
been denied by the Council shall be resubmitted in either substantially the
same form or with reference to substantially the same premises for the same
purposes within a period of six months from the date of such final action;
unless there is an amendment in the Comprehensive Plan which resulted from a
change in conditions as applying to the specific property under consideration.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered as a separate offense. The land owner, tenant,
subdivider, builder, public official or any other person who commits,
participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation may each be found
guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided. Nothing
herein contained shall prevent the Council or any other public official or
private citizen from taking such lawful action as is necessary to restrain or
prevent any violation of this chapter or of the state’s code.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed - -2006)
CHAPTER 153: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
153.01   Tree removal
§ 153.01 TREE REMOVAL.
   The Council of the city are hereby given full and complete control over all
trees growing within the confines of the city limits, outside of the property
lines of the respective lots and acreage, and the Council shall also have the
power to require the owner of the lots adjoining such trees to remove at such
owner’s expense any such tree which, in the opinion of the Council, are a
menace to life or property. Except as above provided, it shall be unlawful for
the owner of such trees or anyone else to remove, cut, or otherwise mutilate
such tree without the consent of the Council.
(Ord. 3, passed 2-4-1947) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 154: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Purpose
   
154.002   Authority
   
154.003   Most restrictive standards shall govern
   
154.004   Combining of permits
   
154.005   Existing permits and private agreements
   
154.006   Repeal
   
154.007   Definitions
Administration
   
154.020   Administrator appointed
   
154.021   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
154.022   Appeals
Establishment and Purpose of Districts
   
154.035   General Residential District
   
154.036   Business District
   
154.037   Light Industrial District
   
154.038   Agricultural District
   
154.039   Official zoning map
   
154.040   Compliance with regulations
Fences
   
154.055   General provisions
   
154.056   Specific standards
   
154.057   Entryway gates
   
154.058   Fence permit and application
Signs
   
154.070   Purpose
   
154.071   Definitions
   
154.072   Applications and permits
   
154.073   Removal of illegal or unsafe signs
   
154.074   Prohibited signs
Off-Street Parking and Loading Spaces
   
154.085   General requirements
   
154.086   Standards
Planned Unit Development
   
154.100   Purpose
   
154.101   General requirements
   
154.102   Bulk requirements
   
154.103   Density bonus
   
154.104   Off-street parking
   
154.105   Planned unit development permit
   
154.106   Application
   
154.107   Concurrent Submission
   
154.108   Planning and zoning commission action
   
154.109   City Council action
   
154.110   Conditions of approval
Special Use Permits
   
154.125   Purpose
   
154.126   Application
   
154.127   Concurrent submission
   
154.128   Public hearing
   
154.129   Criteria for review
   
154.130   Action by the Commission
   
154.131   Conditions
   
154.132   Notification by the Administrator
   
154.133   Appeal
   
154.134   Expiration
   
154.135   Revocation
   
154.136   Special provisions
Variances
   
154.150   General provisions
   
154.151   Application
   
154.152   Public hearing
   
154.153   Criteria for review
   
154.154   Energy efficiency variances
   
154.155   Action by Commission
   
154.156   Expiration
   
154.157   Revocation
Non-Conforming Uses and Buildings
   
154.170   Intent
   
154.171   Avoidance of undue hardship
   
154.172   Uses
   
154.173   Expansion of non-conforming buildings
   
154.174   Repair
Amendments
   
154.185   Introduction
   
154.186   Initiation by amendment
   
154.187   Application
   
154.188   Action by Commission
   
154.189   Action by the Council
   
154.190   Resubmission of application
Enforcement
   
154.205   Methods of enforcement
   
154.206   Building permit
   
154.207   Inspection
   
154.208   Criminal liability
   
154.209   Injunction; recovery of attorney’s fees
   
154.210   Liability for damages
 
   
154.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building Code adopted, see §
150.01
   Residential Code adopted, see §
150.02
   Subdivisions, see
Ch. 152
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted for the purpose of promoting public health, safety,
and general welfare, to conserve and protect property and property values, to
secure the most appropriate use of lands, to control the density of population,
to prevent traffic congestion, and to facilitate adequate and economical
provisions for public improvements and services, all in accordance with the
proposed city’s Comprehensive Plan for the desirable future physical
development of the city, to provide a method of administration and to prescribe
means of enforcement of the provisions hereafter described.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.002 AUTHORITY.
   This Zoning Code is adopted pursuant to authority granted by Idaho Code
Title 67, Ch. 65, and Art. XII, § 2, of the Idaho Constitution, as amended or
subsequently codified.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.003 MOST RESTRICTIVE STANDARDS SHALL GOVERN.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of
the public health, safety, and the general welfare.
   (B)   Whenever the requirements of this chapter conflict with the
requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations, ordinances, or
resolutions, the most restrictive or that imposing the higher standards shall
govern.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.004 COMBINING OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The Commission is hereby required to coordinate with other departments
and agencies concerning all permits that may be required in this chapter and
previously or subsequently adopted city ordinances.
   (B)   A one-stop permit application procedure may be developed with the
respective departments and agencies for the purpose of reducing errors,
misunderstandings, confusion, and unnecessary delay for everyone involved.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.005 EXISTING PERMITS AND PRIVATE AGREEMENTS.
   This chapter is not intended to abrogate or annul any permits issued before
the effective date of this chapter or any easement, covenant, or other private
agreement.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.006 REPEAL.
   All ordinances of the city or parts of any such ordinances in conflict with
this Zoning Code or inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter are hereby
repealed to the extent necessary to give this chapter full force and effect.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.007 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation of terms or words. For the purpose of this chapter,
certain terms or words used herein shall be interpreted as follows.
      (1)   PERSON. Includes a firm, association, organization, partnership,
trust, company, corporation, or any other entity capable of owning or holding
any interest in real property, as well as an individual.
      (2)   The word SHALL is a mandatory requirement, the word MAY as used
herein is permissive.
      (3)   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular, unless the
context clearly indicates otherwise.
      (4)   The words “used” or “occupied” include the words “intended,
designed, maintained, arranged or occupied”.
   (B)   Meaning of terms or words. For the purpose of this chapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      100-YEAR FLOOD. Flood having an indicated average frequency of occurrence
once in 100 years, although the flood may occur in any year.
      100-YEAR FLOOD ELEVATION.  The maximum high water elevation of the 100-
YEAR FLOOD at any given point on the floodplain.
      ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE.
         (a)   A use or structure on the same lot with and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to the lot’s principal use or structure;
         (b)   Which is clearly incidental to the use of the principal
building, or other structure or use of land;
         (c)   Which is customary in connection with the principal building, or
other structure or use of land; and
         (d)   Which is ordinarily located on the same lot with the principal
building, or other structure, or use of land.
      AGRICULTURAL LAND. An economic endeavor engaged in the growing of food or
fiber. Agricultural activities including farming, pasture, agriculture,
horticulture, forestry, floriculture, viticulture, animal and poultry
husbandry, and the necessary accessory uses for packing, treating, or storing
the produce; provided that, the operation of any such accessory uses shall be
secondary to that of normal agriculture activities.
      AIRPORT. Any runway, landing area, or other facility designed or used
either publicly, privately, or commercially by any person for all landing and
taking-off of aircraft, including all associated taxiways, aircraft storage,
and tie-down areas, hangars, passenger terminals, and other buildings.
      ALTERATION. Any change in size, shape, character, occupancy, or use of a
building or structure.
      ANIMAL UNIT. A unit to measure the quantity of animals at any given
location. For example:
         (a)   A horse equals 1.0 AU;
         (b)   Any cattle over 700 pounds equals 1.0 AU;
         (c)   Any cattle 400 to 700 pounds equals 0.7 AU;
         (d)   A calf under 400 pounds equals 0.2 AU;
         (e)   Any sheep, lambs, or a goat equals 0.2 AU;
          (f)   Any swine equals 0.4 AU;
          (g)   A turkey or goose equals 0.02 AU;
         (h)   Any laying hen/broiler or ducks equals 0.01 AU;
         (i)   Any rabbit equals 0.01 AU;
         (j)   Fish (500 pounds) equals 1.0 AU; and
         (k)   Other species not specified (500 pounds) equals 1.0 AU.
      ANIMALS FOR FAMILY FOOD PRODUCTION. Domestic animals generally used for
human food production (including cattle, sheep, poultry, rabbits, and fish)
that are raised with the intent to supply food for those who raise them.
      APARTMENT. A multiple-family dwelling containing three or more dwelling
units in which all units, exclusive of a unit that may be occupied by the
owner, are rented or leased.
      BASEMENT. Any floor level below the first story in a building; provided,
such floor level is more than four feet below grade for more than 50% of the
perimeter.
      BED AND BREAKFAST INN. A building which has no more than eight sleeping
rooms available for rent for short-term (less than 15 days) residential
occupancy, serves breakfast as part of the rent in a common dining area, and
has access to all sleeping rooms through a main entrance.
      BOARDING and ROOMING HOUSE. A building in which the proprietor resides
and which has not more than six rooms available for rent or lease for
residential occupancy and in which no cooking or dining facilities are provided
in the individual rooms.
      BUFFER. Includes, but is not limited to, a landscape strip, solid fence,
or solid wall designed to lessen the negative impacts one land use may have on
another.
      BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
      BULK REQUIREMENTS. The combination of controls which establishes the
maximum size of a building and its location on the lot, including:
         (a)   The size of buildings and other structures;
         (b)   The shape of buildings and other structures;
         (c)   The location of exterior walls of buildings and other
structures, in relation to property lines, streets, and other buildings or
structures;
         (d)   Open space requirements; and
         (e)   Lot area per dwelling unit.
      BULKY RETAIL. Retail sales of bulky items including, but not limited to,
farm equipment, manufactured homes, furniture, appliances, farm, and garden
supplies.
      CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse with definite bed and banks
to confine and conduct continuously or periodically flowing water, and which,
in the absence of evidence to the contrary, shall be presumed to consist of the
area between the boundaries of vegetation on either side of the watercourse.
      CHILD. Any person under 12 years of age.
      COMMISSION. The Planning and Zoning Commission of the city.
      CONDITIONAL. A use or occupancy of land permitted only upon the issuance
of a special use permit and subject to the limitations and restrictions
specified in such permit in addition to all other applicable regulations and
provisions of this chapter.
      CONDOMINIUM. A multi-family dwelling containing two or more dwelling
units in which each unit is under single ownership, excluding the ground
beneath the unit.
      CONVENIENCE STORE. A small-scale grocery operation that may provide self-
service gasoline.
      DAY CARE BUSINESS. The care and supervision, provided for compensation,
during part of a 24-hour day, for a child or children not related by blood or
marriage to the person or persons providing the care, in a place other than the
child’s own home. This term includes pre-schools, nursery schools, play
schools, kinder-care, and any like or similar operation.
      DAY CARE CENTER. A day care operation providing care for 13 or more
children.
      DAY CARE FACILITY. A day care operation providing care for no more than
12 children at any one time and having not more than four employees.
      DAY CARE HOME. A day care operation providing care for six or fewer
children at any one time, having not more than three employees and operating
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
      DIRECT ILLUMINATION. For the purposes of the sign regulations of this
chapter, DIRECT ILLUMINATION shall refer to internally lit and neon signs.
      DUPLEX. A multiple-family dwelling under single ownership containing two
dwelling units in which at least one of the units is rented or leased or is
intended for rent or lease.
      DWELLING UNIT. A building or separate portion thereof having a single
kitchen, and at least one bathroom, to be occupied exclusively as a residence.
      EMPLOYEE. Any person working for compensation in any day care business.
      ERECTED. Built, constructed, reconstructed, moved upon, or any other
physical operations on the premises required for building. Excavations, fill,
drainage, and the like shall be considered a part of ERECTION.
      FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption or a
group of no more than five unrelated adult persons, excluding servants, and
their children by blood or adoption living together in a dwelling unit.
      FENCE. A natural or artificial barrier intended to be an enclosure or an
exclosure or to delineate a boundary and located within 20 feet of a property
line. For the purposes of this chapter, the term FENCE shall include hedges and
walls.
      FLOOD. General and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry lands from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland waters; and/or
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff or surface waters
from any source. FLOOD having an indicated average frequency of occurrence once
in 100 years, although the flood may occur in any year.
      FLOODPLAIN. A relatively flat area or low land adjoining a body of water,
which has been or may be inundated by water from the 100-year flood.
      FLOODWAY. The portion of the flood hazard area that includes the channel
and the portion of the adjacent area that conveys the major portion of the flow
for the 100-year flood.
      FLOOR AREA. The gross area included within the surrounding exterior walls
of a building or portion thereof, including all floor levels, exclusive of vent
shafts, courts, attics, garages, or other enclosed automobile parking areas
subject to the following restrictions:
         (a)   The basement of a single- or multiple-family dwelling is not
included as floor area; and
         (b)   The basement of any other building is included as floor area.
      FRONTAGE. The distance along the front lot line.
      GARAGE. A building, or portion thereof, in which a motor vehicle
containing flammable or combustible liquid or gas in its tank is or intended to
be stored, repaired, or kept.
      GRADE. The lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the
ground, paving, or sidewalk within the area between the building and the
property line, or when the property line is more than five feet from the
building, between the building and a line five feet from the building.
      HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance above a reference datum
measured to the highest point of the roof regardless of the roof design. The
reference datum shall be selected by either of the following, whichever yields
a greater HEIGHT OF A BUILDING:
         (a)   The elevation of the highest adjoining sidewalk or ground
surface within a five- foot horizontal distance of the exterior wall of the
building when such sidewalk or ground surface is not more than ten feet above
the lowest grade;
         (b)   The elevation is ten feet higher that the lowest grade when the
sidewalk or ground surface described in division (a) above is more than ten
feet above lowest grade; and
         (c)   The height of a stepped or terraced building is the maximum
height of any segment of the building.
      HOME OCCUPATION. A business-related activity conducted entirely within a
dwelling that is incidental and secondary to the use of a dwelling as a
residence and does not negatively impact the surrounding neighborhood. HOME
OCCUPATIONS are defined for the purpose of this chapter as those activities
that represent a departure from the daily routine associated with a residential
use and could, therefore, impact the neighborhood. HOME OCCUPATIONS, where
permitted, shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   The home occupation shall not change the residential character
of the dwelling or neighborhood;
         (b)   There shall be no exterior advertising;
         (c)   There shall be no exterior storage on the premises of material
or equipment associated with the home occupation;
         (d)   There shall be no offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust,
odors, heat, or glare noticeable at or beyond the property lines;
         (e)   The home occupation shall not create the need for additional
parking; and
         (f)   Storage of explosive, combustible, or hazardous materials shall
conform to the regulations and restrictions adopted by the city in the Uniform
Building Code.
      HOTEL. A building which is used for short term occupancy, offering
sleeping accommodations to the public on a nightly basis and access to all
sleeping rooms through a main entrance, and which may provide food,
entertainment, or various personal services.
      HYBRID PRODUCTION FACILITY. A commercial operation or use in which, on
one premise, finished consumer goods are manufactured or produced and those
same goods are offered for sale to the general public. HYBRID PRODUCTION
FACILITIES must be similar in size, scale, and scope of operation with adjacent
or nearby uses.
      INDIRECT ILLUMINATION. A source of light separate from the sign itself.
      KITCHEN. A room or area for storage, preparation, and cooking of food.
      LOADING SPACE. Off-street space logically and conveniently located for
pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used and
accessible to such vehicles when required parking spaces are filled.
      LOT.
         (a)   Plot, parcel, or tract of land with fixed boundaries of
sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage, and
area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as are herein required.
Such LOT shall have frontage on an improved public street or an approved
private street and may consist of:
            1.   A single lot of record;
            2.   A combination of complete lots of record, or of portions of
lots of record.
         (b)   Types of lots:
            1.   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets.
            2.   NORMAL CORNER LOT. A corner lot where the streets border the
outside or convex lot lines.
            3.   REVERSE CORNER LOT. A corner lot where the streets border the
inside or concave lot lines.
      LOT COVERAGE. The percent of the total lot occupied by the principal
building.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. The property line dividing a lot from a street. On a
corner lot, only one street line shall be considered the FRONT LOT LINE and the
main or front entrance to the primary building on the lot shall face such lot
line. For buildings located on a corner with more than one business within the
building, the lot front is the side where the business street address is
listed.
      LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite the front lot line.
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than the front or rear lot lines.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot that is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the County Recorder or a lot described by metes and bounds, the description
of which has been so recorded.
      LOT WIDTH. The distance parallel to the front lot line, measured between
side lot lines through that part of the building or structure where the lot is
narrowest.
      LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided that, such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements.
      MAJOR ADDITION. Any extension having a floor area of 200 square feet or
greater to an existing building. Extensions to dwellings that do not increase
the total number of dwelling units shall not be considered as MAJOR ADDITIONS.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure constructed according to HUD/FHA mobile
home construction and safety standards, transportable in one or more sections,
which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or is 40 body
feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet,
and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical
systems contained therein, except that such term shall include any structure
which meets all the requirements of this paragraph, except the size
requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and
complies with the standards established under 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
      MOBILE HOME. A transportable dwelling that is built on a permanent
chassis and is designed for use without a permanent foundation when connected
to the required utilities.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. Any site or tract of land under single or joint
ownership upon which two or more mobile homes are parked for living quarters,
including any roadway, building, structure, or recreational facility or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the facilities of such park.
      MOTEL. A building or group of buildings which are used for short-term
occupancy, offering sleeping accommodations to the public on a nightly basis,
which may provide food and entertainment totally within the primary building of
the motel.
      MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A building containing two or more dwelling
units. For the purposes of this chapter, the term MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING
includes duplex, apartment townhouses, and condominiums.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. An existing non-conforming use at the time of
adoption of this chapter or a legal building, structure, or use of land which:
         (a)   Exists, or for which a valid building permit exists, at the
effective date of this chapter, and which violates any of the provisions of
this chapter; or
         (b)   Exists, or for which a valid building permit exists, at the
effective date of any amendment to this chapter and which violates any of the
provisions of such amendment.
      NUISANCE ODOR. An objectionable stench, especially from the decomposition
of animal waste, which impacts an adjacent property owner in an overwhelming
manner.
      OUTPATIENT ANIMAL SERVICES. The examination, care, treatment, and
grooming of domestic animals, excluding livestock, within an outpatient
facility. OUTPATIENT ANIMAL SERVICES shall, as a minimum, meet the following
requirements.
         (a)   OUTPATIENT ANIMAL SERVICES shall not have or make any provision
for boarding any animal.
         (b)   Any animal brought to the service location shall stay under the
direct control and supervision of the animal’s owner or owner’s representative.
         (c)   Any and all animals brought to the service location shall be
leashed or caged at all times except when under the direct control of the
person or persons giving service.
         (d)   Each veterinary service shall create and exclusively use an
entrance to the service apart from any other entrance to any other associated
use.
      PARKING SPACE. Space used for the temporary, transient storage of private
passenger vehicles used for personal transportation. Parking shall not include
storage for any other purpose other than specified above.
      PERSONAL SERVICE. Any enterprise conducted for gain which primarily
offers services to the general public such as, but not limited to, shoe repair,
watch repair, barber shops, beauty parlors, and similar activities.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A project controlled by one owner, partnership,
or corporation and characterized by a unified site design, involving varying
the normal zoning requirements and restrictions so that the maximum long-range
benefit can be gained and the unique features of the site preserved and
enhanced.
      PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITY. A public facility established for the protection
and welfare of the surrounding neighborhood, including, but not limited to, a
police station, fire station, or ambulance center.
      PUBLIC USE. Use for a public purpose by a city, school district, county,
state, or any other public agency or a public utility.
      PUBLIC UTILITY FACILITY. A structure or facility including poles or
towers exceeding 48 feet in height used by a public utility, including, but not
limited to, gas, electric, or telephone.
      RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT. Specialized non-polluting activities with
emphasis on investigation, experimentation, testing, engineering, inventing,
and conceptually designing prototypes and new technologies or associated light
manufacturing. These technologies may include electronics, computer and data
systems, medical and precision instruments, machine components, communication
systems and equipment, and other technological instruments, equipment, and
systems.
      SCHOOLS. Pre-schools, kindergarten, elementary, junior-high, high
schools, colleges, and universities.
      SEMI-PUBLIC USE. Churches, Sunday schools, parochial schools, colleges,
hospitals and other facilities of an educational, religious, charitable,
philanthropic, or non-profit nature.
      SERVICE STATION. A personal service establishment involving the
dispensing of vehicle fuels and/or automobile repair.
      SETBACK. The distance, measured at right angles to a given lot line,
between said lot line and an imaginary line parallel to said lot line, defining
an area between such lines within which no building may be placed.
      SHORT-TERM OCCUPANCY. The rental of any unit or structure of portion
thereof for a period of not more than 30 days.
      SIGN. Any structure or natural object, or part thereof, or device
attached thereto or painted or represented thereon, which shall be used to
attract the attention to any product, place, activity, person, institution,
organization, or business, or which displays or includes any letter, work,
model, banner, flag, pennant, insignia, device, or representation used as, or
which is in the nature of, an announcement, direction, or advertisement.
         (a)   SIGN, ADVERTISING. Any sign that includes descriptive phrases or
logos intended for advertising purposes.
         (b)   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL. Any sign that contains only a name of any
building or use and its addresses or the distance to such building or use.
         (c)   SIGN, IDENTIFICATION. Any sign that contains only a name or
address of any building or use.
         (d)   SIGN, OFF-SITE. Any sign that is unrelated to a building or use
situated or conducted on the lot where such sign is located.
         (e)   SIGN, ON-SITE. Any sign that is related to a building or use
situated or conducted on the lot where such sign is located.
         (f)   SIGN, PERMANENT. Any sign that is erected in any given location
for a period of one year or more.
         (g)   SIGN, PORTABLE. A sandwich-board sign not attached to a building
to be placed on the ground for temporary use during business hours.
         (h)   SIGN, PROJECTING. Any sign that is attached to a building and
any part of which is six or more inches from such building.
         (i)   SIGN, TEMPORARY. Any sign that is erected in any given location
for a period of less than one year.
      SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A detached building, including attached or
detached carports and automobile garages, containing living facilities
including provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation for not more
than one family.
      SOLAR ACCESS. An unobstructed exposure to sunlight and solar radiation
upon land or a building.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS. Any device, structure, or mechanisms that use solar
radiation as an energy source for heating, cooling, or electrical energy.
         (a)   ACTIVE. An indirect thermal system in which solar heat is
collected and stored in devices separated from the building space to be
conditioned using conventional energy systems (fans, pumps, and the like).
         (b)   HYBRID. A system that employs aspects of both active and passive
designs.
         (c)   PASSIVE. The collection and storage of solar radiation for
heating or cooling by non-mechanical means.
      SOUTH. Thirty degrees east or west of true south. In the city, TRUE SOUTH
is approximately eighteen degrees east of magnetic south.
      STREAM ALTERATION. To obstruct, diminish, destroy, alter, modify,
relocate, or change the existing shape of the natural channel within or below
the mean high water mark. It includes removal of material or structures in the
stream channel.
      STREET. A public thoroughfare that affords the principal means of access
to abutting property.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to something having a fixed location on
the ground. For the purposes of flood hazard regulations, the definition shall
include gas or liquid storage tanks that are located principally above ground.
      SUNSPACE. An area of building designed and constructed to collect and
retain energy, usually for human habitation.
      TOWNHOUSE. A dwelling unit in a multiple-family dwelling, which is owned
together with the ground under the unit.
      TRELLIS. A light construction of lattice work no more than eight feet in
height. Said lattice work shall be of open design.
      USABLE OPEN SPACE. An area not encumbered with any roadway, parking area,
or substantial structure maintained for either informal or structured
recreational uses.
      USE. The purpose for which land or a building thereon is designed,
arranged, intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
      VARIANCE. A modification of the requirements of the zoning regulations as
to lot area, lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear yard
setback, parking space, or other regulation affecting the size or shape of a
structure or the placement of structures upon lots, or the size of the lots and
signs. A VARIANCE shall not include a modification of allowed uses.
      YARD. The portion of the open area on a lot existing open and
unobstructed from the ground upward from a given lot line for a depth or width
specified by the setback regulations for the district in which the lot is
located.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.020 ADMINISTRATOR APPOINTED.
   (A)   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Zoning Code, an
Administrator and a Commission are hereby created.
   (B)   The Council shall appoint an Administrator to administer this chapter.
The Administrator may be provided with the assistance of such other persons as
the Council may direct. The duties of the Administrator shall include, but not
be limited to:
      (1)   Advise interested citizens of the Zoning Code provisions;
      (2)   Inform the news media regarding land use and zoning matters of
public interest;
      (3)   Aid applicants in the preparation of required forms and permit
applications. Where practical, related permits may be combined for the
convenience of the applicant;
      (4)   Recommend enforcement of this chapter in accordance with §§
154.205 through
154.210 of this chapter;
      (5)   Receive, file, and transmit to the Commission and Council all
applications, past history, transcripts, and other communications on which they
must act. He or she must also advise the Commission and the Council of
pertinent provisions of the chapter regarding proposals;
      (6)   Maintain permanent and current records of applications, zoning
changes, variances, special use permits, planned unit developments, and of the
hearings and action thereon;
      (7)   Inspect and make recommendations upon all filed plats pursuant to
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances;
      (8)   Maintain a current Official Zoning Map and interpret boundaries of
zone districts; and
      (9)   Provide a liaison between the Commission and Council.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.021 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Planning and Zoning Commission consisting
of no more than seven and no less than three voting members, appointed by the
Mayor and confirmed by a majority vote of the City Council, all of whom shall
have been residents of the county for the two years prior to appointment to the
Commission and shall be residents of the city at the time of appointment;
except that, one-third of the members may reside outside the corporate limits
of the city, but within the city’s area of impact.
   (B)   Each member must remain a resident of the city, or in the case of the
city’s area of impact, within the impact area, during the term of his or her
office on the Commission.
   (C)   Each member shall serve for a term of five years. The terms shall be
staggered in groups of three, two, and one, respectively. Vacancies occurring
otherwise than through the expiration of terms shall be filled in the same
manner as original appointments, but replacements shall serve only until the
expiration of the original appointments; replacements shall serve only until
the expiration of the original term. Members shall be selected without respect
to political affiliation.
   (D)   Members may be removed for cause by a majority vote of the Council.
Any member who misses three consecutive Commission meetings will be deemed to
have resigned and shall be replaced in the manner provided by this section.
   (E)   The Commission shall elect a chairperson and create and fill any other
offices that it may deem necessary. The Commission may establish sub-
committees, advisory committees, or neighborhood groups to advise and assist in
carrying out the responsibilities and duties of the Commission. The Commission
may appoint non-vote ex-official advisors as may be deemed necessary.
   (F)   The Commission shall maintain a record of meetings, hearings,
resolutions, studies, findings, permits, and actions taken. All meetings and
records shall be open to the public. At least one regular meeting shall be held
each month for not less than nine months in a year. A majority of voting
members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum.
   (G)   With approval of the City Council through the legally required
budgetary process, the Commission may receive and expend funds, goods, and
services from the federal government or agencies and instrumentalities of state
or local governments or from civic and private sources and may contract with
these entities and provide information and reports as necessary to secure aid.
Expenditures by the Commission shall be within the amounts appropriated by the
City Council. Within such limits, the Commission is authorized to hire or
contract with employees and technical advisors, including, but not limited to,
planners, engineers, architects, and legal assistants.
   (H)   The Commission shall have the following duties:
      (1)   Initiate amendments to the Zoning and Subdivision Codes, the
comprehensive plan, and make recommendations to the Council;
      (2)   Review all proposed amendments to these code of ordinances, the
comprehensive plan, and make recommendations to the Council;
      (3)   Review subdivision proposals according to the process outlined in
the Subdivision subchapter and make recommendations to the Council;
      (4)   Review applications for zoning changes, planned unit developments,
and make recommendations to the Council;
      (5)   Review and grant or deny special use permits and attach such
conditions as will uphold the intent of the chapter; and
      (6)   Review and grant or deny variance applications.
   (I)   The Council, in creating the Commission, shall provide that the areas
and interests within its jurisdiction are broadly represented on the
Commission. A member or employee of the Council or Commission shall not
participate in any proceeding or action when the member or employee, or their
employer, business partner, business associate, or any person related to them
by affinity or consanguinity with the second degree has an economic interest in
the procedure or action. Any actual or potential interest in any proceeding
shall be disclosed at or before any meeting at which the action is being heard
or considered.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.022 APPEALS.
   Any interested party may appeal in writing any final decision of the
Administrator or Commission to the Council by filing an appeal with the City
Clerk within 15 days from the date of the decision. The appeal shall
specifically state the decision appealed and reasons for the appeal. If no
appeal is filed within the 15-day period, the decision shall be deemed final.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE OF DISTRICTS
§ 154.035 GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the General Residential District is to provide
areas for a variety of residential uses and a limited number of other uses
compatible with this type of residential development. The intent is to preserve
the favorable amenities associated with a residential neighborhood.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses for the General Residential District
are limited to the following:
      (1)   Residences.
         (a)   Multi-family dwellings; and
         (b)   Single-family residences.
      (2)   Community facilities.
         (a)   Bus pickup shelters;
         (b)   Churches;
         (c)   Day care homes;
         (d)   Historic sites and monuments;
         (e)   Open space;
         (f)   Parks, playgrounds, and golf courses; and
         (g)    Schools.
      (3)   Businesses. Home occupations.
   (C)   Conditional uses. Conditional uses for the General Residential
District are limited to the following:
      (1)   Residences. Mobile home parks.
      (2)   Lodging.
         (a)   Bed and breakfast inns;
         (b)   Boarding and rooming houses; and
         (c)   Recreational vehicle parks.
      (3)   Community facilities.
         (a)   Day care centers;
         (b)   Day care facilities;
         (c)   Non-motorized transportation/recreation pathways; and
         (d)   Public service and public utility facilities.
      (4)   Businesses. Commercial facilities catering to mobile home or
recreational vehicle parks.
   (D)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses for the General Residential District
are limited to the following:
      (1)   Commercial facilities incidental to golf courses;
      (2)   Detached garages;
      (3)   Gardens;
      (4)   Private greenhouses;
      (5)   Horses/pets and family food production animals. A maximum of two
animal units (AU) per acre are permitted as an accessory use on lots of a one-
half acre minimum size (Exceptions: Two horses may be kept on a one-half acre
lot. Pigs need to be kept clean and at least 50 feet from a property boundary
to avoid nuisance odors.);
      (6)   Storage buildings; and
      (7)   Swimming pools.
   (E)   Bulk requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size: 8,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet, except townhouse sub-lots shall conform
to the standards established in the Uniform Fire Code, as adopted by the city.
      (3)   Maximum building height: 35 feet.
      (4)   Minimum front yard setback: 20 feet.
      (5)   Minimum side and rear yard setback: one foot for every three feet
or fraction thereof of building height and no side or rear yard shall be less
than ten feet, except the townhouse sub-lot side yard setback along the common
wall boundary line shall be zero feet.
   (F)   Mobile home parks. Should a special use permit be granted for a mobile
home park, the bulk requirements of listed under the Business District shall be
considered the minimum requirements for this General Residential District.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.036 BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Business District is to provide areas for
general business, commercial activities, and a limited number of residential
uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses for the Business District are limited
to the following:
      (1)   Residences.
         (a)   Dwelling units within business buildings;
         (b)   Mobile home parks;
         (c)   Multi-family dwellings; and
         (d)   Single-family residences.
      (2)   Lodging.
         (a)   Bed and breakfast inns;
         (b)   Boarding and rooming houses;
         (c)   Hotels;
         (d)   Motels; and
         (e)   Recreational vehicle parks.
      (3)   Community facilities.
         (a)   Bus pickup shelters;
         (b)   Colleges, vocational/technical trade schools;
         (c)   Day care centers;
         (d)   Day care facilities;
         (e)   Historic sites and monuments;
         (f)   Hospitals;
         (g)   Medical clinics;
         (h)   Non-motorized transportation/recreation pathways;
         (i)   Nursing homes/sanitariums;
         (j)   Open space;
         (k)   Professional offices;
         (l)   Public service and public utility facilities;
         (m)   Recreational uses (indoor and outdoor);
         (n)   Schools; and
         (o)   Swimming pools.
      (4)   Businesses.
         (a)   Automobile sales;
         (b)   Building maintenance firms;
         (c)   Catering services;
         (d)   Commercial facilities catering to mobile home or RV parks;
         (e)   Construction and building supply sales;
         (f)   Convenience stores;
         (g)   Electrical and plumbing contractors;
         (h)   Entertainment and recreational uses;
         (i)   Home occupations;
         (j)   Light manufacturing;
         (k)   Mercantile (wholesale and retail);
         (l)   Mini storage;
         (m)   Nurseries and garden centers;
         (n)   Pharmacies and medical supply stores;
         (o)   Photographic processing laboratories;
         (p)   Printing and publishing establishments;
         (q)   Research and development;
         (r)   Restaurants;
         (s)   Service stations;
         (t)   Telecommunication broadcasting studios;
         (u)   Veterinary clinics and animal hospitals; and
         (v)   Wholesale distributors.
   (C)   Conditional uses. Conditional uses for the Business District are
limited to the following:
      (1)   Community facilities.
         (a)   Churches;
         (b)   Day care homes;
         (c)   Onsite day care for children of employees only; and
         (d)   Parks, playgrounds, and golf courses.
      (2)   Businesses.
         (a)   Agricultural purposes;
         (b)   Automobile body and fender operations;
         (c)   Commercial facilities incidental to golf courses;
         (d)   Hybrid production facilities;
         (e)   Parking lots and parking garages not with permitted use;
         (f)   Sales, rental, and servicing of trailers, farm implements; and
         (g)   Warehouse and storage facilities.
   (D)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses for the Business District are limited
to the following:
      (1)   Detached garages; and
      (2)   Storage buildings.
   (E)   Bulk requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size: 6,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 50 feet.
      (3)   Maximum building height: 35 feet.
      (4)   Minimum front yard setback: 20 feet.
      (5)   Minimum side and rear yard setback: one foot for every three feet
or fraction thereof of building height no side or rear yard shall be less than
ten feet.
   (F)   Additional regulations.
      (1)   Project features that may have a negative impact upon adjacent
property shall be buffered from said property.
      (2)   Mobile home parks shall be no less than one-half acre in size and
shall comply with the following:
         (a)   Minimum park width: 75 feet.
         (b)   Minimum front yard setback: 25 feet.
         (c)   Minimum side and rear yard setbacks: ten feet.
         (d)   Maximum building height: 35 feet.
         (e)   The following shall be provided for all mobile home parks
according to plans approved by the Planning Commission:
            1.   Water and sewer systems;
            2.   Twenty-four-foot wide paved and lighted driveways;
            3.   Four-foot wide paved and lighted walkways;
            4.   Usable open space at a minimum of 25% of the total lot area
excluding paved areas.
            5.   Sanitary service building connection to city sewer and water
system and a method for refuse disposal.
            6.    Each manufactured home space shall have a minimum area of
1,800 square feet and a minimum width of 30 feet.
            7.   A minimum of ten feet of clear path shall be provided between
manufactured homes.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.037 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Light Industrial District is to provide
areas for light industrial operations and limited related or associated retail
sales. Limited related retail sales is defined as restricted to retail sales
clearly associated with and secondary to the permitted use and of the type not
normally located in downtown business districts (e.g., the retail sale of auto
parts by an auto dealership). The area is characterized by outdoor display
areas, industrial and service type traffic usage, and patterns and light
manufacturing, or construction related services. The intent is to group these
uses that demand similar circulation patterns and service requirements together
and provide regulations to preserve the integrity of the industrial uses while
insuring the health, welfare, and safety of the community.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses for the Light Industrial District are
limited to the following:
      (1)   Community facilities.
         (a)   Bus pickup shelters;
         (b)   Historic sites and monuments;
         (c)   Open space; and
         (d)   Public service and public utility facilities.
      (2)   Businesses.
         (a)   Automobile body and fender operations;
         (b)   Automobile sales;
         (c)   Building maintenance firms;
         (d)   Construction and building supply sales;
         (e)   Electrical and plumbing contractors;
         (f)   Fabrication of wood, metal, plastic, or other materials;
         (g)   Home occupations;
         (h)   Hybrid production facilities;
         (i)   Industrial laundry/dry cleaning services;
         (j)   Light manufacturing;
         (k)   Nurseries and garden centers;
         (l)   Photographic processing laboratories;
         (m)   Printing and publishing establishments;
         (n)   Research and development;
         (o)   Sales, rental and servicing of trailers, farm implements;
         (p)   Service stations;
         (q)   Telecommunication broadcasting studios;
         (r)   Warehouse and storage facilities; and
         (s)   Wholesale distributors.
      (3)   Conditional uses. Conditional uses for the Light Industrial
District are limited to the following:
         (a)   Residences. A single-family dwelling on five-acre parcel.
         (b)   Community facilities.
            1.   Non-motorized transportation/recreation pathways;
            2.   Onsite day care for children of employees only; and
            3.   Professional offices.
         (c)   Businesses.
            1.   Agricultural purposes;
            2.   Catering services;
            3.   Mercantile (wholesale and retail);
            4.   Mini storage;
            5.   Parking lots and parking garages not with permitted use;
            6.   Personal services establishments; and
            7.   Veterinary clinics and animal hospitals.
      (4)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses in the Light Industrial District are
limited to storage buildings.
      (5)   Bulk requirements.
         (a)   Minimum lot size: 6,000 square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet.
         (c)   Maximum lot coverage: not more than 75% of the lot shall be
covered by buildings.
         (d)   Maximum height of buildings or structures: 35 feet.
         (e)   Minimum front yard setback: 20 feet.
         (f)   Minimum side and rear yard setback: none except where the
subject property is located adjacent to the following districts: General
Residential, MH, or LB in which case the side and rear yard setback shall be 25
feet. No building shall be less than ten feet from any street.
      (6)   Additional requirements.
         (a)   No land or building in the Light Industrial District shall be
used or occupied in any manner creating dangerous, injurious, noxious or any
other objectionable conditions, which could adversely affect the surrounding
areas or adjoining premises. Appropriate measures shall be taken to reduce
dangerous and objectionable conditions to acceptable limits as established by
the following requirements.
            1.   Fire hazards. Any activity involving the use or storage of
flammable or explosive materials shall be protected by adequate fire fighting
and fire prevention equipment and by such safety devices as are normally used
in the handling of any such material. Such hazards shall be kept removed from
adjacent activities to a distance that is compatible with the potential danger
involved as specified in the Uniform Fire Code.
            2.   Radioactivity or electrical disturbances. No activity shall
emit harmful radioactivity or electrical disturbances.
            3.   Noise. Objectionable noise, as determined by the Commission,
which is due to
volume, frequency, or beat, shall be muffled or otherwise controlled. Air raid
sirens and related apparatus used solely for public purposes are exempt from
this requirement. The Commission may set standards for maximum noise levels.
            4.   Vibration. Vibration that can be detected without instruments
on any adjoining lot or property shall be prohibited.
            5.   Air and water pollution. Air and water pollution shall be
subject to the requirements and regulations established by the state. All users
shall be connected to the city sewer system and comply with the requirements
for using the system.
            6.   Glare. No direct or reflected glare shall be permitted which
is visible from any properly outside the Light Industrial District or from any
street.
            7.   Erosion. No erosion by humans, wind, or water shall be
permitted which will carry objectionable substances onto neighboring
properties.
         (b)   All materials, with the exception of trees and plant materials
stored on the premises, and all machinery and vehicles other than those for
sale, display, or parked temporarily, shall be stored within a building or
within a wall or fence not less than five, nor more than six, feet in height.
Subject to approval of the Administrator earth berms and landscaping with
sufficient height and density may be substituted for a wall or fence.
         (c)   Landscaping shall be provided and maintained in all required
yards.
         (d)   Landscape screening shall be provided and maintained in the
required yards adjacent to the General Residential or Business Zone Districts
to protect these areas from undue intrusion of noise, light, odor, and other
influences. Such landscaping shall, at a minimum, consist of:
            1.   A hedge, berm, solid wall, or solid fence not less than five,
not more than six, feet in height along any side or rear yards;
            2.   One row of deciduous or evergreen trees or a mixture of each
placed no further apart than 15 feet; and
            3.   Lawn, low growing evergreen shrub, evergreen, or ground cover
on the balance of the required landscaped yards.
      (7)   Conflicting and prohibited uses. Conflicting uses are those that
are incompatible with the permitted uses in the Light Industrial District and
shall be prohibited within the district and shall require buffering if adjacent
to the Light Industrial District. These prohibited uses include, but are not
limited to, the following:
         (a)   Residences.
            1.   Dwelling units within business buildings;
            2.   Mobile home parks;
            3.   Multi-family dwellings; and
            4.   Single-family residences.
         (b)   Lodging.
            1.   Hotels; and
            2.   Motels.
         (c)   Community facilities.
            1.   Churches;
            2.   Hospitals;
            3.   Nursing homes/sanitariums.
            4.   Schools;
            5.   Heavy industry; and
            6.   Restaurants.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.038 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Agricultural District is to provide areas
for a variety of agricultural land. The intent is to preserve the rural quality
of the peripheral areas of the town.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses for the Agricultural District are
limited to the following:
      (1)   Residences. Single-family dwelling on five-acre parcel.
      (2)   Community facilities.
         (a)   Bus pickup shelters;
         (b)   Day care homes;
         (c)   Historic sites and monuments;
         (d)   Non-motorized transportation/recreation pathways; and
         (e)   Open space.
      (3)   Businesses.
         (a)   Agricultural purposes; and
         (b)   Home occupations.
   (C)   Conditional uses. Conditional uses for the Agricultural District are
limited to the following:
      (1)   Lodging. Bed and breakfast inns; and
      (2)   Businesses. Entertainment and recreational uses.
   (D)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses for the Agricultural District are
limited to the following:
      (1)   Detached garages; and
      (2)   Storage buildings.
   (E)   Bulk requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size: Five acres.
      (2)   Maximum building height: Equal to the distance to the nearest
boundary.
      (3)   Minimum front yard setback: 50 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side and rear yard setback: Ten feet.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.039 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The districts established in §§
154.035 through
154.038 above are shown on the Official Zoning Map of the city, which the
Official Zoning Map, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby
adopted as part of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Unless otherwise defined on the Official Zoning Map, district
boundary lines are lot lines; the centerlines of streets, alleys, railroad
rights-of-way, or streambeds, municipal corporate lines, or other lines drawn
to scale on the Official Zoning Map.
      (2)   If a lot is divided by a zoning district boundary line at the time
of the enactment of this code of ordinances or by subsequent amendments, the
less restrictive zoning requirements may be extended not more than 25 feet into
the more restrictive zoning district adjacent to the zoning district boundary
line.
   (C)   The Official Zoning Map shall be amended according to the procedure
set forth below in §§
154.205 through
154.210 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.040 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The regulations for each district set forth by this code of ordinances
shall be minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of
structure or land, except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   No building, structure, or land shall be used or occupied and no
building or structure or part thereof shall be erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in conformity with all of
the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
   (C)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this code of
ordinances shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements
set forth herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of the Zoning
Code shall meet at least the minimum requirements set forth herein.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
FENCES
§ 154.055 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   No fence may be located, constructed, or maintained in such a way as to
obstruct the view of intersections by motorists and pedestrians. This shall be
a requirement in all districts.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.056 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   (A)   For all uses in the General Residential District, fences shall not
exceed four feet in height when located within the required front yard setback
and six feet when located within the required side and rear yard setbacks.
   (B)   For all uses in Light Industrial and Business Districts, fences shall
not exceed six feet in height.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.057 ENTRYWAY GATES.
   Entryway gates shall be permitted only as part of an approved fence, shall
contain material sized no larger than twice the size of the material utilized
in the fence, shall be located no less than ten feet from any existing or
proposed structure, and shall be no more than eight feet in height. The height
limitation may be waived in the Agricultural District.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.058 FENCE PERMIT AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Fence permit. A fence permit shall be required for all fences in all
districts.
   (B)   Application. The application for a fence permit shall include, at a
minimum, the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Proposed location of the fence;
      (3)   Drawing of the fence, to scale, showing its relationship to any
adjacent buildings or structures and property lines;
      (4)   Type of materials to be used;
      (5)   Method of installation; and
      (6)   Fees for fence permits are established in a separate resolution.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
SIGNS
§ 154.070 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to aid in the development and promotion of
business and industry by providing sign regulations which encourage aesthetic
creativity, effectiveness, and flexibility in the design of such devices
without creating detriment to the general public.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.071 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING FRONTAGE. The width of a building facing the street to which the
building or business is oriented. In the case of corner lots, the FRONTAGE
shall be one of the streets to which the building is oriented, to be determined
by the Administrator.
   SIGN. Every advertising message, announcement, declaration, demonstration,
display, illustration, insignia, surface, or space erected or maintained in
view of the observer thereof for identification, advertisement, or promotion of
the interest of any person, entity, product, or service. The definition of SIGN
shall also include the SIGN structure, supports, lighting system, and any
attachments, ornaments, or other features used to draw the attention of others.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign that is intended for use during a specified, limited
time, and removed from display following that specified time.
   WALL SIGN. Any sign attached parallel to, but within nine inches of, a wall,
painted on the wall surface of, or erected and confined within the limits of an
outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by such wall or
building, and which displays only one sign surface.
   WINDOW SIGN. Any sign installed upon or within three feet of a window for
the purpose of viewing from outside the premises. This term does not include
merchandise displayed.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.072 APPLICATIONS AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Sign permit. A sign permit shall be required for all signs over four
square feet in size per face. No person shall erect, alter, or relocate any
permanent or temporary sign greater than four square feet in face area within
the city without first obtaining a sign permit from the city.
   (B)   Application. The application for a sign permit shall include, at a
minimum, the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Proposed location of the sign;
      (3)   Drawing of the sign, to scale, showing its relationship to any
adjacent buildings or structures and property lines, including color;
      (4)   A site plan drawn to scale which specifies the building frontage,
the location of the sign structure, or drawings which show the scale of the
sign in context with the scale of the building if the sign is to be mounted on
the building;
      (5)   A rendering of the text and graphics to be displayed on the sign;
      (6)   The type of materials to be used;
      (7)   The method of installation and a copy of a state electrical
installation permit for any illuminated sign; and
      (8)   Fees for fence and sign permits are established in a separate
resolution.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.073 REMOVAL OF ILLEGAL OR UNSAFE SIGNS.
   Any sign which has been determined to be unsafe by a Building and Safety
Official, of which has been constructed, erected, or maintained in violation of
this subchapter, must be repaired, made safe, made in conformance with this
Zoning Code, or removed within ten working days after receipt of certified
notice from the city.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.074 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   No person shall erect, maintain, or relocate any sign as specified in this
subchapter in any district.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING SPACES
§ 154.085 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No building or structure shall be erected, its occupancy changed, or its use
changed unless permanently maintained off-street parking and loading spaces,
where appropriate, have been provided in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.086 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Location of parking spaces. The following regulations shall govern the
location of off-street parking spaces and areas:
      (1)   Parking spaces for all single-family dwellings shall be located on
the same lot as the use for which they are intended to serve; and
      (2)   Parking spaces for commercial, industrial, multi-family, or
institutional uses shall be located not more that 300 feet from the principal
use.
   (B)   Maintenance. The owner of the property used for parking and/or loading
shall maintain such area in good condition without holes and free of all dust,
trash, other debris, and snow.
   (C)   Surfacing. All required parking and loading spaces, together with
driveways, aisles, and other circulation areas, shall be surfaced with asphalt,
concrete, compacted gravel, or other dustless material.
   (D)   Drainage. All parking and loading areas shall provide for on-site
drainage of surface water to prevent the drainage of such water onto adjacent
properties, walkways, or into the public rights-of-way.
   (E)   Lighting. Any parking area that is intended to be used during non-
daylight hours shall be properly illuminated to avoid accidents. Any lights
used to illuminate a parking lot shall be so arranged as to direct the light
away from the adjoining property.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
§ 154.100 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The city recognizes that strict adherence to the bulk regulations set
forth in this chapter on a lot-by-lot basis is not always the most effective
manner in which to carry out the intent of this chapter and the goals and
objectives of the comprehensive plan. The Planned Unit Development (PUD)
process encourages flexibility and creativity in the development of land in
order to improve the design, character, and quality of new development with the
end goal of meeting the requirements for project approval outlined in §
154.109.
   (B)   Specific purposes of the planned unit development process include:
      (1)   Promoting flexibility in the type, design, and siting of structures
to preserve and take advantage of the site’s unique natural resources or scenic
features, and to avoid or mitigate any hazardous areas, thereby improving the
character and quality of new development;
      (2)   Encouraging more efficient use of land, public streets, utilities,
and government services;
      (3)   Preserving open space for the benefit of residents of planned unit
developments, as well as the community in general;
      (4)   Achieving a compatible relationship between the uses in the planned
unit developments as well as the community in general; and
      (5)   Encouraging the use of renewable resources and energy conservation
measures.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.101 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permission. Planned unit developments are permitted in all zone
districts.
   (B)   Minimum lot size. Minimum lot size for a PUD is one acre. All land
within the development shall be contiguous except for intervening streets and
waterways.
   (C)   One ownership. A tract or parcel of land that is proposed for PUD
development must be in one ownership or the subject of an application filed
jointly by the owners of all property included.
   (D)   Orientation and placing. Street and lot orientation, landscaping, and
placement of structures shall provide for solar access to all south roofs and
walls to the maximum extent feasible in order to promote energy efficiency.
   (E)   Emergency vehicles. Buildings may not be so arranged that any
structure is inaccessible to emergency vehicles.
   (F)   Underground utility placement. Underground utilities, including
telephone and electrical systems, shall be required within the limits of all
PUDs, except where lava rock makes it impracticable.
   (G)   Final development plan. A final development plan including the
information described in §
154.106 shall be filed with the City Clerk to serve as a record of the approved
land uses and project site design. Minor changes in the location, siting, or
character of buildings and structures may be authorized by the Administrator.
All requests shall be in writing and supported by such documentation as
reasonably required by the Administrator. If the Administrator determines that
the proposed modification represents a significant change to the proposed
project, the City Council shall consider the request according to the hearing
procedure set forth in §
154.106.
   (H)   Density. Uses shall relate to those already established in the
standard zone districts as described in §§
154.035 through
154.040 of this code of ordinances and densities shall be no greater than those
established for uses in §§
154.035 through
154.040 and the standard zoning regulations except the Council may grant
additional density according to §
154.103.
   (I)   Phased development.
      (1)   The development of the PUD may be planned in phases; provided that,
as part of the general submission, a development schedule is approved which
describes:
         (a)   An application for detailed submission in phases;
         (b)   The parcels that are to be constructed upon in each phase and
the date of each phase submission;
         (c)   The number of units to be built in each submission; and
         (d)   A schedule for the construction of improvements, of making
contributions, for various amenities, public services and facilities, open
space, and employee housing.
      (2)   Each stage within the PUD shall be so planned and related to
existing and/or planned services and facilities, including commercial space,
such that each phase is self-sufficient and not dependent on later phases and
so that failure to proceed to the subsequent stages will not have any adverse
impacts on the PUD, its surroundings, or the community in general. Each stage
shall also be planned so as to insure that open space and any other amenities
will be provided along with proposed residential construction at each phase of
construction.
   (J)   Common usable open space. The following minimum requirements shall
apply to common usable open space, defined for the purpose of this subchapter
as an area not encumbered by any roadway, parking area, or substantial
structure and which is maintained for the purpose of being used and enjoyed for
either informal or structured recreational uses by the residents of the PUD
project.
      (1)   A proportionate, undivided interest in all common, usable open
space shall be granted in perpetuity to each lot or unit owner within the PUD;
      (2)   The deed shall contain restrictions against any encroachment into
the common open space area;
      (3)   A long-term maintenance plan shall be provided; and
      (4)   The property owners shall be responsible for maintaining the common
usable open space for the benefit of the residents of the PUD.
   (K)   Public easement. In each case where a PUD project is located adjacent
to public lands, a public easement to those lands shall be provided.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.102 BULK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Council may grant modifications or waivers of zoning requirements
to carry out the intent of this chapter and code of ordinances and the land use
policies of the city.
   (B)   In no case shall uses, including accessory uses, be permitted which
would otherwise be prohibited in the district in which a PUD or portion thereof
is to be located.
   (C)   In order to provide flexibility in the type and design of structures,
the maximum height of buildings and structures may be varied in consideration
of the following factors:
      (1)   Geographic location;
      (2)   The probable effect on surrounding slopes and terrain;
      (3)   Adverse visual effect on adjacent sites or other areas in the
immediate vicinity; potential problems for adjacent sites caused by shadows,
loss of circulation, or loss of view;
      (4)   Effect on the general area with respect to the creation of extreme
contrast in building height or interruption of vistas or obstruction of open
space; and
      (5)   Uses within the building or structure.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.103 DENSITY BONUS.
   (A)   The following maximum increases in density may be granted singularly
or cumulatively only if the accompanying conditions are met:
      (1)   Ten percent: Solar, wind, mini-hydro or geothermal energy will
provide at least 50% of the total energy needs of the PUD.
      (2)   Twenty percent: Solar, wind, mini-hydro or geothermal energy will
provide 100% of the total energy needs of the PUD.
      (3)   Ten percent: At least 25% of the property included in the PUD is
located in the floodplain and no development occurs within the floodplain.
      (4)   Ten percent: A recreational resource such as tennis courts, ball
fields, swimming pools, or gymnasiums maintained by a homeowners association or
other administrative entity established by contract as part of the PUD is made
available to either the residents of the PUD exclusively or the general public.
   (B)   Density bonuses for project amenities and benefits to the community
other than those listed here may be granted in order to carry out the purpose
and intent of this subchapter and the land use policies of the city.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.104 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   The number of off-street parking spaces required by this subchapter
may be increased or decreased in consideration of the following factors:
      (1)   The estimated number of cars owned by future occupants of dwellings
in the PUD;
      (2)   The parking needs of any non-residential uses; and
      (3)   The varying time periods of use, whenever joint use of common
parking is proposed.
   (B)   Whenever the number of off-street parking spaces is reduced because of
the nature of the occupancy, the city shall obtain assurances that the nature
of the occupancy will not change.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.105 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   Any person proposing to develop a PUD shall obtain a PUD permit, as herein
provided, prior to any construction, subdivision, or sale or offering for sale
of any units, structures, or land within the subject property. The goal of §
154.106 is to provide some certainty for the applicant as to how the permit
process is to occur with the goal of minimizing the processing time. Pre-
application conferences with the Administrator are encouraged in order to
acquaint the applicant with the PUD process and allow staff to informally
review the proposed project. Once the application is deemed complete, the
Administrator shall work closely with the applicant and other city staff
members to bring the required information before the Planning Commission in a
timely manner.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.106 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for approval of a proposed PUD shall be made to the
Planning and Zoning Commission upon forms furnished by the city, and as part
thereof shall include three copies of the development plan. An application
shall not be deemed filed until complete and all required fees paid. The City
Clerk shall certify the date when an application is deemed complete for the
purpose of beginning the review process and the time limitations set forth
herein. The original application shall be kept on file at City Hall and a copy
of the dated application form shall be given to the applicant.
   (B)   The application form shall contain the following information and
exhibits:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of applicant;
      (2)   Name, address, and telephone number of registered surveyor and/or
registered engineer assisting in the preparation of the preliminary development
plan;
      (3)   Legal description of the property;
      (4)   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the Administrator, showing
property lines, streets, existing and proposed zoning, and such other items as
the Administrator may require to show the relationship of the PUD to the
Comprehensive Plan;
      (5)   A preliminary development plan at an appropriate scale showing
location and type of proposed land uses, layout dimensions and names of
existing and proposed streets, rights-of-way, utility easements, community open
space, layout, and dimensions of lots and building setback lines, preliminary
improvement drawings showing water, sewer, drainage, electricity, telephone,
natural gas, and such other characteristics as the Administrator deems
necessary;
      (6)   A drainage plan showing the location, size, and direction of all
water courses and drainage flows, all drainage canals, structures, the proposed
method of disposing of runoff water, and the location and size of all drainage
easements relating thereto, whether they are located within or outside of the
proposed development;
      (7)   A landscaping plan showing the location and size of existing mature
trees and established shrub masses, and showing the location, size, and type of
proposed landscaping of the project;
      (8)   A surveyed contour map of the existing topography of the property
and a contour map of the proposed development with contour lines at a maximum
interval of five feet to show the existing and proposed configuration of the
land, together with the documentation upon which said contour maps were
prepared;
      (9)   A current title report together with a copy of the owner’s recorded
deed to said property. A copy of the applicant’s option to purchase or
unrecorded contract of sale for said property together with the written
notarized consent of the owner(s) of record to said PUD shall be sufficient
evidence of ownership to allow processing of said application. Withdrawal of
consent of an owner of record shall be deemed withdrawal of the application;
      (10)   Location of on-site parking spaces and access thereto, including
the dimensions of the spaces and the width and length of access;
      (11)   Proposed schedule for the development of the site;
      (12)   Studies may be reasonably required prior to or during the review
process by the Administrator, Commission, or Council of the social, economic,
fiscal, or environmental effects of the proposed development;
      (13)   Additional information as reasonably required at the discretion of
the Commission, prior to or during the review process;
      (14)   List of names and addresses of the owners of each parcel within
300 feet of the subject property; and
      (15)   A fee established in a separate resolution adopted by the City
Council.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.107 CONCURRENT SUBMISSION.
   A planned unit development permit application may be submitted and reviewed
concurrently with other applications affecting the same piece of property with
the approval of the Administrator. Concurrent submissions shall be voted on
separately.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.108 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION ACTION.
   (A)   Upon the filing of an application, the City Clerk shall submit it for
review and comment to the Planning, Fire, Water, Sewer, and Streets
Departments, and shall, at the expense of the person submitting the
application, publish a public notice of a hearing before the Planning and
Zoning Commission, which notice must be published once in a local newspaper of
general circulation at least 15 days prior to the hearing. The Official Zoning
Map is required in conjunction with the PUD application. A notice must be
provided in accordance with §
154.157 of this code of ordinances. The Commission shall conduct a public
hearing and review the application, all supporting documents and plans, and
recommendations of city staff, in making their recommendation to the Council.
   (B)   In any public hearing on a PUD application, the presiding officer may
order the hearing to be continued for up to 30 days at the same place, in which
case no further published notice shall be required.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.109 CITY COUNCIL ACTION.
   (A)   At least ten days prior to a noticed public hearing held according to
the procedure set forth in §
154.106, the applicant shall submit a final development plan containing the
following:
      (1)   Name and address of the property owner or person having a presently
existing interest in the property for which the PUD is proposed. Each
application shall be signed by the owner or lessee, attesting to the truth and
exactness of all information supplied on the application for the final
development plan;
      (2)   All the information included as part of the preliminary development
plan as approved by the Commission; and
      (3)   Deed restrictions, protective covenants, and other legal statements
or devices to be used to control the use, development, and maintenance of the
land, and the improvements thereon, including those areas which are to be
commonly owned and maintained.
   (B)   The City Council shall, after hearing and review of the application
and all supporting documentation, plans, and the like, either approve the plan
or disapprove the plan or approve with supplementary conditions that relate
directly to the following findings of fact. These findings are required in
order to approve the modification or waiver of any standard zoning regulation.
If approved, shall find that the facts submitted with the application and
presented to them establish that:
      (1)   The proposed development can be completed within one year of the
date of approval or phased according to a development schedule as described in
§
154.105;
      (2)   The streets and thoroughfares proposed are suitable and adequate to
carry anticipated traffic;
      (3)   The PUD will not create excessive additional requirements at public
cost for public facilities and services;
      (4)   The PUD is in general conformance with the Comprehensive Plan;
      (5)   The existing and proposed utility services are adequate for the
population densities and non-residential uses proposed;
      (6)   The development plan incorporates the site’s significant natural
features;
      (7)   Each phase of such development shall contain all the necessary
elements and improvements to exist independently from proposed future phases in
a stable manner; and
      (8)   Adequate and common useable open space shall be provided.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.110 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   Conditions. The Council may attach conditions to a PUD as it deems
necessary to mitigate potential adverse impacts to the city’s system of
infrastructure, further the city’s land-use policies as established in the
Comprehensive Plan, or to ensure that the benefits derived from the development
justify a departure from the standard zoning regulations. Such conditions may
include, but are not limited to, those which will:
      (1)   Minimize adverse impact on surrounding properties, developments, or
public services, facilities, or utilities;
      (2)   Describe the sequence and time of development;
      (3)   Describe the duration of development;
      (4)   Assure that development is maintained properly;
      (5)   Require the provision for on-site or off-site public improvements,
facilities, or services when the proposed development is found to create a
significant adverse impact on off-site public streets, facilities, utilities,
or services, including, but not limited to, bridges, intersections, road,
traffic control devices, water mains, sewer mains, fire equipment, and
recreational facilities;
      (6)   Require methods or manners of construction to minimize impact on
adjacent properties or to prevent erosion or runoff and similar environmental
impacts;
      (7)   Require dedications of land or cash in lieu thereof for streets,
parks, or similar uses;
      (8)   Require additional plans or engineering revision for any aspect of
the development plan;
      (9)   Require provision of adequate employee housing;
      (10)   Require written agreements executed by the developer to secure
performance of any requirement or condition to be imposed as part of the
approval including, but not limited to, development, services, or annexation
agreements;
      (11)   Require submission of a revised development plan to incorporate
changes made therein during the review process;
      (12)   Require dedication of lands, personal property, or improvements to
the city;
      (13)   Require recordation of documents with the County Recorder
including, but not limited to, declarations of covenants and restrictions,
easements, restrictive covenants, management agreements and similar documents
establishing and guaranteeing the creation, operation, and maintenance of the
project, including, but not limited to, provisions that such documents may not
be amended without the prior written consent of the City Council; and
      (14)   Require that utility lines be placed underground.
   (B)   Notification by the Administrator. The Administrator shall give the
applicant written notice of the Council’s decision by mail within ten days
after the Council has reached a decision.
   (C)   Expiration and extension of approval period. If a project is to be
phased, construction of the second and succeeding phases shall be contingent
upon completion of the preceding phase unless the requirement is waived by the
City Council. Further, if construction on any PUD or phase of any PUD ceases or
is not diligently pursued for a period of one year without the prior consent of
the City Council, the PUD permit shall at that time become null and void.
   (D)   Waiver of time periods. If the City Council determines that an
emergency exists and that the public welfare would be promoted thereby, it
shall have the authority to waive the time requirements for a public hearing
pursuant to §
154.128 and order a joint public hearing of the City Council and the Planning
and Zoning Commission; provided that, the joint public hearing shall be
preceded by at least one publication in a newspaper of general circulation of
the public hearing.
   (E)   Revocation. 
      (1)   The Council, upon request of the Commission, an individual, or
itself, may consider and revoke a PUD permit for either of the following
grounds:
         (a)   Violation of the conditions of the permit after notice of the
violation; or
         (b)   Causing or allowing a nuisance in connection with the premises.
      (2)   If the Council finds that probable cause exists for revocation of a
PUD permit, the City Clerk shall give notice of a hearing to the permittee and
the public in the same manner as notice of a hearing for an application for a
PUD permit. The Council shall hold a hearing on the question of revoking the
permit and, if it finds that grounds for revocation exist, it shall revoke the
permit.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
SPECIAL USE PERMITS
§ 154.125 PURPOSE.
   The city recognizes that certain uses possess unique and special
characteristics with respect to their location, design, size, method of
operation, circulation, and public facilities. In order to protect the public
welfare and guarantee conformance with the Comprehensive Plan, permits are
required for such uses upon review by the Commission. Conditional uses require
a special use permit.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.126 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a special use permit shall be made to the Planning
and Zoning Commission by at least one holder of any interest in the real
property for which such conditional use is proposed.
   (B)   The application shall include at least the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and phone number of the applicant;
      (2)   Proof of interest in the subject property;
      (3)   Legal description of the subject property, including street
address;
      (4)   Description of existing use;
      (5)   Zoning district of subject property;
      (7)   Description of proposed conditional use;
      (8)   A plan of the proposed site for the conditional use showing the
location of all buildings, parking and loading areas, traffic access and
traffic circulation, open spaces, easements, existing and proposed grade,
energy efficiency considerations, landscaping, refuse and service areas,
utilities, signs, property lines, north arrow and rendering of building
exteriors, where applicable;
      (9)   A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining property,
the effect of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes, and vibration on
adjoining property;
      (10)   A narrative statement identifying surrounding land uses and
discussing the general compatibility of the proposed use with adjacent and
other properties in the district;
      (11)   A narrative discussion of the relationship of the proposed use to
the Comprehensive Plan;
      (12)   A list of the names and addresses of all property owners and
residents within 300 feet of the external boundaries of the land being
considered;
      (13)   Any other information as requested by the Administrator to
determine if the proposed conditional use meets the intent and requirements of
this subchapter; and
      (14)   A fee established in a separate resolution approved by the City
Council.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.127 CONCURRENT SUBMISSION.
   (A)   A special use permit application may be submitted and reviewed
concurrently with other applications affecting the same piece of property with
the approval of the Administrator. Additional time for review of concurrent
applications may be specified by the Administrator. Concurrent submissions
shall be voted on separately.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall endorse the date of receipt of the complete
application on the application. The original application shall be kept on file
at City Hall and a copy of the dated application form shall be given to the
applicant.
   (C)   Upon filing of the application, the City Clerk shall submit it for
review and comment by the Planning, Fire, Sewer and Street Departments.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.128 PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   A public hearing shall be held within 45 days of receipt of a complete
application.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall mail to each addressee on the list furnished by
the applicant pursuant to § 154.122, a copy of the notice of the time and place
of the hearing at least 15 days before the date set for the hearing. Failure to
mail such notice to every property owner due to clerical omissions shall not
affect the validity of any hearing or decision.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall have a copy of the notice published at least one
time in the official newspaper of the city. The publication of the notice shall
be at least 15 days before the date set for the hearing.
   (D)   The notice of the hearing which is mailed and published shall contain:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   A brief description of the land that is the subject of the matter
to be heard;
      (3)   The purpose of the hearing and the use of the land that is sought;
and
      (4)   Any other information that is necessary or desirable in the public
interest.
   (E)   The Commission shall hear all persons interested in the matter. The
applicant shall offer competent evidence in support of his or her application,
sufficient to enable the Commission to consider the matter and to make findings
on the subject. The applicant has the burden of presenting all necessary and
relevant information and evidence in support of his or her application.
   (F)   In any public hearing on a special use permit application, the
presiding officer may order the hearing to be continued up to 30 days at the
same place, in which case no further published notice shall be required.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.129 CRITERIA FOR REVIEW.
   The Commission shall review the particular facts and circumstances of each
proposed conditional use in terms of the following standards and, if approved,
shall find adequate evidence showing that such use at the proposed location:
   (A)   Will, in fact, constitute a conditional use as established for the
zoning district involved;
   (B)   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general objectives
or any specific objective of the Comprehensive Plan and this subchapter;
   (C)   Will be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity, and that such use will not change the
essential character of the same area;
   (D)   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring
uses;
   (E)   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
such as highways, streets, police, and fire protection and drainage structure.
Agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able to
provide adequately any such service;
   (F)   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services;
   (G)   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment, or
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property, or
the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare, dust, odors, vibration, water, air pollution, or safety hazards;
   (H)   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be designed
so as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares; and
   (I)   Will not result in the destruction, loss, or damage of a natural,
scenic, or historic feature.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.130 ACTION BY THE COMMISSION.
   The Commission shall make a decision to approve, conditionally approve, or
disapprove the application within 15 days after conclusion of the public
hearing and issue its decision together with the reasons therefor. The
Commission shall review the application, all supporting documents and plans,
and recommendations of city staff in making their decision.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.131 CONDITIONS.
   The Commission may impose any conditions which it deems necessary to secure
the purpose of city regulations and give effect to the Comprehensive Plan.
Conditions that may be attached include, but are not limited to, those which
will:
   (A)   Require conformity to approved plans and specifications;
   (B)   Require or restrict open spaces, buffer strips, walls, fences, signs,
concealing hedges, landscaping, and lighting;
   (C)   Restrict volume of traffic generated, require off-street parking,
restrict vehicular movements within the site and points of vehicular ingress
and egress or other conditions related to traffic based on the recommendations
of a qualified traffic engineer;
   (D)   Require performance characteristics related to the emission of noise,
vibration, and other potentially dangerous or objectionable elements;
   (E)   Limit time of day for the conduct of specified activities;
   (F)   Require guarantees such as performance bonds as to compliance with the
terms of the approval;
   (G)   Require dedications and public improvements on property frontages;
   (H)   Require irrigation ditches, laterals, and canals to be covered or
fenced; and
   (I)   Minimize adverse impact on other development by:
      (1)   Control the sequence, timing, and duration of development;
      (2)   Assure that development is maintained properly;
      (3)   Designate the exact location and nature of development;
      (4)   Require the provision for on-site or off-site public services; and
      (5)   Mitigate foreseeable social, economic, fiscal, and environmental
effects.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.132 NOTIFICATION BY THE ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Administrator shall give the applicant written notice of the
Commission’s decision by mail within ten days after the Commission has reached
its decision.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.133 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person interested in appealing the action of the Commission shall
file an appeal within 15 days from the date of the notice that is mailed
according to the procedure set forth in §
154.155. The City Council shall hold a public hearing and issue its decision,
including any conditions it deems necessary, in accordance with the procedures
for application set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   If the city denies an application or request, the applicant or his or
her successor in interest may not file a new application or request for
substantially the same special use permit for a period of one year from the
date the Commission or Council, in the case of an appeal, takes action.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.134 EXPIRATION.
   (A)   A special use permit which is not used within the time specified in
the permit, or if no time is specified, within one year after the permit is
granted, shall be void.
   (B)   A special use permit is void six months after the use for which it is
issued is discontinued.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.135 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Commission, upon request by the Council, an individual, or itself
may consider and revoke a special use permit for any of the following grounds:
      (1)   Violation of this subchapter;
      (2)   Violation of the conditions of the permit after notice of the
violation; or
      (3)   Causing or allowing a nuisance in connection with the premises.
   (B)   If the Commission finds that probable cause exists for revocation of a
special use permit, the City Clerk shall give notice of a hearing to the
permittee and the public in the same manner as notice of a hearing for an
application for a special use permit. The Commission shall hold a hearing on
the question of revoking the permit and, if it finds that grounds for
revocation exist, it shall revoke the permit. The applicant or the person
requesting the revocation may appeal the decision of the Commission to the City
Council. The Council shall follow the procedures set forth in this section with
regard to any such appeal.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.136 SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The issuance of a special use permit shall not be considered a
precedent for the issuance of other special use permits.
   (B)   A special use permit is not transferable from one parcel of land to
another. The special use permit may be transferred from one owner to another
for the same use, but if there is a change in use on the property, a new
special use permit must be approved.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
VARIANCES
§ 154.150 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The Commission may authorize in specific cases such variance from the
terms of this subchapter as will not be contrary to the public interest, where,
owing to unique physical conditions such as narrowness, shallowness, steepness
of slope, or other conditions applying to a lot or building, the strict
application of the zoning regulations will deprive the property of privileges
enjoyed by other properties in the vicinity and under the same zoning
classification.
   (B)   A VARIANCE is a modification of the requirements of the subchapter as
to lot size, lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear yard
setbacks, parking spaces, height of buildings, or other provisions affecting
the size or shape of a structure or the placement of the structure upon lots,
or the size of lots and signs.
   (C)   No permitted or non-conforming use of neighboring lands, structures,
or buildings in other districts shall be considered grounds for issuance of a
variance.
   (D)   The issuance of a variance permit shall not be considered a precedent
for the issuance of other variance permits.
   (E)   Variances shall not be granted on the grounds of convenience and shall
not be considered a right or special privilege.
   (F)   A variance permit is not transferable from one parcel of land to
another.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.151 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a variance shall be made to the Planning and Zoning
Commission by at least one holder of an interest in the real property for which
such variance is proposed.
   (B)   The application shall include at least the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and phone number of the applicant;
      (2)   Proof of interest in the real property;
      (3)   Legal description of the property, including street address;
      (4)   Description of the nature of the variance requested;
      (5)   The section of the zoning regulations necessitating the variance
request;
      (6)   Explanation of undue hardship;
      (7)   Unique physical characteristics of the lot or building that
constitute the undue hardship;
      (8)   Diagrams and plot plans as requested by the Administrator showing
the nature and extent of the proposed variance;
      (9)   Shadow pattern showing the effect on neighbor’s solar access;
      (10)   A list of the names and addresses of all property owners within
300 feet of the subject property;
      (11)   Any other information as requested by the Administrator to
determine if the proposed variance meets the intent and requirements of this
subchapter; and
      (12)   A fee to be established in a separate resolution approved by the
City Council.
   (C)   A variance application may be submitted and reviewed concurrently with
other applications affecting the same piece of property with the approval of
the Administrator. Additional time for review of concurrent applications may be
specified by the Administrator. Concurrent submissions will be voted on
separately.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall endorse the date of receipt of the completed
application on the application.
   (E)   The original application shall be kept on file at the city and a copy
of the dated application form shall be given to the applicant.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.152 PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   A public hearing shall be held within 45 days of receipt of a
completed application.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall mail to each addressee on the list, furnished by
the applicant, a copy of the notice of the time and place of the hearing at
least 15 days before the date set for the hearing. Failure to mail such notice
to every property owner due to clerical omissions shall not affect the validity
of any hearing or decision.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall have a copy of the notice published at least one
time in the official newspaper of the city. The publication of the notice shall
be at least 15 days before the date of the hearing.
   (D)   The notice of the hearing which is mailed and published shall contain:
      (1)   The time and place of hearing;
      (2)   A brief description of the land that is the subject of the matter
to be heard;
      (3)   The purpose of the hearing and the use of the land that is sought;
and
      (4)   Any other information that is necessary or desirable in the public
interest.
   (E)   The Commission shall hear all persons interested in the matter. The
applicant shall offer competent evidence in support of his or her application,
sufficient to enable the Commission to consider the matter and to make findings
on the subject. The applicant has the burden of presenting all necessary and
relevant information and evidence in support of his or her application.
   (F)   In any public hearing on a variance application, the presiding officer
may order the hearing to be continued up to 30 days at the same place, in which
case no further published notice shall be required.
   (G)   No variance shall remain valid for a period of time greater than one
year following the granting of such variance unless work pursuant to the
variance has commenced.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.153 CRITERIA FOR REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   The Commission shall review the application for variance from
this subchapter and shall grant, conditionally grant, or refuse to grant the
variance.
      (2)   A variance shall not be considered a right or special privilege,
but may be granted to an applicant only upon a showing of undue hardship
because of characteristics of the site and that the variance is not in conflict
with the public interest.
   (B)   Before any variance can be granted, the Commission must make all of
the following findings:
      (1)   The variance, when granted, will not conflict with or cause or
allow any situation which is in conflict with the Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   The variance, when granted, will not conflict with, or cause, or
allow any situation which is in conflict with, any existing federal, state, or
local law or which may result in injury to the public;
      (3)   The variance, when granted, will not effect a change in zoning;
      (4)   The variance, when granted, will not cause damage to the property
of others; and
      (5)   Without the variance, when granted, the property owner shall suffer
undue hardship and will be substantially deprived, by ordinance, of the
privileges legally enjoyed by property owners of property within the vicinity
of the subject property.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.154 ENERGY EFFICIENCY VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances that will result in improved energy efficiency may be
granted by the Commission provided that the following requirements are met.
   (B)   Energy efficiency variances may be granted to allow solar greenhouses
or sunspaces, solar energy systems including roof panels or geothermal, micro-
hydro, wind or other energy efficient systems or structures.
   (C)   In addition to the information required in §
154.151, an application for an energy efficiency variance shall include
detailed information showing that the criteria in division (D) below are met.
   (D)   Regardless of other provisions of this subchapter, the Commission
shall, before granting an energy efficiency variance for solar purposes, find
adequate evidence showing that the following criteria are met:
      (1)   Granting of the variance will not conflict with the public interest
as expressed in the Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   Granting of the variance will not result in extraordinary public
expense or harm to the public health, safety, or welfare, the creation of
nuisances, defraudation of or victimization of the public, or conflict with
existing local laws or ordinances;
       (3)   The variance will not effect a change in zoning;
      (4)   The variance will not be injurious to the property or improvements
of others;
      (5)   Effective solar glazing area shall not be less than 8% of the
heated space floor area for sun-tempered dwellings and 10% of the heated space
floor area for passive solar/thermal mass dwellings;
      (6)   Maximum solar glazing areas shall not exceed 15% of heated space
floor area for sun-tempered dwellings and 18% of heated space floor area for
passive solar/thermal mass dwellings;
      (7)   Thermal mass requirements shall meet or exceed the following:
         (a)   Sun-tempered: 3 BTU/degree Fahrenheit/square foot of heated
floor space; or
         (b)   Passive/solar thermal mass: 10 BTU/degree Fahrenheit/square foot
of heated floor space.
      (8)   Solar glazing areas shall be oriented within 30 degrees of true
south; and
      (9)   Solar glazing areas, if mounted other than vertically, shall be
tilted at least 60 degrees up from horizontal.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.155 ACTION BY COMMISSION.
   (A)   Under no circumstances shall the Commission grant a variance to allow
a use not permissible under the terms of this subchapter in the district
involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of
this subchapter in said district.
   (B)   The Commission shall make a decision to approve, conditionally
approve, or disapprove the application within 15 days after conclusion of the
public hearing and issue its decision together with the reasons therefor. The
Commission shall review the application, all supporting documents and plans,
and recommendations of city staff in making their decision. If the Commission
fails to act upon the application within said 15-day period, the application
shall be deemed approved by the Commission.
   (C)   The Administrator shall give the applicant written notice of the
Commission’s decision by mail within ten days after the Commission has reached
a decision.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.156 EXPIRATION.
   (A)   A variance permit that is not used with the time specified in the
permit, or if no time is
specified, within one year after the permit is granted, is void.
   (B)   A variance permit is void six months after the use for which it is
issued is discontinued.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.157 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Commission, upon request by the City Council, an individual, or
itself, may consider and revoke a variance permit for any of the following
reasons:
      (1)   Violation of this chapter;
      (2)   Violation of the conditions of the permit after notice of the
violation; or
      (3)   Causing or allowing a nuisance in connection with the premises.
   (B)   If the Commission finds that probable cause exists for revocation of a
variance permit, the Administrator shall give notice of a hearing to the
permittee and the public in the same manner as notice of a hearing for an
application for a variance permit. The Commission shall hold a hearing on the
question of revoking the permit and, if it finds that grounds for revocation
exists, it shall revoke the permit. The applicant or the person requesting the
revocation may appeal the decision of the Commission to the City Council. The
Council shall follow the procedures set forth in this section with regard to
any such appeal.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
NON-CONFORMING USES AND BUILDINGS
§ 154.170 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to allow the continuation of non-
conforming uses and buildings existing at the time of adoption of this code of
ordinances and legal uses which become non-conforming by adoption of this
Zoning Code, but not to encourage their survival or allow an increase in size
or intensity of non-conforming uses.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.171 AVOIDANCE OF UNDUE HARDSHIP.
   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building
for which a building permit has been issued prior to the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this code of ordinances and upon which actual building
construction has been carried out diligently.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.172 USES.
   (A)   Continuation of use. A non-conforming use may be continued, subject to
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Change in use. A non-conforming use may be changed only to a
conforming use.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.173 EXPANSION OF NON-CONFORMING BUILDINGS.
   A non-conforming building may not be enlarged, extended, reconstructed,
moved, or structurally altered so as to increase the degree of non-conformity.
A non-conforming building may be enlarged so long as the enlargement does not
create new non-conformities with respect to such matters as setbacks and
parking requirements. Minor repair, as defined in §
154.174, of non-conforming buildings is encouraged.
   (B)   If active and continuous operations of a non-conforming use are not
carried on during a continuous period of six months, the tract of land where
such a non-conforming use previously existed shall thereafter be used only for
a conforming use. Intent to resume active operations shall not be considered
active and continuous operations.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.174 REPAIR.
   On any non-conforming structure, or portion of a structure containing a non-
conforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs or on repair or
replacement of non-bearing wall fixtures, wiring, or plumbing, provided that
the repair does not increase the degree of non-conformity of the use or
building as described in §
154.173. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by the City Building Inspector upon order of such official.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
AMENDMENTS
§ 154.185 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare, or good
zoning practices require, the Council may, by ordinance, amend the provisions
of this subchapter in accordance with the procedures of this chapter.
   (B)   An amendment to this chapter may involve either or both of the
following:
      (1)   Zoning Code text amendment. An amendment, supplement, or repeal of
the text of this chapter; and
      (2)   Zoning Code map amendment. A change in the zone district boundaries
as shown on the Official Zoning Map.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.186 INITIATION BY AMENDMENT.
   Amendments may be initiated by adoption of a motion by the Commission or the
Council, or by the filing of an application with the Administrator.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.187 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applications for amendments as described in §
154.185 shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and phone number of applicant;
      (2)   Proposed amendment and summary of the specific objective of any
proposed change in text;
      (3)   A statement of how the proposed amendment relates to the
Comprehensive Plan; and
      (4)   A fee established in a separate resolution approved by the City
Council.
   (B)   Applications for amendments as described in §
154.186 shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and phone number of applicant;
      (2)   Existing and proposed uses of subject land;
      (3)   Existing and proposed zoning district of subject land;
      (4)   Vicinity map at a scale approved by the Administrator showing
property lines, thoroughfares, existing and proposed zoning, and such other
items as the Administrator may require; and
      (5)   A list of all property owners and their mailing addresses within
300 feet of the external boundaries of the land being considered.
   (C)   A fee established in a separate resolution approved by the City
Council.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.188 ACTION BY COMMISSION.
   (A)   Order. The Commission shall review proposed amendments in the
following manner.
      (1)   Proposed amendments, by application or by motion of the Commission
or Council, shall be submitted to the Commission which shall evaluate the
proposal to determine the nature and extent of the amendment, and whether or
not it is in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   If the proposal is in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan, the
Commission may recommend and the Council may adopt or reject the Zoning Code
amendment under the notice and hearing procedures as herein provided.
   (B)   Criteria for review. The Commission shall, at a minimum, consider the
following criteria in making its recommendation to the Council:
      (1)   The relationship of the proposed amendment to the Comprehensive
Plan;
      (2)   Availability of public services to support the full range of
proposed uses; and
      (3)   Compatibility of the proposed uses with the surrounding area.
   (C)   Notification. If the proposal is not in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan, the Commission shall notify the applicant of this finding
and inform the applicant that he or she must apply for an amendment to the
Comprehensive Plan before the Zoning Code or Zoning Map can be amended.
   (D)   Public hearing. The Commission, prior to making any recommendations to
the Council on any proposed amendment, shall hold at least one public hearing
in which all interested persons shall have an opportunity to speak.
   (E)   Meeting publication notice. At least 15 days prior to the hearing, the
City Clerk shall publish a notice of time, place, and the amendment in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city. In addition, if the amendment
involves a change in district boundaries or land-use designation, notice shall
be provided by mail to property owners and residents within 300 feet of the
external boundaries of the land being considered, and any additional area that
may be affected by the proposed amendment as specifically designated by the
Commission.
   (F)   Change. Following the hearing, if the Commission makes a substantial
change from what was presented at the hearing, further notice and hearing shall
be provided before the Commission makes its recommendations to the Council.
   (G)   Judgment. The Commission shall recommend, with reasons therefor, to
the Council that the proposed amendment be granted or denied, or that a
modified amendment be granted.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.189 ACTION BY THE COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Council, prior to adopting, revising, or rejecting the amendment
as recommended by the Commission, shall conduct at least one public hearing
using notice procedures as set forth in §
154.188. The Council shall not hold a public hearing, give notice of proposed
hearing, nor take action upon the amendment until a recommendation has been
received from the Commission.
   (B)   If 40% or more of the property owners within 300 feet of the subject
property and any additional lands designated by the Commission pursuant to §
154.188 protest against the proposed amendment, such amendment shall become
effective only if three-fourths of the entire Council votes in favor of the
amendment.
   (C)   Upon adopting the proposed amendment, the Council shall find that the
following facts, where applicable, when submitted with the application and
presented to them establish that the amendment:
      (1)   Will generally conform with the Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost
for public facilities and services; and
      (3)   Will be in accordance with the welfare of the general public.
   (D)   Upon approval of an amendment, the Council shall pass an ordinance
making said amendment part of this chapter.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.190 RESUBMISSION OF APPLICATION.
   No application for amendment which has been denied by the Council shall be
resubmitted in either substantially the same form or with reference to
substantially the same land for the same purposes within one year from the date
of such final action, unless an amendment to the Comprehensive Plan has been
made which has resulted in a change in conditions applying to the specific land
under consideration.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.205 METHODS OF ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the following methods:
   (A)   Requirement of a building permit;
   (B)   Inspection and ordering removal of violation;
   (C)   Criminal liability; and
   (D)   Injunction.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.206 BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   No building shall be erected, moved, or structurally altered unless
the Building Inspector or his or her authorized representative therefor has
issued a building permit.
   (B)   All permits shall be issued in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter and shall be valid for a period of time as specified in the Uniform
Building Code.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.207 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Administrator, Building Inspector and/or his or her authorized
representatives are empowered to require that necessary action be taken to
remedy any condition found to exist in violation of any provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   After any such order has been served, no work shall proceed on any
building, other structure, or tract of land covered by such order, except to
correct such violation.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.208 CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   A person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor in any case where:
   (A)   Any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter exists in any
building or any other structure or on a tract of land;
   (B)   An order to remove any such violation has been served upon the owners,
general agent, lessee or tenant of the building, other structure, or tract of
land (or any part thereof), or upon the architect, builder, contractor, or any
other person who commits or assists in any such violation; and
   (C)   Such person shall fail to comply with such order within ten days after
service thereof.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.209 INJUNCTION; RECOVERY OF ATTORNEY’S FEES.
   (A)   In addition to any of the foregoing remedies, the City Attorney,
acting on behalf of the City Council, may maintain an action for an injunction
to restrain any violation of this chapter.
   (B)   In any action initiated by the city to enforce this chapter, or to
recover damages resulting from a violation of this chapter, the city, if said
city is determined to be the prevailing party in such action, shall be entitled
to recover from the other party or parties all attorney’s fees incurred in
connection with such action.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.210 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   This chapter shall not be construed to hold the city responsible for any
damage to persons or property by reason of the inspection or re-inspection
authorized herein or failure to inspect or re-inspect or by reason of issuing a
building permit as herein provided.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A knowing violation of §
154.021 shall be a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Failure to respond to remedy the violation of §
154.073 is unlawful, and the person having charge or control over the sign will
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-1-1999)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   VACATIONS
      
III.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
IV.   DEDICATIONS AND ACCEPTANCES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     An ordinance determining that certain land lies contiguous
                     to the city limits and that said land be annexed to the
61       1-10-2005   city as part of the residential zoning district and
                     directing said property to the official map and to file a
                     certified copy of the ordinance and map of the area to be
                     annexed with the county an the State Tax Commission
                    
 
TABLE II: VACATIONS
 
Ord.    Date   Description
No.     Passed
31      4-14-  An ordinance providing for the closing and vacating of School
        1969   Street, a portion of 6th Street, and the alley in Block 49
36      2-4-   An ordinance vacating portions of 4th Street, 5th Street, and
        1985   6th Street
        7-5-   An ordinance vacating a portion of 5th Street, east of Main
2005-01 2005   Street, and a portion of Lincoln Street between 4th and 5th
               Street according to the plat on file in the Recorder’s office
              
 
TABLE III: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
                         Declaring intention to sell Lots One and Two in Block
34           1-14-1974   25 as shown by the plat thereof filed June 5, 1909,
                         and on file in the office of the County Recorder at
                         Shoshone, Idaho
                         An ordinance deeding Washington Street, according to
37           9-4-1985    the official plat thereof of record with the County
                         Recorder to the county
                         An ordinance deeding a portion of Washington Street,
37A          10-7-1985   according to the official plat thereof of record with
                         the County Recorder to the county
                         Authorization of the sale of city-owned property at
Res. 2003-03 12-5-2003   410 North Main, with the City Housing Authority as the
                         agency eligible to sell single-family homes in the
                         city limits
                        
 
TABLE IV: DEDICATIONS AND ACCEPTANCES
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            An area of impact agreement defining and establishing a geographical area
            of cite impact; identifying the subdivision and zoning ordinances that
     1-9-   shall apply within the established area of impact; identifying methods and
45   1995   procedures for application, administration and enforcement of the
            comprehensive plan and ordinances that shall apply within the established
            area of impact. Establishing an effective date pursuant to Idaho Code §67-
            6526
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Idaho Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO IDAHO CODE
Idaho Code Cites Code Section
Idaho Code Cites Code Section
18-111           10.12
                 150.01;
39-4109          150.02;
                 150.03
                 150.01;
39-4116          150.02;
                 150.03
Title 44         152.006
44-2201 et seq.  150.05
Title 50, Ch. 9  10.03
50-1008          51.071
Title 50, Ch. 13 152.001
50-1303          152.006
50-1313          152.048
Title 67, Ch. 52 10.12
Title 67, Ch. 65 152.001;
                 154.002
67-6509A         150.05
67-6526          TSO Table IV
                 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2003-01  4-7-2003    150.03;
                     150.99
2003-02  8-4-2003    32.06
2003-03  12-5-2003   TSO Table III
2005-01  9-6-2005    31.01
2007-02  7-9-2007    51.001
2008-02  6-2-2008    32.04
2010-03  3-1-2010    51.015;
                     52.21
2014-01  2-3-2014    32.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
60       - -         151.01
                     70.01;
3        2-4-1947    130.01;
                     130.99;
                     153.01
13       3-3-1953    91.03;
                     91.99
25       2-16-1968   30.01
27       2-16-1968   32.02
31       4-14-1969   TSO Table II
34       1-14-1974   TSO Table III
36       2-4-1985    TSO Table II
37       9-4-1985    TSO Table III
37A      10-7-1985   TSO Table III
                     93.01;
38       7-8-1987    93.02;
                     93.99
                     50.01—
                     50.03;
                     50.05;
                     50.06;
                     50.21;
                     50.23;
                     51.002;
                     51.003;
4-3      9-8-1992    51.017—
                     51.019;
                     51.030—
                     51.033;
                     51.045—
                     51.050;
                     51.085—
                     51.088;
                     52.05;
                     52.06
45       1-9-1995    TSO Table IV
                     50.22;
                     52.01—
                     52.04;
                     52.20—
                     52.22;
50       8-7-1997    52.35—
                     52.39;
                     52.50—
                     52.54;
                     52.65;
                     52.66;
                     52.99
                     154.001—
                     154.007;
                     154.020—
                     154.022;
                     154.035—
                     154.040;
                     154.055—
                     154.058;
                     154.070—
                     154.074;
                     154.085;
                     154.086;
56       11-1-1999   154.100—
                     154.110;
                     154.125—
                     154.136;
                     154.150—
                     154.157;
                     154.170—
                     154.174;
                     154.185—
                     154.190;
                     154.205—
                     154.210;
                     154.999
61       1-10-2005   TSO Table I
2005-01  7-5-2005    TSO Table II
2005-02  9-6-2005    32.05
                     152.001—
                     152.007;
                     152.020—
                     152.023;
                     152.035—
2006-01  - -2006     152.048;
                     152.060—
                     152.066;
                     152.080—
                     152.083;
                     152.999
2008-02  9-8-2008    150.05
2009-02  10-5-2009   91.02;
                     91.99
2011-01  1-3-2011    50.20;
                     52.21
2011-02  11-7-2011   92.01—
                     92.03
2013-01  4-1-2013    52.23;
                     51.999
2015-02  4-6-2015    150.01;
                     150.02
2015-01  6-4-2015    50.04
2016-01  8-1-2016    91.01;
                     91.99
2017-02  8-17-2017   30.02
                     51.065—
2018-02  8-29-2018   51.071;
                     51.999
2019-01  5-6-2019    32.03
2019-02  5-6-2019    51.016
                     90.01 -
90.01    1-8-2024    90.10,
                     90.99
90.03    4-29-2024   90.20
                    
 
