CITY CODE
OF
DOVER, IDAHO
Code current through:
Ord. 190, passed 7-9-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Dover, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 190, passed July 9, 2025. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 148
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE DOVER, IDAHO, CITY CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and city council of the city of Dover, Idaho, as
follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the city
code of the city of Dover, Idaho prepared by Sterling Codifiers, containing the
compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the city,
shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official code and law
of the city as enacted by the mayor and city council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official city code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the city clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official city
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official city code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the city code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official city code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication as provided by law.
PASSED this 9 day of February, 2017.
APPROVED this 9 day of February, 2017.
   Mayor
ATTEST:
   City Clerk
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
DOVER CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of the city of Dover. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the DOVER, IDAHO CITY CODE, and it is
hereby published by authority of the city council and shall be kept up to date
as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal document. (2017 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2017 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute a
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2017 Code)
1-1-4: ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the city clerk. Any
person having custody of a copy of this code shall make every effort to
maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available to such person through the office of the city
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be
returned to the office of the city clerk when directed so to do by order of the
city council. (2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (2017 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be replaced by virtue of the preceding section, excepting as
this code may contain provisions for such matters, in which case this code
shall be considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such
provisions only. (2017 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that proceedings thereafter shall conform to
the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable.
If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
   B.   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city
herein repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (2017 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code, or any part thereof, is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2017 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the city council may be fully carried out.
   B.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of any provision
of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare. Where any provision
of a code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general
provision imposed by the code, the provision imposing the greater restriction
or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
   C.   Additional Interpretations:
      1.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
      2.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
      3.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and
be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
      4.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
      5.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
      6.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be
construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but
technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such
meaning.
      7.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
      8.   Officers Generally: Whenever any officer is referred by title, such
as "recorder", "treasurer", etc., such reference shall be construed as if
followed by the words "of the city of Dover, Idaho".
      9.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present. (2017 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
CITY CODE: The city code of the city of Dover, Idaho, and amendments thereto.
CITY COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of
Dover, Idaho.
COUNTY: The county of Bonner, state of Idaho.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation, or other activity subject to city regulation,
authorization or limitation.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
REASONABLE TIME: In all cases where any ordinance requires that an act be done
in a reasonable time or that reasonable notice be given, such reasonable time
for such notice shall be deemed to mean such time as may be necessary for the
expeditious performance of such duty or compliance with such notice.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2017 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2017
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Misdemeanor: Except in cases where a different punishment is hereafter
prescribed by city ordinance, every offense declared to be a misdemeanor is
punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by
imprisonment in jail not exceeding six (6) months, or by both, together with
such costs as may be required by law. These punishments shall comply with Idaho
Code section 18-113, as amended. If a penalty is limited by state law, such
violations shall be punishable by not to exceed the maximum permitted by state
law.
   B.   Infraction: When the offense is designated as an infraction by any
section or provision of this code or by state law, it is punishable only by a
penalty not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) and no incarceration may
be imposed.
   C.   Federally Mandated Programs: When the city is participating in a
federally mandated program, wherein penalties or enforcement remedies are
required by the terms of participation in the program, the city may enforce
such requirements by ordinance, to include a criminal or civil monetary penalty
not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment for criminal
offenses not to exceed six (6) months, or to include both a fine and
imprisonment for criminal offenses. (2017 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-302.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty Provisions:
      1.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in
this code.
      2.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   B.   One Recovery For Same Offense: In all cases where the same offense is
made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code,
the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced. (2017 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2017
Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Salaries Of Mayor And City Council
1-5-2: Duty Of Elected Officials
1-5-3: Failure To Perform Duties
1-5-4: Regular Meetings
1-5-1: SALARIES OF MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL:
Commencing January 1, 2012, the salaries of the mayor and of the members of the
Dover city council shall be as follows:
   A.   Mayor: The mayor shall receive a monthly salary in the sum of five
hundred dollars ($500.00); and
   B.   Council: Each member of the council shall receive a monthly salary in
the sum of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. 121, 6-23-2011)
1-5-2: DUTY OF ELECTED OFFICIALS:
The city council hereby acknowledges that it is the duty of all elected
officials to attend all city council meetings of the city. For purposes of this
section, meetings shall include regular and special meetings, public hearings,
workshops and work sessions duly called and noticed during the fiscal year. The
fiscal year runs from October 1 to September 30 of each year. (Ord. 121, 6-23-
2011)
1-5-3: FAILURE TO PERFORM DUTIES:
   A.   Notification: If an elected official is unable to attend a meeting,
that official shall notify the city clerk at least forty eight (48) hours prior
to the meeting date that he or she will not be in attendance at the meeting.
(Ord. 121, 6-23-2011; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Emergency: In the event of an emergency that prohibits an elected
official from attending a meeting and/or providing the requisite notice, the
elected official is required to provide notice to the city clerk as soon as
reasonably possible. (Ord. 121, 6-23-2011)
1-5-4: REGULAR MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meeting Date: The regular meeting of the city council shall be
held on the second Thursday of each and every month.
   B.   Regular Meeting Time: The regular meeting time shall be six o'clock (6:
00) p.m. and all regular meetings shall be open to the public, except executive
sessions, as provided in Idaho Code § 70-4026.
   C.   Regular Meeting Place: The regular meeting place shall be Dover City
Hall, 699 Lakeshore Avenue, Dover, Idaho.
   D.   Publication: The Bonner County Daily Bee is hereby established as the
official newspaper of the City. (Ord. 166, 1-9-2020)
CHAPTER 6
CITY FINANCES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Banking Institution
1-6-1: BANKING INSTITUTION:
   A.   Authority: The City of Dover Treasurer is hereby authorized to place
all funds classified as deposits in a banking institution that is a member of
FDIC (Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation) or a member of NCUA (National
Credit Union Administration).
   B.   Banking Institute by Resolution: The Dover City Council shall
periodically designate the actual banking institution by resolution.
   C.   Investment Accounts: The Treasurer shall be empowered to place all
other funds not classified as deposits in investment accounts pursuant to
Resolutions passed by the Dover City Council.
(Ord. 133, 7-10-2014; amd. 2017 Code; Ord. 189, 1-9-2025)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY
SECTION:
2-1-1: Agency Created
2-1-1: AGENCY CREATED:
The City of Dover may appoint and designate Commissioners to an Urban Renewal
Agency from among its members and elected officials, provided that such
representation shall be less than a majority of the Board of Commissioners. The
Mayor shall exercise the authority herein and may appoint himself/herself; any
other elected official; or any appointed official of the City of Dover. Nothing
herein shall require the Mayor to appoint and designate Commissioners from
among the City's officials. (Ord. 160, 3-28-2019)
CHAPTER 2
HISTORICAL COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-2-1: Creation Of Committee
2-2-2: Qualifications For Committee Members
2-2-3: Compensation
2-2-4: Organization
2-2-5: Rules, Records And Meetings
2-2-6: Duties
2-2-7: Report To City Council
2-2-1: CREATION OF COMMITTEE:
The City of Dover hereby creates a historical advisory committee for the City
of Dover. The committee shall be referred to as the Dover Historical Committee.
(Ord. 176, 4-14-2022)
2-2-2: QUALIFICATIONS FOR COMMITTEE MEMBERS:
An appointed member of a committee must have resided in Bonner County for two
(2) years prior to appointment and must remain a resident of the county during
service on the Committee. The appointed member must also be a resident of the
City of Dover or must reside in an area of city impact for the City of Dover.
(Ord. 176, 4-14-2022)
2-2-3: COMPENSATION:
Members of the Dover Historical Committee shall receive no compensation for
their services as such committee members. (Ord. 176, 4-14-2022)
2-2-4: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   The Dover Historical Committee shall consist of not less than three (3)
no more than twelve (12) voting members, and the initial Committee, until
changed by resolution, shall consist of five (5) persons appointed by the Mayor
and affirmed by a majority vote of the City Council. The term of office for the
initial committee shall be as follows:
      1.   One member of the Dover Historical Committee shall be appointed for
a term of four (4) years;
      2.   Two members shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years; and
      3.   Two members shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years.
   B.   Their successors shall in all cases be appointed for terms of four (4)
years and all appointments to fill vacancies shall be for the unexpired terms.
   C.   The Dover Historical Committee shall elect a chairman and create and
fill any other office it may deem necessary for the proper conduct of the
affairs and business of the committee.
   D.   Each committee shall elect a chairman and create and fill any other
office that it may deem necessary. A committee may establish subcommittees,
advisory committees or neighborhood groups to advise and assist in carrying out
the responsibilities under this chapter. A committee may appoint non-voting ex
officio advisors as may be deemed necessary. (Ord. 176, 4-14-2022)
2-2-5: RULES, RECORDS AND MEETINGS:
At least one (1) regular meeting shall be held each quarter for not less than
four (4) times in a year. A majority of members on the committee, when in
attendance at a meeting, shall constitute a quorum. The record of meetings,
hearings, studies, findings, and actions taken by the Dover Historical
Committee shall be maintained and all meetings and records shall be open to the
public. The Committee shall comply with the Idaho Open Meeting Law, Chapter 2,
Title 74 of Idaho Code. (Ord. 176, 4-14-2022)
2-2-6: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the Dover Historical Committee to work closely with the
City Council to:
   A.   Document key historical facts regarding native peoples and the railroad
and timber industries.
   B.   Develop educational materials about Dover's history and specific
historical sites and buildings.
   C.   Share, display and disseminate educational materials.
   D.   Identify and adopt regulations that simplify the use and re-use of
historic structures.
   E.   Ascertain and seek to stabilize and protect any sites used by native
peoples.
   F.   Review and recommend changes to historical ordinances and comprehensive
plan.
   G.   Complete tasks as assigned by the City Council including but not
limited to researching an issue and review and submit findings to the Council.
(Ord. 176, 4-14-2022)
2-2-7: REPORT TO CITY COUNCIL:
Whenever any matter or class of matters is filed with the Committee the
committee shall report to the City Council its recommendations on that issue to
the Mayor and City Council. The City Council shall then consider the same and
direct the Dover Historical Committee either to certify its approval thereof or
to refuse to approve the same and the Committee shall act at once in accordance
with such directions. (Ord. 176, 4-14-2022)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: Registration Certificate Required
3-1-3: Exemptions From Registration
3-1-4: Fee For Registration Certificate
3-1-5: Standards For Issuance
3-1-6: Display Of Certificate Required
3-1-7: Change Of Location
3-1-8: Suspension Or Revocation
3-1-9: Right Of Appeal
3-1-10: Enforcement And Penalty
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
In construing the provisions of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply:
 
                        All activities, trades and pursuits conducted or
                        engaged in for profit, including, without limitation,
                        wholesale businesses, retail businesses, personal
                        service businesses and professions, short-term rentals,
BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION: persons operating a flea market, special events sales
                        with more than one booth or vendor, and businesses
                        conducted as home occupations in any and all situations
                        where suppliers, vendors, customers, clients and/or
                        members of the general public visit or frequent the
                        premises where the business or occupation is conducted.
CITY:                   The city of Dover, Idaho.
CITY CLERK:             The city clerk of the city of Dover, Idaho.
                        Any individual, firm, partnership, company,
PERSON:                 corporation, joint venture, association or other
                        business entity.
PREMISES:               Includes all real property and structures thereon, in
                        or upon which any business or occupation is conducted.
                        The rental of one or more dwelling units for a term
                        less than thirty (30) days, whether or not funds, goods
                        or services are exchanged for the use. The term shall
                        include vacation rental, Air BnBs, home sharing, co-
                        hosted rentals, bed and breakfast facilities of five
SHORT-TERM RENTALS:     (5) or fewer bedrooms, and any other occupancy subject
                        to the standards established by section
                        12-7-4 of Dover City Code. The term shall not include
                        on-going, month-to-month rental tenancy granted to the
                        same occupant. Short-term rental shall not include any
                        retail, restaurant, banquet space, event center, or
                        other similar uses.
YEAR:                   The calendar year. (Ord. 98, 9-18-2007; amd. Ord. 181,
                        12-8-2022)
 
3-1-2: REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
   A.   Prohibition Against Doing Business Without Registration Certificate: No
individual, entity, or property owner shall engage in any business, occupation,
or short-term rental within the city limits without first having obtained a
business registration certificate as required by this chapter.
   B.   Application: A business registration certificate shall be required for
each premises located within the city in which any person is engaged in any
business, occupation, or short-term rental. Any person conducting such a
business, engaged in such an occupation, or operating a short-term rental shall
apply for the required business registration certificate by filling out an
application provided by the city clerk. A registration certificate shall be
required for each branch establishment and/or separate location of a business,
occupation, or short-term rental.
   C.   Exception For Short-Term Rental Marketplaces. The operator of a short-
term rental marketplace, as defined in Idaho Code § 63-1803, is excluded from
the registration requirements specified herein, for the operation of its short-
term rental marketplace platform. If the short-term rental marketplace engages
in other business within the city, then the short-term rental marketplace shall
be subject to the business registration requirements for its other business
activities. (Ord. 98, 9-18-2007; amd. Ord. 181, 12-8-2022)
3-1-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM REGISTRATION:
None of the provisions of this chapter shall apply to any agency of the United
States government and political subdivisions of the state, including counties,
school districts, sewer districts, fire districts, other special districts,
charitable entities and organizations, persons who have occasional sales of
their own household property, not more than two (2) times in a calendar year,
and vendors occupying a space in a flea market or special events sales. All
such entities shall be exempt. (Ord. 98, 9-18-2007)
3-1-4: FEE FOR REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE:
A business registration certificate fee for the administrative costs of
processing applications and issuing registration certificates shall be paid by
each applicant at the time of making application for the required business
registration certificate. The registration certificate shall be issued for the
calendar year in which the application is submitted. All business registration
certificates required hereunder shall be renewed annually by the applicant and
are subject to the aforementioned fee. The amount of the fee provided for
herein shall be in such amount as established by the city council, and shall be
paid to the city clerk. The amount of the fee provided for herein may from time
to time be adjusted by resolution of the city council without amending this
section. (Ord. 107, 5-13-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
3-1-5: STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE:
A registration certificate shall be issued only to applicants who meet the
following requirements:
   A.   Compliance With Zoning Requirements: The business and premises for
which the application is made is not in violation of any zoning regulations.
   B.   Option Tax: The business is not in arrears of any city taxes. (Ord. 98,
9-18-2007)
3-1-6: DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
Every business required under this chapter to obtain a business registration
certificate shall display such registration certificate in a prominent location
upon the business premises. No business shall loan, sell, give or assign to any
other person or allow any other person to use or display, or to destroy, damage
or remove, or to have in his possession any registration certificate which has
been issued to said business. (Ord. 98, 9-18-2007)
3-1-7: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
No registered business owner shall change the location of the business without
having first applied for and received a new business registration certificate
pursuant to the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 98, 9-18-2007)
3-1-8: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
In the event it is brought to the attention of the city council that a
violation has taken place, before revoking or suspending such registration
certificate, the city council shall cause notice to be served upon the
registered business owner, setting forth in general terms the violation or
violations claimed to have been committed and such notice shall provide a time
for the registered business owner to respond to the allegations. The city
council may revoke or suspend the registration certificate if the city council
finds that the registration certificate was issued in error or that the
registered business owner has violated the provisions of this chapter. No
refund of any unused portion of the registration certificate fee shall be made
to the registered business owner. (Ord. 98, 9-18-2007)
3-1-9: RIGHT OF APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by a decision of the city clerk as to the issuance of a
registration certificate in accordance herewith shall have the right to appeal
to the city council by filing a written appeal with the city clerk within
fifteen (15) days following the date of the action or decision giving rise to
the appeal. (Ord. 98, 9-18-2007)
3-1-10: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   Civil Liability: The city shall, at the direction of the city council,
institute civil suit in the name of the city to enforce compliance with the
provisions of this chapter by injunctive relief, declaratory relief or other
civil remedy. The city shall be entitled to recover its costs and attorney fees
from the other party upon prevailing in any such civil action. No civil
judgment, or any act by the city or the violator, shall bar or prevent a
criminal prosecution for each and every violation of this chapter. (Ord. 98, 9-
18-2007)
   B.   Criminal Liability: A person who violates any provision of this chapter
or operates any business or occupation for which a registration certificate is
required by this chapter without having first obtained a registration
certificate as herein provided, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, which penalty shall be in addition to any other penalties
provided in this chapter. Each day that a violation of this chapter occurs
shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 98, 9-18-2007; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE LICENSING AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License Required
3-2-3: Wholesale And Manufacturers Prohibited
3-2-4: Alcoholic Beverage Catering Permit
3-2-5: Application For License
3-2-6: Qualifications And Investigation
3-2-7: Fees For License Or Permit
3-2-8: Issuance Of License
3-2-9: Contents Of License; List Maintained
3-2-10: Licensee Requirements
3-2-11: Premises Location Restrictions
3-2-12: Right Of Entry To Premises
3-2-13: General License Restrictions
3-2-14: Open Container In Motor Vehicle Prohibited
3-2-15: Purchase By Unqualified Person
3-2-16: Renewal Of License
3-2-17: Transfer Of License
3-2-18: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-2-19: Hearing For Revocation Or Suspension
3-2-20: Violation And Penalty
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Any liquor, spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid
containing more than one-half (1/2) of one percent (1%) of alcohol by volume,
which is fit for and intended for beverage purposes.
BEER: Any alcohol beverage obtained from the fermentation of sugar, barley,
hops, malt, yeast and similar ingredients, which shall contain no more than
four percent (4%) of alcohol by weight.
CITY: The corporate limits of the city of Dover.
INTERDICTED PERSON: A person to whom the sale of any alcoholic beverage is
prohibited under the laws of the state.
LICENSED PREMISES: The building in which the sale of beer, wine and/or liquor
by the drink at retail is authorized. In the case of an alcoholic beverage
catering permit, "licensed premises" shall mean the tent, booth, roped area,
etc., that will be used as the designated area for alcohol sales.
LICENSEE: Any person to whom a license is issued under the provisions of this
chapter.
LIQUOR BY THE DRINK: Shall include all intoxicating liquids or solids,
excluding beer and wine, consumed or dispensed alone or mixed with or combined
with some other substance suitable for consumption, including, but not limited
to, vodka, brandy, rum, gin and whiskey.
OFF PREMISES SALES: Shall include all sales, transfers, distribution and
dissemination of beer and wine by a person or establishment with the intent and
for the purpose that said substance shall not be consumed on the premises of
the person or establishment selling, distributing, transferring or dispensing
the same.
ON PREMISES SALES: Shall include all sales, transfers, distribution or
dissemination of beer, wine and/or liquor by the drink by a person with the
intent that said substance shall be consumed on the premises of the person or
establishment selling, distributing, transferring or dispensing the same.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation or any group
or combination acting as a unit.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar
content of fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar, which shall
contain no more than fourteen percent (14%) alcohol by volume. (Ord. 119, 6-9-
2011)
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, trade, barter or dispose of
alcoholic beverages at retail, or retail by the drink, within the city for a
consideration without first procuring a license from the city and paying the
required fees set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 119, 6-9-2011)
3-2-3: WHOLESALE AND MANUFACTURERS PROHIBITED:
No retailer's license to sell, trade, barter and/or dispose of alcoholic
beverages shall be issued to any person holding a wholesale or manufacturers'
license. (Ord. 119, 6-9-2011)
3-2-4: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CATERING PERMIT:
Holders of a state and county liquor license to sell alcoholic beverages to be
consumed on the premises may serve and sell beer, wine and/or liquor by the
drink off the licensed premises with an alcoholic beverage catering permit
issued by the city. Any licensee desiring to sell off the licensed premises may
apply to the city council for an alcoholic beverage catering permit to do so.
   A.   Limitation: The temporary alcoholic beverage permit shall be limited to
authorization to sell beer, wine and/or liquor by the drink, or any combination
thereof, based upon the type of state and county license which the applicant
already possesses.
   B.   Term: Alcoholic beverage catering permits shall not exceed three (3)
consecutive days.
   C.   Fee; Documentation: A nonrefundable filing fee shall accompany the
application for an alcoholic beverage catering permit, along with a copy of the
state and county liquor licenses issued to applicant.
   D.   Application: Application shall be made and filed with the city clerk on
a form supplied by the city clerk at least twenty (20) days prior to the next
regularly scheduled city council meeting.
   E.   Contents Of Application: The application shall provide for:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant; (Ord. 119, 6-9-2011)
      2.   The number of the applicant's state and county liquor, beer or wine
license; (Ord. 119, 6-9-2011; amd. 2017 Code)
      3.   The dates and hours during which the permit is to be effective;
      4.   The name of the organization, groups or person sponsoring the event;
      5.   The address of the event to be held with a description of the area
within the event or location where the alcoholic beverages are to be served.
   F.   Issuance: The city council, taking into account the public health and
welfare, the interests of adjoining property owners, noise, traffic and
vehicular and pedestrian safety, may issue a temporary license for a specified
event and for a specified period of time and under such conditions and
restrictions as the city council may deem prudent under the circumstances.
(Ord. 119, 6-9-2011)
3-2-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Required Information: Application for license for the sale, barter,
trade or distribution of alcoholic beverages at retail within the city shall be
in writing, signed and sworn by the applicant upon an application form
furnished by the city clerk. Applications shall include the following:
      1.   The name and place of residence of the applicant, length of
residence within the state of Idaho; if applicant is a partnership, the names,
places of residence and length of residence within the state of Idaho of each
partner, and if the applicant is a corporation, the date and place of
incorporation, the location of its principal place of business in Idaho, and
the names and places of residence of its officers, directors or members and the
person who manages or will manage the business;
      2.   The address of the location of the proposed business and the name of
the owner of the premises for which the license is sought; and
      3.   The information required to show that the applicant meets the
qualifications required by this chapter, and such other information as may be
prescribed and required by city council.
   B.   Documentation Required: At the time application is filed, the applicant
shall also present copies of a license to sell beer, wine and/or liquor by the
drink, whichever is applicable, obtained from both the state and the county,
and a copy of the premises layout submitted with the state application. (Ord.
119, 6-9-2011)
3-2-6: QUALIFICATIONS AND INVESTIGATION:
   A.   State, County License Required: An applicant for a license shall
possess all of the qualifications necessary to obtain a license from the
director of law enforcement of the state, as prescribed by the laws of the
state, and maintain such qualifications throughout the period for which such
license is issued. The possession of a license regularly issued by the
department of law enforcement and the county shall be prima facie evidence of
the applicant's qualifications to receive a license hereunder.
   B.   Applicant Qualifications: The application shall affirmatively show
that:
      1.   The applicant is the bona fide owner of the business which will be
engaged in the sale of beer, wine and/or liquor by the drink at retail;
      2.   The condition of the place or building wherein it is proposed to
sell alcoholic beverages conforms to all laws and regulations of the state, the
county and the ordinances of the city applicable thereto relating to public
health and safety, and to the zoning ordinances of the city;
      3.   The individual applicant, or at least one partner of a partnership
applicant, is a citizen of the United States; or, with respect to a corporation
or association, that it is qualified to do business within the state and that
the person who is or will be the manager of the corporation's or association's
business is a citizen; provided further, that such individual applicant or at
least one of the partners of the partnership applicant shall be a bona fide
resident of the state for at least thirty (30) days immediately prior to the
application;
      4.   The applicant or at least one of the partners of a partnership, is
not less than twenty one (21) years of age;
      5.   The applicant has not been convicted of any felony or paid any fine
or completed any sentence of confinement therefor within five (5) years
immediately preceding the date of filing an application; and
      6.   The applicant has not been convicted of any violation, had
revocation of any license provided for herein, or any license or permit issued
to the applicant pursuant to the laws of the state relating to the importation,
transportation, manufacture or sale of alcoholic beverages within three (3)
years immediately preceding the date of filing an application.
   C.   Sheriff Review; Recommendation: All applications prior to submittal to
the city council for approval shall first be reviewed by the county sheriff's
department, who will make a recommendation concerning whether the applicant is
qualified by setting forth any prior criminal record of the applicant, if any,
and recommending whether the license should be granted or whether any
conditions should be imposed upon the granting of the license.
   D.   City Council Decision: All applications received by the city clerk
shall be presented to the mayor and city council at their next regular meeting
for approval, rejection and/or further consideration. The city council shall
grant or deny the application within thirty (30) days of the time it is filed
with the city clerk. (Ord. 119, 6-9-2011)
3-2-7: FEES FOR LICENSE OR PERMIT:
The establishment of fees for liquor, beer and wine licenses and permits in all
of the categories and descriptions set forth herein shall be amended and/or
modified by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 119, 6-9-2011; amd. 2017
Code)
3-2-8: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon filing the application, showing evidence of qualifications and by payment
of the required fee herein set forth, the city clerk shall, upon approval of
the city council, issue to the applicant a license to sell the designated
alcoholic beverage within the city, but only in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter and Idaho Code title 23, chapter 9, as each may be amended from
time to time.
   A.   Term: Licenses will be for a period of no longer than one year.
Licenses will be issued on January 1 of each year and shall expire at two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. December 31 of that year. All approved applications after
January 1 of any year, will be charged a full year's license fee and will not
be prorated.
   B.   Premises Designated: Licenses shall specify a certain room or building
designated for the purpose of sale, barter and/or disposal of alcoholic
beverages. This premises shall not be changed or moved without the consent of
city council. Licensed premises shall be limited to the area designated in the
premises layout submitted with the application, which may not be expanded
without submitting an amended application and obtaining approval of the city
council. (Ord. 119, 6-9-2011)
   C.   Display Of License; Nontransferable: All licenses shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises and shall be kept so posted during the full
period of time for which issued and said licenses shall not be sold,
transferred or assigned without the written consent of city council, except as
provided in section
3-2-17 of this chapter. (Ord. 119, 6-9-2011; amd. 2017 Code)
   D.   Number Of Licenses Permitted: No person shall be granted more than one
license in one year. No partnership, association or corporation holding a
license under this chapter shall have as a member, officer or stockholder, or
any person who has any financial interest of any kind in, or is a member of,
another partnership or association, or is an officer of another corporation
holding a license in the city for the same year.
   E.   Approval; Issuance: If city council determines that the contents of the
application are true, that such applicant is qualified to receive a license,
that his premises is suitable for the carrying on of the intended business, and
that the requirements of this chapter have been met and complied with, a
license shall be issued.
   F.   Denial: Otherwise, the application shall be denied and the license fee
returned. Denial of a license shall be stated in writing and shall include:
      1.   The statutes or ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
      2.   The reason for the denial; and
      3.   The action, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof. (Ord. 119, 6-9-2011)
3-2-9: CONTENTS OF LICENSE; LIST MAINTAINED:
   A.   All licenses issued shall be signed by the mayor and shall name the
person or business to whom issued, the type of license approved, and includes a
specific description of the premises where sale is authorized.
   B.   The city clerk shall keep a list of all licenses issued, stating the
number, name and type of business for which license was issued, together with
the amount paid. (Ord. 119, 6-9-2011)
3-2-10: LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS:
Upon approval and issuance of a license, each licensee shall at all times
during which beer, wine and/or liquor by the drink is being sold, served,
dispensed, given away, otherwise disposed or consumed upon the licensed
premises:
   A.   Signage: Keep a sign conspicuously posted stating the legal drinking
age of the state and that no minors will be served.
   B.   Lighting: Keep each room and/or area of a licensed premises where
alcoholic beverages are sold sufficiently lighted with illumination and to the
extent that objects and persons are clearly distinguishable from one end of the
room to the other.
   C.   Safety And Security: Keep and maintain agents and employees as
necessary to provide for the safety and security of patrons. This requirement
is intended to provide additional supervisory security and safety measures
during the licensee's hours of operation. Failure to have sufficient security
personnel may be grounds for the revocation of the license granted hereunder.
(Ord. 119, 6-9-2011)
   D.   No Limitation Of Sheriff: Nothing herein is intended to limit the
rights, duties and obligations of the county sheriff's department in keeping
the peace. (Ord. 119, 6-9-2011; amd. 2017 Code)
3-2-11: PREMISES LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
No license shall be issued to any applicant to sell any alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises where any part of the room or other place for such
sale or consumption is:
   A.   School Activities: Within a radius of three hundred feet (300') of any
part of the building within which any public school activities are conducted;
nor
   B.   Religious Sect: Within a radius of one hundred fifty feet (150') of any
room within which the regular religious or Sunday school services of a duly
organized and established sect are; nor
   C.   Hospital: Within a radius of one hundred fifty feet (150') of any
hospital. (Ord. 119, 6-9-2011)
3-2-12: RIGHT OF ENTRY TO PREMISES:
   A.   City, County Or State Officials: Any duly authorized officer of the
city, county or state shall have the right at any time to make an examination
of the premises of any licensee to ascertain whether the laws of the state and
the provisions of this chapter are being complied with, and it is unlawful to
refuse such officer the right of admittance or access to such premises. (Ord.
119, 6-9-2011; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Health District: The Panhandle health district shall have the right at
all times to enter in and upon any licensed premises for the purpose of the
regulation and inspection of such premises, and it shall be unlawful to refuse
any such authorized person the right of admittance or access to such premises.
(Ord. 119, 6-9-2011)
3-2-13: GENERAL LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Retailers who do not possess a valid license for the sale of any
alcoholic beverages on premises, shall not permit consumption of alcoholic
beverages on the licensed premises and may sell beer and/or wine for
consumption off premises in their original unbroken, sealed containers only.
   B.   Retailers holding a valid license for alcoholic beverages on the
premises shall not sell any alcoholic beverages for consumption off the
premises without first obtaining a license permitting such sale.
   C.   No licensee authorized to sell liquor by the drink shall keep for sale,
dispense, give away or otherwise dispose of any liquor in its original
containers for off premises consumption. Only beer and/or wine may be sold in
their original containers for consumption off premises.
   D.   It is unlawful to permit anyone under twenty one (21) years of age to
consume any alcoholic beverages.
   E.   It is unlawful to sell, give away or in any way dispose of any
alcoholic beverages to any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
   F.   No alcoholic beverage of any kind shall be sold to an interdicted
person.
   G.   No alcoholic beverage of any kind shall be sold to any person actually,
apparently or obviously intoxicated.
   H.   No liquor by the drink of any kind shall be sold on the day of a
general election until after the polls close.
   I.   No liquor by the drink of any kind shall be sold on Christmas between
the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. through ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. the
following day.
   J.   No alcoholic beverage of any kind shall be sold and/or consumed on the
premises at any time between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   K.   No liquor by the drink of any kind shall be sold and/or consumed on the
premises at any time between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and ten
o'clock (10:00) A.M.
   L.   Any patron present on the licensed premises after the sale of alcoholic
beverages has stopped as provided above shall have a reasonable time, not to
exceed thirty (30) minutes, to consume any beverage already sold.
   M.   It shall be unlawful to permit any person to remove from the premises
any alcoholic beverage in any open container.
   N.   It is unlawful to sell, serve, give away, dispense, consume or carry
any alcoholic beverages in open containers on or in any public street, highway,
alley, lane, sidewalk, public or private parking lot, or any school properties
within the city, unless otherwise authorized or permitted by the city through a
special events permit and temporary license.
   O.   In the event the laws of the state mandate any different minimum age
for either the consumption of alcoholic beverages, or the licensee requirements
for the sale thereof, such provisions shall automatically be adopted and
replace the above referenced ages.
   P.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to conduct or permit to be
conducted, played or carried on any game played with cards, dice or other
device for money, checks, credit or other consideration of value upon any
licensed premises.
   Q.   No licensee, employee or customer shall bring any alcoholic beverage
for the purpose of consumption into the licensed premises, unless it is in its
original unbroken, unsealed container and from the wholesaler for resale by the
licensee at the designated licensed premises. (Ord. 119, 6-9-2011)
3-2-14: OPEN CONTAINER IN MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED:
No person shall have in his or her possession an open container containing
alcoholic beverages within or on a motor vehicle, including motorcycles, while
parked or standing on a public street in the city, or while such vehicle is in
motion. (Ord. 119, 6-9-2011)
3-2-15: PURCHASE BY UNQUALIFIED PERSON:
Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years or other person who knowingly
misrepresents his qualifications for the purpose of obtaining alcoholic
beverages from any licensee shall be equally guilty with such licensee and
shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 119, 6-9-
2011)
3-2-16: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Application: Application for renewal of a license to sell alcoholic
beverages shall be on the same form as the application for the initial license.
(Ord. 119, 6-9-2011)
   B.   Issuance: If all of the information in the application for renewal
provided by the licensee is the same as provided for the initial license, and
there have been no violations by the licensee in the previous year, the city
clerk may issue the renewal without the application being submitted to council.
(Ord. 119, 6-9-2011; amd. 2017 Code)
3-2-17: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
   A.   Application: Application for transfer of a license to sell beer, wine
and/or liquor shall be on the form provided by the city clerk. Upon receipt of
such application, along with a transfer fee in an amount to be set by the city
council by resolution, the city clerk shall submit said application and the
original application to the mayor and city council. The city shall make the
same investigation and determination with respect to the transferee as required
in this chapter.
   B.   Applicant Must Qualify: If the city council determines that all
conditions required of a licensee under the provisions of this chapter have
been met by the proposed transferee, the city council shall note its approval
thereof upon such license. No license shall be transferred to any applicant
that does not meet the requirements for a license.
   C.   Premises Transfer Prohibited: Nothing in this action shall be construed
to permit the transfer of a license to a premises other than the premises
originally designated in the license.
   D.   Alternative; Certification Required: In the case of receivership,
assignment, bankruptcy or incompetence of the licensee, business may be carried
on under the license by the duly appointed, qualified and acting receiver,
assignee, trustee in bankruptcy, guardian, executor or administrator of the
licensee; provided, that such receiver, assignee, trustee, guardian, executor
or administrator shall file with the city clerk a duly certified copy of his
appointment and secure the written consent of city council. (Ord. 119, 6-9-
2011)
3-2-18: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
The revocation or suspension of the state license by the director of law
enforcement, or the county, shall be deemed prima facie evidence for revocation
of or suspension of the license issued herein.
   A.   Conditions: The city council shall retain the right at all times to
suspend, revoke or refuse to renew any alcoholic beverage license:
      1.   If licensee has made any false statements in the application for a
license, or did not have or has not retained the qualifications for a license;
      2.   If licensee or any employee of licensee is in violation of any of
the provisions of Idaho Code title 23;
      3.   If licensee or an employee of licensee is convicted of a violation
of any provisions of Idaho Code title 23;
      4.   If licensee or an employee of licensee is in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter; and
      5.   For any conduct or act of the licensee or his employees, or any
conduct or act permitted by him or them adjacent thereto, tending to render
such business or such premises as a public nuisance or a menace to the health,
peace, safety or general welfare of the citizens, or otherwise causing such
business to be construed as disorderly or disreputable.
   B.   Suspension: The city council may elect to suspend a license to sell any
alcoholic beverage rather than to revoke the license if the licensee violates
any or fails to comply with any of the provisions of Idaho Code relating to
retail sales of alcoholic beverages or rules and regulations promulgated in
accordance with those provisions or violates or fails to comply with this
chapter.
   C.   Monetary Fine In Lieu Of Suspension: Prior to the effective date of the
suspension, the affected licensee may request that a monetary payment be
allowed in lieu of the license suspension. If the city council determines that
such payment be consistent with the purpose of the laws of the state and the
city and is in the public interest, the city council shall establish a monetary
amount, not to exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). Upon payment of the
amount established, the suspension shall be canceled.
   D.   Rejection By Licensee: The licensee may reject the payment amount and
instead be subject to the suspension. (Ord. 119, 6-9-2011)
3-2-19: HEARING FOR REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
If the city council for any reason deems revocation or suspension of the
license appropriate, the licensee shall be afforded a hearing before city
council, together with the right of representation at licensee's expense and
choosing.
   A.   Notice: The city clerk shall provide written notice to the licensee of
said hearing setting forth the time, place and date for said hearing, which
shall be at least five (5) days from the date first notified of city council's
decision to revoke or suspend. Only after such hearing is held or waived by the
licensee, shall the license in question be suspended or revoked.
   B.   Fee Not Refunded: Upon such suspension or revocation, no refund of any
unexpired portion of the license fee shall be made to the licensee.
   C.   Certification To State, County: A certified copy of such suspension or
revocation shall immediately be forwarded to the state director of law
enforcement and the county sheriff's department by the city clerk. (Ord. 119,
6-9-2011)
3-2-20: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions hereof shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter by any
agent, employee, servant or other person in any way acting in behalf of the
licensee shall be presumed to be a violation by the licensee. (Ord. 119, 6-9-
2011; amd. 2017 Code)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC NUISANCES 1
SECTION:
4-1-1: Authority
4-1-2: Purpose
4-1-3: Nuisances Declared
4-1-4: Public Nuisances Unlawful
4-1-5: Authorized Actions
4-1-6: Enforcement
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  12-6-7 of this Code.
4-1-1: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted to the City of Dover
by the Constitution of the State of Idaho, article XII, section 2, and by Idaho
Code, title 50 (Municipal Corporations), chapters 3 and 9, title 49 (Motor
Vehicles), and title 52 (Nuisances). (Ord. 159, 12-13-2018)
4-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to:
   A.   Identify public nuisances;
   B.   Establish regulations to prevent, reduce, or eliminate public
nuisances;
   C.   Authorize the City to act in the interests of public health, safety,
and welfare to prevent, abate, or remove nuisances;
   D.   Allow the removal or destruction of buildings or structures deemed by
the City to be a nuisance or menace to public health or safety;
   E.   Create procedures for the abatement and removal of abandoned, junk,
dismantled or inoperative vehicles or their parts from public or private
property;
   F.   Establish fines, fees, penalties, and other procedures to defray costs
to taxpayers for actions taken to abate public nuisances. (Ord. 159, 12-13-
2018)
4-1-3: NUISANCES DECLARED:
Anything that is injurious to health, morals, safety, welfare, or indecent, or
offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as
to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property or unlawfully
obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable
lake, or river, stream, canal, or basin, or any public park, square, street, or
highway, is a nuisance and is subject to action by the City. Public nuisances
shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
   A.   Noise: Between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. the next morning, there shall be no loud, excessive,
disruptive, or annoying sounds produced by voices, instruments, electronic
devices, machinery, animals, or other means that disturbs the peace, quiet, and
comfort of any reasonable person of normal sensitivities. To be considered
loud, the sound must be plainly audible one hundred fifty feet (150') or more
from the source.
   B.   Junk, Abandoned Or Junk Vehicles: Junk includes, but is not limited to,
manufactured goods, appliances, fixtures, scrap metal, salvaged building
materials, agricultural or yard wastes, plastics, garbage, furniture, rags,
clothing and accessories, paper, or paper products, glass, machinery or vehicle
parts, construction wastes, or any other personal property, whether of value or
valueless, that is demolished, discarded, dismantled or partially dismantled,
dilapidated, or deteriorated so that it cannot be used for its original
intended use. A dismantled, inoperable, or unlicensed vehicle or an abandoned
vehicle as defined by Idaho Code section 49-102 shall also constitute a public
nuisance.
   C.   Solid Or Liquid Waste: The accumulation of garbage, offensive or
nauseous substances, hazardous or offensive liquids, manure, animal carcass,
spillage of liquids, or sewage.
   D.   Litter: Trash, handbills, bottles, construction materials, yard debris,
or other waste substances discarded on public thoroughfares, public parks, or
public spaces.
   E.   Weeds: Noxious weeds, as defined by Idaho Code section 22-2402.
   F.   Snow, Ice, And Debris On Public Sidewalks: The accumulation of snow,
ice, dirt, debris, or solid waste upon public sidewalks that obstruct safe
travel. The property owner abutting the sidewalk shall bear the responsibility
to remove the accumulations.
   G.   Dangerous Buildings Or Structures: The City Council shall have the
authority as provided by Idaho Code section 50-335, to declare any building or
structure to be a nuisance that, in its opinion, is so dilapidated or is in
such condition as to menace the public health or the safety of persons or
property due to increased fire hazard, threat of collapse, or other such
hazards. (Ord. 159, 12-13-2018)
4-1-4: PUBLIC NUISANCES UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to create, cause, maintain, or
allow a public nuisance to exist on any premises or real property that the
person or entity owns, rents, leases, or occupies within the incorporated City
limits of Dover. Further, it shall be unlawful for any person to create or
cause a public nuisance on any City property, public spaces, or public rights-
of-way. (Ord. 159, 12-13-2018)
4-1-5: AUTHORIZED ACTIONS:
The City, through its staff, contractors, or those otherwise engaged by the
City, are empowered to prevent, remove, cause to be removed, or abate any
public nuisance and to enforce the provisions of this chapter. When a public
nuisance is determined to exist, the City may:
   A.   Provide written notice by certified mail at the address shown on the
current assessor's tax rolls to the owner of the subject premises or by
personal service. The notice shall:
      1.   Identify the violation;
      2.   State the actions that must be taken to abate the violation;
      3.   Provide a time limit to abate the violation, not exceeding fifteen
(15) days from the date of notice, unless an extension of time is warranted, as
determined by the City.
      4.   Advise of consequences if violation is not abated.
   B.   Remove or abate a nuisance without notice, if an immediate threat to
health, safety, or welfare exists that requires emergency action, as determined
by the City. (Ord. 159, 12-13-2018)
4-1-6: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Penalties: Any person or entity who creates, causes, commits, or
maintains a nuisance as herein declared, or fails to abate or correct a
nuisance after notification by the City is subject to the penalties as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   Each Day Separate Violation: Each day a violation continues may be
considered a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during
which any violation of this title is committed, continued, or permitted.
   C.   Civil Remedies: Nothing contained herein shall preclude the City from
pursuing enforcement through injunctive relief or any other civil remedies
available.
   D.   Recovery Of Damages And Costs: Violations of this title are subject to
investigate fees to recover the costs incurred by the City in the processing
and abatement of the violation.
   E.   Expense Of Removal: The Council may cause the destruction or removal of
any such building or structure at the expense of the person or persons,
associations, corporations or copartnerships holding, owning or maintaining the
same, and to levy a special assessment as provided in Idaho Code section 50-
1008, on the land or premises whereon the nuisance is situated, to defray the
cost or to reimburse the City for the cost of destruction or removal of said
building or structure so declared to be a nuisance. (Ord. 159, 12-13-2018)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
LAW ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Contracted With County
5-1-1: CONTRACTED WITH COUNTY:
Pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement, the city has contracted with the
Bonner County sheriff's department to enforce state statutes and county and
city ordinances, including, but not limited to, traffic enforcement and
criminal and civil enforcement. (2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SPECIAL EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Permit, Nonrefundable Fee Required For Special Event
5-2-3: Exceptions To Permit Requirement
5-2-4: Application For Permit
5-2-5: Temporary Vendor Permit
5-2-6: Alcoholic Beverage Catering Permit
5-2-7: Standards For Issuance
5-2-8: Application Denial
5-2-9: Permit Process
5-2-10: Damage And Cleaning Deposits
5-2-11: Insurance Requirements
5-2-12: Permit Fees
5-2-13: Denial Of Permit
5-2-14: Appeal Procedure
5-2-15: Discrimination Prohibited
5-2-16: Responsibility Of Applicant Or Sponsor
5-2-17: Authority To Halt, Cancel Or Revoke
5-2-18: Penalty
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
In construing the provision of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply:
APPLICANT: The sponsoring entity, whether such sponsoring entity is an
individual person, firm, partnership, company, corporation, joint venture,
association or other legal entity of any type.
FOOD CONCESSIONS: Carts or like devices, stands and/or semipermanent structures
from which food and nonalcoholic beverages are sold.
PARADE: Any dash, demonstration, march, marathon, parade, procession, public
assembly, race, rally or like activity, consisting of persons, animals or
vehicles, or a combination thereof within the city limits of Dover, with the
intent of attracting public attendance.
SPECIAL EVENT: Any preplanned single gathering, event or series of related
consecutive daily gatherings or events, commercial or noncommercial in nature.
Such an event shall include, but not be limited to, displays, exhibits,
exhibitions, fairs, festivals, sporting events, parades, performances and
contests within the city limits of Dover.
SPONSOR: Any and each person making application to the city, and thereby
becoming responsible for a special event, a sporting event and/or a parade
within the city limits of Dover.
SPORTING EVENT: Any organized competitive recreational physical activity
engaged in for pleasure, including league play, contests and tournaments within
the city limits of Dover.
TEMPORARY VENDOR: Any vendor, whether owner or otherwise, who engages in a
temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares, merchandise, food,
beverages and services. (Ord. 106, 5-13-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
5-2-2: PERMIT, NONREFUNDABLE FEE REQUIRED FOR SPECIAL EVENT:
City council approval is required prior to any event that necessitates street
closure, off site parking, amplified entertainment or pyrotechnic displays of
any kind. The city council may, from time to time, permit a special event
within the city limits.
   A.   Submittal; Time To File: All requests for a special event within the
city limits must first be submitted to the city clerk on a permit application
form provided by the city clerk at least forty five (45) days but no more than
ninety (90) days prior to the date requested for the special event.
   B.   Nonrefundable Application Fee: A nonrefundable application fee in such
amount as established by the city council to cover the expenses incidental to
processing the application shall be paid to the city at the time of filing the
application. (The fee will be refunded only if the application is withdrawn on
the same date it is submitted.) This fee amount may be subsequently amended by
resolution of the city council.
   C.   Compliance: The applicant/sponsor shall adhere to and be bound by any
commitments made in an application submittal. (Ord. 106, 5-13-2008; amd. 2017
Code)
5-2-3: EXCEPTIONS TO PERMIT REQUIREMENT:
Exceptions to the permit requirement include:
   A.   Functions put on by the city solely on its own property.
   B.   Government agencies acting within the scope of their function.
   C.   A funeral or wedding procession.
   D.   Temporary sales conducted by businesses on private property, such as
holiday sales, grand openings and anniversary sales.
   E.   Church activities, which occur less than twice per year, i.e., annual
rummage sale or picnic.
   F.   Parties or gatherings at a private residence, garage/yard sales and
estate sales (unless it is an auction). Please note: Events on private property
shall be considered special events if one hundred (100) or more people
participating in the event will occupy adjacent public streets or public
property during the event. The city does not allow street closures in a
residential area, unless it is a dead end or cul-de-sac and signatures of
agreement are provided from all residents affected by the street closure. (Ord.
106, 5-13-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
5-2-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Each permit application shall be completed in full to the satisfaction of the
city clerk and any applicable city departments, law enforcement agency, fire
district and/or ambulance service.
   A.   Information Requested: Information may be requested for the permit
application, through written or oral inquiries communicated from the city clerk
addressed to the applicant/sponsor. The time for reviewing the application
prior to city council considerations may be extended, based on the time it
takes the applicant/sponsor to respond satisfactorily to any inquiry.
   B.   Extra Conditions Requiring Additional Information: The application for
a special event shall also include any and all information for extra
conditions, such as any of the following extra conditions that apply to the
special event and/or activities at the special event:
      1.   Hanging Of Banners: Not more than one banner per one hundred feet
(100') of road frontage, and banner shall be set back at least thirty feet
(30') from any public street. A maximum of five (5) banners may be used.
Banners may be placed not more than five (5) days prior to event;
      2.   Display Of Portable Signs: Signs shall not exceed six (6) square
feet and shall be set back at least thirty feet (30') from any public street;
      3.   Display Of Balloons: Balloons shall be no larger than thirty six
inches (36") in diameter;
      4.   Building Stages: Stages shall be set back at least thirty feet (30')
from any public street. A safety inspection and/or certification showing safety
standards have been met shall be required;
      5.   Setting Up Tents: Tents shall be set back at least thirty feet (30')
from any public street. A safety inspection and/or certification showing safety
standards have been met shall be required;
      6.   Electricity Needed: The city will bill the applicant/sponsor for any
usage of power during the special event;
      7.   Food Concessions Sales: A temporary food handlers license issued by
the Panhandle health district will be required for submittal, along with a
temporary vendor permit from the city prior to city approval of the special
event permit;
      8.   Alcoholic Beverage Sales: A temporary alcoholic beverage permit from
the city will be required for submittal, along with state and county liquor
licenses prior to city approval of the special event permit;
      9.   Vendors On Site: An Idaho state sellers or vending permit will be
required of all vendors for submittal, along with a temporary vendors permit
issued from the city prior to city approval of the special event permit;
      10.   Rides And/Or Amusements: Mechanical amusement devices shall comply
with all state laws and required licensing. Proof of licensing shall be
submitted prior to city approval of the special event permit;
      11.   Fireworks: The pyrotechnic company hired shall comply with all
state laws and required licensing. Proof of licensing and any county sheriff
and/or fire district permits applicable shall be submitted prior to city
approval of the special event permit;
      12.   Amplified Announcements And/Or Music: The city council will make a
decision regarding amplification on a case by case basis;
      13.   Closure Of Any Public Streets: The applicant/sponsor shall be
solely responsible for renting, placing and removing any barricades or traffic
control devices used. If a street is closed for the event, the applicant/
sponsor will be required to provide a possible detour route to be approved by
the city; and
      14.   Additional: Any other extra condition needed at the special event
to assure the health, safety and enjoyment of participants, attendees,
spectators, private property owners or residents in the city.
   C.   Submittal: The special events application shall be submitted with any
documentation required along with any permits or licenses from the city as may
be required, depending on each special event application circumstance. (Ord.
106, 5-13-2008)
5-2-5: TEMPORARY VENDOR PERMIT:
Any vendor who wishes to engage in the temporary business of selling and
delivering goods, wares, merchandise, food concessions and services at a
special event must first obtain a temporary vendor permit from the city by
applying for such permit on an application form furnished by the city clerk.
Said vendor must also show proof of issuance of a state of Idaho vendor or
seller permit.
   A.   Days Valid: Temporary permits shall not be valid for more than five (5)
consecutive days. (Ord. 106, 5-13-2008)
   B.   Nonrefundable Fee: A nonrefundable fee in such amount as established by
the city council shall accompany the application. (Ord. 106, 5-13-2008; amd.
2017 Code)
   C.   Issuance Of Permit: Upon submittal of application with fees and
approval by the city clerk, a temporary vendor permit shall be issued.
   D.   Contents Of Permit: The permit shall show the applicant's name and
address, the sponsor of the special event, the name of the special event, the
location of the retail site, the type of products to be sold and the dates and
times approved for such permitted sales.
   E.   Display Of Permit: The permit shall be exhibited in a conspicuous place
at all times during hours of operation. (Ord. 106, 5-13-2008)
   F.   Collection Of Trash: All trash or debris accumulating within fifty feet
(50') of any retail site shall be collected by the vendor of that retail site
and deposited in trash containers. (Ord. 106, 5-13-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
   G.   Trash Receptacles Provided By Vendor: All vendors selling food
concessions must provide trash receptacles adjacent to or as a part of their
retail site.
   H.   Health Permit: All vendors selling food concessions must provide proof
of a Panhandle health district permit for food handlers. (Ord. 106, 5-13-2008)
5-2-6: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CATERING PERMIT:
Any vendor who wishes to engage in the temporary business of selling,
distributing, transferring or dispensing alcoholic beverages at a special event
must first obtain an alcoholic beverage catering permit from the city by
applying for such permit on an application form furnished by the city clerk.
   A.   Liquor Licenses: Vendor must submit copies of liquor licenses from both
the state and the county.
   B.   Days Valid: Permits shall not be valid for more than three (3)
consecutive days. (Ord. 106, 5-13-2008)
   C.   Nonrefundable Fee: A nonrefundable fee in such amount as established by
the city council shall accompany the application. (Ord. 106, 5-13-2008; amd.
2017 Code)
   D.   Issuance Of Permit: Upon submittal of application, approval from the
county sheriff, approval by the city council and proof of liability insurance
in accordance with subsection
5-2-11A of this chapter, an alcoholic beverage catering permit shall be issued
by the city clerk.
   E.   Contents Of Permit: The permit shall show the applicant's name and
address, the sponsor of the special event, the name of the special event, the
location of the retail site, the type of permit approved, and the dates and
times approved for such permitted sales.
   F.   Display Of Permit: The permit shall be exhibited in a conspicuous place
at all times during hours of operation. (Ord. 106, 5-13-2008)
   G.   Collection Of Trash: All trash or debris accumulating within fifty feet
(50') of any retail site shall be collected by the vendor of that retail site
and deposited in trash containers. (Ord. 106, 5-13-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
   H.   Receptacles Provided By Vendor: All vendors selling alcoholic beverages
must provide trash receptacles adjacent to or as a part of their retail site.
(Ord. 106, 5-13-2008)
5-2-7: STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE:
The purpose of these regulations is to set forth the standards of issuance:
   A.   Assure that public safety personnel, such as police, fire and ambulance
services are available;
   B.   Assure that public safety personnel, such as police, fire and ambulance
services are not unreasonably inhibited in their ability to travel on and to
public streets or property;
   C.   Assure that traffic on public streets is not unreasonably disturbed or
disrupted by the special event;
   D.   Assure that private business activities, private property owners or
residents in the city are not unreasonably impacted by the special event;
   E.   Assure that public safety can be maintained; and
   F.   Assure that public and private property can be protected from harm.
(Ord. 106, 5-13-2008)
5-2-8: APPLICATION DENIAL:
The city clerk may deny an application if:
   A.   The application does not comply with the provisions of this chapter; or
   B.   If the applicant, sponsor and/or the person on whose behalf the
application is made:
      1.   Has made material misrepresentations regarding the nature or scope
of a special event previously permitted;
      2.   Has violated the terms of prior permits; or
      3.   Has failed to clean up litter and/or damaged city property and not
paid in full for such cleanup and/or damage. (Ord. 106, 5-13-2008)
5-2-9: PERMIT PROCESS:
Any special event permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be considered
temporary and vests no permanent rights to the applicant/sponsor. Each special
event permit shall be valid for a specific period of time and for a specific
purpose as indicated on each permit application.
   A.   Presentation To City Council: All properly submitted applications shall
be presented by the city clerk to the city council for consideration at the
next regular scheduled city council meeting.
   B.   Number Of Events Permitted: There shall not be permitted more than two
(2) special events per year per applicant/sponsor, with one additional event
being held strictly for charity purposes, with all proceeds going to the
charity. (This event may not be used to promote merchandise or services located
at the event or for sponsors of the event.)
   C.   Days Between Events: There shall be a minimum of thirty (30) days
between each event per applicant/sponsor.
   D.   Maximum Consecutive Days: Any special event shall not last more than
five (5) consecutive days, including set up and take down.
   E.   Time Of Day Restricted: No permit shall be issued for a special event
to commence before seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. (each day) and all special events
shall close down (each day) prior to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
   F.   Public Safety: Applicant/sponsor shall assure to the satisfaction of
the city council that participants: 1) are not in possession of firearms or
other weapons unless specifically approved by law enforcement; 2) do not intend
to engage in violence or other unlawful conduct; and 3) do not intend to incite
others to do so.
   G.   Conditions May Be Imposed: The permit may limit or condition the number
of participants, length, time and location, or the manner of the special event.
   H.   Decision Of City Council: The application for permit will be approved
or denied by city council at the next regular council meeting after submittal
of the application to the city clerk.
   I.   Notification Of Decision: The city clerk shall notify the applicant/
sponsor by phone, facsimile or certified mail of any notice of denial or
conditional approval and the reasons for denial or conditions as soon as
practical upon the city council's decision.
   J.   Approval Deemed Written Agreement: Applications approved for permit by
the city council shall be considered a written agreement between the city and
the applicant/sponsor of the special event as of the date of approval by the
city council. (Ord. 106, 5-13-2008)
5-2-10: DAMAGE AND CLEANING DEPOSITS:
   A.   Damage Deposit: Prior to the issuance of any permit, the applicant/
sponsor is required to submit to the city clerk, a cash deposit in the amount
of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) as a damage deposit to cover any
possible damage to city property resulting directly from the special event or
having been caused during the course of the special event.
   B.   Cleaning Deposit: Any special event involving the sale of food or
beverages for immediate consumption, erection of structures, the use of horses
or other large animals, water aid stations, or any other activity within the
special event likely to create a substantial need for clean up, the applicant/
sponsor may be required to submit a cash deposit in the amount of two hundred
dollars ($200.00) to the city clerk as a cleaning deposit. (Ord. 106, 5-13-
2008)
   C.   Litter Clean Up: The clean up of litter resulting from the special
event pursuant to this provision shall be limited to that litter occurring
within fifty feet (50') of the location of the special event, unless the litter
is clearly identified as not resulting from the special event. (Ord. 106, 5-13-
2008; amd. 2017 Code)
   D.   Use Of Cleanup Deposit By City: If the applicant/sponsor fails to clean
up all litter on any public or private property, which results from any
activity at the special event within twenty four (24) hours after the end of
the special event, the city may cause such litter to be cleaned up and pay for
the clean up out of the deposit.
   E.   Retention Of Deposits: Such deposits will be retained in full by the
city clerk until the special event has concluded and any applicable cleanup
costs and/or damage costs have been assessed.
   F.   Refund After Assessment: After the assessment by the city, any
remainder of the funds deposited shall be refunded to the applicant without
interest.
   G.   Excess Costs Of Clean Up: If the cost of the clean up and/or damage to
city property exceed the amounts of funds on deposit, the applicant/sponsor
shall be billed for the balance and required to pay all associated excess costs
to the city. (Ord. 106, 5-13-2008)
5-2-11: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Liability: Proof of general liability insurance from an
insurance company authorized to do business in the state. The city shall be
named as an additional insured. Comprehensive general liability shall be a
minimum combined single limit of not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) for bodily or personal injury, death or property damage or loss
as the result of any one occurrence or accident, regardless of the number of
persons injured or the number of claimants.
   B.   Automobile Liability: If sponsor operated motor vehicles are involved,
proof of comprehensive automobile liability insurance from an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state. This coverage shall be a combined
single limit for bodily injury and property damage of not less than five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for bodily or personal injury, death or
property damage or loss as the result of any one occurrence or accident,
regardless of the number of persons injured or the number of claimants. (Ord.
106, 5-13-2008)
5-2-12: PERMIT FEES:
Permit fees shall be set by the city council by resolution and may be
subsequently amended by resolution by city council. (Ord. 106, 5-13-2008)
5-2-13: DENIAL OF PERMIT:
The city council may deny a permit:
   A.   Traffic; Public Services: If it is determined that the special event
would unreasonably disrupt traffic or public services;
   B.   Personnel Support: If sufficient safety personnel support is not
available to assist in the conduct of the special event;
   C.   Support Facilities: If adequate support facilities, including, but not
limited to, parking, refuse collection, sanitation, and/or lighting are not
available for the special event;
   D.   Conflicts: If conflict exists with the requested event and other
approved and previously scheduled events;
   E.   Violence: If there is clear and convincing evidence that the applicant
(not opponents of the applicant) intends to engage in violence and that the
time, place and manner of the special event cannot be adjusted so as the city
will be able to control such potential violence without injury to bystanders,
participants or public safety personnel; or
   F.   Compliance: If the applicant/sponsor fails to demonstrate compliance
with all applicable provisions of federal, state, county or local law,
including the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 106, 5-13-2008)
5-2-14: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
Any applicant/sponsor shall have the right to appeal the city council's denial
of an application. (Ord. 106, 5-13-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
   A.   Time Limit For Filing: The applicant/sponsor shall make any appeal to
the city council within two (2) business days after receipt of the denial by
filing a written notice of appeal with the city clerk setting out the reasons
in writing.
   B.   Consideration; Determination: The city council will consider the appeal
at a regular or special council meeting and reach a determination in accordance
with section
5-2-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 106, 5-13-2008)
5-2-15: DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibition: There shall be no discrimination in granting, denying or
conditionally granting permits under this chapter based upon statutorily
protected or constitutionally guaranteed rights.
   B.   Rights Protected: The terms and conditions of a permit (including
providing insurance) shall not infringe upon rights of petition, assembly or
free expression protected by the first amendment of the United States
constitution and/or the Idaho constitution.
   C.   Burden Of Proof: If an applicant/sponsor asserts in writing that a term
or condition proposed by the city council, the city clerk or any designee of
the city infringes upon a constitutional right, the city council, the city
clerk or designee of the city shall have the burden of showing that the
proposed term or condition is a reasonable time, place and manner restriction.
(Ord. 106, 5-13-2008)
5-2-16: RESPONSIBILITY OF APPLICANT OR SPONSOR:
The applicant/sponsor shall be the responsible party for the special event and
all activities within the special event. The applicant/sponsor shall be
responsible to ensure, to the best of their ability, that the participants and
spectators comply with all permit conditions, with all policies, rules and
regulations adopted by the city by ordinance or resolution, and with all
federal, state and local laws. (Ord. 106, 5-13-2008)
5-2-17: AUTHORITY TO HALT, CANCEL OR REVOKE:
   A.   Conditions: Any activity within the special event or the entire special
event may be halted and/or canceled, or the entire permit may be revoked
immediately by the mayor, law enforcement or city designee:
      1.   If any special event occurs without the required permits;
      2.   If any sponsor or person in charge of or responsible for an activity
within the special event, knowingly fails to comply with any condition of the
permit;
      3.   If any participant fails to conform to any condition of the permit;
      4.   If any activity within the special event, based upon competent
evidence, would bring about violence, which would, with reasonable certainty,
result in injury to the public or to public safety personnel; or which would
result in damage to city or private property;
      5.   If an imminent risk of violence arises during the course of the
special event; or
      6.   If an imminent risk to public health and safety arises during the
course of the special event.
   B.   Notice; Failure To Comply: Any cancellation, order to halt or permit
revocation shall be communicated to the applicant/sponsor as soon as possible
after such determination has been made. If any special event and/or activity
within the special event fails to cease after revocation of the permit or an
order to halt, the applicant/sponsor, as the responsible party, will be in
violation. Such violation will be enforced by the Bonner County sheriff's
department. (Ord. 106, 5-13-2008)
5-2-18: PENALTY:
Any person who violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter or who, having obtained a permit, fails to comply with the conditions
set forth in the approved permit, is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 106, 5-13-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 3
FIREARMS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Firearm Defined
5-3-2: Discharge Of Firearms Prohibited
5-3-3: Exceptions
5-3-4: Penalty
5-3-1: FIREARM DEFINED:
In construing the provisions of this chapter, "firearm" shall mean any weapon
or device from which a projectile or projectiles may be fired by an explosive,
such as gunpowder. (Ord. 124, 9-12-2013; amd. 2017 Code)
5-3-2: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for a person, other than the owner, person in possession
of the premises, or a person having the express permission of the owner or
person in possession of the premises, while within one hundred fifty (150)
yards of an occupied dwelling house, residence or other building, or within one
hundred fifty (150) yards of a barn or other outbuilding used in connection
with an occupied dwelling house, residence or other building, to discharge a
firearm.
   B.   It is unlawful for a person to intentionally discharge any firearm over
or across a public road or other established way open to the public in an
unsafe and reckless manner. (Ord. 124, 9-12-2013; amd. 2017 Code)
5-3-3: EXCEPTIONS:
The discharge of any firearm of any kind or description under the following
circumstances is not a violation of this chapter:
   A.   Protection Of Life: The discharge of a firearm in the protection of
life or property; or
   B.   Law Enforcement Officer: The discharge of a firearm by law enforcement
during the course of his or her duties; or
   C.   Military Personnel: The discharge of a firearm by military personnel at
military functions, such as parades and funerals, and the firing of blank
charges by such personnel. (Ord. 124, 9-12-2013; amd. 2017 Code)
5-3-4: PENALTY:
Any person who violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 124, 9-12-2013; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 4
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
5-4-1: Purpose And Intent
5-4-2: Definitions
5-4-3: Dates When Burning Restricted; Exceptions
5-4-4: Permitted Open Burning Dates
5-4-5: Restrictions On Open Burning
5-4-6: Liability
5-4-7: Penalty
5-4-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The city recognizes that the public health and safety of the residents of the
city and the protection of their property requires the regulation of open
burning. (Ord. 138, 8-13-2015)
5-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms are defined herein:
OPEN BURNING: Starting or maintaining any fire outside a residence or other
building structure where the products of combustion are emitted directly into
the ambient air without passing through a stack, chimney or similar exhaust
device. "Open burning" also applies to material that is burned in burn barrels,
air curtain destructors or other such devices. "Open burning" does not include
fires contained wholly within a barbecue, cooker or similar device designed,
intended and used for outdoor cooking, and that is not intended or being used
for burning of substances otherwise prohibited under this chapter.
RECREATIONAL FIRES, COOKING FIRES AND WARMING FIRES: Fire for the preparation
of food, campfires and barbecues, enclosed in a fire ring no more than three
feet (3') in diameter. Recreational fires, cooking fires and warming fires are
permitted year round in compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 138, 8-13-2015;
amd. 2017 Code)
5-4-3: DATES WHEN BURNING RESTRICTED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   When Permit Required: Given the dry conditions and potential fire
danger, the city prohibits open burning from May 10 to October 20 of each year
within the city limits without a burn permit.
   B.   Permitted Fires; Restrictions: Recreational fires, cooking fires and
warming fires are allowed during this time. Recreational fires, cooking fires
and warming fires must comply with the following restrictions:
      1.   Fires for the preparation of food, campfires and barbecues must be
enclosed in a fire ring no more than three feet (3') in diameter. (Ord. 138, 8-
13-2015)
      2.   Fires shall not be ignited within fifty feet (50') of a structure or
combustible material unless the fires are contained in a barbecue or barbecue
pit. Persons igniting these fires shall remove materials that could cause a
fire to spread to within twenty five feet (25') of a structure before lighting
these fires.
      3.   A competent person, who knows how to safely contain a recreational,
cooking or warming fire, must be present at the fire at all times until the
fire is extinguished. (Ord. 138, 8-13-2015; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Permit From Fire District: In the event an open burn must occur, in an
effort to reduce potential fire danger to surrounding structures and property,
a burn permit must be obtained from the Westside fire district in order to
evaluate conditions and risks associated with the open burn. (Ord. 138, 8-13-
2015)
5-4-4: PERMITTED OPEN BURNING DATES:
   A.   Types Permitted: The city allows the following types of open burning
within the city limits from October 21 to May 9 of each year in the following
circumstances:
      1.   Irrigation ditches to keep them clear of plant and weed growth;
      2.   Controlling or alleviating fire hazards or weeds;
      3.   Training organized firefighting personnel;
      4.   Disposing of tree remnants and dry vegetation.
   B.   Notice To Fire District: The Westside fire district must be notified
prior to the start of the open burn. (Ord. 138, 8-13-2015; amd. 2017 Code)
5-4-5: RESTRICTIONS ON OPEN BURNING:
   A.   Toxic Or Hazardous Substances: It shall be unlawful to engage in open
burning of garbage, trash, refuse, household solid waste, construction or
demolition waste, tires, plastics, rubber, toxic or hazardous substances, or
other substances as may be prohibited by state or federal law (reference IDAPA
58.01.01).
   B.   Distance To Structure: Open burning shall not be conducted within fifty
feet (50') of any structure or combustible material.
   C.   Competent Person In Attendance; Tools, Equipment: A competent person
eighteen (18) years of age or older shall constantly attend any open burn until
such time that said burn is completely extinguished. This person must have
sufficient tools and equipment on hand to extinguish the fire. Such equipment
may include, but is not limited to: hoses connected to a functional water
supply; shovels; fire extinguishers, or other fire extinguishing equipment
suitable to maintain control of the open burn.
   D.   Manner Of Burning: All open burning shall be conducted in such a manner
that the burning does not create a hazard to persons or dwellings, or cause
excessive smoke or offensive odors. All open burning shall be conducted in a
manner such that the combustible materials and fire are contained and
controlled to prevent spread of the fire, embers or burning materials.
   E.   Other Premises: No person shall kindle a fire upon the premises of
another without the permission of the property owner, or the owner's agent.
   F.   Hauling To Burn Prohibited: Hauling of debris from one property to
another to burn is prohibited.
   G.   Yard Waste; Campfires; Burn Barrels: Burning of yard waste is allowed
during daylight hours only. Small campfires for cooking food are allowed at
night. Recreational fires and bonfires may be allowed at night with approval
from the fire district. Burn barrels are allowed after obtaining a copy of
"additional instructions" for burn barrel use from the fire district. (Ord.
138, 8-13-2015)
   H.   Authority Of Mayor To Restrict: The mayor, on the advice of the fire
chief, shall have the authority to rescind open burning, recreational fires,
cooking fires and warming fires immediately if it is determined that
atmospheric, weather or hazardous conditions of local circumstances constitute
a threat to the public safety or property. (Ord. 138, 8-13-2015; amd. 2017
Code)
   I.   Order To Extinguish: The person responsible for an open burn shall
extinguish the open burn completely before leaving the open burn for any reason
whatsoever, or upon the order of the fire chief (international fire code
section 307), or a law enforcement officer. An order to extinguish an open burn
may be based on any of the following reasons:
      1.   Conducting an open burn in violation of this chapter;
      2.   Insufficient or unsuitable personnel present to control the open
burn;
      3.   A change from favorable to unfavorable weather or burning
conditions;
      4.   Conducting an open burn that is determined to be dangerous or a
nuisance. (Ord. 138, 8-13-2015)
5-4-6: LIABILITY:
   A.   The city, its officials and employees, shall not be liable for any
injury to persons or property by reason of any act or omission under this
chapter.
   B.   The city council may determine to hold the person or business owner
responsible for the open burn liable for any costs that the fire district
reasonably incurs as a result of responding. The costs may be based on the
current Idaho department of lands rate book or rates adopted by the Westside
fire district board of commissioners. (Ord. 138, 8-13-2015)
5-4-7: PENALTY:
Violations of this chapter shall be an infraction subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 138, 8-13-2015; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ANTI-STALKING
SECTION:
5-5-1: Short Title
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Applicability
5-5-4: Defenses
5-5-5: Violations; Penalties
5-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be referred to as the “Anti-Stalking Law of the City of
Dover, Bonner County, ID.” (Ord. 168, 8-13-2020)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall apply to this chapter as written unless context
indicates or requires a different meaning:
COURSE OF     Repeated acts of nonconsensual contact involving the victim or a family or
CONDUCT:      household member of the victim, provided however, that constitutionally protected
              activity is not included within the meaning of this definition.
              A.   A spouse or former spouse of the victim, a person who has a child in common
              with the victim regardless of whether they have been married, a person with whom
FAMILY OR     the victim is cohabiting whether or not they have married or have held themselves
HOUSEHOLD     out to be husband or wife, and persons related to the victim by blood, adoption
MEMBER:       or marriage; or
              B.   A person with whom the victim is or has been in a dating relationship, as
              defined in section 39-6303, Idaho Code; or
              C.   A person living in the same residence as the victim.
              Deliberately maintaining visual or physical proximity to a specific person over a
              period of time. A finding that the alleged stalker repeatedly and deliberately
FOLLOWS OR    appears at the person's home, school, place of employment, business, or any other
FOLLOWING:    location to maintain visual or physical proximity to the person is sufficient to
              find that the alleged stalker follows the person. It is not necessary to
              establish that the alleged stalker follows the person while in transit from one
              location to another.
              A.   The course of conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering
              with the victim's privacy or the purpose or effect of creating an intimidating,
MALICIOUSLY:  hostile, or offensive living environment for the victim;
              B.   The victim has given clear notice that contact is unwanted; and
              C.   The course of conduct is not necessary to enforce the law or meet specific
              statutory requirements.
              Any contact with the victim that is initiated or continued without the victim's
              consent, that is beyond the scope of the consent provided by the victim, or that
              is in disregard of the victim's expressed desire that the contact be avoided or
              discontinued. Nonconsensual contact includes, but is not limited to:
              A.   Following the victim or maintaining surveillance, including by electronic
              means, on the victim;
NONCONSENSUAL B.   Contacting the victim in a public place or on private property;
CONTACT:      C.   Appearing at the workplace or residence of the victim;
              D.   Entering onto or remaining on property owned, leased or occupied by the
              victim;
              E.   Contacting the victim by telephone or causing the victim's telephone to ring
              repeatedly or continuously regardless of whether a conversation ensues;
              F.   Sending mail or electronic communications to the victim; or
              G.   Placing an object on, or delivering an object to, property owned, leased or
              occupied by the victim.
VICTIM:       A person who is the target of a course of conduct.
REPEATED OR   On two or more separate occasions. (Ord. 168, 8-13-2020)
REPEATEDLY:
 
5-5-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   A person commits the crime of stalking if the person knowingly and
maliciously:
      1.   Engages in a course of conduct that seriously alarms, annoys,
harasses or is detrimental to the victim, and is such as would cause a
reasonable person substantial emotional distress;
      2.   Follows the victim and engages in a course of contact that seriously
alarms, annoys, harasses or is detrimental to the victim, and is such as would
cause a reasonable person substantial emotional distress; or
   B.   Engages in a course of conduct such as would cause a reasonable person
to be in fear of death or physical injury, or in fear of the death or physical
injury of a family or household member. (Ord. 168, 8-13-2020)
5-5-4: DEFENSES:
   A.   It is not a defense to the crime of stalking that the stalker was not
given actual notice that the person did not want the stalker to contact or
follow the person; and
   B.   It is not a defense to the crime of stalking that the stalker did not
intend to frighten, intimidate, or harass the person.
   It shall be a defense to the crime of stalking that the defendant is a
licensed private investigator acting within the capacity of his or her license.
   Attempts to contact or follow the person after being given actual notice
that the person does not want to be contacted or followed constitutes prima
facie evidence that the stalker intends to intimidate or harass the person.
(Ord. 168, 8-13-2020)
5-5-5: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
The City of Dover, or any individual subjected to stalking within the City of
Dover, may file a civil claim for stalking and pursue civil remedies, including
an injunction. Any person found violating this chapter by a preponderance of
the evidence shall be liable for a civil penalty of one thousand ($1,000) for
each offense, or actual damages, whichever is greater. For any stalking action
brought pursuant to this code section, the prevailing party shall be entitled
to an award of its reasonable attorney's fees. (Ord. 168, 8-13-2020)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
SPEED, WEIGHT AND HAULING LIMITS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Purpose
6-1-2: Imposition Of Speed, Weight And Hauling Limits
6-1-3: Imposition Of Limits In Emergency
6-1-4: Notice Of Imposition Of Limits
6-1-5: Weight Restrictions
6-1-6: Speed Restrictions
6-1-7: Hauling Restrictions
6-1-8: Exceptions To Weight Limits; Onetime Use Permits
6-1-9: Inspections, Violations, Penalty
6-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to adopt provisions that help to ensure public
safety, health and welfare and to help protect public assets. (Ord. 95, 3-8-
2007)
6-1-2: IMPOSITION OF SPEED, WEIGHT AND HAULING LIMITS:
   A.   Authority: From time to time, impending danger to the roads of the city
due to unusual and extreme weather conditions requires the immediate operation
and effectiveness of this chapter. (Ord. 95, 3-8-2007)
   B.   Regulations: Whenever, in the judgment of the mayor or designee, the
operation of vehicles upon roads over which the city has jurisdiction will
cause damage in the road in question by reason of the climatic weather or the
condition affecting the safe or efficient use of the road, then the mayor or
designee shall have the authority to make and enforce regulations reducing the
otherwise permissible size, weight or speed of vehicles operated on said roads
for such periods as may be necessary for protection of the road or for public
safety. The limitations shall be imposed depending upon the moisture,
temperature, heaves and severity of frost or other conditions of the road.
(Ord. 95, 3-8-2007; amd. 2017 Code)
6-1-3: IMPOSITION OF LIMITS IN EMERGENCY:
The mayor or designee is hereby empowered to close any public road within the
limits of the city based upon an engineering or traffic investigation by a
licensed engineer when, in his/her professional judgment, road or weather
conditions are such that immediate damage to city roads or danger to the
traveling public will occur if such restrictions are not imposed. Such
imposition of the restrictions in this section by the mayor or designee shall
be for a reasonable period to remedy the situation that required the road
closure. (Ord. 95, 3-8-2007; amd. 2017 Code)
6-1-4: NOTICE OF IMPOSITION OF LIMITS:
   A.   Signage: When imposing the limits and restrictions of this chapter, the
mayor or designee shall cause signs to be erected and maintained at each end of
an affected road, or at intersections with main traveled ways, so as to
reasonably give notice to the road user. Such signs shall designate the
limitations of weight or speed of the vehicles using and traveling upon the
road. (Ord. 95, 3-8-2007; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Color Indicators: When such signs are posted with red indicators, it
shall indicate that the restrictions imposed by this chapter are in force.
Signs posted with green indicators shall indicate that the restrictions imposed
by this chapter are not in force. (Ord. 95, 3-8-2007)
6-1-5: WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
Unless otherwise ordered, vehicles using city roads when this chapter is in
effect shall be limited to three hundred (300) pounds per inch, one hundred
eighteen (118) pounds per centimeter of tire width times the number of tires
per axle. The tire width shall be determined by the manufacturer's description
marked on the sidewall of the tire. (Ord. 95, 3-8-2007)
6-1-6: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
When this chapter is in effect, the maximum allowable speed for all vehicles
traveling upon city controlled roads shall be twenty five (25) miles per hour,
except for emergency vehicles while making emergency runs. (Ord. 95, 3-8-2007)
6-1-7: HAULING RESTRICTIONS:
When conditions are such that weight restrictions do not provide necessary
protection of the roads, then the city may eliminate all types of hauling on
roads. Notice and exceptions shall be provided as stated elsewhere in this
chapter. (Ord. 95, 3-8-2007)
6-1-8: EXCEPTIONS TO WEIGHT LIMITS; ONETIME USE PERMITS:
   A.   Emergency Vehicles, School Buses: The vehicle weight restrictions of
this chapter shall not apply to emergency vehicles and school buses operating
upon the city roads. (Ord. 95, 3-8-2007)
   B.   Weight Exemptions: The mayor or designee may issue weight exemptions
for special classes of vehicles and users of city roads.
   C.   Onetime Trip Permit: The mayor or designee may issue a onetime trip
permit to allow for vehicles to exceed the weight restrictions imposed by this
chapter for the purpose of providing for vehicle trips which are essential to
life, health and safety. Such permit shall be made in writing specifying the
nature of the trip, the vehicle to be used and the date and time limit of the
trip. (Ord. 95, 3-8-2007; amd. 2017 Code)
6-1-9: INSPECTIONS, VIOLATIONS, PENALTY:
   A.   Inspection Of Vehicle: The operator of a vehicle using roads referred
to herein shall submit his vehicle to a peace officer immediately upon request
for the purpose of inspection or weighing the vehicle for the purpose of
enforcing compliance with this chapter. Failure to submit the vehicle as
aforementioned shall further be in violation of this chapter and is punishable
as set forth.
   B.   Misdemeanor: Any person found to have violated any provisions
established by this chapter by a court of competent jurisdiction shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as set forth in Idaho Code section
49-1013. (Ord. 95, 3-8-2007)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Street Defined
6-2-2: Restricted Parking
6-2-3: Nuisance And Trespass
6-2-4: Establishment Of Vehicle Ownership And Responsibility
6-2-5: Exceptions
6-2-6: Mayor Or Designee; Designation And Signs
6-2-7: Repairing Vehicles On Street
6-2-8: Prohibited Parking For Trucks, Trailers And Other Vehicles
6-2-9: Disability Parking
6-2-10: Fire Lanes
6-2-11: Removal Of Vehicle
6-2-12: Payment Of Citations
6-2-13: Penalties For Violation
6-2-1: STREET DEFINED:
In construing the provisions of this chapter, the following definition shall
apply:
STREET: The entire legal right of way and shall include highways, avenues,
boulevards, streets, courts, alleys and all public places within the corporate
limits of the city of Dover, Idaho. (Ord. 99, 9-18-2007)
6-2-2: RESTRICTED PARKING:
Where, in the public interest, the road supervisor determines that various
parking areas on public rights of way or property should have no parking,
limited time duration parking or restricted hours on parking, the mayor or
designee may regulate and restrict public parking in such manner as he/she
determines to be in the public interest. (Ord. 99, 9-18-2007; amd. 2017 Code)
6-2-3: NUISANCE AND TRESPASS:
Any vehicle parked in violation of the provisions of this chapter is hereby
declared to be a nuisance. It is further declared that any vehicle parking on
city property, including public rights of way, in violation of this chapter
shall be considered to be trespassing on public property. (Ord. 99, 9-18-2007)
6-2-4: ESTABLISHMENT OF VEHICLE OWNERSHIP AND RESPONSIBILITY:
The registered owner of the vehicle shall be deemed the party responsible for
the unlawful use of such vehicle and shall be responsible for any violation as
to the parking of any such vehicle. (Ord. 99, 9-18-2007)
6-2-5: EXCEPTIONS:
Any charge under this chapter shall be dismissed when the person charged has
made a documented, bona fide sale or transfer of the vehicle prior to issuance
of violation and has delivered possession thereof to the purchaser, and has
advised the city within twenty (20) days of notice of the violation of the name
and address of the purchaser, along with proof of the date of sale. (Ord. 99,
9-18-2007)
6-2-6: MAYOR OR DESIGNEE; DESIGNATION AND SIGNS:
   A.   Parking Areas Designated: The mayor or designee is hereby authorized to
designate such parking areas as are necessary for the purpose of limited
parking for the following, but not limited to: disability parking; loading
zones; bus stop zones; parking relating to emergency or medical services; or
where the stopping or parking of vehicles would create hazardous conditions or
cause unusual delay in traffic.
   B.   Prohibited Street Parking: The mayor or designee is hereby authorized
to prohibit parking on streets.
   C.   Signage: The mayor or designee is hereby authorized to erect such signs
as are necessary to provide notice to the driving public of such zones.
   D.   Applicability: This section shall be applicable to private property as
well as public property. (Ord. 99, 9-18-2007; amd. 2017 Code)
6-2-7: REPAIRING VEHICLES ON STREET:
No construction, repairing, overhauling, remodeling or other type of work,
other than in the case of extreme emergency, shall be performed on any vehicle
or other property upon any street, alley, park, parking lot or other public
property or place within the city. (Ord. 99, 9-18-2007)
6-2-8: PROHIBITED PARKING FOR TRUCKS, TRAILERS AND OTHER VEHICLES:
No person shall park or leave standing on any public street, or on a public off
street parking area, any of the following vehicles, subject to the discretion
of the mayor or designee: (Ord. 99, 9-18-2007; amd. 2017 Code)
   A.   Any truck-tractor, as defined by Idaho Code.
   B.   Any trailer not attached to a motor vehicle.
   C.   Any bus.
   D.   Farm machines.
   E.   Special purpose machines.
   F.   Any unlicensed vehicle.
   G.   Any vehicle with an expired license.
   H.   Any motor truck as defined by Idaho Code with not less than two (2) of
the following three (3) features:
      1.   A diameter of the wheel rim of seventeen inches (17") or more;
      2.   More than two (2) axles;
      3.   More than two (2) wheels on any one axle. (Ord. 99, 9-18-2007)
6-2-9: DISABILITY PARKING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a vehicle in a
designated disability parking space or area as defined in Idaho Code section
49-410, unless the occupant has complied with Idaho Code section 49-410. This
section shall apply to both public and private parking areas which are properly
designated. (Ord. 99, 9-18-2007)
6-2-10: FIRE LANES:
It shall be a violation of this chapter for any vehicle to park in a fire lane
and/or less than fifteen feet (15') from any fire hydrant according to the
international fire code, either on public or private property. (Ord. 99, 9-18-
2007; amd. 2017 Code)
6-2-11: REMOVAL OF VEHICLE:
The mayor or designee may have any unlawfully parked vehicle removed and
impounded by a designated towing company as posted and/or issue a citation to
the registered owner. Any vehicle removed, impounded and/or stored by the
designated towing company will be done so at the owner's sole responsibility,
liability and expense. (Ord. 99, 9-18-2007; amd. 2017 Code)
6-2-12: PAYMENT OF CITATIONS:
For public convenience and to avoid burdening the judicial system, any person
receiving a citation for any violation of this chapter may make payment in
satisfaction of such violation to the city clerk in accordance with fees, which
may from time to time be adopted by the council by resolution. (Ord. 99, 9-18-
2007)
6-2-13: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter by any person, firm or
corporation shall be punishable as follows:
   A.   First Offense: For the first offense, a warning shall be issued per
vehicle, per violation to the registered owner of the vehicle notifying said
owner of this chapter and of the intent to enforce this chapter and its
provisions for future violations thereof.
   B.   Second Offense: For the second offense, the registered owner of the
vehicle shall be fined a sum not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00), plus any and
all costs assessed by the courts. Such sum shall be assessed as a penalty per
vehicle per violation. The owner shall, in addition, pay any fees incurred in
the removal and storage of any vehicle found to be in violation of this chapter
for the second time.
   C.   Third And Subsequent Offenses: For the third and subsequent offenses,
the registered owner of the vehicle shall be fined a sum not to exceed one
hundred dollars ($100.00), plus any and all costs assessed by the courts. Such
sum shall be assessed as a penalty per vehicle per violation. The owner shall,
in addition, pay any fees incurred in the removal and/or storage of any vehicle
found to be in violation of this chapter for the third or any subsequent times.
(Ord. 99, 9-18-2007)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
ENCROACHMENTS WITHIN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND PLACES
SECTION:
7-1-1: Authority And Purpose
7-1-2: Applicability
7-1-3: Permit Required
7-1-4: Standards
7-1-5: Procedures
7-1-6: Violation And Penalty
7-1-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to authority granted to the City of Dover at
Idaho Code title 50, chapter 3. The purpose of this chapter is to ensure all
work performed within the public right- of-way or other public places owned by
or under the control of the City of Dover is designed, constructed, used, and
maintained to meet minimum standards to protect the public health, safety, and
general welfare. (Ord. 149, 3-9-2017)
7-1-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The standards contained within this chapter shall be applicable to all
work, use, encroachment, repair, alteration, or other such activities on or
over City-owned or City-controlled public places. Applicable activities shall
include construction or repair of driveways and approaches and placement of
utilities within City rights-of-way or other public places owned or under the
control of the City.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
      1.   The City of Dover;
      2.   City of Dover contractors, authorized to perform work within the
public rights-of-way or public places;
      3.   State or Federal agencies specifically authorized to perform work
pursuant to the laws of the State of Idaho. (Ord. 149, 3-9-2017)
7-1-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   General:
      1.   An encroachment permit shall be obtained from the City of Dover,
prior to the start of construction, excavation, placement, or repair of
utilities or encroachments within public rights-of- way or City-owned or City-
controlled public places.
      2.   An encroachment permit application shall be filed with the City
Clerk, and shall be accompanied by the applicable fee as established by
resolution of the City Council.
      3.   All work shall proceed in compliance with the standards set forth in
this chapter and the terms of the approved permit.
   B.   Application: Encroachment applications shall contain the following:
      1.   An application completed on a form provided by the City.
      2.   Design drawings showing:
         a.   Existing and proposed structures;
         b.   Proposed and existing driveways and road surfaces, including
shoulders, ditches, edges of right-of-way, culverts and drainages, road
intersections and other road improvements;
         c.   Underground and overhead utilities;
         d.   Private and public easements;
         e.   Proposed traffic control devices.
      3.   A narrative containing:
         a.   A proposed construction schedule, including any proposed road
closures;
         b.   Traffic control plans;
         c.   Proposed stormwater/erosion control plan indicating Best
Management Practices to be employed. (Ord. 149, 3-9-2017)
7-1-4: STANDARDS:
   A.   Unless otherwise approved by the City, encroachments within City
rights-of-way or within City-owned or controlled properties shall comply with
the following standards:
      1.   Utility Placement And Construction:
         a.   Hard Surface: On City roads with a hard surface (including
bituminous surface treatment and asphalt paving) utility lines, pipes, etc.,
may be installed within the roadway resulting in a cut through the hard
surface. However, the City may require utility lines be installed under the
road surface using techniques that do not require a cut through the road
surface, such as tunneling, burrowing or driven pipe. The repaired road surface
shall meet or exceed existing conditions and shall not negatively affect the
surrounding roadway.
         b.   No Hard Surface: On City roads with no hard surface, utility
lines, pipes, etc., may be installed within the roadway in a manner resulting
in constructed conditions meeting or exceeding existing conditions.
         c.   Location: Utilities shall be located as near as practicable to
the outer edge of the City right-of-way.
         d.   Crossing Road Or Right-Of-Way: Where utility cables cross a road
or right-of-way, such cables shall be encased in conduit extending two feet
(2') beyond the bottom of the ditch or to the edge of any fill within the
right-of-way. Water lines and pressurized sewage lines that cross roads and
rights-of-way shall be placed in a secondary encasement for ease of maintenance
and repair.
         e.   Traffic Control: During construction work barricades, lights and
other traffic control devices shall be erected and maintained as may be
necessary to conform to the latest edition of the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices (MUTCD), published by the U.S. Department of Transportation,
Federal Highway Administration, which is hereby adopted and incorporated
herein.
         f.   Storage Areas: Equipment parking and materials storage shall be
as far from the road surface as feasible, and equipment or materials left
overnight within thirty feet (30') of the road surface shall be marked and/or
protected, so as not to constitute a hazard to the traveling public. This
subsection shall not be construed to authorize trespass upon private lands
adjacent to City roads or rights-of-way for construction, equipment parking,
materials storage, or any other purpose.
         g.   Repair, Restoration: Any disturbance of the travel surface,
shoulders, ditches, drainage or traffic control devices shall be repaired and
restored to its prior condition. If trench or pavement settling should occur
within two (2) years of the installation of the utility, repairs shall be made
by the applicant or utility as directed by the City and at no cost to the City.
By proceeding with the original approved construction, the applicant or utility
agrees that if the applicant or utility fails to make such necessary repairs,
the City may initiate the repair and bill the applicant or utility. No new
construction within City rights-of-way will be authorized to that applicant or
utility until such claim has been settled.
         h.   Debris: Upon completion of construction of the lines and
facilities, all rubbish and debris shall be immediately removed and the roadway
and the roadside shall be left safe and clean to the satisfaction of the City.
         i.   Reseeding: All areas within the City right-of-way which have been
disturbed or denuded of vegetation shall be reseeded as soon as possible after
utility construction is completed.
         j.   Private Property: Not all City roads exist within known City-
owned right-of-way. The applicant or utility provider is responsible for
obtaining the necessary easements from any private property owner.
      2.   Driveways And Intersecting Roadways:
         a.   New Roadway: Unless otherwise approved by the City, that portion
of any new roadway or driveway within the City right-of- way shall comply with
the standard drawings adopted by resolution of the City Council.
         b.   Culverts: Culverts under new roadways or driveways located within
the public right-of-way shall comply with the standard drawings adopted by
resolution of the City Council. The proposed diameter and length will be
reviewed and approved by the City prior to construction. Culverts shall be
located, sized, and constructed to form a continuation of and not adversely
impact the existing roadside drainage system, and shall extend to the toe of
any fill placed with the driveway.
         c.   Curbs And Gutter: Where curbs and gutters have been installed or
are planned to be installed, the driveway shall be constructed to maintain the
integrity of the curb and gutter design.
         d.   Traffic Control Devices: During construction of encroachment,
barricades, signs, and other traffic control devices shall be erected and
maintained as required by the City in conformance with the latest edition of
the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. (Ord. 149, 3-9-2017)
7-1-5: PROCEDURES:
   A.   The City Engineer or designee has the authority to administer this
chapter and to approve, deny, or request modifications of encroachment permits
or to seek additional information prior to a final decision.
   B.   All work performed under the encroachment permit is subject to
inspection by the City Engineer or designee. A final inspection will be
conducted by the City upon completion of the permitted work.
   C.   The City Engineer shall review the encroachment permit application and
shall issue the permit if it is consistent with the application contents and
standards of this chapter. The City Engineer may set conditions deemed
necessary to carry out the purpose and standards of this chapter.
   D.   No construction work shall be started or utilities placed until the
City has given written notice to the applicant or utility to proceed. The
Bonner County Sheriff's Office and the Westside Fire District shall be notified
by the applicant or utility of the dates and times of full or partial road
closures associated with the utility placement to allow for any necessary
rerouting of emergency vehicles. The applicant or utility shall publish a
notice of any full road closures in the Bonner County Daily Bee at least one
(1) week in advance of the closure, stating the date and location of the
closure and the estimated duration of the closure. The applicant or utility
shall also post signs on the road where a full closure is to occur, notifying
the traveling public of the dates, times and duration of the closures.
   E.   The encroachment permit shall be valid for one hundred eighty (180)
days. The City may apply a construction timeframe restriction or issue an
extension if weather, environmental conditions, material availability, or other
unforeseen circumstances warrant.
   F.   Any final decision made by the City Engineer or designee may be
appealed to the City Council by filing a written notice no later than ten (10)
working days after the final decision is made. The City Council shall consider
the appeal at its next available regular meeting, allowing sufficient time for
public notice.
   G.   Minor exceptions to the standards of this chapter may be approved by
the City Engineer, if the variation is demonstrated to meet the purpose of this
chapter and will meet standard engineering practices and/or specific site
conditions. Any other requested variations to the standards of this chapter
shall be considered by the City Council. Variance requests shall be submitted
to the City Clerk, and shall identify the reason for the request.
   H.   By accepting the permit, the applicant shall be deemed to agree to hold
the City and its employees and representatives free and harmless from damage or
injury to any person or property arising from work or installation. The
applicant shall remain liable for the improvements covered by the permit for
twelve (12) months after completion.
   I.   Upon request, the applicant shall provide proof of liability insurance
in a form and amount acceptable to the City. No permit shall be issued without
proof of such insurance, when required. (Ord. 149, 3-9-2017)
7-1-6: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
   A.   Criminal Penalty: Any person who violates this chapter or the terms of
any approval granted pursuant to this chapter shall, upon conviction, be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   Civil Action: The City Council may initiate civil action in a court of
competent jurisdiction to enjoin or otherwise prohibit violation of the terms
of this chapter.
   C.   Removal Of Obstructions: The City is authorized by this chapter and
Idaho Code section 50-314 to remove all unauthorized obstructions from the
public rights-of-way or public places at the expense of the person placing them
there.
   D.   Compliance: The City has the authority to suspend or revoke a permit if
work is not in compliance with this chapter or the terms of the issued permit.
(Ord. 149, 3-9-2017)
CHAPTER 2
CITY PARKS AND PROPERTY
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Operating Hours Of Park Properties
7-2-3: Animal Control
7-2-4: Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited; Exception
7-2-5: Glass Containers
7-2-6: Fires Prohibited; Exception
7-2-7: Fireworks
7-2-8: Assemblies, Parades, Special Events
7-2-9: Fuel Powered Toys
7-2-10: Disturbing The Peace
7-2-11: Camping
7-2-12: Watercraft Docking Overnight
7-2-13: Seaplanes And Aircraft
7-2-14: Motorized Watercraft In Certain Waterways Restricted
7-2-15: Refuse And/Or Trash Disposal
7-2-16: Damage To Property Or Natural Surroundings
7-2-17: Treatment Of Birds And Wildlife
7-2-18: Motorized Vehicles
7-2-19: Nonmotorized Devices
7-2-20: Violation And Penalty
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
In construing the provisions of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply:
CITY PROPERTIES: Any parcel of real property within the city of Dover owned and
operated by the city.
LITTER: All waste, whether biodegradable or nonbiodegradable, including, but
not limited to, garbage, trash, ashes, industrial waste, demolition and
construction waste, abandoned vehicles and parts thereof, and all vegetable
waste, including yard and garden trimmings.
PARK PROPERTIES OR PARK AREAS: Parks, reservations, playgrounds, trails, paths,
riverfront beach areas, bridges, public restrooms, parking lots and any other
area in the city devoted to active or passive recreation.
PRIVATE OR PRIVATE EVENT: An event at which attendance is limited to any
persons specifically and/or individually invited.
PUBLIC OR PUBLIC EVENT: An event open to the public, and includes an event
where tickets, invitations or announcements are available to the public.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any area that is used or held out for use by the public, whether
owned or operated by public or private interests.
SERVICE ANIMAL: Any Americans with disabilities act (ADA) approved animal that
is individually trained to do work or perform tasks for people with
disabilities.
SERVICE VEHICLE: Any motorized vehicle, including, but not limited to,
wheelchairs used for mobility or to aid a person with disabilities.
WATERCRAFT: Including, but not limited to, any boat, ship, vessel, barge, jet
ski, canoe, kayak, seaplane or other floating craft of any type, contrivance,
description, size, make or model. (Ord. 126, 9-12-2013)
7-2-2: OPERATING HOURS OF PARK PROPERTIES:
   A.   Closure: Except for permitted special events, park properties shall be
closed to the public every day of the year from sunset to sunrise. (Ord. 126,
9-12-2013; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Winter Maintenance: During the winter months, the city properties and/
or park areas may be open, but the properties, including, but not limited to,
trails and/or paths, will not be maintained, including, but not limited to,
snowplowing and deicing, except for the city hall walkways and parking lot.
(Ord. 126, 9-12-2013)
7-2-3: ANIMAL CONTROL:
   A.   Leash Required: No dog shall be allowed on city properties and/or park
areas without a leash.
   B.   Service Dogs: Service dogs are permitted on city properties, park areas
and/or public buildings as per ADA guidelines.
   C.   Liability: The animal's owner shall be held financially and legally
responsible for any injury, damage and/or animal waste cleanup. (Ord. 126, 9-
12-2013)
7-2-4: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
No person shall bring, possess or consume alcoholic beverages on any city
properties and/or park areas, unless a special event alcoholic beverage
catering permit has been approved and issued. (Ord. 126, 9-12-2013)
7-2-5: GLASS CONTAINERS:
No person shall bring any glass containers of any kind on any city properties
and/or park areas. (Ord. 126, 9-12-2013)
7-2-6: FIRES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
No person shall start or build a fire on any city properties and/or park areas
except in barbecue receptacles provided for public use or in private
receptacles or grills, provided they are placed in areas designated for such
purpose. (Ord. 126, 9-12-2013)
7-2-7: FIREWORKS:
No person shall use, shoot or fire any fireworks or explosives of any kind on
any city properties and/or park areas, unless such is permitted under title 5,
chapter 2 of this code. (Ord. 126, 9-12-2013; amd. 2017 Code)
7-2-8: ASSEMBLIES, PARADES, SPECIAL EVENTS:
Refer to title 5, chapter 2 of this code for applicable requirements. (Ord.
126, 9-12-2013; amd. 2017 Code)
7-2-9: FUEL POWERED TOYS:
No person shall operate on any city properties and/or park areas any remote
control or radio control apparatus, device, toy or machine, with any type fuel
powered engine. (Ord. 126, 9-12-2013)
7-2-10: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   Public Address Systems: No person shall use, maintain or operate a
public address system, commonly called a PA system, or any other sound
amplification system or apparatus on any city properties and/or park areas in a
loud or otherwise offensive manner so as to cause actual discomfort or an
annoyance to other users of city properties and park areas or surrounding
property owners.
   B.   Language, Behavior: No person shall engage in loud, boisterous,
threatening, abusive, insulting or indecent language or behavior, or engage in
any disorderly conduct or behavior tending to breach the public peace. (Ord.
126, 9-12-2013)
7-2-11: CAMPING:
No person shall establish or maintain any camp or other temporary lodging place
on city properties and/or park areas unless the city has preapproved such
activity. Any overnight camping in a recreational vehicle, motor vehicle or any
other type of facility, contrivance, tent, camper, trailer or other vehicle on
any city properties and/or park areas is specifically prohibited. (Ord. 126, 9-
12-2013)
7-2-12: WATERCRAFT DOCKING OVERNIGHT:
No watercraft of any type, description, size, make or model, motorized or
nonmotorized, shall be docked or parked overnight on any city properties and/or
park areas. Any watercraft found in violation of this section is subject to
being removed, impounded and/or stored at the owner's sole responsibility,
liability and cost. (Ord. 126, 9-12-2013)
7-2-13: SEAPLANES AND AIRCRAFT:
No seaplane or aircraft capable of traveling and operating on the water surface
shall be allowed to be operated, driven, flown, beached, landed, pulled up upon
or attached to any city properties and/or park areas, unless such activity is
preapproved by the city. Any seaplane or aircraft found in violation of this
section is subject to being removed, impounded and/or stored at the owner's
sole responsibility, liability and cost. (Ord. 126, 9-12-2013)
7-2-14: MOTORIZED WATERCRAFT IN CERTAIN WATERWAYS RESTRICTED:
Only motorized watercraft with an electric motor shall be allowed to be
operated, driven, beached, docked, attached to or pulled up upon any inland
waterways, sloughs or tributaries within the city limits. Any other motorized
watercraft found in violation of this section is subject to being removed,
impounded and/or stored at the owner's sole responsibility, liability and cost.
Nothing herein is intended to restrict the use of nonmotorized watercraft in
these designated areas. (Ord. 126, 9-12-2013)
7-2-15: REFUSE AND/OR TRASH DISPOSAL:
   A.   Bringing To Park Areas Not Permitted: No household trash, refuse or
brush may be brought onto city properties and/or park areas.
   B.   Prohibited: No person shall dump, deposit or leave any waste or
garbage, including, but not limited to, bottles, broken glass, ashes, boxes,
cans, paper, rubbish or other trash of any nature, except in proper litter
receptacles. Where receptacles are not provided, any waste, garbage, trash or
rubbish shall be carried away from any city properties and/or park areas by the
person responsible for its presence, and properly disposed of elsewhere. (Ord.
126, 9-12-2013)
7-2-16: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY OR NATURAL SURROUNDINGS:
   A.   Property Destruction: No person shall injure, mar, deface, remove or
otherwise damage in any manner any property, including, but not limited to,
restrooms, monuments, ornaments, fences, bridges, benches, fountains,
playground equipment, barbecues, signs or any other public property on any city
properties and/or park areas without written permission from the city.
   B.   Natural Surroundings: No person shall cut, chip, blaze, box girdle,
trim, pick, gather, uproot, remove, destroy or otherwise deface or injure,
whether alive or dead, any natural surroundings, including, but not limited to,
trees, shrubs, flowers, saplings, plants or grass on any city properties and/or
park areas without written permission from the city.
   C.   Removal: No person shall remove or cause to be removed any natural
surroundings, including, but not limited to, sod, earth, humus, peat, boulders,
gravel or sand from any city properties and/or park areas. (Ord. 126, 9-12-
2013)
7-2-17: TREATMENT OF BIRDS AND WILDLIFE:
   A.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   No person shall or attempt to feed, hunt, trap, catch, wound, kill
or treat cruelly, any bird or animal in or upon any land or waterways owned
and/or administered by the city.
      2.   No person shall molest or rob any nest, lair, den or burrow of any
bird or animal in or upon any land or any waterways owned and/or administered
by the city.
   B.   Capture, Removal: For the public's health and safety, if any animal or
bird is found injured, trapped or considered to be problematic, the city or
Idaho fish and game should be notified to implement capture and/or removal of
such animal or bird. (Ord. 126, 9-12-2013)
7-2-18: MOTORIZED VEHICLES:
   A.   Designated Areas: No person shall park, drive, operate, propel and/or
ride any motorized vehicle, including, but not limited to, cars, trucks,
motorbikes, mopeds, motorcycles, go-carts, golf carts, snowmobiles or all-
terrain vehicles on any city properties and/or park areas, except on designated
roads and/or parking lots.
   B.   Service Buildings: Service vehicles are permitted on city properties,
park areas and/or in public buildings.
   C.   Service On City Property Prohibited: No person shall clean, wash,
polish, repair or in any manner service any motor vehicle or trailer on any
city properties and/or park areas or cause the same to be done.
   D.   Exceptions: Exceptions to this section shall apply to the changing of
deflated tires or the performing of necessary emergency work on a disabled
vehicle for the purpose of immediate movement. (Ord. 126, 9-12-2013)
7-2-19: NONMOTORIZED DEVICES:
   A.   Designated Area: No person shall operate, propel and/or ride any type
of nonmotorized device, including, but not limited to, bicycles, scooters,
roller skates, rollerblades, skateboards or similar devices on any city
properties and/or park areas, except on paths, trails or walks as designated
for such activity.
   B.   Liability: If operation of a nonmotorized device results in injury or
damage to others, the operator will be personally liable. (Ord. 126, 9-12-2013)
7-2-20: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: A violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor, punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Reduction To Infraction: A prosecutor may reduce the violation to an
infraction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, excluding court costs and fees. The charge shall be filed
as a misdemeanor violation and may only be reduced upon motion of the
prosecutor. There shall be no right to a trial by jury for an infraction
citation or complaint. (Ord. 126, 9-12-2013; amd. 2017 Code)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER SERVICE REGULATIONS, RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Short Title
8-1-2: Definitions Of General Terms
8-1-3: Applicability Of Provisions
8-1-4: Description Of Service
8-1-5: Classes Of Service
8-1-6: Meter Size And Type Factor (MSTF)
8-1-7: Meter Accuracy
8-1-8: New User Facility Fee (NUFF)
8-1-9: Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs)
8-1-10: Water Rates
8-1-11: Fire Protection Rates
8-1-12: Fire Hydrants
8-1-13: Temporary Water Service
8-1-14: Unusual Demands
8-1-15: Application For Water Service
8-1-16: Water Main Extension
8-1-17: Services Connection
8-1-18: Notices
8-1-19: Billings And Payments
8-1-20: Delinquent Accounts
8-1-21: Discontinuance Of Service
8-1-22: Restoration Of Service
8-1-23: Excess Water Charge Adjustment Policy
8-1-24: Rate Schedule Updates
8-1-25: Suspension Of Rules
8-1-26: Easement
8-1-27: Conflicting Ordinances
8-1-28: Penalty
8-1-29: Appendices
8-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as RULES, RATES AND REGULATIONS FOR THE OPERATION
OF THE WATER DEPARTMENT OF THE CITY OF DOVER, BONNER COUNTY, IDAHO, and may be
so cited and pleaded. (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-2: DEFINITIONS OF GENERAL TERMS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU): A second, subordinate dwelling unit for use as a
complete, independent dwelling. An ADU is defined by the following
specifications:
   A.   An ADU has permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking
and sanitation;
   B.   An ADU may have a separate outside entrance outside the primary
structure; or
   C.   An ADU can be attached to the primary unit or be detached; or
   D.   An ADU can be located above or attached to a garage.
AMERICAN WATER WORKS ASSOCIATION (AWWA): The largest nonprofit, scientific and
educational association dedicated to managing and treating water.
ANNUAL FIXED COSTS: The budgeted annual operating costs of the Dover water
department that are independent of the amount of water treated.
ANNUAL VARIABLE COSTS: The budgeted annual operating costs of the Dover water
department that are proportional to the amount of treated water produced.
APPLICANT: The person or persons, firm or corporation, making application for
water service from the city of Dover under the terms of these regulations.
BACKFLOW DEVICE: A device that is installed in a water distribution system to
prevent reverse flow as required in the international plumbing code.
BASE WATER RATE: The monthly rate for water service that is independent of the
amount of water that is used.
CITY: The legally constituted municipal government of the city of Dover, Bonner
County, Idaho.
CITY COUNCIL: The legally elected or appointed group of members comprising the
city council, including the mayor of the city of Dover, Bonner County, Idaho.
CUSTOMER AND USER: An applicant who has been accepted under the terms of these
regulations and who receives water service from the city of Dover.
CUSTOMER SERVICE LINE: The water service line from the outlet connection of the
meter box to the customer's property.
DOVER WATER SYSTEM: All mains, pipes and structures through which Dover water
is distributed, including pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs,
storage tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or
intended for use for the purpose of furnishing water for domestic and
commercial use and the administration thereof.
EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU): The owner's anticipated use of the city
water system, based on the equivalency to a single-family residential unit.
INACTIVE WATER SERVICE: A customer's water service shall be designated inactive
under the following conditions:
   A.   A water connection has been purchased by the customer but has not been
connected to the Dover water system; or
   B.   A water connection has been purchased and connected to the water
system, but the meter has been turned off either by the city for nonpayment or
because the customer has elected not to use water.
MAIN EXTENSION: Refers to all proposed extensions of the water system to serve
undeveloped areas within the existing corporate limits, newly annexed areas or
areas outside the corporate limits of the city of Dover.
MAY: Is permissive (see definition of Shall).
METER ERUs: The number of equivalent residential units assigned to a meter
account.
METER SIZE AND TYPE FACTOR (MSTF): The number of ERUs assigned to a water meter
as determined using the maximum capacity of a water meter as established by
AWWA.
OCCUPANT: Refers to the tenant, developer, leaseholder or other person who
occupies the property of an owner that is served by the Dover water system.
ORDINANCE EFFECTIVE DATE: The recorded date that this chapter is passed and
publicized as required by Idaho state code.
OWNER: Refers to the property owner whose property is served by the domestic
water system.
SERVICE AREA: The area served by the water department shall be all that area
included within the corporate limits of the city of Dover, excluding that area
served by Syringa Heights water district. The area served may be expanded by
annexation into the city of Dover. Other areas may be served by agreement,
approved by the city council.
SERVICE CONNECTION: Refers to that portion of a water service line that runs
from its connection with the water main to and including the curb stop and/or
valve box and meter (see section
8-1-29, appendix A of this chapter).
SHALL: Is mandatory (see definition of May).
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNIT: A single-family detached residential unit is
the most common form of development within the city, and the standard
measurement from which all other uses shall be compared.
SUPERINTENDENT: The person appointed by the city council to superintend the
affairs of the Dover water department.
TOTAL ANNUAL METERED WATER CONSUMPTION: This is the total number of metered
gallons of water that are consumed by all users of the Dover water department.
TOTAL ERUs: The total number of ERUs that are serviced by the Dover water
department.
USAGE FEE: The cost for each gallon of water used.
WATER CONNECTION FEE: A payment of money imposed on the property owner as a
condition of connecting to the city water system.
WATER DEPARTMENT: The water department of the city of Dover, Bonner County,
Idaho.
WATER MAIN: Any pipeline owned by the city for the purposes of distribution of
water to serve more than one water user. (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014; amd. 2017 Code)
8-1-3: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Users And Owners: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all
water users and property owners within the city limits and any water users and
owners outside of the city limits receiving water service from the city water
system.
   B.   Assessments, Fees And Charges: All users of the city water system are
obligated to pay their proportionate share of the assessments, fees and charges
established in this chapter. All water users and owners who have been and are
connected to the city water system who have not previously been charged are
obligated to pay that proportionate share established during such period of
usage; provided, that the demonstrable evidence is present to substantiate such
usage. However, such evidence cannot predate August 27, 1991.
   C.   Existing Premises; Connection Required: All existing premises shall be
connected to the city water system that are:
      1.   In the service area, and there is a water main within three hundred
feet (300') of the property line; and
      2.   Occupied or able to be occupied by any person or commercial business
after August 27, 1991; and
      3.   Not connected to a public or private community water system
recognized and regulated by the Idaho department of environmental quality prior
to the effective date hereof. Any exceptions to the foregoing must be approved
in writing by the city council. Existing exempted properties are listed in
section
8-1-29, appendix B of this chapter.
   D.   Newly Built Premises: Any newly built premises designed for occupancy
after the date of passage hereof that has a water main within three hundred
feet (300') of the property line shall be connected to the city water system.
(Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-4: DESCRIPTION OF SERVICE:
   A.   General: The water department will exercise reasonable diligence and
care to deliver a continuous and sufficient supply of water to the customer at
a reasonable pressure and to avoid, so far as reasonably possible, any shortage
or interruption of delivery. The city shall not be liable for damage resulting
from the interruption in service due to lack of service.
   B.   Service Interruption: Temporary suspension of service by the water
department for improvements and repairs will occasionally be necessary.
Whenever possible, and when time permits, all customers affected will be
notified prior to shutdowns.
   C.   Water Shortage: In case of shortage of supply, the city reserves the
right to give preferences in the matter of furnishing services to customers
from the standing of public convenience.
   D.   Water Quality: The water department will exercise reasonable diligence
to supply safe and potable water at all times that meets or exceeds Idaho rules
for public drinking water systems (IDAPA 58.01.08). (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-5: CLASSES OF SERVICE:
The classes of service shall be residential, multi-family, commercial, standby
fire, fire service, contract service and temporary water service as further
qualified as follows:
   A.   Residential Water Service: Residential water services shall consist of
all water services for domestic purposes, single- family dwellings, homes or
other municipal structures.
   B.   Multi-Family Water Service: Multi-family water services shall consist
of all water services for multiple families that are serviced by a single water
service line and/or meter.
   C.   Commercial Water Service: Commercial water services shall consist of
those services where water is used for business services.
   D.   Standby Fire Service: Standby fire service shall consist of those
services where water is available or used for fire protection only.
   E.   Fire Service Connections Other Than Standby: Fire service connections
other than standby is for a user having fire protection facilities on the
premises and water for other purposes flowing through the same service
connection.
   F.   Contract Water Service: Contract water service is for applicants whose
requirements for water are unusual or large, such as an independent water
district.
   G.   Temporary Service Connections: Temporary service connections are for
water service of a temporary nature and for a limited time. (Ord. 131, 6-4-
2014)
8-1-6: METER SIZE AND TYPE FACTOR (MSTF):
   A.   Determination: The number of ERUs assigned to a water meter is
determined using the meter size and type factor (MSTF) which represents the
maximum capacity of a water meter as established by AWWA. (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
   B.   Established By Resolution: The meter size and type factor shall be as
established by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 141, 8-27-2015; amd. 2017
Code)
   C.   Use Of MSTF: The MSTF is used to calculate:
      1.   New user facility fee (section
8-1-8 of this chapter);
      2.   Monthly water rate (section
8-1-10 of this chapter);
      3.   Monthly standby fire protection rate (section
8-1-11 of this chapter). (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-7: METER ACCURACY:
   A.   Standards: Prior to installation, all meters shall meet AWWA standards.
No meter will be placed in service or allowed to remain in service which is
known to have an error on registration in excess of two percent (2%) under
conditions of normal operation.
   B.   Customer Request: Giving not less than fifteen (15) days' written
notice, a customer may request the water department replace the meter servicing
their premises. If the replacement meter does not exhibit a significant
difference in flow measurement when compared to both the preceding months as
well as the same months from the previous year, the cost of replacing the meter
shall be borne by the customer. The costs of the meter replacement shall be
established by resolution of the city council.
   C.   Adjustments Of Bill For Meter Error: Should the replacement meter show
variance high or low, no credits or debits will be borne by the city or the
customer.
   D.   Nonregistering Meter: Whenever possible, the water department will
immediately replace any nonregistering meters. However, if circumstances
prohibit replacing the nonregistering meter, the city will bill the customer
for estimated water consumed while the meter is not registering. The estimate
of consumption shall be based either upon the customer's prior use during the
same season of the previous year, or upon a reasonable comparison with the use
of other customers receiving the same class of service during the same season
under similar circumstances and conditions. If there is no reasonable
comparison available, the city will make an estimate of customer water
consumption based upon all available data. (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-8: NEW USER FACILITY FEE (NUFF):
   A.   Factor: The city shall collect from all users, a new user facility fee
(NUFF). The NUFF shall be equal to the number of ERUs assigned to the water
meter as calculated using the meter size and type factor or MSTF (section
8-1-6 of this chapter) times the water hookup cost for a single-family
residence.
   B.   Single-Family Residence Water Hookup Cost: The single- family residence
water hookup cost is calculated as an equitable buy-in to the system based on
capital improvements installed by the city, previous local improvement
districts (LIDs) or others. Policies for establishing the basis for the single-
family residence hookup cost shall be adopted by resolution of the city
council. It is required that within sixty (60) days following passage hereof
and every year thereafter, the city council shall meet and shall calculate the
single-family residence water hookup cost fee to be charged by the city. The
calculation of this fee shall not be based upon any budgetary needs, except for
the mandate that the water system shall be self-supporting.
   C.   ERU Adjustment: At any time the city reserves the right to adjust the
number of ERUs assigned to a given water meter (both with respect to collection
of additional new user facility fees and with respect to the assessment of
monthly water charges) in the case of a change in use by a particular user.
(Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-9: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS (ADUs):
An "accessory dwelling unit (ADU)" as defined in section
8-1-2 of this chapter is a second, subordinate dwelling unit for use as a
complete, independent dwelling. The minimum charge for an accessory dwelling
unit shall be 0.5 ERU. (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-10: WATER RATES:
   A.   Monthly Rate: The monthly water rate for each meter shall be calculated
using the following:
Monthly fee = (# ERUs) x (base rate) + (usage rate) x (monthly water usage)
(Eq. 11.1)
   B.   Monthly Base Rate: The monthly base rate shall be calculated as
follows:
Base rate = (annual fixed costs) / [12 * (total # of ERUs)] (Eq. 11.2)
   C.   Monthly Water Usage Rate: The monthly water usage rate shall be
calculated as follows:
Water usage rate = (annual variable costs) / (total annual metered water
consumption) (Eq. 11.3)
   D.   Tiered Water Usage Fee Rate: The city council may specify a tiered
water usage rate where the first block of water used is charged at one water
usage rate, and subsequent blocks of water are charged at different water usage
rates. An example of a tiered water fee schedule is shown in table 10.1 of this
section:
   TABLE 10.1
   EXAMPLE OF TIERED WATER USAGE FEE
 
                                Water Usage Fee
                                Per 1,000 Gallons
0 to 7,000 gallons              $2.50
7,000 gallons to 10,000 gallons 3.80
Over 10,000 gallons             4.50
 
If a tiered water usage fee is used, the monthly base rate (Equation 11.2)
shall be increased so that the estimated annual income for the water department
is equal to the sum of the budgeted annual fixed costs and the annual variable
costs so the water department revenue is neutral for the year.
   E.   Water Rate For Inactive Accounts: The city council may set a monthly
rate for inactive water accounts as either the monthly water base rate
(Equation 11.2) or as a rate specified by the city council.
   F.   Updating Water Rate Schedule: Within sixty (60) days of approving the
annual water department budget, the monthly fees and rates (base rate, usage
rate and inactive account fee) shall be reviewed and will be set by resolution
of the city council. The rate schedule may be revised by the city council
without invalidating the remainder of these rules, rates and regulations. (Ord.
131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-11: FIRE PROTECTION RATES:
   A.   Charges For Standby Fire Protection Service:
      1.   The oversizing of a water system to provide standby fire protection
service increases capital and annual operating and maintenance costs. As such,
the city shall charge for standby fire protection service and the monthly
charge shall be calculated using the equation:
Monthly standby protection rate = (standby multiplier) x (water base rate) (Eq.
12.1)
      2.   The standby multiplier is determined by the service line size and
shall be set by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Charge For Water Use: No charge will be made for water used in the
standby fire protection services to extinguish accidental fires or for routine
testing of the fire protection system.
   C.   Unapproved Water Use: Standby fire protection service connectors will
be installed only if adequate provisions are made to prevent the use of water
from such services for purposes other than fire extinguishing. Sealed fire
sprinkler systems with water operated alarms shall be considered as having such
provisions. The water department may require that a suitable detector check
meter be installed in the standby fire protection service connections, to which
hose lines or hydrants are connected.
   D.   Fire Service Connections Other Than Standby: A user having fire
protection facilities on the premises and water for other purposes flowing
through the same service connection shall be considered as an ordinary service
and metered as such. All water used through that service, regardless of its
use, will be charged at the regular rates.
   E.   Violations Of Regulations: If water from a standby fire protection pipe
connection service is used in violation of these regulations, an estimate of
the amount of water used will be computed by the water department. The regular
rates, including the minimum charge based on the size of the service connection
and subsequent bills rendered on the basis of the regular water rates, will be
applied and billed to the property owner. (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-12: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Operation: No person or persons, other than those designated and
authorized by the water department, shall open any fire hydrant belonging to
the city, attempt to draw water from it or in any manner damage or tamper with
it.
   B.   Temporary Water Service: In cases where water is received through a
fire hydrant because temporary service has been granted, an auxiliary external
valve shall be used to control the flow of water.
   C.   Alternative Fire Hydrant Use: Persons that have received written
authorization from the city may draw water from city designated fire hydrants
for use in street construction and maintenance. Water use shall be estimated by
the user and reported weekly to the city.
   D.   Water Cost: Charges for alternative fire hydrant use will be stated in
the published water rate schedule and set by resolution of the city council.
   E.   Moving Fire Hydrant: When a fire hydrant has been installed in
locations specified by the proper authority, the water department has fulfilled
its obligation. If a property owner or other party desires to change the size,
type or location of the hydrant, they shall bear all costs of such changes. Any
changes in the location of a fire hydrant must be approved by the city council,
the water department and the Westside fire district. (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-13: TEMPORARY WATER SERVICE:
   A.   Description: For water service of a temporary nature, the applicant
shall pay the water bill in advance based on an estimate of the quantity to be
used, or shall otherwise establish satisfactory credit. Charges for water
furnished through a temporary service connection shall be at the established
rates set forth in the current rate schedule and set by resolution of the city
council.
   B.   Purchase And Installation: Purchase and installation of the temporary
service connection shall be the responsibility of the applicant. The
installation of the temporary service connection shall be performed by a city
approved state public works contractor using only materials specified in
writing by the city. Maintenance and repair of the temporary service connection
shall be the responsibility of the city, unless the service connection is
covered by contractor warranty.
   C.   Direct Fill Of Water Tanks: When temporary use includes the direct fill
of tanks, an air gap must be maintained to prevent backflow.
   D.   Relocation Of Temporary Service: All costs to relocate and install a
temporary service connection to a permanent location shall be the
responsibility of the applicant and all work shall be performed by a city
approved state public works contractor. The applicant shall advise and receive
approval from the city as to the location of the permanent service connection.
   E.   Time Limit: Temporary service connections shall be disconnected and
terminated within six (6) months after installation, unless an extension of
time is granted in writing by the city.
   F.   Account Termination: Upon termination of the temporary service, the
applicant shall determine the total amount of water used and if additional
payment is due the city for water usage. Final payment shall be due within
thirty (30) days of the termination of the temporary service. (Ord. 131, 6-4-
2014)
8-1-14: UNUSUAL DEMANDS:
   A.   Prior Arrangements: When an abnormally large quantity of water is
desired by a user, arrangements must be made with the city prior to taking such
water to be certain that other consumers are not adversely impacted. The
monthly limit for water usage that requires city notification by the user shall
be set by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Violation; Penalty: The first occurrence in a calendar year of
exceeding the monthly limit without notifying the city shall result in a
written warning to the user by the city. All subsequent occurrences in a
calendar year of exceeding the monthly limit without notifying the city shall
result in a penalty to be established by resolution of the city council.
   C.   Curtailment Of Service: If the city believes that the use of abnormally
large quantities of water is adversely impacting other consumers, or is due to
a leak, wasteful use or unsafe conditions, the water department may curtail or
discontinue water service as per section
8-1-21 of this chapter. (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-15: APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE:
An application for service is required for each new service connection or
change of land ownership of an existing service connection.
   A.   User Application Form: Each applicant for water service shall sign a
user application form provided by the city. The applicant must be the owner of
the property and the party responsible for payment of all bills. In signing the
application, the applicant agrees to abide by the rules and regulations of the
city. The application is merely a written request for service and does not bind
the city to serve.
   B.   Application Amendments: Customers desiring a material change in the
size, character or extent of equipment or operation which would result in a
material change of the amount of water used shall give the city written notice
of such change thirty (30) days prior to the change and the application for
service shall be amended if the change is deemed appropriate by the water
department.
   C.   Application Denial: The city may deny an initial application for water
service for good cause. Such instances may include, but not be limited to,
unresolved prior debt or dispute, or history of violation of items listed in
this chapter. (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-16: WATER MAIN EXTENSION:
   A.   Extension Of Water Mains Within Service Area: The city council may
extend water mains within the city whenever, in their sole discretion, such
extension is necessary for the health, welfare or safety of the residents of
the city, provided however, nothing herein shall require that such extension be
made at city expense. The city may require any customer desiring water service
to install at the customer's expense a water main extending from existing water
mains to the customer's property and along the entire frontage of the
customer's property. The city may also require the customer to submit design
drawings and specifications prior to the commencement of the construction of
such extension.
   B.   Installation Procedures: Water main extension shall only be installed
under procedures to be established by the city council. The water department
shall make water main extensions only on rights of way, easements or publicly
owned property.
   C.   Easements: Easements or permits secured for main extensions shall be
delivered to the city ready for recording, along with all rights and title to
the water main at the time water service is provided to the customer paying for
the extension.
   D.   Subdivisions: Subdividers for newly partitioned properties will assume
all costs of main extensions and obtain prior approval of the city council.
(Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-17: SERVICES CONNECTION:
   A.   Water Service Connection Defined: The "water service connection" is
defined as the water service line from the water main and the meter box and
water meter (section
8-1-29, appendix A of this chapter).
   B.   Ownership: The city shall own and maintain the water service
connection.
   C.   Maintenance: Maintenance and/or installation shall only be performed by
authorized city employees or a state licensed public works contractor approved
by the city. Upon inspection and acceptance by the city, the ownership,
maintenance, repair and/or replacement of the service connection shall be the
responsibility of the city.
   D.   Size Of Service Line And Water Meter:
      1.   The water department will determine the appropriate size of service
line and water meter based on the applicant request, provided such request is
reasonable and that the size requested is one that is listed by the water
department. The applicant is responsible for purchase and installation of the
water meter.
      2.   The minimum size of service shall be three-fourths inch (3/4"). The
water department may refuse to install a service line which is undersized or
oversized as determined by a study and report by the water department to the
city council. (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
   E.   Increases In Service Line Size And Water Meter: Increase in the size of
the service line and/or water meter requested by the customer shall be paid by
the customer on the basis of the cost of installation, plus an increase in the
water connection fee based on the meter size and type factor (MSTF). (Ord. 131,
6-4-2014; amd. 2017 Code)
   F.   Decreases In Service Line Size And Water Meter: Decrease in the size of
the service line and/or water meter requested by the customer shall be paid by
the customer on the basis of the cost for installation. There is no refund in
water connection fee from the city to the customer.
   G.   Service Line Length:
      1.   Where the main is in a public right of way, the meter will be placed
at the right of way line nearest the property to be served for the standard
connection fee, provided the length of service line does not exceed the width
of the right of way.
      2.   Where the main is on an easement or publicly owned property other
than designated rights of way, the service line shall be installed to the
boundary of the easement or public property by the water department, provided
the length of the service line does not exceed thirty feet (30').
      3.   If, in either case cited above, the length of the service line to
the meter location exceeds the maximum stated, the applicant shall pay the
extra cost of the line on the basis of actual cost to the city for labor,
materials and equipment, plus eighteen percent (18%).
   H.   Joint Service Connections:
      1.   The water department may, at its option, serve two (2) or more
premises with one connection. For new service connections, the inside diameter
of such joint lines shall be sufficient to provide a carrying capacity of no
less than the combined capacity of individual service lines of the same size as
the meters installed.
      2.   Customer service line extensions from an existing customer service
line to occupancies or ownerships other than that which the existing customer
service line was intended shall not be permitted nor shall separate residences
be permitted to receive water service through one meter, except under special
considerations and written approval of the city council.
   I.   Changes In Location: Meters or water services lines moved for the
convenience of the customer will be relocated only at the customer's expense
and with prior city council approval.
   J.   Damage To Water Department Equipment: The customer shall be liable for
any damage to equipment owned by the water department, which is caused by an
act of the customer, his tenants, agents, employees, contractors, licensees or
permit holders. Damage to equipment shall include, but not be limited to,
breaking seals and locks, tampering with meters, injury to meters, including,
but not limited to, damages by hot water or steam, and damaged meter boxes,
curb stops, meter stops and other appurtenances. (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-18: NOTICES:
   A.   Notices To Customers: Notices from the city and the water department to
the customer shall be given in writing and either mailed to or delivered to the
customer at the last known address. Where conditions warrant and in
emergencies, the water department may notify either by telephone or messenger.
   B.   Notices From Customers: Notices from the customer to the city and the
water department shall be given by the customer or their authorized
representative in writing to city hall. (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-19: BILLINGS AND PAYMENTS:
   A.   Meter Readings: Meters will be read and customers billed on the basis
of the meter reading to the nearest one hundred (100) gallons. The city will
keep an accurate account on its books of all readings of meters and such
accounts so the meter readings shall be offered at all times, places and courts
as prima facie evidence of the use of water service by the customer.
   B.   Rendering Of Bills:
      1.   Billing Period: All bills shall be rendered monthly.
      2.   Bills For Other Than Normal Billing Period: When opening or closing
bills or bills for periods other than the normal monthly billing, all monthly
fees shall be prorated.
      3.   Billing Start Date: When a water connection is purchased, billing
shall begin.
      4.   Bills For More Than One Meter: All meters supplying a customer's
premises shall be billed separately, except that where the water department
has, for operating purposes, installed two (2) or more meters in place of one,
the reading may be combined for billing.
   C.   Disputed Bills: When a customer disputes a monthly water bill, the
customer shall deposit the amount of the disputed bill at the time the
complaint is lodged to preclude discontinuance of service pending final
settlement of the bill or bills. Subsequent bills shall be paid or placed on
deposit in a similar manner. Failure of the customer to make such a deposit
shall warrant discontinuance of service as provided under section
8-1-21 of this chapter. Disputes shall be addressed within thirty (30) days by
the city.
   D.   Failure To Read Meter:
      1.   In the event that it shall not be possible or practical to read a
meter on the regular reading date, the customer will be charged using the
following:
Monthly fee = (# ERs) x (base fee) (Eq. 20.1)
      2.   In subsequent months when the meter is able to be read, the monthly
water rate will be calculated using the last valid meter reading and the
calculation found in section
8-1-10 of this chapter.
   E.   Payment Of Bills:
      1.   The city shall bill the property owner for water use and the
property owner shall be the responsible party.
      2.   Each bill shall contain the final date on which payment is due. If
the bill is not paid by that date, the account shall be considered delinquent,
unless other arrangements have been made with the city in writing that
specifies another due date. (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-20: DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS:
   A.   Delinquent Notice: A reminder of account delinquency may be sent, at
the discretion of the city, to each delinquent account.
   B.   Turnoff Notice: On or about fifteen (15) days after an account becomes
delinquent, a turnoff notice shall be sent to the customer via mail. The
turnoff notice shall state a date on which water will be turned off if the
delinquent account is not paid in full thereto. The turnoff date shall be at
least fifteen (15) days after the delivery of the turnoff notice.
   C.   Turn Off Of Water Service: On the turnoff date, the meter reader or
other agent of the city shall deliver a written notice to the customer stating
that the water service is being turned off until all delinquent amounts, plus
late fees and penalties, have been paid. The agent of the city shall
immediately thereafter turn off the service. A delivery to the premises served
by the meter shall be considered a delivery to the customer. The service shall
not be discontinued without a turnoff notice being delivered at least fifteen
(15) days prior to the date of discontinued service.
   D.   Service Charge: In all instances where water has been turned off
because of account delinquency, a service charge shall be made for restoration
of services as set forth by resolution of the city council.
   E.   Installment Payments Of Delinquent Accounts: In cases of extreme
hardship, the city shall have the discretion of renewing service to a
delinquent account upon receipt of a satisfactory installment plan for the
payment of the overdue amount. (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-21: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   A.   On Customer Request:
      1.   Each customer about to vacate any premises supplied with water
service by the city water system shall give the city written notice of their
intentions at least fifteen (15) days prior thereto, specifying the date
service is to be discontinued; otherwise, they will be responsible for all
water supplied to such premises until fifteen (15) days after the city shall
receive notice of such service discontinuation.
      2.   At the time specified by the customer that they expect to vacate the
premises where service is supplied or that they desire to be discontinued, the
meter will be read and a bill rendered which is payable immediately.
   B.   Nonpayment Of Water Service Charges: If such rates and charges are not
paid when due by any such person, firm or corporation, the amounts so unpaid
may be certified by the city clerk to the Bonner County tax assessor and shall
be assessed a tax lien against the property as provided by law and shall be
collected and paid over to the city in the same manner as other taxes are
assessed, collected and paid over, with interest. Interest on unpaid bills
shall run from the due date thereof at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per
annum. Such unpaid charges may also be recovered in an action of law in the
name of the city, with interest.
   C.   Nonpayment Of Inactive Water Service Charges:
      1.   After three (3) months of nonpayment of inactive water service
charges, the city shall begin disconnection proceedings of the customer's water
connection. The city shall inform the customer via mail that within forty five
(45) days, the customer shall be disconnected from the water system and once
done, the owner must purchase a new water hookup prior to reconnecting to the
system.
      2.   Once notified by the city of the discontinuance of water service, to
avoid disconnection the customer may:
         a.   Pay the full service charges, including twelve percent (12%)
interest; or
         b.   Request a hearing of the city council at the next regularly
scheduled city council meeting. At this hearing, the customer or his/her
representative may request an extension to allow the customer additional time
to bring the account up to date.
      3.   If the customer does not pay the full service charges, plus
interest, or the city council determines that circumstances do not warrant a
time extension, the customer will be disconnected and the customer must
purchase a new water hookup prior to reconnecting to the system. After
disconnection, the city will inform the customer via mail.
   D.   Improper Customer Facilities:
      1.   Unsafe Facilities: The water department may refuse to furnish water
and may discontinue services to any premises without prior notice where
plumbing facilities, appliances or equipment using water is dangerous, unsafe
or not in conformity with the plumbing code of the state. (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
      2.   Cross Connections: Cross connections are prohibited and regulated
under chapter 2 of this title. (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014; amd. 2017 Code)
   E.   Water Waste: Where water is wastefully or negligently used on a
customer's premises, seriously affecting the general service, the city may
discontinue service if such conditions are not corrected after due notice by
the city.
   F.   Service Detrimental To Others: The city may refuse to furnish water and
may discontinue service to any premises where excessive demands by one customer
will result in inadequate service to others.
   G.   Fraud Or Abuse: The city will refuse or discontinue service to any
premises where it is deemed necessary to protect the water department from
fraud or abuse. Discontinuance of service from one or both of these causes will
be made immediately upon receipt of knowledge by the water department that the
condition or conditions exist.
   H.   Unauthorized Turn On Of Water Service: Where water service has been
discontinued for any reason and the water is turned back on by the customer or
other unauthorized person, the water may then be shut off at the main or the
meter removed. The charges for shutting off the water at the main or removing
the meter shall be set by resolution of the city council. These charges shall
be billed to the offending customer and water shall not be furnished to the
premises or customer until such charges are paid and the water department has
reasonable assurance that the violation will not reoccur.
   I.   Noncompliance With Regulations: The water department may, upon five (5)
days' notice, discontinue service to a customer's premises for unsafe
facilities, cross connections, wasted water, service detrimental to others,
fraud or abuse, or unauthorized turn on of water. (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-22: RESTORATION OF SERVICE:
   A.   Restoration After Nonpayment: Restoration of service after
discontinuance for nonpayment of bills shall be made after payment of current
and past due charges, plus late fees and service fees, and any interest. The
charges for restoring water service after discontinuance for nonpayment of
bills shall be set by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Restoration Upon New Ownership: When there is a change in ownership,
the new owner must complete a user application form.
   C.   Other: Restoration of service after discontinuance of service for
unsafe facilities, water waste, fraud, abuse or noncompliance with any of the
policies, rules and regulations will only be made after the irregularity has
been corrected and the city and water department have been assured that the
irregularity will not reoccur. The charges for restoring water service after
discontinuance for unsafe facilities, water waste, fraud, abuse or
noncompliance with any of the policies, rules and regulations shall be set by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-23: EXCESS WATER CHARGE ADJUSTMENT POLICY:
   A.   Settlement: When a residential customer experiences a water leak
causing excessive water usage over a limit set by resolution of the city
council and the usage has been caused by a defect or defects and the defect(s)
is/are repaired promptly on discovery, the city clerk is authorized to make a
settlement of the charges in the following manner:
      1.   The estimate of consumption shall be based either upon the
customer's prior use during the same season of the previous year, or upon a
reasonable comparison with the use of other customers receiving the same class
of service during the same season under similar circumstances and conditions.
If there is no reasonable comparison available, the city clerk will make an
estimate of customer water consumption based upon all available data.
      2.   Payment will be made by the customer upon receipt of the adjusted
bill, unless a determination has been made by the city clerk that a payment
plan is in order.
   B.   Repair Required: No adjustment shall be made unless the customer has
taken reasonable steps to immediately repair the defect upon discovery. (Ord.
131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-24: RATE SCHEDULE UPDATES:
The following fees are to be set by resolution of the city council:
   A.   Annual Updates: The following charges in the water rate schedule are to
be updated annually by resolution of the city council:
      1.   New user facility fee (section
8-1-8 of this chapter);
      2.   Monthly water base rate, water usage rate and inactive account fee
(section
8-1-10 of this chapter).
   B.   Ad Hoc Updates: The following charges in the water rate schedule are to
be updated as required by resolution of the city council:
      1.   Cost for meter replacement (section
8-1-7 of this chapter);
      2.   New user facility fee (section
8-1-8 of this chapter);
      3.   Monthly water base rate, water usage rate and inactive account fee
(section
8-1-10 of this chapter);
      4.   Charges for standby fire protection service (section
8-1-11 of this chapter);
      5.   Water charges for alternative fire hydrant use (section
8-1-12 of this chapter);
      6.   Water charges for water furnished through a temporary service
connection (section
8-1-13 of this chapter);
      7.   Cost for repeatedly exceeding the maximum monthly usage without
informing the city (section
8-1-14 of this chapter);
      8.   Service charge for the restoration of services after discontinuance
for nonpayment of bills (section
8-1-20 of this chapter);
      9.   Service charge for the restoration of services after discontinuance
of service for unsafe facilities, water waste, fraud, abuse or noncompliance
with any of the policies, rules and regulations (section
8-1-22 of this chapter);
      10.   Service charge for discontinuing service or removing meter after
the service has been discontinued by the water department for any reason and
the water is turned back on by the customer or other unauthorized person
(section
8-1-22 of this chapter);
      11.   Emergency water service shutoff during working hours;
      12.   After hours emergency water service shutoffs;
      13.   Standby fire protection cost (section
8-1-11 of this chapter);
      14.   Limit for excess water charge adjustment (section
8-1-23 of this chapter). (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-25: SUSPENSION OF RULES:
No employee of the water department is authorized to suspend or alter any of
the policies, rules or regulations cited herein without specific written
approval or written direction of the city council, except in cases of emergency
involving loss of life or property, or which would place the water system in
jeopardy. (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-26: EASEMENT:
Each applicant and user gives and grants to the city an easement and right of
way on and across his property for the installation of service lines, meter
boxes and water meters, and all necessary valves and equipment in connection
therewith. (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-27: CONFLICTING ORDINANCES:
The provisions of any prior ordinance of the city that may be in conflict with
any of the rules, regulations or provisions herein contained are hereby
repealed and superseded. (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
8-1-28: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 131, 6-4-2014; amd. 2017 Code)
8-1-29: APPENDICES:
   APPENDIX A
   DESCRIPTION OF PHYSICAL LAYOUT
(Ord. 131, 6-4-2014)
   APPENDIX B
   LOT EXCEPTIONS FROM PROVISION
   APPLICABILITY (SECTION
8-1-3 OF THIS CHAPTER)
Lot Exceptions:
Pin: RPD369700012A0A
Property Address: 146 ESSEX
Community: DOVER
Legal Desc: 29-57N-2W CEDAR RIDGE ADDN LOT 12A REPLAT
Pin: RPD3697000010AA
Property Address: 796 CEDAR RDG RD
Community: DOVER
Legal Desc: 29-57N-2W CEDAR RIDGE ADDN PT LOT 10 1995 GUERDON 28 X 60 RP
(Ord. 131, 6-4-2014; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-2-1: Purpose
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-3: Responsibility For Protection
8-2-4: Payment For Installation
8-2-5: Requirements
8-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to:
   A.   Protect the public potable water supply of city from the possibility of
contamination or pollution by isolating within the consumer's internal
distribution system or the consumer's private water system such contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow into the public water systems; and
   B.   Promote the elimination or control of existing cross connections,
actual or potential, between the consumer's in plant potable water system and
nonpotable water system, plumbing fixtures and industrial piping systems; and
   C.   Provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross connection
control which will systematically and effectively prevent the contamination or
pollution of all potable water systems. (Ord. 80, 11-10-2005)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
ADMINISTRATOR: The certified water system technician in charge of the water
department of the city of Dover is vested with the authority and responsibility
for the implementation of an effective cross connection control program and for
the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
AIR GAP: A physical separation between the free flowing discharge end of a
potable water supply pipeline and an open or nonpressure receiving vessel. An
approved "air gap" shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe
measured vertically above the overflow rim of the vessel; in no case less than
one inch (1") (2.54 cm).
APPROVED: A. Used in reference to a water supply, shall mean a water supply
which has been approved by the health agency having jurisdiction.
   B.   Used in reference to an air gap, a double check valve assembly, a
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or other backflow
prevention assemblies or methods shall mean an approval by the administrative
authority having jurisdiction.
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY: Any water supply on or available to the premises other
than the purveyor's approved public water supply will be considered as an
auxiliary water supply. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public potable water supply or any natural source, such as a well,
spring, river, stream, harbor, etc., or used waters or industrial fluids. These
waters may be contaminated or polluted, or they may be objectionable and
constitute an unacceptable water source over which the water purveyor does not
have sanitary control.
BACK PRESSURE: Any elevation of pressure in the downstream piping system (by
pump, elevation of piping, or steam and/or air pressure) above the supply
pressure at the point of consideration which would cause, or tend to cause, a
reversal of the normal direction of flow.
BACK SIPHONAGE: A form of backflow due to a reduction in system pressure which
causes a subatmospheric pressure to exist at a site in the water system.
BACKFLOW: The undesirable reversal of flow of water or mixtures of water and
other liquids, gases or other substances into the distribution pipes of the
potable supply of water from any source or sources. See also definitions of
Back Siphonage and Back Pressure.
BACKFLOW PREVENTER: An assembly or means designed to prevent backflow.
CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of water which creates an actual
hazard to the public health through poisoning or through the spread of disease
by sewage, industrial fluids, waste, etc.
CROSS CONNECTION, CONTROLLED: A connection between a potable water system and a
nonpotable water system with an approved backflow prevention assembly properly
installed and maintained so that it will continuously afford the protection
commensurate with the degree of hazard.
CROSS CONNECTIONS: Any unprotected actual or potential connection or structural
arrangement between a public or a consumer's potable water system and any other
source or system through which it is possible to introduce into any part of the
potable system any used water, industrial fluid, gas or substance, other than
the intended potable water with which the system is supplied. Bypass
arrangements, jumper connections, removable sections, swivel or changeover
devices and other temporary or permanent devices through which or because of
which backflow can or may occur are considered to be cross connections.
DEGREE OF HAZARD: Either a pollutional (nonhealth) or contamination (health)
hazard and is derived from the evaluation of conditions within a system.
DIRECT CROSS CONNECTION: A cross connection which is subject to both back
siphonage and back pressure.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of two
(2) independently acting, approved check valves, including tightly closing
resilient seated shutoff valves attached at each end of the assembly and fitted
with properly located resilient seated test cocks. This assembly shall only be
used to protect against a nonhealth hazard (i.e., pollutant). This assembly
shall be UL listed.
HEALTH HAZARD: An actual or potential threat of contamination of a physical or
toxic nature to the public potable water system or the consumer's potable water
system that would be a danger to health.
INDIRECT CROSS CONNECTION: A cross connection which is subject to back
siphonage only.
INDUSTRIAL FLUIDS: Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically
or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration which would
constitute a health, system, pollutional or plumbing hazard if introduced into
an approved water supply. This may include, but not be limited to: polluted or
contaminated used water; all types of process water and "used waters"
originating from the public potable water system which may deteriorate in
sanitary quality; chemicals in fluid form; plating acids and alkalies;
circulated cooling waters connected to an open cooling tower and/or cooling
waters that are chemically or biologically treated or stabilized with toxic
substances; contaminated natural waters, such as from wells, springs, streams,
rivers, bays, harbors, seas, irrigation canals or systems, etc.; oils, gases,
glycerin, paraffins, caustic and acid solutions and other liquid and gaseous
fluids used industrially for other processes or for firefighting purposes.
NONPOTABLE WATER: A water supply which has not been approved for human
consumption by the health agency having jurisdiction.
PLUMBING HAZARD: An internal or plumbing type cross connection in a consumer's
potable water system that may be either a pollutional or contamination type
hazard. This includes, but is not limited to, cross connections to toilets,
sinks, lavatories, wash trays and lawn sprinkling systems. Plumbing type cross
connections can be located in many types of structures, including homes,
apartment houses, hotels and commercial or industrial establishments. Such a
connection, if permitted to exist, must be properly protected by an appropriate
type of backflow prevention assembly.
POLLUTION: An impairment of the quality of the water to a degree which does not
create a hazard to the public health but which does adversely and unreasonably
affect the aesthetic qualities of such waters for domestic use.
POLLUTIONAL HAZARD: An actual or potential threat to the physical properties of
the water system or the potability of the public or the consumer's potable
water system, but which would not constitute a health or "system hazard", as
defined. The maximum degree or intensity of pollution to which the potable
water system could be degraded under this definition would cause a nuisance or
be aesthetically objectionable or could cause minor damage to the system or its
appurtenances.
POTABLE WATER: Any public potable water supply which has been investigated and
approved by the health agency. The system must be operating under a valid
health permit. In determining what constitutes an approved water supply, the
health agency has final judgment as to its safety and potability.
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: An assembly containing
two (2) independently acting approved check valves, together with a
hydraulically operating, mechanically independent pressure differential relief
valve located between the check valves and at the same time below the first
check valve. The unit shall include properly located resilient seated test
cocks and tightly closing resilient seated shutoff valves at each end of the
assembly. This assembly is designed to protect against a nonhealth (i.e.,
pollutant) or a health hazard (i.e., contaminant). This assembly shall not be
used for backflow protection of sewage or reclaimed water. This assembly shall
be UL listed.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The terminal end of a service connection from the public
potable water system (i.e., where the water purveyor may lose jurisdiction and
sanitary control of the water at its point of delivery to the consumer's water
system). If a water meter is installed at the end of the service connection,
then the service connection shall mean the downstream end of the water meter.
SERVICE PROTECTION: The appropriate type or method of backflow protection at
the service connection, commensurate with the degree of hazard of the
consumer's potable water system.
SYSTEM HAZARD: An actual or potential threat of severe danger to the physical
properties of the public or the consumer's potable water system, or of a
pollution or contamination which would have a protracted effect on the quality
of the potable water in the system.
USED WATER: Any water supplied by a water purveyor from public potable water
system to a consumer's water system after it has passed through the service
connection and is no longer under the control of the water purveyor. (Ord. 80,
11-10-2005; amd. 2017 Code)
8-2-3: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROTECTION:
The certified water system technician shall be responsible for the protection
of the public potable water distribution system from contamination or pollution
due to the backflow of contaminants or pollutants through the water service
connection. If, in the judgment of said official an approved backflow
prevention assembly is required at the consumer's water service connection; or,
within the consumer's private water system for the safety of the water system,
the official or his designated agent shall give notice in writing to said
consumer to install such an approved backflow prevention assembly at a specific
location on his premises. The city shall immediately install such an approved
backflow prevention assembly at the city's expense. (Ord. 80, 11-10-2005)
8-2-4: PAYMENT FOR INSTALLATION:
The city will bill the owner the actual cost of the installation of the
backflow device and amortize over the next six (6) months, to be included in
the water billing. (Ord. 80, 11-10-2005)
8-2-5: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Water System:
      1.   The water system shall be considered as made up of two (2) parts:
the water purveyor's system and the consumer's system.
      2.   The water purveyor's system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
water system under the complete control of the purveyor, up to the point where
the consumer's system begins.
      3.   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized
in the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the distribution
system.
      4.   The distribution system shall include the network of conduits used
for the delivery of water from the source to the consumer's system.
      5.   The consumer's system shall include those parts of the facilities
beyond the termination of the water purveyor's distribution system which are
utilized in conveying potable water to points of use.
   B.   Policy:
      1.   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or
maintained by the water purveyor unless the water supply is protected as
required by city laws and regulations and this chapter. Service of water to any
premises shall be discontinued by the water purveyor if a backflow prevention
assembly required by this chapter is not installed, tested and maintained, or
if it is found that a backflow prevention assembly has been removed, bypassed,
or if an unprotected cross connection exists on the premises. Service will not
be restored until such conditions or defects are corrected.
      2.   The consumer's system should be open for inspection at all
reasonable times to authorized representatives of the city to determine whether
unprotected cross connections or other structural or sanitary hazards,
including violations of these regulations, exist. When such a condition becomes
known, the official shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the
premises by providing for a physical break in the service line until the
consumer has corrected the condition in conformance with city statutes relating
to plumbing and water supplies and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
      3.   An approved backflow prevention assembly shall also be installed on
each service line to a consumer's water system at or near the property line or
immediately inside the building being served; but, in all cases, before the
first branch line leading off the service line wherever the following
conditions exist:
         a.   In the case of premises having an auxiliary water supply which is
not or may not be of safe bacteriological or chemical quality and which is not
acceptable as an additional source by the official, the public water system
shall be protected against backflow from the premises by installing an approved
backflow prevention assembly in the service line commensurate with the degree
of hazard.
         b.   In the case of premises on which any industrial fluids or any
other objectionable substance is handled in such a fashion as to create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water system, the public system shall
be protected against backflow from the premises by installing an approved
backflow prevention assembly in the service line commensurate with the degree
of hazard. This shall include the handling of process waters and waters
originating from the water purveyor's system which have been subject to
deterioration in quality.
         c.   In the case of premises having: 1) internal cross connections
that cannot be permanently corrected or protected against; or 2) intricate
plumbing and piping arrangements or where entry to all portions of the premises
is not readily accessible for inspection purposes, making it impracticable or
impossible to ascertain whether or not dangerous cross connections exist, the
public water system shall be protected against backflow from the premises by
installing an approved backflow prevention assembly in the service line.
      4.   The type of protective assembly required under subsection B3 of this
section shall depend upon the degree of hazard which exists as follows:
         a.   In the case of any premises where there is an auxiliary water
supply as stated in subsection B3a of this section and it is not subject to any
of the following rules, the public water system shall be protected by an
approved air gap or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
assembly.
         b.   In the case of any premises where there is water or substance
that would be objectionable, but not hazardous to health, if introduced into
the public water system, the public water system shall be protected by an
approved double check valve backflow prevention assembly.
         c.   In the case of any premises where there is any material dangerous
to health which is handled in such a fashion as to create an actual or
potential hazard to the public water system, the public water system shall be
protected by an approved air gap or an approved reduced pressure principle
backflow prevention assembly. Examples of premises where these conditions will
exist include sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations, chemical
manufacturing plants, hospitals, mortuaries and plating plants.
         d.   In the case of any premises where there are unprotected cross
connections, either actual or potential, the public water system shall be
protected by an approved air gap or an approved reduced pressure principle
backflow prevention assembly at the service connection.
         e.   In the case of any premises where, because of security
requirements or other prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or
impractical to make a complete in plant cross connection survey, the public
water system shall be protected against backflow from the premises by either an
approved air gap or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
assembly on each service to the premises.
      5.   a. Any backflow prevention assembly required herein shall be a make,
model and size approved by the official. The term "approved backflow prevention
assembly" shall mean an assembly that has been manufactured in full conformance
with the standards established by the American Water Works Association
entitled:
AWWA/ANSI C510-92 1  "Standard For Double Check Valve Backflow Prevention
Assemblies".
AWWA/ANSI C511-92 2  "Standard For Reduced Pressure Principle Backflow
Prevention Assemblies".
And, have met completely the laboratory and field performance specifications of
the "Foundation For Cross Connection Control And Hydraulic Research" of the
University Of Southern California (USC FCCCHR) established in:
Specifications of backflow prevention assemblies section 10 of the most current
edition of the "Manual Of Cross Connection Control".
         b.   Said AWWA and USC FCCCHR standards and specifications have been
adopted by the city. Final approval shall be evidenced by a "certificate of
compliance" for the said AWWA standards; or "certificate of approval" for the
said USC FCCCHR specifications; issued by an approved testing laboratory.
         c.   The following testing laboratory has been qualified to test and
approve backflow prevention assemblies:
"Foundation For Cross Connection Control And Hydraulic Research"
   University Of Southern California
   KAP-200 University Park CMC-2531
   Los Angeles, CA 90089-2531
         d.   Testing laboratories other than the laboratory listed above will
be added to an approved list as they are qualified by the city.
         e.   Backflow preventers which may be subjected to back pressure or
back siphonage that have been fully tested and have been granted a certificate
of approval by said qualified laboratory and are listed on the laboratory's
current list of approved backflow prevention assemblies may be used without
further test or qualification.
      6.   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises where backflow
prevention assemblies are installed to have a field test performed by a
certified backflow prevention assembly tester upon installation and at least
once per year. In those instances where the official deems the hazard to be
great enough he may require field tests at more frequent intervals. These tests
shall be at the expense of the water user and shall be performed by a certified
tester. The consumer shall notify the water department in advance when the
tests are to be undertaken so that an official representative may witness the
field tests if so desired. These assemblies shall be repaired, overhauled or
replaced at the expense of the consumer whenever said assemblies are found to
be defective. Records of such tests, repairs and overhaul shall be kept and
made available to the water department.
      7.   All presently installed backflow prevention assemblies which do not
meet the requirements of this section but were approved devices for the
purposes described herein at the time of installation and which have been
properly maintained, shall, except for the testing and maintenance requirements
under subsection B6 of this section, be excluded from the requirements of these
rules so long as the water department is assured that they will satisfactorily
protect the water purveyor's system. Whenever the existing device is moved from
the present location or requires more than minimum maintenance or when the
water department finds that the maintenance constitutes a hazard to health, the
unit shall be replaced by an approved backflow prevention assembly meeting the
requirements of this section.
      8.   The water department shall make recommendations for rules and
policies with respect to the enforcement of this chapter. All such rules and
policies shall be consistent with the provisions of this chapter as reviewed
and approved by the city council. (Ord. 80, 11-10-2005)
 
Notes
  1. Prior to 1989 the AWWA/ANSI C506 standard covered both the double check
1 valve assembly and the reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
  assembly.
  2. Prior to 1989 the AWWA/ANSI C506 standard covered both the double check
2 valve assembly and the reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
  assembly.
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-3-1: Purpose
8-3-2: Definitions
8-3-3: Applicability
8-3-4: Ownership, Operation And Maintenance
8-3-5: Reserved
8-3-6: Sewer User Agreement
8-3-7: Sewer Service Connection Authorization
8-3-8: Sewer System Extensions And Modifications
8-3-9: Prohibited Discharges
8-3-10: Sewer Connection Fee
8-3-11: Rates, Billings And Payments
8-3-12: Delinquent Accounts
8-3-13: Suspension Of The Rules, Violations And Penalties
8-3-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Short Title: This chapter shall be referred to as the SEWER ORDINANCE.
   B.   Objectives: The objectives of this chapter are to:
      1.   Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the City sewer system,
which will interfere with the normal operation of the system or the use and
disposal of the resulting Municipal biosolids.
      2.   Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the City sewer system
which do not receive adequate treatment in the sewer treatment plant, and which
will pass through the system into receiving waters or the atmosphere or
otherwise be incompatible with the sewer treatment plant.
      3.   Improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
biosolids from the sewer treatment plant.
      4.   Ensure that the quality of the sewer treatment plant biosolids is
maintained at a level which allows its use and disposal in compliance with
applicable statutes and regulations.
      5.   Protect Sewer Department personnel who may be affected by wastewater
and biosolids in the course of their employment and to protect the general
public.
      6.   Establish connection fees and monthly use fees for all users who
have purchased a connection or who are connected to the Dover sewer system.
(Ord. 163, 8-29-2019)
8-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
ADMINISTRATOR: The City's designated agent to administer the sewer system whose
duties include but are not limited to review of applications, approval of
installations and enforcement of this chapter. The Administrator may be the
Mayor, a member of Council, a City employee or a contracted agent for the City.
APPLICANT: Shall mean the person or persons, business or corporation, making
application for sewer service from the City of Dover under the terms of this
chapter. The applicant must be the owner of the residence or building for which
the application is made and responsible for paying all bills for sewer service.
BUILDER: The builder of the residence/building to be served by the Dover sewer
system.
CITY: Shall mean the legally constituted Municipal government of the City of
Dover, Bonner County, Idaho.
CITY COUNCIL OR COUNCIL: Shall mean the legally elected or appointed group of
members comprising the City Council, including the City of Dover Mayor.
CONTRACTOR: Any firm, person or corporation licensed by the State of Idaho as a
public works contractor.
CUSTOMER: See definition of "user".
EASEMENT: A right to cross or otherwise use someone else's land for a specified
purpose.
EFFLUENT SEWER SYSTEMS: A sewer system that first treats the raw sewage using a
septic tank followed by treatment of the septic tank effluent in a centralized
sewer treatment plant. All sanitary sewers in the City of Dover are effluent
sewer systems. The two (2) effluent sewer system types used in Dover are
"septic tank effluent pump" and "septic tank effluent gravity" sewers (commonly
referred to as STEP or STEG, respectively) which use on-lot septic tanks to
provide liquid/solid separation. The clarified effluent then moves into the
collection system using either a pump (STEP) or gravity (STEG).
ENGINEER: The Idaho State licensed engineer(s) or engineering firm(s)
designated by the City.
EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT OR ERU: A unit of measurement equal to a single-
family residential unit used to equate commercial, industrial, non-residential,
and multi-family residential units to a single-family residential use.
FOG (FATS, OILS, AND GREASE): Constituent of sewage typically originating from
foodstuffs (animal fats or vegetable oils) or consisting of compounds of
alcohol or glycerol with fatty acids (soaps and lotions).
GARBAGE: Solid waste from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: Industrial wastes are the discharges of industrial plants
and manufacturing processes.
INTERCEPTOR LINES: Sewer lines that receive the wastewater from numerous trunk
sewers and convey it to a sewer treatment plant. These are the largest diameter
lines in the wastewater system and the furthest downstream in the system.
MAIN EXTENSION: Refers to all proposed extensions of the wastewater system to
serve undeveloped areas within the area of service for the City's sewer system.
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCES: A building with multiple living units. This definition
includes apartments, condominiums, townhouses, duplexes and triplexes.
OCCUPANT: Refers to the tenant, developer, leaseholder, or other person who
occupies real property.
OWNER: Refers to an individual or entity that owns real property.
PUMP STATION (OR LIFT STATION): A mechanical facility used to transport
wastewater or elevate the wastewater to a higher elevation under pressure. A
pump station includes pumps, controls, panels, wet well, force main, fencing,
land and other appurtenances.
PUMP THE TANK: Refers to an action taken to clean a septic tank by removing the
accumulated contents of a septic tank. When cleaning the tank the floating
material and settled solids are removed as well as the removal of any debris
accumulated on the inlet and outlet baffles.
SANITARY SEWER: A wastewater collection system for transporting sewage from
houses, industrial and commercial buildings to treatment or disposal. The City
of Dover presently operates a sanitary sewer system.
SEPTIC TANK: A sewage-treatment system in which wastewater passes into a
quiescent zone (in the tank) where heavy material is removed by settling to the
bottom and light material is removed by floating to the top. The clarified
effluent discharged from the septic tank is conveyed to the sewer treatment
plant for additional treatment and disposal. Settled material receives further
treatment by bacterial anaerobic decomposition. The floating material as well
as the accumulated settled/decomposed solids are periodically removed from the
septic tank. The septic tank receives the sewage from a building.
A septic tank consists of:
   A.   A watertight, covered receptacle with inlet and outlet baffles (and
access/inspection ports) for treatment of sewage.
   B.   An effluent pump for transporting the effluent to a sewer main (when
required). The effluent pump may be located in a separate chamber within a dual
chamber septic tank used for sewage treatment or in an external dosing tank.
   C.   An electronic control box for the effluent pump and pump control floats
(when required). The control box may not be contained inside the sewage
treatment tank or inside the external dosing tank.
SEPTIC TANK RISER: Refers to a specific type of extension that is added to a
septic tank for locating and accessing the tank for maintenance.
SEPTIC TANK RISER LID: Plastic or concrete lid placed on the top of the septic
tank riser to seal the septic tank while still allowing maintenance access.
SEWER CONNECTION FEE (OR CONNECTION FEE): A fee charged to an owner as an
equitable buy-in for the owner's use of the City's sewer services and system.
SEWER DEPARTMENT: The Sewer Department of the City of Dover.
SEWER MAIN: Sewage collectors for numerous service lines that convey wastewater
to larger trunk sewer lines, lift stations and ultimately to the sewer
treatment plant.
SEWER SERVICE CONNECTION: All components of the sewer system from the building
to the sewer main (not including the sewer main).
SEWER SYSTEM: All mains, pipes, and structures through which wastewater is
collected and treated including building sewer service lines, septic tanks,
sewer mains, pump stations, lift stations, interceptors, storage tanks,
treatment plants, and outfalls used or intended for use for the purpose of
furnishing sewer service for domestic and commercial use.
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCES: A detached building designed and used for residential
purposes by a single family.
SLUG: A short term discharge of flow that is of higher strength or quantity
than normal. It is defined as any discharge of water, sewage or industrial
waste which in the concentration of any given constituent or the volume of flow
exceeds, for any period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than
five (5) times the average twenty four (24) hour concentration or flows during
normal operation.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS): Small solid particles which remain in suspension in
water as a colloid or due to the motion of the water.
TRUNK SEWER LINES: The main arteries of the wastewater collection system that
collect and convey the wastewater from numerous main sewer lines either to a
sewer treatment plant, an interceptor sewer or lift station.
USER: Occupant and/or owner who operates a business or resides in a building
that has connected to, or is required to connect to, or has contracted with the
City to connect to the public sewer system.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT (OR WWTP): A facility designed to convert wastewater
into an effluent that is sufficiently cleaned so the water can be returned to
the water cycle. The City of Dover uses a membrane bioreactor (MBR) to scour
and clean the water, allowing the clean water to be returned to the Pend
Oreille River. (Ord. 163, 8-29-2019)
8-3-3: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to all "customers", "owners", "occupants" and "users"
as defined in section
8-3-2 of this chapter, including but not limited to all subdivisions, single-
family residences, condominiums, industrial, commercial, residential, and
townhouse developments as well as those contracting such services from the
City.
   A.   Service Area: The area served by the Dover Sewer Department shall be
all that area included within the corporate limits of the City of Dover and any
area outside the City limits already served by Dover's Sewer Department on the
passage date of this chapter. The City shall expand the service area outside
the City limits only by approval of the City Council. Any new user outside the
City limits seeking service may be required to consent to annexation as a
condition of service.
   B.   New Users: All new structures and/or developments within the City shall
connect to the Dover sewer system when:
      1.   A sewer main is located within three hundred feet (300') of the
property line.
      2.   All existing structures within the City shall be connected to the
Dover sewer system that:
         a.   Are served by a private sewage disposal system that has failed;
and
         b.   A sewer main is located within three hundred feet (300') of the
property line.
   C.   Obligation For Fees, Waiver And Limitations On Damages:
      1.   Users of the Dover sewer system are obligated to pay the
assessments, fees, and charges established in this chapter. The City's failure
to exercise a right, power, privilege or remedy shall not preclude exercise at
a later date.
      2.   The City shall not be liable for damages resulting from the
interruption in service. Temporary suspension of service by the Sewer
Department for improvements and repairs will occasionally be necessary.
Whenever possible, and when time permits, all customers affected will be
notified prior to shutdowns. (Ord. 163, 8-29-2019)
8-3-4: OWNERSHIP, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Wastewater Collection, Treatment And Sewage Disposal: All components of
the sewer system from the sewer main to and including the sewer treatment plant
shall be the property of the City.
   B.   Sewer Service Connection: The sewer service connection, as shown in
subsection B4 of this section, shall be the property of the owner. Other than
septic tank inspections and pumping, all sewer service connections and
components shall be maintained and repaired at the owner's expense. Any
requests to move components of the sewer service connection will be reviewed by
the City and City Engineer at the owner's expense. If approved, the cost to
move any component of the sewer service connection shall be at the owner's
expense including inspections.
      1.   Maintenance And Repairs To Sewer Service Connection: The Sewer
Department shall inspect any septic tank and pump the septic tank as often as
needed, but no less than five (5) years for single family home and no less than
two (2) years for shared septic tanks. Should any portion of the septic tank
need repairs or replacing, the City will perform such repairs and pass on the
actual cost to the owner of the septic tank. The cost of septic tank inspection
and pumping will be at the expense of the Sewer Department via monthly user
fees set by resolution. All maintenance and repairs to a user's sewer service
connection must be done by a licensed contractor and reported to the City. It
is prohibited for any owner to open a septic tank without the Sewer Department
present.
      2.   Non-Conformance: Any non-conforming component of the sewer service
connection that requires replacement shall be brought into conformance with
this chapter at the time of replacement at the owner's expense.
      3.   Septic Tank Lids: Septic tank lids to the access chamber must be
accessible to allow for maintenance, repair and pumping. The term accessible
means the septic tank lid is visible to the naked eye. The owner is responsible
for any costs incurred by the City to locate and/or uncover septic tank risers
and lids. No one, other than City-designated personnel/contractor, shall be
allowed to open and access a septic tank. Tank lids shall be properly replaced
and sealed by the Sewer Department.
      4.   Sewer Service Connection:
(Ord. 163, 8-29-2019)
8-3-5: RESERVED:
(Ord. 163, 8-29-2019)
8-3-6: SEWER USER AGREEMENT:
   A.   Sewer Service Agreement Required: A sewer service user agreement must
be signed by any sewer user specifying the responsibilities and terms of
connection to the City collection and treatment system. When there is a change
in ownership or user, the new owner/occupant shall complete a current, signed
sewer service agreement.
   B.   Obligations: The agreement is merely a written request for service and
does not bind the City to serve. (Ord. 163, 8-29-2019)
8-3-7: SEWER SERVICE CONNECTION AUTHORIZATION:
   A.   Sewer Service Connection Authorization Required: It shall be unlawful
for any person to construct or connect to any public sanitary sewer component
within the service area of the City sewer system without having first received
approval by the City. No excavation in public rights-of-way or public easements
shall be started and no sewer lines shall be installed until authorized by the
City.
   B.   Residential Connection Required: A separate and independent building
sewer service connection shall be required for each residential building,
unless a joint sewer service connection is authorized by the City.
   C.   Joint Sewer Service Connections:
      1.   The City may allow for joint service lines when the shared
connection is between a single family dwelling and an accessory dwelling unit,
or accessory building as defined by the City of Dover and is located on the
same lot or parcel under single ownership. Should the parcel be divided in such
a way to separate the units, separate and independent building sewer service
connections for each unit shall be required.
      2.   For multifamily units, joint service connections for individual
units may be approved where the design and construction is acceptable to the
City.
      3.   Joint service connections for planned unit developments may be
approved where the design and construction is acceptable to the City.
   D.   Sewer Service Connection Design Criteria: The following standards shall
apply to all sewer service connections:
      1.   All components of the sewer service connection shall be installed to
a standard set by resolution of the City, or as approved by the City Engineer.
      2.   A designed system submitted to the City Engineer shall be made with
sufficient capacity to carry all sewage to the public sewer. Each toilet, sink,
stationary washstand, and every piece of equipment having fluid wastes shall be
connected. Connecting a sump pump to the sewer service is not allowed.
   E.   Sewer Service Applications: Requests for sewer service connections
shall be processed in accordance with this chapter and the following:
      1.   The owner shall apply to the City for a sewer service connection;
      2.   The owner shall submit plans showing the location of any sewer
service connection, physical location of the tank and associated components
relative to property lines and buildings and any other items as necessary to
determine compliance with this chapter;
      3.   The Administrator shall review the application and may approve or
deny the application based on City standards or request additional information
before making a final decision;
      4.   After approving the application, construction/installation may
proceed. In order to ensure compliance with City standards, the City will
inspect the installation and connection prior to covering the work with soil.
The City will issue approval once the installation meets City standards.
      5.   The right to connect to the system shall be granted only after
payment of all applicable fees and execution of a written agreement with the
City.
   F.   Application Amendments: Applicants shall provide written notice to the
City of any material change from the application. A material change is any
deviation from City standards or any modification of the equipment or
installation that would affect loading on the sewer system. The written notice
describing the change request shall be provided to the City seven (7) days in
advance and the application shall be amended if the change is deemed
appropriate by the Administrator.
   G.   Application Denial: The City may deny any application or amendment for
good cause. Good cause shall be in the City's sole discretion. The City may
consider unpaid fees, unresolved disputes, and the applicant's prior violations
of the City's Sewer and Municipal Water Ordinances/titles.
   H.   Sewer Inspection: The City reserves the right to inspect any related
construction and require the exposure of any section of sewer to check
compliance with applicable standards. The cost of such inspection services
shall be set by resolution by the City Council. Any excavation costs for the
purpose of sewer inspection shall be the responsibility of the owner/builder.
If the City performs the excavation or contracts the excavation, the cost to
the owner/builder shall be based upon the actual cost to the City.
   I.   Expiration Of Approval: Work authorized by the City must be commenced
within six (6) months from the date of authorization. The authorization and
approval may be deemed abandoned by the City if the work ceases for a period of
sixty (60) days. Before such work can be recommenced, new authorization shall
first be obtained. The City may charge inspection fees to offset additional
review and inspection costs.
   J.   Withholding Certificate Of Occupancy: Where it cannot be determined by
the Administrator that the installation has been completed to the satisfaction
of the City, the City or its officers, shall not issue a certificate of
occupancy until such time as the property has been brought into compliance with
this chapter.
   K.   Revocation: The City may revoke any approval that violates the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 163, 8-29-2019)
8-3-8: SEWER SYSTEM EXTENSIONS AND MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The City shall have the ultimate authority concerning the
design of the entire public sewer system including all equipment and materials
selection.
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with, use, alter or
disturb any public sewer without first obtaining authorization by the City. An
extension for any public sewer shall be required to follow the requirements as
set forth within this section. No permitted sewer facilities shall become
activated until after the City's Engineer or designated licensed agent of the
City has inspected the sewer for compliance with this chapter.
   B.   Extension Of Sewer Mains: The City may allow the extension of sewer
mains whenever, in its sole discretion, such extension is beneficial for the
health, welfare or safety of the residents of the City, provided nothing shall
require that such extension be made at the City's expense. The City shall
require any customer desiring sewer service to install, at the customer's
expense, a sewer main, lift station, force main and/or other infrastructure as
required, extending from existing sewer mains to the customer's property, along
the entire frontage of the customer's property, and any upsizing needed to
downstream pipes. The City shall only allow sewer main extensions where
adequate right-of-way, easement or publicly-owned property exists or will be
provided.
      1.   Subdivisions: Sewer main extensions and upgrades to serve newly
partitioned properties shall be provided at property owner/owners' expense and
obtain prior approval of the City Council.
   C.   Sewer Main Modification Requests: Requests for changes or alterations
to any sewer main that are owned or controlled by the City shall be processed
according to the following procedures.
      1.   The applicant shall file a written application with the City along
with any fees as set forth by resolution. At minimum the application shall
contain the following: a) name of organization and location; b) contact person;
c) description of the proposed activities; and d) construction quality drawings
drawn in conformance with the requirements of this chapter, stamped by an
engineer certified in the State of Idaho to do such work.
      2.   The Administrator shall examine the application for completeness. If
the application is determined to be incomplete or lacking information, the
Administrator will inform the applicant of additional items or information
necessary to complete the request.
      3.   Once an application has been accepted as complete it may be
forwarded to any State or Federal agency having authority over the work. Any
responses from such agencies may be incorporated and forwarded to the applicant
for review.
      4.   After agency review, the Administrator shall forward the
application, agency comments and other materials to the City Council for
consideration at a future City Council meeting.
      5.   The City Council may:
         a.   Accept the application as presented;
         b.   Accept the work with additional conditions;
         c.   Request additional information by the applicant; or
         d.   Deny the request.
      6.   The City may require the correction of errors in the plans or
specifications prior to, during or after construction. The City may prevent or
stop construction when the plans or the work being performed is in violation of
City, State or Federal laws.
   D.   Construction Agreement Required: Prior to the construction of any
improvements to the public sewer system, the applicant shall enter into a
construction agreement with the City. The construction agreement shall, at a
minimum, set for the timing and duration of the work, require lien releases,
and specify whether a surety bond and/or performance bond is required.
   E.   Acceptance Of Work: Prior to acceptance of any work extending sewer
main lines, the City shall receive confirmation that the installation and all
work required by the Council has been completed to the City's satisfaction.
   F.   As-Built Plans Required: The applicant shall submit final as-built
plans for any improvements to the sewer main line. As-built plans should, at a
minimum, contain vertical elevations and referenced horizontal locations of the
service line and plan sets showing physical location within City right-of-way.
(Ord. 163, 8-29-2019)
8-3-9: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
   A.   General Prohibition: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any materials, waters or wastes that in the opinion of the City or
other applicable regulatory agency will cause harm to the wastewater collection
system, sewer treatment plant, receiving stream (i.e., the Pend Oreille River),
or could otherwise endanger life, limb, property or constitute a nuisance.
In forming their opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the City will
give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in
relation to flows and velocities in sewers, materials of construction of the
sewers, nature of the sewer treatment process, capacity of sewer treatment
plant, and other pertinent factors.
   B.   List Of Prohibited Discharges: Prohibited discharges shall include, but
are not limited to:
      1.   Stormwater: No person shall discharge or allow to be discharged any
stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any
sanitary sewer.
      2.   FOGs: Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils,
whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100
mg/L) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) and one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F), and which will or may cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the sewer system. Any
users, whose process may produce FOG or who have a commercial kitchen shall
install a proper grease trap that shall be maintained by the owner.
      3.   Commercial Garbage: Any commercial garbage that has not been
properly shredded. The installation and operation of any commercial grinder
equipped with a motor of one horsepower or greater shall be subject to the
review and approval of the approving authority. A permit shall be obtained from
the State of Idaho plumbing inspector prior to the installation of such
commercial garbage grinder unit.
      4.   Phenols, Odor: Any waters or wastes containing phenols or odor-
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the approving authority as necessary after treatment of the
composite wastewater to meet the requirements of the State, Federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      5.   Septage: The contents of any tank or other vessel owned or used by
any person in the business of collecting or pumping sewage, effluent, septic
tank waste, or other wastewater.
      6.   Petrochemicals: Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, paints,
stains or any other flammable, volatile or explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      7.   Toxic Or Poisonous Substances: Any waters or wastes containing toxic
or poisonous solids, liquids, organic chemicals, or gases in sufficient
quantity (either singly or by interaction with other wastes) to damage or
interfere with any sewage disposal process, constitute any hazard to humans or
animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in the receiving waters
of the sewage treatment plant.
      8.   pH: Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.0 or greater than
10.0 or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard
to structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      9.   Solid And High Viscosity Substances: Solid and/or viscous substances
in quantities or of such size capable of causing sewer obstruction or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewer such as, but not limited to
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, un-ground garbage, hair and fleshings, entrails, animal wastes,
paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage
grinders.
      10.   Other: Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual biochemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewer treatment
plant.
         b.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined in section
8-3-2 of this chapter.
         c.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids or of dissolved
solids.
         d.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
         e.   Wastes containing substances which are not amenable to treatment
or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are amenable to
treatment only to such degree that the sewer treatment plant effluent cannot
meet the requirements of Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and/or Idaho
Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ).
   C.   Dilution Of Discharge Not Allowed: No user shall ever increase the use
of process water, or in any way attempt to dilute a discharge, as a partial or
complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with an
applicable pretreatment standard or requirement unless expressly authorized by
an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The City may impose mass
limitations on users which the City believes may be using dilution to meet
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when the
imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
   D.   Remedies For Prohibited Discharges: If any waters or wastes are
discharged to the public sewers, containing substances that are prohibited in
this section, the City may:
      1.   Reject the wastes or otherwise prohibit such discharge into the
system;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
wastes not covered by existing taxes or wastewater charges. If the City permits
the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of
the plants and equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the
City and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and
laws; and/or
      5.   Seek enforcement and legal remedies contained in this chapter for
violations of the limitations and provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Pretreatment: Where required, in the opinion of the City, to modify or
eliminate wastes that are harmful to the structures, processes or operation of
the wastewater collection or treatment plant the owner of the facility shall
provide at his/her expense such preliminary treatment or processing facilities
as may be determined by the City is required to render the facility's wastes
acceptable for admission to public sewers. (Ord. 163, 8-29-2019)
8-3-10: SEWER CONNECTION FEE:
   A.   Calculation Of Connection Fee: The owner or agent of any property
connected to sewer system shall pay a connection fee as an equitable buy-in to
the system. Sewer connection fees shall be assessed for new construction, or
when a change in use by a user results in additional wastewater being
generated, or when historical use warrants an assessment. The sewer connection
fee shall be equal to the number of equivalent residential units (ERUs)
attributable to the user multiplied by the single-family residence sewer
connection fee. The sewer connection fee will be set by resolution of the City
Council.
The basis for the connection fee for those persons or entities connecting to
the sewer system is to charge the value of the system capacity that the user
will absorb at that point in time. The value of the system is determined by
first calculating the gross replacement value of the system using an
engineering cost index to determine present day replacement cost of the system
components. Unfunded depreciation and outstanding loan or bond principal are
then subtracted from the gross replacement value to determine the net
replacement value of the system. The final connection fee is then determined by
dividing the net system replacement value by the number of users the system can
support, as measured in ERUs.
   B.   ERU Assessment: The number of ERUs for a sewer user shall be set by
resolution of the City Council.
   C.   Excessive Discharge: Any user that discharges industrial wastes or
produces a flow, biochemical oxygen demand, or suspended solids loading in
excess of five percent (5%) of the average dry weather sewage flow measured at
the main interceptor shall have its ERU allocation calculated by the City. No
quantity discounts shall be allowed and the City may assess a surcharge on
waste flows with biochemical oxygen demand or suspended solids concentration
above two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/L).
   D.   ERU Adjustment: The City reserves the right to adjust the number of
ERUs assigned to a user (both with respect to collection of additional
connection fees and with respect to the assessment of monthly charges) in the
case of a change in use by a particular user. Examples of changes in use
include but are not limited to, alteration to an existing structure, or
increases in flow, biochemical oxygen demand, and/or suspended solids. The
notice of adjustment shall be provided in writing to the user and/or owner.
(Ord. 163, 8-29-2019)
8-3-11: RATES, BILLINGS AND PAYMENTS:
   A.   Utility Rates And Fees: Sewer rates and fees will be set by resolution
of the City Council.
   B.   Billing: Bills for sewer service shall be rendered at the end of each
billing period and are payable upon the due date noted on the bill. When a
connection fee is paid, a monthly inactive fee will be charged. Once the City
has inspected and approved a sewer connection to the City's main sewer line,
the full monthly sewer service fee will be charged.
   C.   Payments; Responsible Party: The property owner shall be the
responsible party for all sewer costs including the monthly bills. At the
owner's written request, monthly bills may be sent to an agent or tenant.
Failure to pay a bill by the billing due date indicated on the bill shall
render the account delinquent. Should a check for payment be returned for
insufficient funds, the payer shall be charged a return check fee, to be set by
resolution of the City, and the account will be deemed delinquent if the bill
is not paid by the billing due date.
   D.   Disputed Bills: Any user who believes the charges imposed by the City
may be in error may appeal to the City Council. The appeal, in written form,
shall be made to the City Clerk within thirty (30) days from the date the
charges were billed to the owner. The appeal shall be placed on an upcoming
agenda for City Council's decision. Council's final, written decision will be
sent to the owner. (Ord. 163, 8-29-2019)
8-3-12: DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS:
   A.   Delinquent Notice: A sewer service bill not paid by the due date is
considered delinquent. A reminder of account delinquency may be sent, at the
discretion of the City.
   B.   Delinquency Penalties: Delinquent accounts shall be assessed a monthly
late fee, in an amount to be set by resolution of the City Council. In
addition, the past due amount, including late fees, shall bear interest at a
rate to be set by resolution of the City Council.
   C.   Disconnection For Failure To Pay: After six (6) months of nonpayment of
the sewer bill, the premises will be subject to disconnection from the sewer
collection system. Disconnection shall be completed by one of the following:
      1.   Shutting off water to the building;
      2.   Shutting off the septic tank pump;
      3.   Shutting off the sewer valve.
However, disconnection will not be made before thirty (30) days after mailing a
written notice by certified mail to the owner. If the premises are
disconnected, a new sewer connection fee shall be purchased prior to
reconnecting to the system.
   D.   Certification To County: The City may enforce the payment of sewer
rates and penalties by placing a lien on the parcel served. The City shall
inform the user via mail that within thirty (30) days the unpaid amounts shall
be certified by the Dover City Clerk or City Treasurer to the Bonner County Tax
Assessor of Idaho and shall be assessed as a tax lien against the property. As
provided by law, the tax lien shall be collected and paid over to the City in
the same manner as other taxes are assessed, collected and paid to the City,
including any fees or costs associated with the delinquency.
   E.   Remedy: To avoid disconnection from sewer service, the customer must
pay all amounts due or request a payment extension or satisfactory installment
plan to allow additional time to bring the account up to date. If the extension
or installment plan is not granted, the customer may appeal to the City
Council. The appeal, in written form, shall be made to the City Clerk. The
appeal shall be placed on an upcoming agenda for City Council's decision.
Council's final, written decision will be sent to the owner.
For inactive sewer accounts that become past due, before a building permit is
issued, the delinquent amount including all delinquency penalties as outlined
in section
8-3-13 of this chapter shall be paid in full. (Ord. 163, 8-29-2019)
8-3-13: SUSPENSION OF THE RULES, VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Suspension Of Rules: No employee of the Sewer Department is authorized
to suspend or alter any of the policies, rules or regulations cited herein
without specific written approval or written direction of the City Council,
except in cases of emergency involving loss of life or property or which would
place the sewer system in jeopardy.
   B.   Violators Liable For Damages: Any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall become liable to the City for any expense,
loss or damage occasioned by the City, including cleanup costs, by reason of
such violation. The City may take any and all action at law or equity to
enforce the provisions of this chapter, including injunctive relief, abatement
and removal of any conditions prohibited by this chapter.
   C.   Infraction; Misdemeanor: Any person or entity violating any provision
of this chapter shall be subject to the immediate termination of water and/or
sewer service to the property and an infraction fee of three hundred dollars
($300.00) will be imposed. If the violation includes fraud and/or malicious
abuse, a misdemeanor charge may be filed by the City.
   D.   Other: If service is discontinued for unsafe facilities, fraud, abuse
or non-compliance with any of the policies, rules and regulations herein,
service will only be resumed after the irregularity has been corrected and the
City has been assured that the irregularity will not reoccur. The charges for
restoring sewer service after discontinuance for unsafe facilities, fraud,
abuse or non-compliance with any of the policies, rules and regulations shall
be set by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 163, 8-29-2019)
TITLE 9
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-0: Authority And Purpose
9-1-1: Codes Adopted
9-1-2: Amendments To Adopted Codes
9-1-3: Exemptions
9-1-4: Building Official
9-1-5: Manufactured Home Installation Permits
9-1-6: Commercial Coach Installation Permits
9-1-7: Site Plan Requirements And Permit Conditions
9-1-8: Certificate Of Occupancy
9-1-9: Fees
9-1-10: Energizing Authorization
9-1-11: Sewage Disposal Approval
9-1-12: Penalty
9-1-13: Expiration, Abandonment, Terms Of Permit
9-1-0: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to authority granted to the City of Dover at
Idaho Code title 39, chapter 41, the "Idaho Building Code Act". The purpose of
this chapter is to promote the health, safety, and welfare of the occupants and
users of buildings and structures within the City of Dover by adopting Building
Codes that set minimum performance standards and requirements for construction
and construction materials, consistent with accepted standards of engineering,
fire safety, life safety, and accessibility for those with disabilities.
Additionally, the regulations establish minimum codes and standards in terms of
performance, energy efficiency, effect upon construction costs, and consistency
with nationally accepted standards. (Ord. 154, 12-14-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
9-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
The following nationally recognized codes, as currently adopted by the State of
Idaho, together with any amendments, revisions or modifications to those
editions made by the Idaho Building Code Board and/or Idaho State Fire Marshal,
through the negotiated rulemaking process, along with the later published
supplement of such code published by the International Code Council, Inc., are
adopted as the official Building, Residential, Energy and Fire Codes for the
City, except as provided in section
9-1-2 of this chapter:
   A.   2015 edition of the International Building Code, including appendices
thereto pertaining to building accessibility, excluding the incorporated
Electrical Codes, Mechanical Code, Fuel Gas Code, Plumbing Codes other than
specifically referenced subjects or sections of the International Fire Code,
and including the incorporated Idaho Residential Code, parts I, II, III, IV and
IX; Idaho Energy Conservation Code; and rules promulgated by the board to
provide equivalency with the provisions of the Americans With Disabilities Act
accessibility guidelines and the Fair Housing Act accessibility guidelines;
   B.   2012 International Residential Code, except for parts V, VI, VII, and
VIII, as they pertain to mechanical, fuel gas, plumbing, and electrical
requirements;
   C.   2015 International Energy Conservation Code, with 2012 amendments for
residential portion;
   D.   2015 International Fire Code, including appendices B, C, D, E and F.
(Ord. 154, 12-14-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
9-1-2: AMENDMENTS TO ADOPTED CODES:
The following additional amendments and criteria shall be applicable to the
International Residential Code:
   A.   R301.2.3 Snow Loads. Wood framed construction, cold-formed steel framed
construction and masonry and concrete construction, and structural insulated
panel construction in regions with ground snow loads of 70 pounds per square
foot (3.35kPa) or less, shall be in accordance with chapter 5, 6 and 8.
Buildings in regions with ground snow loads greater than 70 pounds per square
foot (3.35kPa) shall be designed in accordance with accepted engineering
practice.
   B.   The following design criteria shall be applied to table R301.2(1):
Ground snow load (Design snow load 56 psf
shall not be less than 55 psf in   Design snow load shall not be less than
accordance with ASCE 7)            55 psf.
Wind design (speed)                90
Wind design (topographic effects)  No
Seismic design category            C
Weathering                         Severe
Frost line depth                   24 inches below finished grade
Termite                            None to slight
Winter design temp                 -10 degrees Fahrenheit
Ice underlayment required          Yes
Flood hazards                      August 10, 2006
Air freeze index                   >1000-2000
Mean annual temp                   45 degrees Fahrenheit
 
   C.   R105.2 Work Exempt From Permit. Permits shall not be required for the
following. Exemption from permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed
to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of
the provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of the
jurisdiction.
Building:
      1.   One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage
sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided the floor area does not exceed 200
square feet (18.58 m2).
(Ord. 130, 4-24-2014)
      2.   Fences not over 6 7 feet (1829 mm) (2134 mm) in height.
(Ord. 154, 12-14-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
      3.   Retaining walls that are not over 4 feet (1219 mm) in height
measured from the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless
supporting a surcharge.
      4.   Water tanks supported directly upon grade if the capacity does not
exceed 5,000 gallons (18 927 l) and the ratio of height to diameter or width
does not exceed two to one.
      5.   Sidewalks and driveways.
      6.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops and
similar finish work.
      7.   Prefabricated swimming pools that are less than 24 inches (24") (610
mm) deep.
      8.   Swings and other playground equipment.
      9.   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall which do not project
more than 54 inches (1372 mm) from the exterior wall and do not require
additional support.
      10.   Decks not exceeding 200 square feet (18.58 m2) in area, that are
not more than 30 inches (762 mm) above adjacent grade at any point, are not
attached to a dwelling and do not serve the exit door required by section
R311.4.
      11.   Repairs to, and replacement of, existing roofing on single family
residences and storage sheds.
(Ord. 130, 4-24-2014; Ord. 167, 2-13-2020)
9-1-3: EXEMPTIONS:
Agricultural buildings are exempt from the Building Codes adopted herein, but
shall remain subject to placement requirements established by zoning
regulations. Agricultural buildings are defined as structures designed,
constructed, and used to house farm implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock
or other horticultural products. These structures shall not be places of human
habitation or places of employment where agricultural products are processed,
treated or packaged, nor shall it be a place used by the public. (Ord. 154, 12-
14-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
9-1-4: BUILDING OFFICIAL:
The Mayor is authorized to designate a building official for the City. (Ord.
130, 4-24-2014)
9-1-5: MANUFACTURED HOME INSTALLATION PERMITS:
Placement of manufactured homes shall require an installation permit. No
manufactured home shall be placed that has not been constructed to withstand a
minimum fifty five (55) pound per square foot (psf) roof live load, or the
owner has provided for a separate roof cover that is constructed to provide the
required roof live load. The permit applicant shall supply to the building
official the same site information required from an applicant seeking a
building permit for a single-family dwelling and pay a permit fee. (Ord. 130,
4-24-2014)
9-1-6: COMMERCIAL COACH INSTALLATION PERMITS:
Placement of a commercial coach shall require an installation permit. No
commercial coach shall be placed that has not been affixed an Idaho inspection
insignia stating approval for installation in the State. Commercial coaches
shall be constructed for local design criteria for which the installation is
proposed. The permit applicant shall supply to the building official the same
site information required from an applicant seeking a building permit for a
commercial structure and pay a permit fee. (Ord. 130, 4-24-2014)
9-1-7: SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS AND PERMIT CONDITIONS:
   A.   For activities where a site plan review is required by the adopted
Building Code or City ordinance, no building permit shall be issued, nor
construction commenced, unless the City has approved the proposed site plan,
and the required on and off-site improvements have been incorporated as
conditions of the building permit.
   B.   The landowner is responsible for identifying property lines and
complying with City setback, height, and other standards as they relate to
construction and building placement.
   C.   The landowner shall comply with the "one number notification service"
(call before you dig) regulations of Idaho Code title 55, chapter 22. A permit
shall not be valid for excavation until the requirements of the "one number
notification" provisions are met. The City has the right under State Code to
suspend the building permit if the permit holder violates any provisions of
Idaho Code title 55, chapter 22. (Ord. 154, 12-14-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
9-1-8: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Required: No building shall be used or occupied, and no change in the
existing occupancy classification of a building or structure or portion thereof
shall be made until the building official has issued a certificate of
occupancy. Issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall not be construed as an
approval of a violation of the provisions of this title or of other ordinances
of the City. (Ord. 154, 12-14-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
   B.   Site Improvements: Where on or off site improvements are required as a
condition of the site plan approval for the subject permit, no certificate of
occupancy shall be issued until the City has inspected and provided written
approval of all required site improvements, and certified that said
improvements have been constructed in conformance with the approved plans.
(Ord. 130, 4-24-2014)
   C.   Temporary Certificate: No temporary certificate of occupancy or
temporary certificate of completion shall be issued without the authorization
of the City. For minor outstanding required site improvements, such as
landscaping, which cannot be completed due to weather or other conditions
beyond the developer's control, upon recommendation of the building official
and the City, the City may authorize a temporary certificate of occupancy with
conditions as may be deemed necessary and appropriate by the City to ensure the
completion of outstanding improvements. The temporary certificate of occupancy
shall include an expiration date, which shall not exceed one hundred eighty
(180) days. (Ord. 154, 12-14-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
9-1-9: FEES:
All fees relating to the adopted codes of this title, and any other provisions
of this chapter, shall be set by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 130, 4-
24-2014)
9-1-10: ENERGIZING AUTHORIZATION:
No person shall energize or cause to energize a new or upgraded existing
electric service or set an electric meter for any structure or install
construction power to assist in the construction of a structure until an
energizing permit has been issued by the building official. (Ord. 130, 4-24-
2014)
9-1-11: SEWAGE DISPOSAL APPROVAL:
No building or installation permit shall be issued for the construction or
placement of any structure designed for human habitation or requiring sewage
disposal unless a copy of written authorization to connect to the system of the
City, a sewer district, or septic approval from a health district in which the
property is located has been submitted to the building official. (Ord. 130, 4-
24-2014)
9-1-12: PENALTY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to do, or cause or permit to be
done, whether acting as principal, agent, or employee, any construction,
improvement, enlargement, alteration, repair, placement, demolition, or change
of the occupancy of a building or structure, unless otherwise expressly exempt,
without first procuring a permit from the City.
   B.   Violations of any provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a
misdemeanor, subject to penalties of not more than three hundred dollars
($300.00) or imprisonment for not more than ninety (90) days, or by both fine
and imprisonment, as specified in Idaho Code section 39-4126.
   C.   Violations of this title are subject to investigative fees, as set by
resolution of the City Council.
   D.   Whenever the building official finds any work regulated by this title
is being performed in a manner contrary to code, the building official is
authorized to issue a stop work order. Upon notice from the building official
that work on any building or structure is being conducted contrary to the
provisions of this title or in an unsafe and dangerous manner, such work shall
be immediately stopped. The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be
posted on the site where the work is being performed or shall be given to the
property owner, or to the owner's agent, or to the person doing the work. The
order shall state the conditions under which work will be permitted to resume.
Any person who continues any work in or about the structure after the stop work
order has been issued, unless that person is authorized by the City to remove a
violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to the penalties as prescribed
by this title.
   E.   The City or its agents have the right to enter the property that is the
subject of a building permit application, upon the receipt of a signed
application. (Ord. 154, 12-14-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
9-1-13: EXPIRATION, ABANDONMENT, TERMS OF PERMIT:
   A.   Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work authorized by
such permit is commenced within one hundred eighty (180) days after its
issuance.
   B.   A permit shall become invalid if work authorized by the permit is
suspended or abandoned for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days after the
time the work is commenced. The City may declare the permit abandoned if no
inspections have been requested or made for a period of one hundred eighty
(180) days or longer, unless an extension has been approved. Prior to declaring
the permit abandoned, the City shall notify the applicant by certified mail of
the pending abandonment and allow fourteen (14) working days for the applicant
to provide proof, to the City's satisfaction, that work has not been abandoned.
   C.   The building official is authorized to grant in writing up to two (2)
extensions of time, for periods of not more than one hundred eighty (180) days
each, provided a written request for an extension is submitted by the applicant
or representative prior to the expiration date and justifiable cause is
demonstrated.
   D.   The granting of a permit shall not relieve the applicant of the
requirements to meet any other codes or ordinances of the City, State, Federal
government, or other jurisdictions. The permit shall not be construed to
authorize the violation of any provisions of this Code. (Ord. 154, 12-14-2017,
eff. 1-1-2018)
CHAPTER 2
CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION
SECTION:
9-2-1: Registration Number Required; Exemption
9-2-1: REGISTRATION NUMBER REQUIRED; EXEMPTION:
No building permit will be issued without the contractor's presentation of an
Idaho contractor's registration number, except when the permit applicant
provides evidence to the satisfaction of the city that the applicant is exempt
from the registration requirements pursuant to Idaho Code title 54, chapter 52.
Landowners and general contractors are responsible for confirming all project
subcontractors have complied with state registration requirements. (Ord. 88, 5-
11-2006)
CHAPTER 3
ADDRESSING
SECTION:
9-3-1: Purpose
9-3-2: Requirements And Exceptions
9-3-3: Penalty
9-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide city residents, businesses, visitors
and emergency responders with a uniform and standardized system of addressing
to avoid future addressing conflicts and to expedite the location of properties
for both emergency and nonemergency needs. (2017 Code)
9-3-2: REQUIREMENTS AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Requirements:
      1.   Applicability: The owner of any building within the city is subject
to the addressing and number standards of this chapter.
      2.   Address Established: The owner of each building within the city
shall contact Bonner County's address administrator to establish the official
address. No building address shall be displayed until the address administrator
grants approval for the number.
      3.   Identification: Property owners are responsible for placing and
maintaining numeric identification in accord with this chapter. Address numbers
shall be clearly visible from the street and shall meet applicable
international fire, residential and building codes, as determined by the
building official. (2017 Code)
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   Outbuildings will not be required to be numbered separately from the
main building of the lot(s).
      2.   Vacant lots will not be required to be numbered but are considered
in the overall numbering pattern. (Ord. 76, 4-14-2005)
9-3-3: PENALTY:
Penalty for each violation of this chapter shall be a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each occurrence. (Ord. 76, 4-14-2005)
CHAPTER 4
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Purpose
9-4-2: Scope
9-4-3: Authority
9-4-4: Definitions
9-4-5: General Provisions
9-4-6: Applicability
9-4-7: Administration
9-4-8: Performance Standards
9-4-9: Applications
9-4-10: Review Procedures
9-4-11: Guarantee Of Installation
9-4-12: Inspections And Continued Maintenance
9-4-13: Variances
9-4-14: Appeals
9-4-15: Compliance, Violations And Penalties
9-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide standards for development to
safeguard properties, water quality, and the environment from the adverse
effects of unchecked stormwater run-off, erosion, and sedimentation by setting
forth performance standards and requiring the use of Best Management Practices
(BMPs) to guide and design development and to properly channel, disperse, and
filter stormwater. (Ord. 170, 11-12-2020)
9-4-2: SCOPE:
All land-disturbing activities, modification, alterations, grading, excavation,
or construction within the incorporated city limits of Dover are subject to the
standards of this chapter, as set forth in the applicability section of this
chapter, unless otherwise specifically exempt, pursuant to this chapter. (Ord.
170, 11-12-2020)
9-4-3: AUTHORITY:
The provisions of this chapter are authorized at Idaho Code title 50, chapters
3 and 9, and title 67, sections 6511 and 6518. (Ord. 170, 11-12-2020)
9-4-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have these specific
meanings:
ADMINISTRATOR:  The Planning and Zoning Administrator.
AS-BUILT        Design plans that reflect the actual installation and placement of all features
DRAWINGS:       of the plan and all changes to the plans that occurred during construction.
BEST MANAGEMENT Generally recognized stormwater techniques and methods that have been determined
PRACTICES       by scientific study and use to prevent or minimize water pollution caused by
(BMPs):         development or construction.
CITY ENGINEER:  An engineer appointed by the Mayor and City Council to represent the City of
                Dover.
                The destruction and/or removal of vegetation by manual, mechanical or chemical
                means, except that for the purposes of this chapter, the term shall not include
CLEARING:       agricultural and silvicultural practices, gardening, landscaping, snow removal,
                and other incidental practices not associated with vegetative removal as a
                precursor to actual construction to which this chapter is applicable.
                A mechanism for transporting stormwater from one point to another including
CONVEYANCE:     pipes, ditches and channels, but not including agricultural ditches for
                irrigation.
CULVERT:        A culvert is a structure that allows water to flow under a road, railroad, trail,
                or similar obstruction from one side to the other.
DESIGN          Professionals licensed or authorized by the State of Idaho for engineering,
PROFESSIONAL:   landscape architecture, or stormwater management with the corresponding education
                and experience in stormwater design and management.
                A rainfall event of specific return frequency and duration that is used to
                calculate stormwater runoff volume and peak discharge rates. For the purposes of
                this chapter, the design storm is the peak runoff from a twenty-five (25)-year
DESIGN STORM:   storm event on the Intensity-Duration-Frequency Curve prepared by the Idaho
                Transportation Department for Zone C shall be used. Subdivisions may require
                higher return frequency than a twenty-five (25)-year event, as determined by the
                city engineer.
DETENTION:      The temporary storage of stormwaters to provide for settling of suspended solids,
                infiltration, velocity reduction, or combination of these.
                Any manmade change to the land, including, but not limited to, building
DEVELOPMENT:    construction, fill, grading, stockpiling of soil or overburden, road
                construction, or other physical extensions, construction, or alteration of the
                land.
EPA:            Environmental Protection Agency
                Any temporary or permanent measure taken to reduce erosion, control siltation and
                sedimentation or to ensure that sediment-bearing waters do not leave a
                construction site.
                A.   Temporary erosion control are mitigation measures and BMP's used prior to
EROSION         earth-disturbing activities, during construction activities, and until site
CONTROL:        stabilization has been achieved.
                B.   Permanent erosion control may be considered stable when a site has
                established seventy-five percent (75%) of native or constructed vegetation has
                been established (growth) and permanent manufactured soil stability mitigation is
                in place.
GIA:            Grassed Infiltration Area. A gently sloped, vegetated area specifically designed
                to hold and allow infiltration of stormwater runoff for a defined volume.
GROUND WATER:   Waters in a subterranean saturated zone or stratum.
IDEQ BMP:       Current Edition of the State of Idaho Department of Environmental Quality, Idaho
                Catalog of Storm Water Best Management Practices.
                A hard surface area that either prevents or retards the entry of water into the
                soil mantle as under natural conditions prior to construction, or a hard surface
                area that causes water to run off the surface in greater quantities or at an
IMPERVIOUS      increased rate of flow compared to conditions prior to construction. Common
SURFACE:        impervious surfaces, include, but are not limited to roof tops, walkways, patios,
                driveways, parking lots, concrete or asphalt paving, gravel roads, packed earthen
                materials, and oiled, macadam or other surfaces that impede the natural
                infiltration of stormwater. Open, uncovered retention or detention facilities are
                not considered to be impervious surfaces for the purposes of this chapter.
INFILTRATION:   The downward movement of water from the surface to the subsoil.
LAND DISTURBING Any activity that results in a change in the existing soil cover, and includes
ACTIVITY:       clearing, grading, filling, and excavation, except as otherwise provided in this
                chapter.
NATIONAL        A digital mapping system maintained by the U.S. Geological Service to portray
HYDROGRAPHY     surface water features, such as rivers, streams, canals, lakes, and ponds.
DATASET (NHD):
                The holding of stormwater runoff within a contained area in such manner that the
RETENTION:      stormwater can disperse by means of evaporation, infiltration, or controlled
                emergency overflow or bypass structures.
                The building up of the natural land surface to create a travel way open for
ROAD            vehicular passage. Road construction shall include such activities as initial
CONSTRUCTION:   clearing, alteration of topography, installation of culverts, filling of low
                areas, placement of geofabrics, deposition of subbase or base material, topping,
                grading, and surfacing, and drainage of ground water.
                Any modification of the cross-section, subgrade or alignment of a road or travel
ROAD            way within a right-of-way or easement. Routine grading, snow removal, chip seal,
RECONSTRUCTION: applied dust coating, re-surfacing or repaving of a road shall not be considered
                reconstruction.
                Fragmented material that originates from weathering and erosion of rocks or
SEDIMENT:       unconsolidated deposits, and is transported by, suspended in, or deposited by
                water.
                The land area subject to a land disturbing activity associated with any
SITE:           construction to which this chapter is applicable. The site shall be deemed to
                include actual areas of land disturbance and areas designated for stockpiling or
                storage of excavated earthen materials.
                That portion of precipitation that does not naturally percolate into the ground
STORMWATER:     or evaporate, but instead runs over the surface of the land, and eventually
                evaporates or travels to defined watercourses or constructed conveyance,
                detention or retention facilities.
STORMWATER      A document composed of drawings, maps, calculations, etc., which is used to
MANAGEMENT      design a stormwater management system and to ensure the functioning of the
PLAN:           system.
STORMWATER      A system of collection, detention, retention or infiltration areas and/or
MANAGEMENT      treatment devices designed to prevent untreated stormwater from entering a
SYSTEM:         natural body of surface water.
STORMWATER      A document consisting of drawings of a site with diagrams, explanatory text,
POLLUTION       maps, etc., which are developed for erosion control pursuant to the Environmental
PREVENTION PLAN Protection Agency (EPA) regulations.
(SWPPP):
STREAM:         A natural watercourse of perceptible extent, with definite bed and banks, which
                confines and conducts continuously flowing water.
SURFACE WATER:  All waters that collect, flow or accumulate on or above the ground surface.
                A shallow depression in the ground surface with relatively gentle side slopes,
SWALE:          which is designed or used to retain stormwater for sufficient time to allow
                stormwater to percolate into the soil or to flow slowly through vegetation that
                provides natural filtration of sediment.
                A constructed or manufactured area or mechanism designed to remove contaminants
TREATMENT       from stormwater. Treatment devices may include but are not limited to: detention
DEVICE:         ponds, oil/water separators, biofiltration swales, and natural or constructed
                wetlands.
UNDEVELOPED OR  The soils and vegetation in place prior to the start of any land disturbing
UNDISTURBED     activity.
STATE:
                A natural channel carrying waters on a regular or intermittent or infrequent
WATERCOURSE:    basis. Any body of water, including, but not limited to lakes, ponds, rivers,
                streams, tributaries, drainage channels, or paths and bodies of water.
                All the accumulations of water, surface and ground water, natural and artificial,
WATERS:         public and private, or parts thereof, which are wholly or partially within, or
                flow through a border of Dover City limits. (Ord. 170, 11-12-2020)
 
9-4-5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: For all activities to which this chapter is
applicable, no person, group, association, entity or body corporate shall
conduct or cause to be conducted any activity or initiate construction on any
structure including excavation, site preparation or leveling without first
complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Damage, Failure: No person shall damage or impair a stormwater/erosion
control feature or fail to install, complete or maintain any portion of a
stormwater management system. No alterations to existing stormwater systems
shall occur without prior written approval from the City of Dover.
   C.   Failure To Maintain Deemed Violation: The failure to maintain any
component of a stormwater management system or sedimentation/erosion control
feature in accordance with an approved plan shall be deemed a violation of the
provisions of this chapter and subject to enforcement and penalties as provided
in Section
9-4-15 of this code. (Ord. 170, 11-12-2020)
9-4-6: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Applicability: The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to:
      1.   All new subdivisions and new phases of existing subdivisions.
      2.   All development, construction, reconstruction, additions, or
modifications, except as provided elsewhere in this chapter.
      3.   Public road construction undertaken by any political subdivision of
the State of Idaho or public agency over which the City of Dover asserts
jurisdiction.
      4.   Grading, paving, excavation, fill, stockpiling of soils or
overburden, or similar land-disturbing or earthwork activities, except as
provided elsewhere in this chapter.
      5.   Any modifications to existing stormwater/erosion control systems.
      6.   Construction which occurs within three hundred feet (300') of any
lake, slough, pond, river, stream or intermittent stream shown on the National
Hydrography Dataset (NHD), as published by the United States Geological Survey,
or by actual survey;
      7.   Construction or development which occurs on or within three hundred
feet (300') of land with a slope of eight percent (8%) or greater incline as
determined from the applicable seven and one-half (7.5) minute quadrangle map
published by the United States Geological Survey or by actual survey;
      8.   Construction or development which occurs adjacent to a new or
existing road with a slope of eight percent (8%) or greater;
      9.   Land disturbing activities that are a part of, accessory to, or
preparatory to any of the activities listed in subsections 1 through 8 of this
section.
   B.   Exceptions: The provisions of this chapter shall not be applicable to:
      1.   Stream channel alterations that proceed under the terms of a permit
issued by the Idaho Department of Water Resources pursuant to title 42, chapter
38, Idaho Code. Upland disturbances not covered by the state permit are subject
to this chapter.
      2.   Agricultural activities such as plowing, mowing, harvesting, or
other activities that allow the landowner full and complete use of agricultural
land for production of any agricultural product.
      3.   Traditional residential uses such as landscaping, gardening, snow
removal, tree planting, routine driveway or road maintenance, and driveway or
road maintenance on private property that does not drain to waters of the
United States, its tributaries, adjacent parcels or the public right-of way.
Any item listed in this exception that may violate the Clean Water Act or
require an EPA NPDES permit are not exempt. Other residential uses in this
section may require a permit and IDEQ BMP mitigation.
      4.   Any logging activity that proceeds in accord with the Idaho Forest
Practices Act and does not violate the Clean Water Act or require an EPA
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit.
   C.   Administrative Exceptions: The city engineer, or the administrator in
consultation with the city engineer, may grant administrative exceptions or
variations to the requirements of this chapter for the following:
      1.   Minor variations to the standards set forth herein to accommodate
unique topographical, vegetative, geological, or hydrological conditions.
      2.   Exceptions for minor additions, remodeling, or restoration of an
existing structure.
      3.   Joint stormwater management. Exceptions for joint management of
stormwater adjoining property owners may be allowed if a joint management
agreement approved by the city engineer is presented as a part of the
stormwater management plan. The approved joint stormwater management agreement
shall be recorded with Bonner County.
      4.   Minor subdivisions, as defined by title 11 of this Code, that will
not result in the creation of new roads, pathways, sidewalks or similar
infrastructure impervious surfaces. (Ord. 170, 11-12-2020)
9-4-7: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Filing of Application: Applications as required by this chapter shall
be filed with the city. The application shall be accompanied by the applicable
fees as established by resolution of the Dover City Council. No application
shall be processed or reviewed until the required fee is paid.
   B.   Administrator Designated: The city Zoning Administrator or other
individual designated by the Mayor or City Council shall administer the
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Duties of The Administrator: In addition to the specific duties as may
be set forth in other sections, the administrator or designee shall:
      1.   Review submitted plans for completeness.
      2.   Forward applications to city engineer, when applicable.
      3.   Provide applicant with written decisions for all applications.
      4.   Assist the city clerk in maintaining a record of all applications,
records, proceedings, final decisions, plans, administrative exceptions,
variances, appeals, and other documents required by this chapter.
      5.   Assist landowners with the application process. (Ord. 170, 11-12-
2020)
9-4-8: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   All development shall meet the following performance standards:
      1.   Stormwater runoff shall not be accelerated or concentrated beyond
pre-development levels beyond the exterior property lines or project
boundaries. There shall be no increase in the peak rate of runoff from the site
when compared to the undeveloped state, based on a 25-year design storm event,
as defined. Undeveloped shall mean the natural soils and vegetation in place
prior to the start of any clearing, excavation, or construction.
      2.   No stormwater shall be collected or concentrated except within a
channel or other stormwater feature protected against erosion and containing
energy dissipation measures to prevent further erosion on adjoining lands. Any
existing, unprotected channels shall be protected against further erosion.
      3.   Natural topography and existing vegetation shall be incorporated
into the stormwater/erosion control plan, where possible, to accommodate
additional stormwater flows.
      4.   DEQ BMP's or other BMPs determined acceptable by the city engineer
shall be implemented to filter pollutants and control erosion and
sedimentation.
      5.   All existing stormwater/erosion control features shall be preserved
and protected to ensure they continue to function.
      6.   All exposed soils or any soil or overburden stockpiles shall be
protected to prevent sedimentation, sediment transport ,and mass movement.
      7.   Off-site transport of soils and sediment from construction sites
shall not exceed pre-development levels through the stabilization of access
points, entrances and installation of proper BMPs on the site. Pre-development
turbidity measurements and turbidity monitoring may be required by the city,
Idaho Department of Environmental Quality, or by other agency mitigation
requirements.
      8.   Construction sites shall be managed to prevent the discharge of
pollutants, such as petroleum products, paints, solvents, construction
washings, and other materials.
      9.   Surface water shall not be diverted to adjoining properties nor
shall berms, grading, or fill be placed to cause run-off to be diverted to
adjoining properties. The city has no express duty to resolve disputes between
neighbors over drainage issues.
      10.   Natural and historic water courses traversing onto a property or
leaving a property may not be changed without city approval. For proposed
changes, a drainage study prepared by an Idaho Licensed Professional Engineer
or other Idaho licensed design professional may be required by the city.
Changes to a natural watercourse route, wetlands, flow volumes, rates, etc. may
require stormwater easements from the applicant/property owner and all other
impacted property owners. The applicant is responsible for obtaining said
easements.
      11.   Section 404 of the Clean Water Act (CWA) establishes a program to
regulate the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the United
States, including wetlands. Activities in waters of the United States regulated
under this program include fill for development, water resource projects,
infrastructure development projects (such as roads). Section 404 requires a
permit before dredged or fill material may be discharged into waters of the
United States unless the activity is exempt from Section 404 regulation. The
property owner and design professional submitting plans for city review are
responsible for complying and incorporating into site plans the requirements of
the Clean Water Act as required by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers General or
Individual permits, notice of Intent and other permit requirements, including
the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality mitigation, approval, denials or
mitigation required by such agencies.
      12.   Easements for dedicated stormwater management features or access to
features shall be shown on the final plat of any new subdivision.
   B.   Stormwater runoff shall be managed through compliance with the
performance standards and DEQ BMP's or other BMPs determined acceptable by the
city engineer by implementation of measures shown by a design professional to
have an effective design capability that equals or exceeds the standards of
this chapter. Temporary and permanent erosion control measures and BMP's shall
be shown on the plans.
   C.   For the design and review of plans, the applicant or design
professional may use as guidance the latest edition of the Urban Drainage
Design Manual, Hydraulic Engineering Circular No. 22 (HEC-22) for stormwater
systems on or crossing an urban roadway, Hydrologic Engineering Center's
(CEIWR-HEC) River Analysis System (HEC-RAS), Natural Resources Conservation
Service methods, the Rational Method with a volume calculation methodology,
such as the Bowstring Method, or other engineering guidance meeting the
standard of care for Idaho, as determined acceptable by the city engineer.
These documents may be used for guidance purposes, not as a regulatory
standard.
   D.   Rates of infiltration and water tables vary in the city and thus
infiltration rates must be verified based on infiltration rate testing of the
soil and ground saturation of the subject site as determined by the city
engineer. Generalized and assumed calculations are not acceptable unless soils
are free draining and verified by the engineer in advance of a design or
stormwater report submittal.
   E.   Grassed infiltration areas (GIA), swales or other acceptable
alternatives as approved by the city engineer shall be sized to hold and treat
the first one-half inch (1/2") of stormwater runoff from impervious surfaces
prior to discharging. Roof drains from roofs constructed of materials that
allow for clean rainwater runoff may be eliminated from the treatment area
calculation. Roof drain volumes shall be included in the stormwater storage and
discharge calculations, regardless. Direct injection of roof drains to soils
will only be allowed in areas where soils are well draining and do not have the
potential to impact adjacent properties, slope stability, or public right-of-
way. GIA's or other treatment areas must have soils that are capable of
percolation and percolation rates shall be factored into the stormwater design.
The city engineer may require a stormwater report, calculations and percolation
testing of the soils that are used for treatment. The design professional may
recommend soil amendments to meet percolation needs. The city engineer may
waive GIA requirements for parcels that pose little to no risk for stormwater
runoff from the property and have no waters of the United States, tributaries,
or seasonal drainage paths. Target treatment area depths from GIA's and swales
is six inches (6") or less. No GIA or swale shall create a standing water
safety or health safety issue. Additional mitigation may be required of the
designer and property owner by the city engineer to mitigate safety concerns.
   F.   Sufficient storage volume and detention/retention time shall be
provided so there is no increase in the peak rate of runoff from the site for a
25-year storm. At the discretion of the city engineer, the city may require a
larger storm event be used by the design professional's calculations if there
is risk of a larger event negatively impacting an adjacent property, downstream
property, stormwater infrastructure or natural drainage.
   G.   Structures (pipes, culverts, etc.) placed in soils with pH levels that
cause corrosion may require the engineer's approval of the pipe material
utilized. Culverts shall be sized to convey the peak flow from a 50-year storm
event. Culverts may be constructed of galvanized steel or corrugated plastic
pipe in accordance with appropriate ASTM or AASHTO Materials Standards and Test
Methods
   H.   Certification in the Panhandle Stormwater and Erosion Education Program
(SEEP) is encouraged for all contractors, developers, and excavators.
   I.   The city encourages the use of green infrastructure and other
alternatives and strategies such as created wetland ponds, rain gardens and
other features that mimic natural processes to prevent pollution of Dover's
valuable water resources. Due to slope, varying soils, high water tables, and
other constraints, these features require the review and approval of the city
engineer. (Ord. 170, 11-12-2020)
9-4-9: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for activities that are subject to provisions of this chapter are
divided into the following categories based upon the level of site disturbance
and impervious surfaces:
   A.   Basic Plan: The landowner shall provide a completed stormwater
checklist on a form provided by the city, ensuring compliance with performance
standards, for the following:
      1.   New construction, additions or modifications to existing structures,
fill, excavation, or development in which all the following criteria are met:
         a.   Not within three hundred feet (300') of any surface water, shown
on the National Hydrography Dataset or by actual survey.
         b.   Property has a slope of less than eight percent (8%).
         c.   New impervious surface created by the construction does not
exceed one thousand (1,000) square feet.
         d.   Area of land-disturbing activities created by construction does
not exceed five thousand (5,000) square feet.
         e.   The city engineer may require parcels adjacent to a new or
existing road with a road profile slope of seven percent (7%) or greater to
comply with a Minor Plan.
         f.   Development does not result in more than fifty (50) cubic yards
of fill or excavated material.
         g.   Development does not result in more than five thousand (5,000)
square feet of disturbed area.
         h.   Development does not change grade by more than four feet (4') in
height.
   B.   Minor Plan: A sedimentation and erosion control plan shall be submitted
by the property owner and approved by the city prior to the commencement of any
construction, development, or site disturbance for low-impact developments that
meet the following criteria:
      1.   Excavation or fill between fifty (50) cubic yards and two hundred
fifty (250) cubic yards of material.
      2.   Construction or reconstruction of structures, paving, or other
activities between one thousand (1,000) square feet and three thousand (3,000)
square feet of new impervious surface.
      3.   Land-disturbing activities between five thousand (5,000) square feet
of disturbed area and ten thousand (10,000) square feet of disturbed area.
      4.   Construction or development adjacent to a new or existing road with
a roadway profile slope of seven percent (7%) or greater.
      5.   Excavation, fill, construction, reconstruction, or land disturbing
activities on sites that are within three hundred feet (300') of any surface
water, shown on the National Hydrography Dataset or by actual survey, or on a
slope of eight percent (8%) or greater and do not exceed any of the following:
         a.   One thousand (1,000) square feet of new impervious surface.
         b.   Five thousand (5,000) square feet of land-disturbing activities.
         c.   Fifty (50) cubic yards of fill or excavated material.
         d.   A four-foot (4') change in grade.
      6.   The city engineer may require the plans for more complex sites that
meet the requirements of a Minor Plan be sealed by a design professional
licensed in the State of Idaho.
   C.   Major Plan: A Stormwater Management Plan shall be submitted and sealed
by a design professional licensed in the State of Idaho and approved by the
city prior to the commencement of any construction, development, or site
disturbance for developments that meet the following criteria:
      1.   Fill or excavation that will result in two hundred fifty (250) cubic
yards or more of material.
      2.   Construction or reconstruction of structures, paving, or other
activities that will create more than three thousand (3,000) square feet of new
impervious surface.
      3.   Land-disturbing activities that will result in ten thousand (10,000)
square feet of disturbed area or more.
      4.   Excavation, fill, construction, reconstruction, or land disturbing
activities on sites that are within three hundred feet (300') of any surface
water, shown on the National Hydrography Dataset or by actual survey, or on a
slope of eight percent (8%) or greater slope that exceed:
         a.   One thousand (1,000) square feet of new impervious surface.
         b.   Five thousand (5,000) square feet of land-disturbing activities.
         c.   Fifty (50) cubic yards of fill or excavated material.
         d.   A four-foot (4') change in grade.
   D.   Subdivision Plan:
      1.   All new subdivisions and phases of existing subdivisions shall
provide a preliminary stormwater management plan at the time of preliminary
plat application, unless otherwise provided herein. The final stormwater
management plan, consistent with this chapter shall be filed with the
subdivision construction plans, prior to any site disturbance, in accord with
the subdivision regulations of Title 11 of this code.
      2.   The requirements of the United States Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §
1251) and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) Program and regulations shall be met. Per the EPA,
all acreages of all phases of a development are to be counted in the
determination on the need for a Notice of Intent, SWPPP and other EPA NPDES and
U.S. Army Corps Section 404 permit requirements.
      3.   Development of lots shall be in accord with the approved subdivision
stormwater management plan. At the time of building permit application, the
landowner shall provide plans indicating how the lot will be developed to meet
the requirements of the approved plan.
      4.   For subdivisions that do not have approved stormwater management
plans, lot development is subject to the "Applicability" section of this
chapter and the applicable requirements of this chapter.
   E.   Application Contents: Applications shall contain the following minimum
information:
      1.   Basic Plan: Completion of the city checklist.
      2.   Minor Plan (Sedimentation and Erosion Control Plan):
         a.   A project site plan showing the limits of proposed construction,
location of proposed and existing structures, walkways, driveways, roads,
surface water, wetlands, vegetative coverage, any proposed soil stockpiles,
drainage patterns, and existing or proposed temporary and permanent
sedimentation/erosion control and stormwater features.
         b.   A summary of the proposed construction project, including methods
to stabilize soils and control sedimentation during and after construction,
erosion control features, use of existing and proposed vegetation.
         c.   Proposed construction schedule.
         d.   Maintenance and monitoring plans, to include requirements for
inspection before, during, and after storm events.
      3.   Major Plan (Stormwater Management Plan):
         a.   The items required for a preliminary stormwater management plan,
listed at subsection E.2. of this section.
         b.   Construction-quality drawings of all physical features of a
proposed stormwater management system, including dimensions and capacities for
all conveyances, retention basins, swales, and other features designed for
collection, treatment, and infiltration of stormwater runoff.
         c.   A proposed construction schedule for the stormwater management
system.
         d.   A sedimentation and erosion control plan.
         e.   A proposed system of maintenance and inspection schedules for the
stormwater management system, designating specifically any portions which are
to be conveyed to a group, association, or political subdivision for
maintenance.
      4.   Subdivision Preliminary Stormwater Management Plan Contents:
         a.   The stamp and/or signature of the design professional who
prepared the plan.
         b.   A project site plan showing the entire area covered by the
application, any construction sites, proposed or existing lot lines, existing
drainage patterns, surface water, proposed roads, proposed stormwater
easements, proposed stockpile areas, sufficient topographic information to
shown contours of the land, constraining environmental conditions and areas to
be covered by impervious surfaces at completion of the project.
         c.   A project summary describing site characteristics, soil types,
vegetative coverage; slopes, calculations of the estimated impervious surface
coverage, design storm yield for the site; and proposed stormwater and erosion
control features. (Ord. 170, 11-12-2020)
9-4-10: REVIEW PROCEDURES:
   A.   Basic and Minor Plans Filed with Applications Requiring Administrative
Action or Filed Separately from Any Administrative Permits:
      1.   For those plans filed with building permits or land use applications
requiring administrative action, the landowner shall submit the required plan
at the time of the building permit or land use application. Stand-alone plans
filed separately from any permit shall be submitted prior to any land-
disturbing activities. The city engineer or designee shall review the plan for
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. For those plans filed with
land-use or building permits, the review shall occur concurrently with the
building permit or land use file.
      2.   If the city engineer or designee determines the plan complies with
the standards and requirements of this chapter, the engineer or designee shall
approve the plan.
      3.   If the city engineer or designee finds the plan does not comply with
this chapter, the city shall advise the applicant in writing of the items
required to bring the plan into compliance.
      4.   No building permit or land use application shall be approved until
the sedimentation and erosion control or stormwater plan complies with the
standards of this chapter. No ground-disturbing activity shall commence until
the city has approved a stand-alone plan.
   B.   Minor and Major Plans Filed with Applications Requiring Public
Hearings:
      1.   Any application, other than a preliminary plat, which is subject to
the public hearing procedural requirements set forth in the city zoning
regulations, shall be submitted at the same time as the land use application.
      2.   The city engineer or designee shall review the plan to determine
whether it complies with the standards of this chapter.
      3.   If the city engineer or designee finds the plan does not comply with
this chapter, the city shall advise the applicant in writing of the items
required to bring the plan into compliance.
      4.   Once the plan is determined to comply with this chapter, the plan
shall be considered by the governing body concurrently with the land use
application.
      5.   No final approval of an application shall occur until the
sedimentation and erosion control or stormwater plan is approved.
   C.   Subdivision Preliminary Stormwater Plans and Final Stormwater Plans:
      1.   The preliminary stormwater plan shall be filed concurrently with the
preliminary plat application.
      2.   The city engineer or designee shall review the preliminary plan to
determine whether it complies with the standards of this chapter.
      3.   If the city engineer or designee finds the plan does not comply with
this chapter, the city shall advise the applicant in writing of the items
required to bring the plan into compliance.
      4.   Once the plan is determined to comply with this chapter, the
preliminary plan and preliminary plat shall be concurrently reviewed by
affected agencies and jurisdictions and by the governing body following agency
review, in accord with the procedures of the city subdivision regulations.
      5.   Following approval of the preliminary plat and preliminary
stormwater plan and prior to any construction, grading, or clearing of the
site, the applicant shall submit a final stormwater plan to the city. A copy of
the applicant's Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) permit, where
applicable, shall also be filed with the city at this time.
      6.   No construction, clearing, excavation, or grading of the site shall
occur until the stormwater management plan is approved by the city engineer.
      7.   The subdivision shall be developed and maintained in accord with the
approved stormwater management plan.
      8.   No final plat shall be approved by the city until the stormwater
management facilities are in place and functioning as designed unless a surety
in lieu of completion is accepted by the city, pursuant to the subdivision
procedures of Title 11 of this code. As-built, final drawings illustrating the
placement of the components of the stormwater management system shall be filed
with the city prior to final plat approval.
   D.   Modifications To Sedimentation And Erosion Control Plans And Stormwater
Management Plans: During any aspect of site preparation, development or
construction, if field conditions prove to be substantially different from
conditions assumed by the design professional in the creation of a stormwater
management plan or sedimentation and erosion control plan, such that designed
features may not function as planned, the design professional or owner shall
apply to the city for permission to make a modification to the plan. If the
city engineer finds the modification is necessary and is in substantial accord
with the approved plan and standards of this chapter, the engineer shall notify
the design professional or owner in writing, and construction may proceed. Any
such modifications approved by the city shall be shown on final drawings of the
stormwater management plan on file with the administrator. (Ord. 170, 11-12-
2020)
9-4-11: GUARANTEE OF INSTALLATION:
   A.   New Subdivisions: No final plat shall be signed until all required
stormwater management facilities are in place and functioning as designed, per
the design professional, and to the satisfaction of the city engineer, or until
a guarantee of financial surety is provided to and accepted by the city. As
built drawings are required when the facilities are completed.
   B.   Building Permits: For building permits subject to the standards of this
chapter, no certificate of occupancy shall be issued until the sedimentation
and erosion control or stormwater plan has been fully implemented to the
satisfaction of the city engineer. If the administrator finds that, due to
weather conditions or other exigent circumstances, the erosion control plan
cannot be fully implemented until a future time, a temporary certificate of
occupancy may be issued upon a receipt of an acceptable guarantee to complete
the erosion control plan implementation by a certain date.
   C.   Land Use Applications: For land use applications subject to the
provisions of this chapter, no use shall commence until the stormwater
management system has been installed and is functioning as designed to the
satisfaction of the city engineer, or a suitable guarantee of financial surety
is provided and accepted by the city. (Ord. 170, 11-12-2020)
9-4-12: INSPECTIONS AND CONTINUED MAINTENANCE:
Each applicant is responsible for the continued inspections and maintenance of
the features of the sedimentation and erosion control and/or stormwater plan,
including an acceptable plan for sustained functioning of the collection and
treatment system. (Ord. 170, 11-12-2020)
9-4-13: VARIANCES:
   A.   Determination; Notice To Applicant: It shall be the duty of the city
engineer to determine when an applicant's request for a variation from the
standards of this chapter is beyond the scope of an administrative exception as
set forth at subsection
9-4-6C of this chapter. The administrator shall inform the applicant that the
request must be processed as a variance.
   B.   Scope: A variance shall not be considered a right or special privilege
but may be granted to an applicant only upon a showing of undue hardship
because of characteristics of the site and that the variance is not in conflict
with the public interest. An undue hardship shall only exist if the topography,
physiography, vegetation, or geology of the site is so unique that the strict
imposition of the standards of this chapter would defeat the purposes of this
chapter.
   C.   Prohibited Variances: No variance shall be issued where such variance
would impose a burden upon adjacent landowners or divert stormwater onto
adjacent lands unless a joint management agreement is executed.
   D.   Procedures: The variance application shall be considered using the
standards and procedures of title 12, chapter 8 of this Code. (Ord. 170, 11-12-
2020)
9-4-14: APPEALS:
Any person, group, association or body corporate which asserts that the
administrator or city engineer has erred in the interpretation of this chapter
or has allowed or disallowed an administrative exception in error or is
aggrieved by any final determination made by the administrator or city
engineer, may appeal the decision to the City Council. Such request shall be
placed on an agenda for a regular meeting of the City Council, at which time
the City Council may act to clarify the intent of this chapter, to uphold,
modify or reverse any administrative exception or final determination made by
the administrator or city engineer. (Ord. 170, 11-12-2020)
9-4-15: COMPLIANCE, VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations Are A Misdemeanor. Violations of any provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor, subject to penalties of not more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment for not more than six (6)
months, or by both fine and imprisonment.
   B.   Administrative Enforcement: Whenever the administrator determines that
any person is in violation of any provision of this chapter, the administrator
may commence an administrative enforcement action by sending a certified letter
to the individual at the address shown on the current tax assessor's roll. The
notice of violation shall provide details of the alleged violation and the
required remedies. The city may require a response within fifteen (15) days
after the written notice is mailed.
   C.   Emergency Corrections: The city may take immediate emergency action at
the expense of the property owner to correct a violation that the city or other
government agency deems as an imminent threat to the life, health or safety of
the public.
   D.   Election of Remedies. If the violation is not remedied, the city has
the authority to pursue such lawful actions as necessary to remedy the
violation. These include but are not limited to:
      1.   Pursuing the matter as a criminal misdemeanor or
      2.   Filing a civil complaint seeking an injunction. Enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter by civil action filed by the city is specifically
permitted.
   E.   Violators Obligated For Fees: For any violation, the violator is liable
to the city for the city's costs and professional service fees, attorney fees,
and construction mitigation costs incurred in the investigation, enforcement or
emergency corrections of a violation of this chapter.
   F.   Stop Work Orders: Notwithstanding any other enforcement provisions of
this chapter, the administrator or city engineer is authorized to issue a stop
work order on all construction activities for noncompliance with any provisions
of this chapter.
   G.   Removal of Stormwater Improvements: Stormwater Improvements (e.g.
culvert installations, etc.) not constructed in accordance with city standards
shall be removed and/or replaced by the applicant within fourteen (14) days of
notice by the city at the expense of the property owner. (Ord. 170, 11-12-2020)
TITLE 10
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Authority
10-1-3: Purpose
10-1-4: Findings Of Fact
10-1-5: Objectives And Methods To Reduce Flood Losses
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as TITLE 10 OF DOVER CITY CODE, FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
10-1-2: AUTHORITY:
The legislature of the state of Idaho, pursuant to Idaho Code sections 46-1020,
46-1023, and 46-1024, authorizes local governments to adopt floodplain
management ordinances that identify floodplains and minimum floodplain
development standards to minimize flood hazards and protect human life, health,
and property. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
10-1-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this title is to promote public health, safety, and general
welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in
specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life, health, and property;
   B.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
purification and sewage treatment plants, water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in floodplains;
   C.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas;
   D.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   E.   Minimize the need for rescue and emergency services associated with
flooding, generally undertaken at the expense of the public;
   F.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   G.   Ensure potential buyers are notified the property is in an area of
special flood hazard; and
   H.   Ensure those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
10-1-4: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of Dover are subject to periodic inundation that
results in:
      1.   Loss of life and property;
      2.   Health and safety hazards;
      3.   Disruption of commerce and governmental services;
      4.   Extraordinary public expenditures for flood relief and protection;
and
      5.   Impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public
health, safety, and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused by structures in flood hazard areas,
which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages, and by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains
causing increases in flood heights and velocities.
   C.   Local government units have the primary responsibility for planning,
adopting, and enforcing land use regulations to accomplish proper floodplain
management. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
10-1-5: OBJECTIVES AND METHODS TO REDUCE FLOOD LOSSES:
The following methods and provisions are provided to achieve the purpose of
this title:
   A.   Require that development that is vulnerable to floods, including
structures and facilities necessary for the general health, safety, and welfare
of citizens, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   B.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or that increase flood heights,
velocities, or erosion;
   C.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development that may
increase flood damage or erosion;
   D.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands;
   E.   Preserve and restore natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural
protective barriers that carry and store floodwaters. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: General Definitions
10-2-1: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this title shall be
interpreted according to the meaning they have in common usage and to give this
title its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE): A structure on the same lot or
parcel as a principal structure, the use of which is incidental and subordinate
to the principal structure.
ADDITION (To An Existing Building): An extension or increase in the floor area
or height of a building or structure.
APPEAL: A request for review of the floodplain administrator's interpretation
of provisions of this title.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, or AR/AH zone on a
community's flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): A determination by the federal insurance
administrator of the water surface elevations of the base flood, that is, the
flood level that has a one percent (1%) or greater chance of occurrence in any
given year. When the BFE has not been provided in a special flood hazard area,
it may be obtained from engineering studies available from a federal, state, or
other source using FEMA approved engineering methodologies. This elevation,
when combined with the freeboard, establishes the flood protection elevation
(FPE).
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: See definition of Structure.
CRITICAL FACILITIES: Facilities that are vital to flood response activities or
critical to the health and safety of the public before, during, and after a
flood, such as a hospital, emergency operations center, electric substation,
police station, fire station, nursing home, school, vehicle and equipment
storage facility, or shelter; and facilities that, if flooded, would make the
flood problem and its impacts much worse, such as a hazardous materials
facility, power generation facility, water utility, or wastewater treatment
plant.
DATUM: The vertical datum is a base measurement point (or set of points) from
which all elevations are determined. Historically, that common set of points
was the national geodetic vertical datum of 1929 (NGVD29). The vertical datum
currently adopted by the federal government as a basis for measuring heights is
the North American vertical datum of 1988 (NAVD88).
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials, located within a special flood hazard area.
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY: Any activity defined as development which will
necessitate a floodplain development permit, such as: the construction of
buildings, structures, or accessory structures; additions or substantial
improvements to existing structures; bulkheads, retaining walls, piers, and
pools; the placement of mobile homes; or the deposition or extraction of
materials; the construction or elevation of dikes, berms and levees.
DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM): The digital official map of a
community, issued by the federal emergency management agency, on which both the
special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community are delineated.
ELEVATED BUILDING: For insurance purposes, a nonbasement building which has its
lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATE: A document used to determine the proper flood insurance
premium rate. The certificate is used to document elevation information
necessary to ensure compliance with community floodplain management
regulations; and it may be used to support a request for a letter of map
amendment (LOMA) or letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F).
ENCLOSURE: An area enclosed by solid walls below the BFE/FPE or an area formed
when any space below the BFE/FPE is enclosed on all sides by walls or
partitions. Insect screening or open wood lattice used to surround space below
the BFE/FPE is not considered an enclosure.
ENCROACHMENT: The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation, buildings,
structures, or development into a floodplain, which may impede or alter the
flow capacity of a floodplain.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION: A
manufactured home park or subdivision where the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed
before the effective date of the original floodplain management regulations
adopted by the community, January 16, 2007.
EXISTING STRUCTURES: See definition of Existing Construction.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufacturing homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency.
FLOOD ELEVATION DETERMINATION: See definition of Base Flood Elevation (BFE).
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway covered by
floodwaters during the regulatory flood.
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM): An official map of a community, issued by the
federal insurance administrator, where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide
(i.e., mudflow) related erosion areas having special hazards have been
designated as zones A, M, and/or E.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
federal insurance administrator has delineated both the special hazard areas
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been
made available digitally is called a digital flood insurance rate map (DFIRM).
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): An examination, evaluation, and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations; or
an examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood related erosion hazards.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
1. The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
2. The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
3. Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as
defined in subsection A2 of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid
and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is
carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
   B.   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other
body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents
of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an
unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe
storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding as defined in subsection A1 of this definition.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): Base flood elevation (BFE), plus any
freeboard established by the city of Dover. In special flood hazard areas where
base flood elevations have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE
plus zero feet (0') of freeboard; and in special flood hazard areas where no
BFE has been established, this elevation shall be at least two feet (2') above
the highest adjacent grade, or as determined by the floodplain administrator
where specifically authorized by this title.
FLOOD ZONE: A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) or
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) that reflects the severity or type of flooding
in the area.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The individual designated by the mayor to administer
and enforce the floodplain management regulations.
FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this title, prior to the commencement of any
development activity.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance, and erosion control ordinance), and
other applications of police power. The term describes such state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for flood
damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation.
FREEBOARD: A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
the purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effects of urbanization in a watershed. The base flood elevation
(BFE) plus the freeboard establishes the flood protection elevation (FPE).
Freeboard shall be zero feet (0') for the city of Dover.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A facility that cannot be used for its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out near water, such as a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, or ship repair facilities. The term does not include long term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG): The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: A structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the U.S. department of interior national
register of historic places or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the
interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the national
register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or to a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify
as a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have
been approved by the secretary of the interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that
have been certified either:
1. By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior,
or
2. Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): An official amendment, by letter, to an
effective national flood insurance program (NFIP) map. A LOMA establishes a
property's location in relation to the special flood hazard area (SFHA). LOMAs
are usually issued because a property has been inadvertently mapped as being in
the floodplain but is actually on natural high ground above the base flood
elevation.
LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC): A general term used to refer to the several types
of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by letter.
They include letter of map amendment (LOMA), letter of map revision (LOMR), and
letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F).
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): FEMA's modification to an effective flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) or a flood boundary and floodway map (FBFM) or both.
LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective base flood elevations (BFEs), or the special flood hazard area
(SFHA). The LOMR officially revises the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) or
flood boundary and floodway map (FBFM), and sometimes the flood insurance study
(FIS) report, and when appropriate, includes a description of the
modifications. The LOMR is generally accompanied by an annotated copy of the
affected portions of the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F): FEMA's modification of the
special flood hazard area (SFHA) shown on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM)
based on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway. The
LOMR-F does not change the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION, CONDITIONAL (CLOMR): A formal review and comment as to
whether a proposed flood protection project or other project complies with the
minimum NFIP requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of
special flood hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) or flood insurance study (FIS). Upon submission and
approval of certified as built documentation, a letter of map revision (LOMR)
may be issued by FEMA to revise the effective FIRM. Building permits and/or
flood development permits cannot be issued based on a CLOMR, because a CLOMR
does not change the NFIP map.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed according to sound engineering practices, to contain, control, or
divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG): The lowest point of the ground level next to the
structure.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of 44 CFR section 60.3 and this
title.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, built on
a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term "manufactured
home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MARKET VALUE: The building value, not including the land value and that of any
accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program (NFIP),
the national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum (such as
North America vertical datum of 1988 - NAVD88) to which base flood elevations
(BFEs) shown on a community's FIRM are referenced.
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW): A condition where there is a river, flow, or
inundation of liquid mud down a hillside usually resulting from loss of
vegetation and the subsequent accumulation of water on the ground preceded by a
period of unusually heavy or sustained rain.
NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP): The NFIP is a federal program created
by congress to mitigate future flood losses nationwide through sound, community
enforced building and zoning ordinances and to provide access to affordable,
federally backed flood insurance protection for property owners.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For floodplain management purposes, a structure for which the
start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures. Any construction started after January 16,
2007, and before the effective start date of this title is subject to the
ordinance in effect at the time the permit was issued, provided the start of
construction was within one hundred eighty (180) days of permit issuance.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A place where the construction of
facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be
affixed (including at a minimum the installation of utilities, the construction
of streets, and final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations
adopted by the city of Dover, January 16, 2007.
POST-FIRM: Construction or other development for which the "start of
construction" occurred on or after the effective date of the initial flood
insurance rate map (FIRM), which is January 16, 2007, for the city of Dover.
PRE-FIRM: Construction or other development for which the "start of
construction" occurred before January 16, 2007, the effective date of the
initial flood insurance rate map (FIRM) for the city of Dover.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle that is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis, and
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection, and
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty
truck, and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: See definition of Floodway.
REPETITIVE LOSS STRUCTURE: An NFIP insured structure that has had at least two
(2) paid flood losses of more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) each in any
ten (10) year period since 1978.
RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
For purposes of these regulations, the term "special flood hazard area" is
synonymous in meaning with the phrase "area of special flood hazard".
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of its market value before the damage occurred. See
definition of Substantial Improvement.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the "start of construction"
of the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred
"substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided the alteration will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic structure"
and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant to this title.
TECHNICAL BULLETINS AND TECHNICAL FACT SHEETS: FEMA publications that provide
guidance concerning the building performance standards of the NFIP, which are
contained in title 44 of the U.S. code of federal regulations section 60.3. The
bulletins and fact sheets are intended for use primarily by state and local
officials responsible for interpreting and enforcing NFIP regulations and by
members of the development community, such as design professionals and
builders. New bulletins, as well as updates of existing bulletins, are issued
periodically as needed. The bulletins do not create regulations. Rather they
provide specific guidance for complying with the minimum requirements of
existing NFIP regulations.
TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED: Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or
cooling system, built-in or appliance.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief by the governing body from a requirement of this
title.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the finished construction elevation certificate,
other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in 44 CFR
section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is
presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or the North American vertical datum (NAVD) of
1988 (or other specified datum), of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
WATERCOURSE: A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other topographic
feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically. Watercourse
includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood damage may
occur.
ZONE A: Areas subject to inundation by the one percent (1%) annual chance flood
event generally determined using approximate methodologies. Because detailed
hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base flood elevations (BFEs) or
flood depths are shown on maps. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
and floodplain management standards apply. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Applicability
10-3-2: Basis For Special Flood Hazard Areas
10-3-3: Establishment Of Floodplain Development Permit
10-3-4: Compliance
10-3-5: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
10-3-6: Interpretation
10-3-7: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
10-3-8: Penalties For Violation
10-3-1: APPLICABILITY:
This title shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction of the city of Dover. Nothing in this title is intended to allow
uses or structures that are otherwise prohibited by the Dover zoning
regulations. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
10-3-2: BASIS FOR SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
The special flood hazard areas identified by the federal emergency management
agency in its flood insurance study (FIS) for Bonner County, Idaho, and
incorporated areas, dated July 7, 2014, with accompanying flood insurance rate
maps (FIRM) or digital flood insurance rate maps (DFIRM), and other supporting
data, are adopted by reference and declared a part of this title. The FIS and
the FIRM are on file at the office of the Dover city clerk, 699 Lakeshore
Avenue, Dover, Idaho. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
10-3-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this title prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas, determined in accordance with the
provisions of section
10-3-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
10-3-4: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, altered,
or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this title
and other applicable regulations. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
10-3-5: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This title shall not in any way repeal, abrogate, impair, or remove the
necessity of compliance with any other laws, ordinances, regulations,
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions, or similar regulations. However,
where this title and another ordinance or title conflict or overlap, whichever
imposes more stringent or greater restrictions shall control. (Ord. 147, 2-9-
2017)
10-3-6: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this title all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
10-3-7: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this title is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur. Flood heights may be
increased by manmade or natural causes. This title does not imply that land
outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This title shall not create liability
on the part of the city of Dover by any officer or employee thereof for flood
damages that result from reliance on this title or an administrative decision
lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
10-3-8: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
altered unless in full compliance with the terms of this title and other
applicable regulations.
Violation of the provisions of this title or failure to comply with any of its
requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established with
approved variances or special exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any
person who violates this title or fails to comply with any of its requirements
shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or imprisoned in a county jail not exceeding six (6) months or
both. Each day the violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city of Dover from taking such other
lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. In addition,
the city may seek and recover any costs and professional service fees incurred
in the investigation of a violation of this title. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10-4-1: Designation Of Floodplain Administrator
10-4-2: Duties And Responsibilities Of Floodplain Administrator
10-4-3: Application Requirements
10-4-4: Permit Requirements
10-4-5: Certification Requirements
10-4-6: Certification Exemptions
10-4-7: Determinations For Existing Buildings And Structures
10-4-1: DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The "floodplain administrator", is hereby authorized to administer and
implement the provisions of this title. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
10-4-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The floodplain administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   A.   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this title have been satisfied.
   B.   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to
assure that all necessary local, state, and federal permits have been received,
including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act amendments of
1972, 33 USC 1334.
   C.   Notify adjacent communities and the Idaho department of water resources
state coordinator for the national flood insurance program (NFIP) prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of such
notification to the federal emergency management agency (FEMA).
   D.   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is maintained.
   E.   Prevent encroachments into floodways unless the certification and flood
hazard reduction provisions of section
10-7-5 of this title are met.
   F.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest
floor (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of section
10-4-5 of this chapter.
   G.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which all
new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed,
in accordance with the provisions of section
10-4-5 of this chapter.
   H.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of section
10-4-5 of this chapter.
   I.   Obtain certifications from an Idaho licensed professional engineer or
architect in accordance with the provisions of section
10-4-5 of this chapter and subsection
10-7-2B of this title, when floodproofing is utilized.
   J.   Make the necessary interpretations where needed as to the exact
location of boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, floodways, or flood
fringe areas (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a
mapped boundary and actual field conditions). Any person contesting the
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in this title.
   K.   Obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with
floodway data or flood fringe area data available from a federal, state, or
other source, including data developed pursuant to subsection
10-7-3B of this title, to administer the provisions of this title whenever base
flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in accordance with the
provisions of section
10-3-2 of this title.
   L.   Obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or flood
fringe area data available from a federal, state, or other source to administer
the provisions of this title, whenever base flood elevation (BFE) data is
provided but no floodway or flood fringe area data has been provided in
accordance with the provisions of section
10-3-2 of this title.
   M.   May advise property owners of the option to apply for a letter of map
amendment (LOMA) from FEMA when the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade
of a structure or the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood
hazard area (SFHA) is above the base flood elevation (BFE). The administrator
or designee shall maintain a copy of the LOMA issued by FEMA in the floodplain
development permit file.
   N.   Assist the city in ensuring that it permanently maintains all records
that pertain to the administration of this title and assist in making these
records available for public inspection, recognizing that such information may
be subject to the privacy act of 1974, as amended.
   O.   Make or direct to be made on site inspections of work in progress. As
work pursuant to a floodplain development permit progresses, the floodplain
administrator shall make, or direct to be made, as many inspections of the work
as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according to the
provisions of this title and title 9 of this code and the terms of the permit.
In exercising this duty, the floodplain administrator has a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the purposes of
inspection or other enforcement action related to permit activities.
   P.   Issue stop work orders or direct the issuance of stop work orders, as
required. Whenever an activity is undertaken or a building or part thereof is
being constructed, placed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation of
this title, the floodplain administrator is authorized to order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop work order shall be in writing and directed to
the landowner and the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop work
order shall state the specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for
the stoppage, and the condition(s) under which the work may be resumed.
Violation of a stop work order constitutes a misdemeanor.
   Q.   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The floodplain
administrator may revoke and declare invalid the floodplain development permit
by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked.
   R.   Make or direct to be made periodic inspections throughout the special
flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction of the community. The floodplain
administrator and any member of city staff so authorized, shall have a right,
upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action related to permit
activities. In addition, the floodplain administrator or designee shall have
the right, under proper legal procedures, to enter property to investigative
potential violations of this title.
   S.   Follow through with corrective procedures of chapter 5 of this title.
   T.   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests.
   U.   Maintain or assist in the maintenance of a current map repository to
include, but not be limited to, the FIS report, FIRM and other official flood
maps, and studies adopted in accordance with the provisions of section
10-3-2 of this title, including any revisions thereto including letters of map
change, issued by FEMA. Notify the NFIP state coordinator and FEMA of the
community's mapping needs.
   V.   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters of map
revision based on fill (LOMR-Fs) and letters of map revision (LOMRs). (Ord.
147, 2-9-2017)
10-4-3: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the city of
Dover on forms provided by the city prior to any development activities located
within special flood hazard areas. The floodplain development permit
application shall be submitted to the city clerk, along with the applicable
fees, and shall contain:
   A.   A plot plan drawn to scale that shall include, but shall not be limited
to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain development:
      1.   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
      2.   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on the
FIRM or other flood map as determined in section
10-3-2 of this title, or a statement that the entire lot is within the special
flood hazard area;
      3.   The flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map, pursuant to as determined in section
10-3-2 of this title;
      4.   The boundary of the floodway(s) or flood fringe area(s) as
determined in section
10-3-2 of this title;
      5.   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in
section
10-3-2,
10-7-3 or
10-7-4 of this title;
      6.   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development.
   B.   Proposed elevation, and means of elevating method thereof, of all
development within a special flood hazard area, as verified by an Idaho
licensed surveyor or other professional authorized by Idaho Code to provide
such elevations. Elevations include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure in zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30 will be floodproofed; and
      3.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
   C.   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate with supporting data, an
operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance plan that include, but are
not limited to, installation, exercise, and maintenance of floodproofing
measures.
   D.   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of the
proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this title are met.
These details include, but are not limited to:
      1.   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill, solid
foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation, or on
columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls);
      2.   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic flood
forces on walls in accordance with subsections
10-7-1H2a through H2f of this title when solid foundation perimeter walls are
used in zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30.
   E.   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
   F.   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
   G.   Certification that all other local, state, and federal permits required
prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received.
   H.   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or temporary
structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of subsections
10-7-2E and F of this title are met.
   I.   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation, when
applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and
   J.   A map (if not shown on plot plan) showing the location of the proposed
watercourse alteration or relocation. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
10-4-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
The floodplain development permit shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
   A.   A complete description of all the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit (i.e., house, garage, pool, septic, bulkhead,
cabana, pole barn, chicken coop, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling,
riprap, docks, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage
of equipment or materials, or other applicable development activities).
   B.   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in section
10-3-2 of this title.
   C.   The flood protection elevation required for the lowest floor and all
attendant utilities.
   D.   The flood protection elevation required for the protection of all
public utilities.
   E.   All certification submittal requirements with time lines.
   F.   A statement that no fill material or other development shall encroach
into the floodway of any watercourse, as applicable.
   G.   The flood openings requirements, if in zones A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30,
where applicable.
   H.   All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon the start
of construction of work within one hundred eighty (180) days. A floodplain
development permit shall expire one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
unless the permitted activity has commenced as per the "start of construction"
definition. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
10-4-5: CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Form Requirements: A final as built finished construction elevation
certificate on a FEMA approved form is required after construction is completed
and prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy. The permit holder shall
submit to the floodplain administrator a certification of final as built
construction of the elevation of the lowest floor and all attendant utilities.
The floodplain administrator shall review the certificate data submitted.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder
immediately and prior to issuance of the certificate of occupancy. In some
instances, another certification may be required to certify corrected as built
construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required
corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy.
   B.   Floodproofing Certificate: If nonresidential floodproofing is used to
meet the flood protection elevation requirements, a floodproofing certificate,
on a form approved by FEMA, with supporting data, an operational plan, and an
inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of any
new construction. The permit holder shall submit to the floodplain
administrator a certification of the floodproofed design elevation of the
lowest floor and all attendant utilities, in relation to mean sea level.
Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of an Idaho licensed professional engineer or architect and
certified by same. The floodplain administrator shall review the certificate
data, the operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior
to permit approval. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make
required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit.
Failure to construct in accordance with the certified design shall be cause to
withhold the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
   C.   Foundation Certification: If a manufactured home is placed within zone
A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30 and the elevation of the chassis is more than thirty
six inches (36") in height above grade, an engineered foundation certification
is required in accordance with the provisions of subsection
10-7-2C2 of this title.
   D.   Altering Or Relocating Requirements: If a watercourse is to be altered
or relocated, the following shall all be submitted by the permit applicant
prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit:
      1.   A description of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation;
      2.   A professional engineer's certified report on the effects of the
proposed project on the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream;
      3.   A map showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation;
      4.   An Idaho stream channel alteration permit approval shall be provided
by the applicant to the floodplain administrator. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
10-4-6: CERTIFICATION EXEMPTIONS:
The following structures, if located within zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30, are
exempt from the elevation/floodproofing certification requirements specified in
subsections
10-4-5A and B of this chapter:
   A.   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of subsection
10-7-2E1 of this title.
   B.   Temporary structures meeting requirements of subsection
10-7-2F of this title.
   C.   Accessory structures less than two hundred (200) square feet meeting
requirements of subsection
10-7-2H of this title. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
10-4-7: DETERMINATIONS FOR EXISTING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   For building permit applications to improve buildings and structures,
including alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements,
repairs of substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such
buildings and structures, the floodplain administrator, in coordination with
the building official, shall:
      1.   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work. In the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      2.   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its predamaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      3.   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      4.   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of the adopted Idaho
building code and this title is required. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
CHAPTER 5
CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES
SECTION:
10-5-1: Violations To Be Corrected
10-5-2: Failure To Take Corrective Action
10-5-1: VIOLATIONS TO BE CORRECTED:
Whenever a violation of this title or applicable state or local laws relating
to the floodplain are found to have occurred, the floodplain administrator
shall notify the landowner or violator of the violation. The owner or violator
shall immediately, or as soon as practical, remedy the violations of law cited
in such notification. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
10-5-2: FAILURE TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION:
   A.   Notice: If the owner of a building or property or person in violation
of this title fails to take prompt corrective action, the floodplain
administrator shall give the property owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail, using the address as it appears on the current county
assessor's tax rolls, or by personal service, stating:
      1.   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations and specifying the reasons for the violation;
      2.   The actions required to bring the property into compliance;
      3.   The deadline by which action shall be taken to abate the violation.
The specified time period to abate shall not be less than fourteen (14)
calendar days nor greater than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days unless
there is imminent threat to life or property or other circumstances affecting
response time. The floodplain administrator is authorized to adjust the
compliance schedule as circumstances warrant.
   B.   Appeal: Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the city council. The appeal shall contain a written
narrative giving the rationale for the appeal, a statement of facts, and the
reason the appellant believes an error was made. The appeal shall be
accompanied by a fee, as set forth by city council resolution. The appeal shall
be filed with the city clerk within ten (10) days following issuance of the
final order. The city council shall consider the appeal using the procedures of
section
12-3-5 of this code. In the absence of an appeal, the order of the floodplain
administrator shall be final.
   C.   Failure To Comply With Order: If the owner of a building or property or
person in violation of this title fails to comply with an order to take
corrective action for which no appeal has been made or fails to comply with an
order of the city council following an appeal, the city attorney may take any
legal action considered necessary to enjoin a violation of this title. The city
attorney may, with the consent of city council, bring civil action considered
necessary to enjoin a violation of this title. In addition, the city may seek
and recover any costs and professional service fees incurred in the
investigation of a violation of this title. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
CHAPTER 6
VARIANCES
SECTION:
10-6-1: Scope Of Floodplain Variances
10-6-2: Application
10-6-3: Application Procedures
10-6-4: Standards For Variance Review
10-6-5: Conditions Of Approval And Final Decision
10-6-1: SCOPE OF FLOODPLAIN VARIANCES:
A variance is a grant of relief by the city council from a requirement of this
title, where such allowance is not in violation of state, federal or local laws
and meets the standards and conditions of this title. Variances may be issued
for:
   A.   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
   B.   Functionally dependent facilities, as defined, provided provisions of
subsections
10-6-4L2, M1, and M3 through M5 of this chapter have been satisfied, and such
facilities are protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base
flood and create no additional threats to public safety; or
   C.   Solid waste disposal facilities or sites, hazardous waste management
facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities located in special
flood hazard areas if all the following conditions are met:
      1.   The use serves a critical need in the community;
      2.   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area;
      3.   The lowest floor of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to at
least the flood protection elevation;
      4.   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws.
   D.   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements of
this chapter. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
10-6-2: APPLICATION:
An application for a variance and applicable fees shall be submitted to the
city clerk on a form provided by the city. The application shall include the
following:
   A.   A legal description of the property;
   B.   A narrative describing the basis for the requested variance and
addressing the items in section
10-6-4 of this chapter;
   C.   A to scale drawing of the site, showing the boundaries of the subject
property; adjoining streets; existing structures, proposed development,
watercourses, and floodplain boundaries;
   D.   Any additional material needed for a complete review of the
application, as determined by the floodplain administrator. (Ord. 147, 2-9-
2017)
10-6-3: APPLICATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   The floodplain administrator shall have a reasonable amount of time to
review the application to determine its completeness. Reasonable time may
include up to thirty (30) days. The floodplain administrator shall inform the
applicant in writing of any items needed to complete the application.
   B.   Copies of the application shall be sent for comment to any affected
public or semipublic agencies or entities and the Idaho state floodplain
coordinator. The city may specify a time period of up to thirty (30) days by
which the comments shall be received. Any agency requests for additional
information shall be forwarded to the applicant for response.
   C.   Upon completion of the public agency review, the city shall schedule
the variance application to the next available planning and zoning commission
for a public hearing, allowing sufficient time for advertising in accord with
title 67, chapter 65 of Idaho Code. The planning and zoning commission shall
consider the variance, determine whether the request is in accord with the
standards of this chapter and shall recommend to the city council to: approve;
approve with conditions; deny; or remand to the applicant for additional
information.
   D.   Upon receipt of the recommendation from the planning and zoning
commission, the city council shall conduct its own hearing and may, based upon
the standards of this chapter: approve; conditionally approve; deny; remand to
the applicant for additional information; or continue the hearing to a date
specific to allow further deliberations, comments, or information. (Ord. 147,
2-9-2017)
10-6-4: STANDARDS FOR VARIANCE REVIEW:
The governing bodies shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant
factors, all standards specified in other sections of this title, and the
following standards in determining whether to grant the proposed variance:
   A.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands causing injury
to others;
   B.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   C.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   D.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the
community;
   E.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined under
chapter 2 of this title as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
   F.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or
erosion damage, for the proposed use;
   G.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   H.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   I.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
   J.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
   K.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges;
   L.   In no case shall a variance be issued that will:
      1.   Cause the structure to be in violation of other federal, state, or
local laws, regulations, or ordinances;
      2.   Result in any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge for properties located within any designated floodway or flood fringe
area;
   M.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that:
      1.   The variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard,
to afford relief;
      2.   The application was made prior to development permit approval;
      3.   There is a showing of good and sufficient cause;
      4.   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship;
and
      5.   The granting of a variance will not result in increased flood
heights, additional threats to public safety, or extraordinary public expense,
create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict
with existing local laws or ordinances. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
10-6-5: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL AND FINAL DECISION:
   A.   Upon consideration of the factors listed in section
10-6-4 of this chapter and the purposes of this title, the city council may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes and objectives of this title. Conditions may include
provisions for a performance bond or other assurance that the authorized work
will be completed in accord with floodplain standards.
   B.   The city shall provide the applicant with a written notice of any
decision. The notice shall be accompanied by a reasoned statement that explains
the criteria and relevant standards used to reach the decision, facts of
record, and rationale for making the decision. Any notice of approval shall
advise the landowner/applicant of the difference between the base flood
elevation (BFE) and the elevation to which the structure is to be built and
that such construction below the BFE increases risks to life and property, and
that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the BFE will
result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty five dollars
($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage. Such
notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions,
including justification for their issuance.
   C.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the federal emergency management agency and
the state of Idaho upon request.
   D.   The city of Dover will notify the state NFIP coordinator of the Idaho
department of water resources of its intention to consider a variance at least
thirty (30) calendar days prior to granting the variance.
   E.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal
such decision, as provided in Idaho Code 67-6535. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
CHAPTER 7
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
SECTION:
10-7-1: General Standards
10-7-2: Specific Standards
10-7-3: Standards For Floodplains Without Established BFEs
10-7-4: Standards For Riverine Floodplains
10-7-5: Standards For Floodways
10-7-6: Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding
10-7-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required:
   A.   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development shall
be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement of the structure.
   B.   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development shall
be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
(For guidance, refer to FEMA's technical bulletin 2, flood damage resistant
materials requirements.)
   C.   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development shall
be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   D.   All new and replacement electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or
located to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components
during conditions of flooding to the flood protection elevation. These include,
but are not limited to, heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC)
equipment, water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas
meter panels/boxes, utility/cable boxes, hot water heaters, and electric
outlets/switches.
   E.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   F.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
   G.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   H.   A fully enclosed area, of new construction and substantially improved
structures, which is below the lowest floor shall:
      1.   Be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least to the
flood protection elevation; and
      2.   Include, in zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         b.   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding or
equivalent venting systems certified by a licensed engineer to meet or exceed
this standard;
         c.   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed area
must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and exit;
         d.   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher than
one foot (1') above the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
         e.   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         f.   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
   I.   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure,
which is in compliance with the provisions of this title, shall meet the
requirements of "new construction" as contained in this title.
   J.   Nothing in this title shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
title and located totally or partially within the floodway, flood fringe area,
or stream setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the flood
protection elevation in the floodway, flood fringe area, or stream setback, and
provided that such repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the
other requirements of this title.
   K.   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in subsection
10-6-1C of this title. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage
incidental to an allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or
wastewater treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area
only if the structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least
the flood protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions
of section
10-4-5 of this title.
   L.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and determined to be
reasonably safe from flooding.
   M.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   N.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   O.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including section 404 of the
federal water pollution control act amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334.
   P.   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   Q.   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation (BFE) shall apply. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
10-7-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in section
10-3-2 of this title or section
10-7-4 of this chapter, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions
of section
10-7-1 of this chapter, are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: All new construction, substantial
improvement, and development of any residential structure (including
manufactured homes) shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
no lower than the flood protection elevation, as defined in chapter 2 of this
title.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: All new construction, substantial
improvement, and development of any commercial, industrial, or other
nonresidential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated no lower than the flood protection elevation, as defined in chapter 2
of this title. Structures located in zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30 may be
floodproofed to the flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation provided
that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the flood protection elevation are watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural components
having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the
effect of buoyancy. For AH and AO zones, the floodproofing elevation shall be
in accordance with subsection
10-7-6B of this chapter. A registered professional engineer or architect shall
certify that the floodproofing standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such
certification shall be provided to the floodplain administrator as set forth in
section
10-4-5 of this title, along with the operational plan and the inspection and
maintenance plan.
   C.   Manufactured Homes:
      1.   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that the
lowest floor of the manufactured home is no lower than the flood protection
elevation, as defined in chapter 2 of this title.
      2.   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the Idaho division of building safety's "Idaho Manufactured
Home Installation Standard" in accordance with Idaho Code section 44-2201(2).
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis
thirty six inches (36") or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall
be supported by reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation
of the chassis is above thirty six inches (36") in height, an engineering
certification is required.
      3.   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of subsection
10-7-1H2f of this chapter.
      4.   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all residents
of all new, substantially improved, or substantially damaged manufactured home
parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This plan shall be
filed by the landowner with the floodplain administrator and the local
emergency management coordinator. Prior to occupancy, the landowner shall
obtain approval for the plan.
   D.   Additions/Improvements:
      1.   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         a.   Not a substantial improvement, then the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more nonconforming than the existing structure; or
         b.   A substantial improvement, then both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      2.   Additions to post-FIRM structures that are a substantial improvement
with no modifications to the existing structure other than a standard door in
the common wall shall require only the addition to comply with the standards
for new construction.
      3.   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         a.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
         b.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      4.   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a five (5) year
period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of
the market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started,
must comply with the standards for new construction. For each building or
structure, five (5) year period begins on the date of the first improvement or
repair of that building or structure subsequent to the effective date of this
title. If the structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are
considered substantial improvement regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The requirement does not, however, include either:
         a.   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions;
or
         b.   Any alteration of a historic structure provided the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
   E.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles shall be either:
      1.   Temporary Placement: Temporary placement and shall be on site for
fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days and be fully licensed and
ready for highway use. (A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it
is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently attached additions); or
      2.   Permanent Placement: Recreational vehicles that do not meet the
limitations of temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new
construction, as set forth in section
10-7-1 of this chapter.
   F.   Temporary Nonresidential Structures: Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the floodplain administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a flash flood or other type of flood warning notification.
The following information shall be submitted in writing to the floodplain
administrator for review and written approval:
      1.   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed six (6) months, renewable up to one
year;
      2.   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      3.   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., immediately upon flood warning notification);
      4.   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      5.   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside the
special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   G.   Accessory Structures: When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, etc.) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, elevation
or floodproofing certifications are required for all accessory structures in
accordance with section
10-4-5 of this title, and the following criteria shall be met:
      1.   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas);
      2.   Accessory structures shall not be temperature controlled;
      3.   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
      4.   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      5.   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with the
provisions of subsection
10-7-1A of this chapter;
      6.   All service facilities, such as electrical, shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of subsection
10-7-1D of this chapter; and
      7.   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces shall be provided below flood protection elevation in conformance
with the provisions of subsection
10-7-1H2 of this chapter.
   H.   Accessory Structure With Less Than Two Hundred Square Feet: An
accessory structure with a footprint less than two hundred (200) square feet
and is a minimal investment of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or less and
satisfies the criteria outlined in subsection G of this section is not required
to meet the elevation or floodproofing standards of subsection B of this
section.
   I.   Tanks: When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
      1.   Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads during conditions of the base flood, including the effects of
buoyancy (assuming the tank is empty);
      2.   Elevated aboveground tanks, in flood hazard areas shall be attached
to and elevated to or above the design flood elevation on a supporting
structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement
during conditions of the base flood. Tank supporting structures shall meet the
foundation requirements of the applicable flood hazard area;
      3.   Not elevated aboveground tanks, that do not meet the elevation
requirements of subsection B of this section shall be permitted in flood hazard
areas provided the tanks are anchored or otherwise designed and constructed to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood, including the effects
of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty and the effects of flood borne debris.
      4.   Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents shall be:
         a.   At or above the flood protection elevation or fitted with covers
designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents of the
tanks during conditions of the base flood; and
         b.   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of
the base flood.
   J.   Construction Of Below Grade Crawl Space:
      1.   The interior grade of a crawl space below the BFE must not be more
than two feet (2') below the lowest exterior adjacent grade (LAG).
      2.   The height of the below grade crawl space, measured from the
interior grade of the crawl space to the top of the crawl space foundation
wall, must not exceed four feet (4') at any point.
      3.   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawl space. The system may include perforated
pipes, drainage tiles, gravel or crushed stone drainage by gravity or
mechanical means, meeting the construction practices outlined by the FEMA
technical bulletin guidelines. The enclosed area should be drained within a
reasonable time after a flood event.
      4.   Below grade crawl spaces are prohibited within the floodway and
anywhere the velocity of floodwaters at the site exceed five feet (5') per
second, as established by the flood insurance study.
      5.   Any building utility system within the crawl space must be elevated
above BFE or designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or accumulate within
system components during flooding. Ductwork must either be placed above the BFE
or sealed from floodwaters.
      6.   The crawl space must have openings that equalize hydrostatic
pressures by allowing for automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. The bottom
of each flood vent opening shall be no more than one foot above the lowest
adjacent exterior grade.
      7.   Portions of the building below BFE shall be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage, including foundations, joists, insulation,
or other components that extend below the BFE. (See technical bulletin 2-93 for
guidance on flood resistant materials requirements.)
      8.   Below grade crawl space construction in accordance with the
requirements of this subsection will not be considered basements.
      9.   Buildings that have below grade crawl spaces will have higher flood
insurance premiums than buildings that have the preferred crawl space
construction, with the interior elevation of the crawl space soil at or above
the base flood elevation (BFE).
      10.   Technical bulletin 11 may be used for further guidance regarding
below grade crawl space construction.
   K.   Other Development In Regulated Floodways:
      1.   Fences that have the potential to block the passage of floodwaters,
such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences, in regulated floodways shall meet
the limitations of section
10-7-5 of this chapter.
      2.   Retaining walls, bulkheads, riprap, sidewalks, and driveways that
involve the placement of fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations
of section
10-7-5 of this title.
      3.   Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts,
low water crossings, and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel
from one side of a watercourse to the other side, which encroach into regulated
floodways shall meet the limitations of section
10-7-5 of this chapter.
      4.   Drilling water, oil, and/or gas wells including fuel storage tanks,
apparatus, and any equipment at the site that encroach into regulated floodways
shall meet the limitations of section
10-7-5 of this chapter.
      5.   Docks, piers, boat ramps, marinas, moorings, decks, docking
facilities, port facilities, shipbuilding, and ship repair facilities that
encroach into regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of section
10-7-5 of this chapter.
   L.   Subdivision Plats:
      1.   Flood zone boundaries shall be shown on the final plat of any
subdivision located within a special flood hazard area. The boundary line shall
be drawn and labeled on the plat in situations where two (2) or more flood
zones intersect over the property or properties being surveyed.
      2.   A note shall be provided on the final plat documenting the current
flood zone in which the property or properties are located. The note shall
specify:
         a.   FEMA FIRM panel information: (for example, #160xxxxxxC, &
160xxxxxxE);
         b.   FIRM effective date(s): mm/dd/year;
         c.   Flood zone(s): (for example, zone X, zone A, zone AE, AO, zone
AH, zone D);
         d.   Base flood elevation(s): (for example, AE _.0 ft.);
         e.   Flood zones are subject to change by FEMA. All land within a
floodway or floodplain is regulated by flood damage prevention standards of
this title, or as subsequently amended. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
10-7-3: STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BFEs:
Within the special flood hazard areas designated as zone A (also known as
unnumbered A zones) and established in section
10-3-2 of this title, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been
provided by FEMA, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of
section
10-7-1 of this chapter, shall apply:
   A.   The BFE used in determining the flood protection elevation (FPE) shall
be determined based on the following criteria:
      1.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this title and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in sections
10-7-1 and
10-7-2 of this chapter.
      2.   When floodway or flood fringe data is available from a federal,
state, or other source, all new construction and substantial improvements
within floodway and flood fringe areas shall also comply with the requirements
of sections
10-7-2 and
10-7-5 of this chapter.
   B.   All subdivision, manufactured home park, and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five (5) acres or has more than fifty (50) lots/manufactured home
sites. Such base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in
accordance with section
10-3-2 of this title and utilized in implementing this title.
   C.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a federal,
state, or other source as outlined in this section, the applicant may submit a
site specific engineering analysis to determine BFE or the lowest floor shall
be elevated or floodproofed (nonresidential) to two feet (2') above the
"highest adjacent grade (HAG)" at the building site or to the "flood protection
elevation (FPE)" whichever is higher, as defined in chapter 2 of this title.
All other applicable provisions of section
10-7-2 of this chapter shall also apply. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
10-7-4: STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS:
Along rivers and streams where base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided by
FEMA or is available from another source but neither floodway nor flood fringe
areas are identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS
report, the following requirements shall apply to all development within such
areas:
   A.   Standards of sections
10-7-1 and
10-7-2 of this chapter; and
   B.   Until a regulatory floodway or flood fringe area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood at any point within the community. (Ord. 147, 2-9-
2017)
10-7-5: STANDARDS FOR FLOODWAYS:
Areas designated as floodways are located within the special flood hazard areas
established in section
10-3-2 of this title. The floodways are extremely hazardous areas due to the
velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris and
potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards
outlined in sections
10-7-1 and
10-7-2 of this chapter shall apply to all development within such areas:
   A.   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other developments shall be permitted unless:
      1.   The landowner/applicant demonstrates the proposed encroachment would
not result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice and presented to the floodplain
administrator prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
      2.   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within six (6)
months of completion of the proposed encroachment.
   B.   If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all development shall
comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this title.
   C.   Manufactured homes may be permitted provided the following provisions
are met:
      1.   The anchoring and the elevation standards of subsection
10-7-2C of this chapter; and
      2.   The encroachment standards of subsection A of this section. (Ord.
147, 2-9-2017)
10-7-6: STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING:
Located within the special flood hazard areas established in section
10-3-2 of this title, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These
areas have special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to
three feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the
path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to sections
10-7-1 and
10-7-2 of this chapter, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
meet the following requirements:
   A.   The lowest floor shall be elevated at least as high as the depth number
specified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), in feet, plus a freeboard of
zero feet (0'), above the highest adjacent grade; or at least two feet (2')
above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
   B.   Nonresidential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be floodproofed to
the same level as required in subsection A of this section so that the
structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below that
level shall be watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is
required in accordance with section
10-4-5 of this title and subsection
10-7-2B of this chapter.
   C.   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures. (Ord. 147, 2-9-
2017)
CHAPTER 8
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Rights And Liabilities
10-8-2: Effect Upon Outstanding Floodplain Development Permits
10-8-1: RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES:
This title, in part, is a reenactment of some of the provisions of the flood
damage prevention ordinance enacted January 16, 2007, as amended, and it is not
the intention to repeal but rather to reenact and continue to enforce without
interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights and liabilities
that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced. The enactment of
this title shall not affect any action, suit, or proceeding instituted or
pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance of the city of
Dover enacted on January 16, 2007, as amended, which are not reenacted herein
are repealed. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
10-8-2: EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS:
Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans, construction,
size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof for which a
floodplain development permit has been granted by the floodplain administrator
or designee before the time of passage of this title. Provided, however, that
when construction is not begun under such outstanding permit within a period of
one hundred eighty (180) days subsequent to the date of issuance of the
outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this title. (Ord. 147, 2-9-2017)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Authority
11-1-4: Fees
11-1-5: Interpretation And Conflict
11-1-6: Penalties And Remedies
11-1-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall be known and cited officially as the City of Dover
Subdivision Regulations. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
These provisions are adopted to provide for the orderly division of land within
the city and to:
   A.   Protect and provide for the public health, safety and general welfare
of the city;
   B.   Guide the future growth and development of the city;
   C.   Encourage the orderly and beneficial development of the community's
land;
   D.   Guide public and private policy in order to provide adequate and
efficient streets, drainage, parks, and public facilities;
   E.   Establish standards for development and installation of improvements
for subdivisions, including water, sewer, streets, and drainage;
   F.   Further the orderly layout and use of land and to ensure proper legal
description and monumentation of subdivided land;
   G.   Ensure that public facilities and services are available concurrent
with development and will have sufficient capacity to serve the subdivision;
   H.   Ensure that the community will bear no more than its fair share of any
cost of providing services by requiring the developer to pay fees, furnish land
or establish mitigation measures to provide a fair share of capital facilities
needs generated by the development;
   I.   Assure the adequacy of drainage facilities to safeguard ground and
surface water and to encourage the wise use and management of natural resources
to preserve the stability and beauty of the community and the value of the
land;
   J.   Provide open space through the most efficient design and layout of
land, while preserving the density of development as established in the zoning
ordinance of the city;
   K.   Establish procedures and standards for consideration of applications
governed by this title. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-1-3: AUTHORITY:
   A.   Specified: This title is adopted pursuant to the authority delegated to
the city pursuant to Article XII, Section 2 of the Idaho Constitution, and
Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65 and Title 50, Chapters 3, 9, and 13.
   B.   Scope: The provisions of this title shall be administered to ensure
orderly growth and development and shall supplement and implement provisions of
the city comprehensive plan, other city ordinances and current capital
improvements plan. By virtue of this title, the city council, mayor, and staff
of the city are vested with the authority to review, approve with conditions,
or disapprove applications as set forth in this title. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-1-4: FEES:
Fees: The city council shall adopt by resolution reasonable fees related to the
cost of services associated with review, processing, and inspection of
applications and activities related to this title. Until all applicable fees,
charges, and expenses have been paid in full, no action shall be taken on any
application or appeal. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-1-5: INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT:
Interpretation: In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
title shall be held to be the minimum requirements. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-1-6: PENALTIES AND REMEDIES:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Failure to comply with any provisions of this title shall
be deemed a misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Each Day Separate Violation: Each day a violation continues may be
considered a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during
which any violation of this title is committed, continued, or permitted.
   C.   Civil Remedies: Nothing contained herein shall preclude the city from
pursuing enforcement through injunctive relief or any other civil remedies
available. The city attorney may, with the consent of the council, bring a
civil action considered necessary to enjoin a violation of this title. Civil
remedies may be sought in addition to, or in lieu of, criminal penalties,
including the recovery of any costs, civil fines or penalties imposed by this
title. The city may also record a notice to title for any subdivision violation
that has remained unresolved for forty five (45) days or more after the first
notice of violation was sent by certified mail by the city to the landowner at
the address shown on the county assessor's tax rolls. The notice of violation
shall identify the subdivision violation, location, and the actions required to
resolve the violation. After the violation has been resolved, the landowner
shall pay a fee as set forth in the official fee schedule established by this
title, or by mediated restitution to process and record a lifting of the notice
to title.
   D.   Enforcement: No zoning permit shall be issued for the construction of
any building or structure located on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in
violation of the provisions of these regulations, nor shall the city have any
obligation to issue any zoning permit to any parcel created or established in
violation of these provisions.
   E.   No zoning permits, except for a permit for one model home, will be
issued for proposed lots depicted on the final plat until the final plat has
been recorded, the reproducible copies of the recorded plat have been received,
and the interior monuments have been set in accordance with Idaho Code.
   F.   No land development or site disturbance activities that constitutes
subdivision or installation of subdivision improvements pursuant to the
requirements of this ordinance nor the filing of a subdivision plat in the
office of the county recorder shall be undertaken without first obtaining the
permits or approvals required by this ordinance. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Interpretations
11-2-2: Definitions
11-2-1: INTERPRETATIONS:
When not inconsistent with the context, words in the plural number include the
singular number, and words in the singular number include the plural number.
The word "shall" is always mandatory unless the express language of this title
provides otherwise. Except as expressly defined herein, words used in this
title shall be given their ordinary meaning consistent with common usage and
context. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, the following terms, phrases, and words shall
have the following meanings:
ADMINISTRATOR:               The duly appointed planning and zoning
                             administrator of the city of Dover.
                             A strip of land dedicated to public use
                             providing vehicular and pedestrian
ALLEY:                       access to the rear or side of properties
                             that abut and are served by a public
                             road.
                             A group of contiguous lots within fixed
BLOCK:                       boundaries established and described by
                             a recorded subdivision plat.
                             An adjustment of property lines between
BOUNDARY LINE ADJUSTMENT:    two (2) or more existing adjacent
                             unplatted parcels or the combining of
                             parcels to create fewer parcels.
CITY COUNCIL:                The duly elected legislative authority
                             of the city of Dover.
                             Lots that are smaller than the minimum
                             standard for a given zoning district,
CLUSTER LOTS:                which are grouped together to reduce
                             infrastructure and increase opportunity
                             for open or common space.
                             The current plan of the city of Dover,
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN: adopted pursuant to the Idaho Local Land
                             Use Planning Act.
                             An estate consisting of an undivided
                             interest in common in real property, in
CONDOMINIUM:                 an interest or interests in limited
                             common area or in any combination
                             thereof, together with a separate
                             interest in space of a structure.
                             A subdivision option as provided by this
CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION:    title, allowing for the preservation of
                             open spaces, density averaging, and
                             design variations.
                             A street closed at one end by an area of
CUL-DE-SAC:                  sufficient size and shape for turning of
                             emergency vehicles.
                             The deliberate conveyance of land to the
                             public by an owner for any general and
                             public uses, together with an acceptance
                             of that land on behalf of the public.
DEDICATION, PUBLIC:          Land to be dedicated through the
                             platting process shall be depicted and
                             specifically conveyed on a final plat.
                             Approval of the plat and endorsement by
                             the city shall constitute acceptance of
                             the dedication.
                             Any transaction or action that alters or
                             affects the shape, size, or legal
                             description of any part of an owner's
                             "land," as defined in this section.
DIVISION OF LAND:            Rental or lease of a building, facility
                             or structure that does not alter or
                             affect the legal description of an
                             owner's land shall not constitute a
                             division of land.
                             A right granted by a property owner to a
EASEMENT:                    person or entity for a specific use of
                             the land.
                             A required study compiled by the
                             applicant pertaining to the effect of
                             any proposed development on city
IMPACT STUDY:                services and other public services,
                             including police, fire, schools, public
                             works (i.e., water, sewer, streets) and
                             other anticipated impacts to areas
                             affected by applicant's proposal.
                             A platted parcel of land recorded
LOT:                         pursuant to Idaho Code title 50, chapter
                             13.
                             A reconfiguration of platted lot lines
LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT:         between two (2) or more lots that does
                             not result in the creation of any
                             additional lots.
                             An amendment to a recorded plat to enter
                             minor changes to notes, corrections to
NOTATIONAL CHANGE, MINOR     lot or block numbering, endorsements,
                             dedications, or similar changes that do
                             not affect the conditions of approval of
                             the original plat.
OFF SITE:                    Not located on the property that is the
                             subject of a development application.
ON SITE:                     Located on the lot or parcel in question
                             or on the property being developed.
                             Land dedicated or reserved for the
                             public or for the use and enjoyment of
                             specific owners and occupants, pursuant
                             to the specific standards of this title,
                             which may include greenbelts, parkland,
OPEN SPACE:                  forested areas, or wetlands that are
                             generally kept free of structures, but
                             may include restrooms, picnic areas,
                             recreation centers, or other uses
                             consistent with the open space
                             functions.
                             An unplatted unit of contiguous land
PARCEL:                      under one ownership and constituting a
                             separate tract of land.
                             A reproducible or permanent
                             representation of a subdivision showing
                             thereon the division of a tract or
                             parcel of land into lots, blocks, roads
PLAT:                        and alleys or other divisions,
                             dedications and easements, prepared for
                             filing and recording with the county
                             recorder in accordance with Idaho Code
                             title 50, chapter 13.
                             The final drawing of the subdivision and
                             dedication prepared for filing for
PLAT, FINAL:                 record with the county recorder and
                             containing all elements and requirements
                             set forth in Idaho Code and this title.
                             A drawing of a proposed subdivision
                             showing the proposed general layout of
PLAT, PRELIMINARY:           roads and alleys, lots, blocks, open
                             space, restrictions, and other elements
                             of a plat or subdivision, as required by
                             this title.
PLAT, SHORT:                 A subdivision of land into four (4) or
                             fewer lots.
                             All sewerage collection systems,
                             community septic tank and drainfield,
SEWERAGE SYSTEM:             pump stations, interceptor and
                             appurtenances that are used or will be
                             used to transport, treat and dispose of
                             sewage.
                             An improved and maintained public right
                             of way that provides multi-modal
                             circulation such as vehicular, bicycle,
                             and pedestrian, a principal means of
                             access to adjacent properties, the
                             dedication of which has been officially
                             accepted by the city of Dover, or other
                             local, state, or federal entity with
                             jurisdiction over transportation
                             systems, and which may also include
                             dedications for public utilities,
                             pedestrian walkways, stormwater
                             features, cut and fill slopes, and
                             drainage. The term "street" also
                             includes the terms highway, parkway,
                             road, avenue, and other such terms. The
                             city council will adopt by resolution
                             and periodically update roadway
                             standards defining and depicting
                             specific dimensions, requirements, and
                             options for roads within the city. Speed
                             limits for each road are determined by
STREET, PUBLIC:              Idaho Code, the road classification, and
                             engineering studies.
                             Streets are classified in the city by
                             means of a Dover Road Classification Map
                             consistent with the Statewide System
                             Map. Definitions will be consistent with
                             the Highway Functional Classification
                             Concepts, Criteria and Procedures as
                             published by the most current version of
                             the U.S. Department of Transportation
                             Federal Highway Administration. In
                             accordance with 23 CFR 470, the Idaho
                             Transportation Department has the
                             primary responsibility for developing
                             and updating Idaho's Statewide
                             Functional Classification map and must
                             collaborate with local officials and
                             appropriate federal agencies. The City
                             of Dover will coordinate with the
                             Independent Highway District regarding
                             classifications and changes to roadway
                             classifications. Definitions are
                             abbreviated and generally described
                             below:
                             Characteristics of urban, rural
                             arterials serve major centers of
                             metropolitan areas, provide a high
                             degree of mobility and can also provide
                             mobility through rural areas. minor
   Arterial:              urban and rural arterials provide
                             service for trips of moderate length,
                             serve geographic areas that are smaller
                             than their higher arterial counterparts
                             and offer connectivity to the higher
                             arterial system. These types of roads
                             are not typical for the city.
                             Collectors serve a critical role in the
                             roadway network by gathering traffic
                             from local roads and funneling them to
                             the arterial network. Within the context
                             of functional classification, collectors
                             are broken down into two categories:
                             major collectors and minor collectors
                             both with urban and rural definitions.
                             The distinctions between major
                             collectors and minor collectors are
                             often subtle. Generally, major collector
   Collector:             routes are longer in length; have lower
                             connecting driveway densities; have
                             higher speed limits; are spaced at
                             greater intervals; have higher annual
                             average traffic volumes; and may have
                             more travel lanes than their minor
                             collector counterparts. Careful
                             consideration should be given to these
                             factors when assigning a major or minor
                             collector designation. In rural areas,
                             AADT (Annual Average Daily Traffic) and
                             spacing may be the most significant
                             designation factors.
                             Locally classified roads account for the
                             largest percentage of all roadways in
                             terms of mileage. They are not intended
                             for use in long distance travel, except
                             at the origin or destination end of the
   Local:                 trip, due to their provision of direct
                             access to abutting land A street usually
                             of limited continuity that serves to
                             primarily provide access to properties
                             adjacent to the roadway and direct this
                             local traffic to higher volume roadways
                             (collectors and arterials).
                             A street, road or drive that is not a
                             dedicated and accepted public right of
STREET, PRIVATE:             way for public use, and is not
                             maintained by the city of Dover, Bonner
                             County or the state of Idaho.
                             This type of road is dedicated to the
                             public for right-of-way purposes, with
STREET, PUBLIC WITH PRIVATE  maintenance deferred to private
MAINTENANCE:                 landowners or homeowner associations.
                             The city will not accept this type of
                             designation within new subdivisions.
SUBDIVIDER:                  A person or entity who proposes to
                             create, expand, or replat a subdivision.
                             The division of land into two (2) or
                             more contiguous lots, parcels, tracts,
SUBDIVISION:                 or sites for the purpose of sale, lease,
                             transfer or development, that meet the
                             criteria and subject to the exemptions
                             set forth in this title.
                             All maps, plans, plats, and narrative
SUBDIVISION PLAN:            that together fully describe a proposed
                             subdivision, as required by this title.
                             The beds of navigable lakes, rivers, and
SUBMERGED LAND:              streams below the natural or ordinary
                             high-water marks or artificial high-
                             water marks, as defined by title 12.
                             The regulations of title 12 of city code
ZONING ORDINANCE:            adopted by the city council, pursuant to
                             Idaho Code.
                             City permit required prior to the
                             construction, remodel, modification or
ZONING PERMIT:               moving onto the site any structure, as
                             set forth in section
                             12-3-9 of this code. (Ord. 172, 7-8-
                             2021)
 
CHAPTER 3
APPLICABILITY
SECTION:
11-3-1: Applicability
11-3-2: Exemptions
11-3-1: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this title shall apply to:
   A.   Any division of land into two (2) or more contiguous lots, tracts,
parcels, sites or divisions, regardless of lot size, whether immediate or
future, for the purpose of sale, lease, transfer, or development within the
incorporated area of the city. No division of land shall proceed except in
compliance with this title.
   B.   Lot line adjustments, boundary line adjustments, replats, notational
changes, amendments, or reconfigurations of platted land.
   C.   Condominium plats. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-3-2: EXEMPTIONS:
The term subdivision shall not include:
   A.   Any adjustment of boundaries between two (2) or more contiguous
unplatted parcels that does not create any additional parcels. Parcel boundary
adjustments shall comply with all zoning standards, including minimum setbacks,
parcel sizes, street frontage, etc.
   B.   Any division of land created for cemetery or burial plots.
   C.   Divisions resulting from the conveyance of a parcel of land to a taxing
district, government agency or utility regulated by the public utilities
commission, provided that the parcel will not be used for habitable structures,
such as offices, service centers, living quarters, or fire stations. (Ord. 172,
7-8-2021)
CHAPTER 4
APPLICATION PROCEDURES
SECTION:
11-4-1: Applications
11-4-2: Pre-Application Meeting
11-4-3: Contents Of Application
11-4-4: Preliminary Plat
11-4-5: Processing Applications
11-4-1: APPLICATIONS:
The requirements and procedures set forth in this chapter shall apply to the
processing of all applications to which this title is applicable. (Ord. 172, 7-
8-2021)
11-4-2: PRE-APPLICATION MEETING:
Prior to the submittal of an application for a conservation plat or preliminary
plat accompanying a planned unit development, the applicant or applicant's
representative shall complete a pre-application meeting with the zoning
administrator or designee. Pre-application meetings are optional for all other
applications. The purpose of the pre-application meeting is to identify the
subdivision process and affected agencies and to review overall design,
preliminary utility and street design, on- and off-site improvements, and
zoning requirements. The pre-application meeting does not constitute approval
or denial of the project. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-4-3: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
All applications required by the terms of this title shall be completed on
forms provided by the city and submitted to the city clerk, along with the
required fees. The application shall include:
   A.   Proof of ownership. A current deed and title report not less than six
(6) months old from a title insurance company authorized to do business in the
state, showing ownership of the subject land.
   B.   Ownership list: The names, email and mailing addresses and telephone
numbers of all person, firms and corporations holding interests in said land.
   C.   Consent: Signatures or written consents of the property owners and any
lienholders, as shown on the current title report, authorizing the filing of
the application.
   D.   Property Description: Legal description and tax parcel number of the
subject land.
   E.   List of Property Owners: A list, prepared by a title company licensed
to do business in the state, of the names and mailing addresses of all property
owners owning property within three hundred feet (300') from the external
boundaries of the entire proposal area, as shown on the current county tax roll
assessment.
   F.   Utility and Access Information: Documentation of the proposed sewer,
water, gas, electricity, fire protection, and transportation accesses proposed
for the project and details regarding the capacity of affected agencies to
serve the project.
   G.   Vicinity Map: A map of the area surrounding the subject land, showing
existing road patterns, trails, and adjoining properties.
   H.   Stormwater Plan: A stormwater, erosion control plan, where applicable,
in conformance with adopted city stormwater regulations.
   I.   Preliminary design or construction plans, pursuant to the requirements
of this title. Depending upon the site, proposed typical sections, topography,
and preliminary information such as road profiles, paving limits, intersection
geometry, excavation and embankment limits to show the interaction of the new
or existing stormwater features, wetlands, floodplain and floodway boundaries,
waterways, seasonal tributaries and drainages, proposed and existing rights-of-
way, and proposed and existing easements, where applicable, for the purpose of
reviewing the reasonableness of the preliminary plat. Existing easements and
record instrument numbers shall be shown on the plans.
   J.   Proposed utility infrastructure plan, including sewer master plan,
water lines, fire lines and irrigation service line locations and centerline
grades.
   K.   Pedestrian circulation plans.
   L.   Right-of-way landscape plan and details.
   M.   A Trip Generation and Distribution Letter prepared by an Idaho-licensed
engineer. All calculations shall be based upon the latest edition of the
Institute of Transportation Engineer's Trip Generation Manual. The city will
accept letters prepared in accordance with the guidelines outlined in the
Independent Highway District (IHD) Standards. Based upon the Trip Generation
Letter, a Traffic Impact Study may be warranted, as determined by the city
engineer, following guidelines from the ITE Transportation Impact Analysis for
Site Development and IHD.
   N.   Any additional information reasonably required by the city to complete
the application. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-4-4: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
A preliminary plat, where required by this title, shall be prepared by an
Idaho-licensed surveyor, and submitted with the application in a format
specified by the city application. The preliminary plat shall include the
following:
   A.   The subject land, drawn to a legible scale to ensure clarity, showing
bearings and distances of property boundaries, existing and proposed easements,
access roads, existing and proposed utilities, existing structures, proposed
lots, blocks, and existing off-site and adjacent rights-of-way and railroad
rights-of-way.
   B.   Location within the subject section, township, and range in relation to
quarter section and quarter-quarter section lines and any corporate city
boundaries. Include reference to two (2) public land survey monuments
recognized by the county
   C.   Basis of bearing.
   D.   Proposed subdivision name, in accord with the state of Idaho
requirements for unique names.
   E.   Proposed road names, in compliance with the city-adopted
9-1-1 road naming system.
   F.   Ownership and subdivision names of adjacent properties.
   G.   North arrow, legend, and scale.
   H.   Boundaries, dimensions, acreage, and lot and block numbers for all
proposed lots.
   I.   All proposed streets, pathways, and drainage facilities.
   J.   Location, dimensions, acreage, and proposed uses for any common area,
open space, or land to be dedicated to the public.
   K.   Any development phases or stages.
   L.   Location of floodplain or floodway boundaries, in accord with the
requirements of title 10 of city code.
   M.   Any proposed dedications, reservations, restrictions, or building
envelopes proposed by the developer or required by the city, including specific
details of dedications, future ownership, and uses.
   N.   Date of preliminary plat and the name, address, and contact information
for the surveyor who prepared the preliminary plat. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-4-5: PROCESSING APPLICATIONS:
Applications shall be processed as follows:
   A.   Review: The city shall have a reasonable amount of time to review the
application to determine its completeness based on the requirements in this
title for each type of application. A reasonable time frame may include up to
thirty (30) days.
   B.   Notice of Application Status: Following the review, the city shall
inform the applicant in writing whether the application is complete or
incomplete, specifying the items or information that may be necessary to
complete the application.
   C.   Agency Review: Once the application has been determined to be complete,
the city shall provide copies of the application to affected public agencies
and entities, including, but not limited to, the health district, fire
district, the city sewer and water departments, private water districts, the
school district, transportation agencies, and state or federal agencies. The
city shall stipulate the length of time for response, which may include up to
thirty (30) days.
   D.   Completion of Agency Review: When the agency comment period is
complete, the city shall forward all agency comments to the applicant. If
additional agency information is requested, the city shall request the
applicant provide adequate evidence that the proposal meets the standards of
this title or the city may list the application as incomplete at the agency
level, pending the receipt of the additional information.
   E.   Public Hearing Required: The following applications require public
hearings:
      1.   Preliminary plats for regular and conservation subdivisions. The
planning and zoning commission shall provide a recommendation to the city
council. The city council shall make the final decision.
      2.   Short plats. The planning and zoning commission shall conduct a
public hearing, with recommendation to city council. The city council may
accept the recommendation of the planning and zoning commission or require a
public hearing before making a decision, pursuant to the short plat procedures
of Chapter 14 of this title.
      3.   Material modifications. Material modifications to plats, including
changes to dedications, boundaries, density, service requirements, street
accesses, conditions of approval and other such major changes shall require a
public hearing before the city council.
   F.   Administrative Decision: The following applications do not require
public hearings and shall be considered by the planning and zoning
administrator in accord with this title.
      1.   Condominium plats;
      2.   Lot line adjustment;
      3.   Minor notational changes, such as adjustment of lot or block lines,
name changes, or other non-material changes.
   G.   Public Hearing Notice: Upon completion of the public agency review, the
city shall schedule the application to the next available public hearing before
the governing body authorized to consider the application, as provided in this
title, allowing sufficient time for public hearing notice. Notice shall be
given at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing in the official
newspaper of the City of Dover, by regular mail to landowners within three
hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the subject property, and by
notice on the official website, when available. When notice is required to two
hundred (200) or more property owners or purchasers of record, notice may be
given through a display advertisement at least four inches (4") by two (2)
columns in size in the official newspaper of the city at least fifteen (15)
days prior to the hearing date. Notice shall also be posted on the property at
least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing.
   H.   The administrator shall provide a report to the planning and zoning
commission and city council prior to the public hearing, summarizing the
application, standards for consideration, and draft conditions of approval.
   I.   Notice of Decision: When the governing body has made a final decision
on an application, the city shall provide written notice to the applicant of
the final decision pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6535, or subsequent
amendments thereof.
   J.   Administrative Action: Applications for lot line adjustments, minor
notational changes, and condominium plats do not require public hearings and
shall be processed by the administrator once the agency review is complete, as
follows:
      1.   Decision. The administrator shall provide to the applicant a written
decision, containing the reasons for approval or denial and citing the
standards used in making the decisions and any conditions of approval. Where
required by law, the administrator shall develop findings of fact and
conclusions in support of the decision. If denied, the administrator shall also
set forth in writing the actions, if any, the applicant could take to obtain
approval.
      2.   Appeal. Any decision by the administrator shall be considered final,
unless appealed to the city council within thirty (30) days of the final,
administrative written decision. The city council shall consider the appeal at
its next available council meeting, allowing sufficient time for meeting
notice. The council shall consider whether the application is in compliance
with this title, and shall affirm, modify, or overturn the administrative
decision accordingly. The council decision shall be final, and any further
recourse shall be as provided by Idaho Code, title 67, chapter 65.
   K.   Public Hearing Process: Whenever an application is subject to a public
hearing, as specified in this title, the planning and zoning commission and
city council shall specify the relevant facts considered in evaluating the
application, the reasons for approval or denial, and the actions, if any, the
application could take to obtain approval.
      1.   Recommendations Of Planning And Zoning Commission: The planning and
zoning commission may make one of the following recommendations to the city
council after its public hearing:
         a.   Approval;
         b.   Conditional approval, as authorized by this title and Idaho Code;
         c.   Denial of application, as presented; or
         d.   Remand to the applicant for additional information.
      2.   City Council Consideration: Upon receipt of the recommendation from
the planning and zoning commission, the city council shall conduct its own
public hearing, except as otherwise provided by this title, and may:
         a.   Approve;
         b.   Conditionally approve, as authorized by this title and Idaho
Code;
         c.   Deny application, as presented;
         d.   Remand to the applicant for additional information and subsequent
public hearing;
         e.   Continue the public hearing to a specified date and time for
further deliberations.
      3.   Recourse: The city council decision shall be final, and any recourse
shall be as provided in Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
CHAPTER 5
STANDARDS OF REVIEW AND CONDITIONS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Application Evaluation
11-5-2: Standards
11-5-3: Conditions Of Approval
11-5-4: Expiration, Extensions
11-5-1: APPLICATION EVALUATION:
Whenever a governing body grants or denies an application, it shall specify in
writing the ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application, the
reasons for denial or approval, and the actions, if any, to be taken to obtain
approval. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-5-2: STANDARDS:
The governing body's recommendation or decision regarding the preliminary plat
application shall be based on the following standards. To approve the
application, the city council shall find adequate evidence of record that:
   A.   Water Supply: There is sufficient quality and quantity of water capable
of serving the proposed subdivision for potable water and fire flow.
   B.   Sewer Treatment: There are adequate provisions for treatment and
disposal of sewage by a public sewage system or other treatment as approved by
Panhandle Health District and the city.
   C.   Other Public Services: There are adequate public services to serve the
proposed subdivision, including schools, emergency services, and fire
protection.
   D.   Street Plan: Proposed streets are consistent with the city adopted
street standards.
   E.   Hazardous Conditions: The proposed subdivision is designed to avoid or
mitigate impacts to hazardous areas such as steep slopes, unstable soils, or
floodplains.
   F.   Zoning: The development meets the minimum standards of the city's
zoning regulations.
   G.   Design. The proposed subdivision is in compliance with the design
standards of the subdivision regulations.
   H.   Natural Resources. The development will not adversely impact the
natural resources of the city and surrounding lands and any impacts are
mitigated by subdivision design or conditions of approval.
   I.   Impacts to Services: Adequate services, service extensions, off-site
facilities, or other mitigations are provided by the developer to ensure the
delivery of services to current users are not affected and there are no
substantial additional costs imposed upon current residents, users, or
taxpayers to accommodate the proposed subdivision. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-5-3: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
   A.   Conflict: Where any provision of these regulations imposes restrictions
different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other
provision of law, the provision that is more restrictive or imposes the
standards most likely to protect the public health, safety and general welfare
shall control.
   B.   The city may impose conditions of approval for the subdivision to
mitigate effects of the development on the ability to deliver public services,
to ensure the timely completion of improvements, or to provide on- or off-site
improvements proportionate to the impacts of the development. These conditions
may include, but are not limited to the following:
      1.   Mitigation measures to protect adjoining lands from the development
or reduce potential hazards;
      2.   Timetables or project phasing to control the sequence and completion
of the development;
      3.   Provisions for on-site or off-site public facilities or services;
      4.   Mitigation of effects of the proposed development upon the delivery
of services;
      5.   Dedication of easements or rights-of-way directly related to the
proposed development and the ability of the city or other political
subdivisions to adequately serve the development;
      6.   Execution of a development agreement. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-5-4: EXPIRATION, EXTENSIONS:
The final plat shall be recorded within two (2) years of the preliminary plat
written decision or the approval shall expire. Prior to the expiration, the
developer may seek up to a two- (2-) year extension by submitting a written
request and fee to the city clerk. The extension request shall be considered by
the city council at a regular meeting. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
CHAPTER 6
DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Purpose
11-6-2: Applicability
11-6-3: Street Design
11-6-4: Pathways
11-6-5: Lighting
11-6-6: Stormwater/Drainage
11-6-7: Utility Design
11-6-8: Lot And Block Layout
11-6-9: Fire Protection
11-6-10: Conditional Variations
11-6-11: Phasing
11-6-1: PURPOSE:
The following design and improvement standards are set forth to ensure that the
proposed subdivision is designed and developed in accord with the city’s goals
and objectives and meets the minimum adopted standards for infrastructure
improvements and transportation requirements. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-6-2: APPLICABILITY:
All subdivisions, as defined, are subject to the standards and requirements of
this chapter, unless otherwise specifically exempt by this title. (Ord. 172, 7-
8-2021)
11-6-3: STREET DESIGN:
   A.   All roads and public rights-of-way serving the proposed subdivision
shall be designed to meet the minimum street, curb, gutter, pathway, and
sidewalk standards adopted by the city council.
   B.   Exceptions to the standards may be granted by the city engineer to
address unique topographic or street connection issues.
   C.   Street identification and traffic control signs shall be designed to
meet the latest edition of the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices
(MUTCD) standards, to the satisfaction of the city engineer.
   D.   All streets shall be named in accord with the city-adopted
9-1-1 street naming and addressing standards.
   E.   Streets and pathways to be offered for public dedication shall be
identified on the preliminary plat and designed to minimum public road
standards, as adopted by the city council.
   F.   Streets shall be designed to continue principal existing streets or
projected alignments to adjoining properties or subdivisions. Where streets are
designed for future connections, adequate turn-arounds meeting the minimum fire
code standards and city-adopted street standards shall be provided. (Ord. 172,
7-8-2021)
11-6-4: PATHWAYS:
   A.   Pedestrian walkways and bicycle paths are required and shall be
designed and constructed by the developer to provide convenient pedestrian
circulation throughout subdivisions and to major roadways, schools, parks,
commercial areas, or other attractions.
   B.   Pathways and walkways shall be constructed in accord with the adopted
city standards.
   C.   Easements or dedications to the public of the pathways shall be shown
on the final plat. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-6-5: LIGHTING:
A lighting plan shall be included with the subdivision application to address
the design and location of proposed lights. At a minimum, lighting is required
at road intersections and pathway trailheads, as determined by the city
engineer, to address potential road and trail hazards. Additional lighting may
be required, as determined by the city engineer, to meet safety concerns. The
plan shall be designed in accord with the latest edition of the AASHTO
(American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials) Roadway
Lightning Guide and shall avoid unwanted glare, misdirected illumination, and
excessive lighting. The city supports designs that meet public safety needs
while also being dedicated to the preservation of the night sky. (Ord. 172, 7-
8-2021)
11-6-6: STORMWATER/DRAINAGE:
Stormwater/erosion control systems and drainage features shall be designed and
installed in accord with the city’s adopted stormwater management regulations
and applicable state and federal regulations. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-6-7: UTILITY DESIGN:
   A.   Sanitary sewer and water system designs for subdivisions served by the
City of Dover utilities shall be in conformance with the city’s water and
wastewater master plans, adopted policies, utility ordinances, and construction
standards, in addition to the regulations of the Idaho Department of
Environmental Quality, the Panhandle Health District, and other appropriate
agencies. Written confirmation of the capacity to serve the proposed
subdivision shall be included with the subdivision application.
   B.   Municipal utilities shall be installed and extended to carry service
beyond the proposed development through extensions to property lines and by
providing appropriate line size, depth and location. When utility extensions
are required to provide service to and along the perimeter of developments,
main or service laterals to adjoining properties are to be provided per the
city engineer’s direction.
   C.   Individual or private community sewage disposal systems for
subdivisions not served by a municipal system shall be designed in accord with
the requirements of the State of Idaho and health district.
   D.   Water systems for service to non-city public water systems shall be
designed in conformance with the standards of the water purveyor, in
conformance with the State of Idaho. A will-serve letter from the water
purveyor confirming the capacity to serve the proposed subdivision shall be
provided at the time of subdivision application.
   E.   Existing and new irrigation service lines within the public right-of-
way shall be shown and noted as public or private systems on the final plat.
Irrigation systems within the public right-of-way shall have sidewalk and path
crossing sleeves.
   F.   Dry utilities (electrical, cable, gas, etc.) may be located within the
right-of-way or easements according to the city’s adopted construction
standards. Dry utilities shall be coordinated to minimize the use of available
rights-of-way or easements and shall be installed to accommodate future roadway
expansions. Existing development areas that have underground dry utilities with
no overhead utility poles, shall continue that design approach for those
underground utilities in any replatting of the development or modification,
extension or addition of utilities. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-6-8: LOT AND BLOCK LAYOUT:
   A.   Subdivision blocks and lot layouts shall be appropriate for the
topography, existing and proposed transportation systems, site limitations due
to hazards or unique land features, and service connections.
   B.   Blocks shall be designed and constructed to be as short as possible for
convenient and safe access and circulation. Block lengths shall be based upon
lot sizes, zone districts, and uses. No block shall be longer than eight
hundred feet (800') between intersecting streets, unless topography and
existing transportation systems warrant longer blocks, as determined by the
city engineer.
   C.   Corner lots (lots with frontage on intersecting streets), shall be
designed to provide a minimum seventy feet (70') of frontage on the side that
provides the driveway access.
   D.   All lots shall be designed to access from internal subdivision local
roads when local roads are provided. Lots with frontage on collectors or
arterials and internal local roads shall be required to use the local road
access. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-6-9: FIRE PROTECTION:
Adequate fire protection provisions shall be designed in accord with the
International Fire Code. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-6-10: CONDITIONAL VARIATIONS:
   A.   Variations. As a condition of approval, the city may approve variations
to subdivision design and construction standards, when the developer
demonstrates the subdivision would be better served by an alternative proposal.
The request for the variation must be due to topography, existing development
patterns in the immediate area, service connections or other unique features.
The city council may approve the variations to conditions, provided:
      1.   The request for the variations to standards is included in the
preliminary plat application.
      2.   The variation shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent and
purpose of these regulations.
      3.   The variation will not be detrimental to the public safety, health
or welfare or injurious to other property.
      4.   Granting the variation will not adversely affect public services.
      5.   There are unique, site-specific conditions warranting the variation.
      6.   The request shall not be contrary to the city zoning ordinance,
comprehensive plan, or other ordinances.
   B.   Variations Review: In approving variations, the city council may impose
conditions to ensure the purposes of the variation are met. A summary of the
requested variation shall be included in required legal notices for the
preliminary plat. The decision on the requested variation shall be made at the
time of preliminary plat consideration. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-6-11: PHASING:
   A.   Development and platting of subdivisions may be phased, allowing for
portions of the project to be completed over time according to a proposed
schedule.
   B.   A phasing plan shall be submitted at the time of application and shall:
      1.   Be designed to contain all of the necessary improvements to function
as a subdivision without the completion of any other phases.
      2.   Include a phasing schedule, narrative explaining the proposed
phasing, phasing boundaries, and interim or temporary solutions to stormwater
systems and treatment irrigations systems, water, sewer and transportation
systems.
      3.   Include plans to coordinate infrastructure construction,
dedications, off-site improvements, open space/parks, landscaping, private
utilities, or other elements of a subdivision.
      4.   Indicate a timetable and triggering mechanisms for improvements.
   C.   The phasing plan shall be considered by the governing bodies as part of
the application and shall be included in the development agreement. (Ord. 172,
7-8-2021)
CHAPTER 7
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Purpose
11-7-2: Scope Of Agreement
11-7-3: Requirements And Exceptions
11-7-4: Elements Of Agreement
11-7-5: General Provisions
11-7-6: No Third-Party Rights
11-7-7: Limitations On Liability
11-7-8: Maintenance Agreement
11-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of a development agreement is to provide a written understanding
between the city and developer regarding the scope, timing, and
responsibilities of the development. The agreement shall address subdivision
conditions of approval, mitigation measures, scope of development, construction
improvements, timing of improvements, processing of final plats, and other such
details identified during the application and hearing process. (Ord. 172, 7-8-
2021)
11-7-2: SCOPE OF AGREEMENT:
A development agreement shall constitute a binding contract between the
property owner of a proposed subdivision and the city and shall contain those
terms and conditions agreed to by the parties and those required by this title
and other legal requirements. The administrator and/or city engineer, in
conjunction with the city attorney, are authorized to negotiate development
agreements on behalf of the city in preparation for city council consideration.
(Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-7-3: REQUIREMENTS AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   A development agreement shall be entered into and approved by the city
prior to the initiation of subdivision improvement construction and recordation
of a subdivision plat.
   B.   Development agreements are not required for short plats, unless the
governing body determines special circumstances warrant an agreement.
   C.   The city council may waive the requirement for a development agreement
if it finds that the conditions of approval for the preliminary plat are
sufficient to address details identified in subsection
11-7-1. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-7-4: ELEMENTS OF AGREEMENT:
The development agreement shall include, at a minimum, the following:
   A.   A description of the subdivision project, including location, legal
description, number of lots, date of written decision, and other identifying
information.
   B.   A copy of the approved preliminary plat.
   C.   All conditions of approval contained in the written final decision.
   D.   Time limits, vesting rights, and provisions for extension and
extinguishing the agreement.
   E.   Any phasing plans and descriptions of any required temporary
improvements and the terms of those improvements.
   F.   A construction schedule and description of construction improvements to
be installed on site and off site and the responsibilities of the developer and
city.
   G.   Specifics of any public or private dedications and required
maintenance.
   H.   Any additional information deemed necessary by the city to fully
address the scope and responsibilities of the parties. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-7-5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Staff shall prepare a final development agreement for city council
consideration after completion of the negotiations and approval by the
developer. The agreement may be considered at any regular or special meeting of
the council, allowing time for proper meeting notice.
   B.   Following approval by the council, the executed development agreement
shall be recorded with Bonner County.
   C.   The agreement shall run with the land and bind all successors, heirs,
and assignees of the developer.
   D.   The development agreement shall expire as set forth in the agreement,
or upon the filing by the city of a release with the county recorder when the
terms of the agreement have been satisfied or are no longer valid, whichever
comes first. The development agreement shall expire simultaneously with the
preliminary plat expiration date. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-7-6: NO THIRD-PARTY RIGHTS:
Except as otherwise expressly provided in a development agreement, the
development agreement shall create no rights enforceable by any party not a
party to the development agreement. Purchasers of lots in approved subdivisions
are not deemed to be third party beneficiaries of development agreements. (Ord.
172, 7-8-2021)
11-7-7: LIMITATIONS ON LIABILITY:
Any breach of a development agreement by the city shall not give rise to
monetary damages but shall be enforceable only by resort to an action against
the city for specific performance. A substantial and material breach of a
development agreement by an owner may be cause for termination of the
agreement. No provision of any development agreement which is contrary to law
may be enforced. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-7-8: MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT:
   A.   A maintenance agreement shall be included in a development agreement
when a developer is required to maintain existing or future city and public
services in the development.
   B.   The maintenance agreement shall set forth the duties and
responsibilities of the developer regarding the ongoing maintenance of the
public improvements that are installed by the developer that are in excess of
those required by the city and are installed for the purpose of enhancement of
the aesthetics of the development and are to be maintained by the developer.
(Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
CHAPTER 8
CONSTRUCTION OF SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-8-1: Construction Plans
11-8-2: Initiation Of Construction
11-8-3: Infrastructure Inspections
11-8-4: Commencement Of Construction
11-8-5: Changes, Alterations Or Deletions
11-8-1: CONSTRUCTION PLANS:
   A.   Required: Prior to any construction, the developer shall provide the
city with a complete set of construction plans, prepared by an Idaho-licensed
engineer, that includes profiles, cross sections, specifications and supporting
data, for all required streets, pathways, lighting, utilities, fire hydrants,
stormwater systems, irrigation systems in the right-of-way and public areas,
and other facilities as identified in the conditions of preliminary plat
approval and the development agreement. All construction plans shall be in
accord with the affected agencies’ standards and regulations and shall be
installed in accord with said standards.
   B.   Construction shall be in accord with the following:
      1.   Water Line Construction: Water line construction shall be governed
by the standards of city and shall include a separate water meter to each lot,
unless a private system is proposed and approved by the city. Public water
supply shall be provided in conformance with the standards adopted by the city
and the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality.
      2.   Sewer Line Construction: Sewer line construction shall be governed
by the standards established by the city and shall conform with standards
adopted by the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality, unless a private
system is proposed and approved by the city. If a private system is proposed,
such system shall be reviewed and approved by the Panhandle Health District
and/or the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality prior to approval of the
subdivision by the city.
      3.   Fire Protection: Adequate provisions for fire protection shall be
made in accordance with the International Fire Code and other standards as
adopted by the local fire district.
      4.   Sidewalks, Streetlights: Sidewalks and streetlights shall be in
accord with the adopted policies and standards of the city.
      5.   Sewerage System: A sewerage system shall be provided in conformance
with the city water and sewer master plans, specifications of the health
district and the State of Idaho Department of Environmental Quality as required
by the city engineer, and sewer policies and procedures approved by the city.
If a private system is proposed, such system shall be reviewed and approved by
the health district and/or the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality prior
to approval of the subdivision by the city.
      6.   Drainage Systems: Streets and stormwater drainage systems will be
constructed in accordance with the city-adopted stormwater management
ordinance, and state, and federal regulations.
      7.   Utilities: Electric and communication utility lines (telephone,
cable television, etc.) servicing the proposed subdivision shall be installed
underground, where underground utilities have already been established. (Ord.
172, 7-8-2021)
11-8-2: INITIATION OF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Cost Responsibility Of Applicant: The applicant shall be responsible
for the cost of the city engineer’s review of the construction plans, pursuant
to the city’s adopted fee schedule. The developer shall pay the initial fees
prior to city review. Upon completion of the review, any remaining fees owed,
pursuant to the fee schedule, shall be paid by the developer before
construction begins.
   B.   Start Of Construction: No construction may begin until the agencies
having jurisdiction over the various utility and service components have
reviewed and approved the final construction plans and the city engineer has
provided written notice to proceed to the city clerk for those plans within the
city’s jurisdiction. Construction shall not be initiated until such time a
development agreement has been signed by the developer and the city and
recorded with Bonner County, as set forth in this title. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-8-3: INFRASTRUCTURE INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Notification To City: The developer shall be required to provide a
third-party compaction testing firm and notify the city at least two (2)
working days prior to compaction testing for each stage of public
infrastructure installation. Testing shall include but not be limited to:
roadway and path subgrades, ballast sections, base aggregates, pavement, water
and sewer line trenches, and prior to the installation of driveway culverts or
roadway crossing utilities, pipes and culverts. The city may require an
inspector be on site during construction. No work shall be covered prior to
inspections by the underground utility and/or the city’s representative. With
prior approval from the city, and for the safety for publicly accessible
locations only, trenches in public rights-of-way may be filled prior to
inspection, however, the developer shall be required to pothole trench lines
for testing in locations selected by the city.
   B.   Cost Responsibility Of Developer: The developer shall be responsible
for the cost of testing and inspections, in accord with the city’s adopted fee
schedule. Required fees shall be paid prior to commencement of construction of
the subdivision improvements. Upon completion of the subdivision improvements
or for construction time exceeding thirty (30) calendar days, the developer
shall pay fees owed on a monthly schedule and shall pay any remaining fees at
the end of construction. All remaining inspection costs shall be paid prior to
final plat approval. If a surety is provided for completion of the
improvements, the surety must include the obligation to pay the inspection
costs and shall not be released until the inspection costs in excess of the
deposit are paid.
   C.   Failure To Notify: If the developer fails to notify the city of tests
and construction progress as required herein, the city may require, at the
developer’s expense, retesting, exposure of previous stages of construction, or
any other steps that the city deems necessary to determine whether the work
conforms to the city standards.
   D.   Testing To Benefit City: Any monitoring, tests or inspections that the
city orders or performs pursuant to this section are solely for the benefit of
the city. The city does not undertake to test or inspect the work for the
benefit of the developer or any other person. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-8-4: COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION:
Upon approval by the city council, subsequent review and approval of the final
construction plans by the administrator and city engineer, which substantially
conform to the subdivision plan approved by the city council, the subdivider
may proceed with construction of the subdivision. No construction of any kind
shall take place on the site prior to written approval by the city engineer.
(Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-8-5: CHANGES, ALTERATIONS OR DELETIONS:
   A.   Prior To Plan Approval: Prior to approval of the construction plan, any
alterations of the plan must be approved by the city engineer and
administrator.
   B.   After Plan Approval: After approval of the subdivision construction
plan and before submission of a final plat representing the subdivision as
approved, the city engineer or administrator may, in writing, approve minor
changes of the subdivision plan. If the amendment is major or involves a
substantial change in the conditions of approval, the same procedures for a
public hearing for subdivision plan approval must be followed to address the
requested amendment. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
CHAPTER 9
FINAL PLAT
SECTION:
11-9-1: Submittal Of Final Plat
11-9-2: Completion Of Construction
11-9-3: Surety In Lieu Of Completion Of Work
11-9-4: Warranties And Repairs
11-9-5: Final Plat
11-9-6: Staff Review
11-9-7: City Council Review
11-9-8: Recordation
11-9-1: SUBMITTAL OF FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Following the approval of the preliminary plat and applicable
development agreement, the applicant may cause the subdivision to be surveyed
and a final plat prepared.
   B.   Prior to producing the final plat mylar, the applicant shall provide
the city with draft copy of the final plat. The purpose of the draft final
review is to ensure the final plat will meet the requirements of Idaho Code for
platting, the standards of the city, and the conditions of preliminary plat
approval.
   C.   The format of the final draft copies shall be established by the city.
   D.   A current title report shall be filed with the final plat draft copy.
The report shall not be less than six (6) months old and shall reflect all
ownerships and exceptions as of the date of the final plat filing.
   E.   The final plat draft, prepared by an Idaho-licensed surveyor, shall:
      1.   Be given a unique subdivision name in compliance with Idaho Code
section 50-1307. No subdivision name shall bear the exact name or sound the
same as another subdivision within the county unless it is a continuance or
subsequent phase of an existing subdivision.
      2.   Meet the requirements of Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13, as it now
exists or is subsequently amended.
      3.   Contain the accurate location, description, and filing of all
monuments, in accord with Idaho's Corner Perpetuation and Filing Act.
      4.   Include the north point, graphic scale, and date of plat.
      5.   Depict the location of all water courses and applicable floodplain
details required by the city's flood damage prevention code.
      6.   Depict street lines of all existing or recorded streets, principal
property lines, patent lines, township lines, or section lines intersecting,
crossing, or contiguous to the subdivision, with ties to the subdivision lines
by distance and bearings, to the satisfaction of the county surveyor.
      7.   Include the status of adjoining property and names of any
subdivisions.
      8.   Provide acreage and consecutive numbering of all lots.
      9.   Reflect substantial compliance with the preliminary plat, as
approved during the subdivision review process.
      10.   Include in the owner's certificate any offers of dedication or
easements to the public or other entities for streets, alleys, parkland,
utility corridors, and other conveyances. The plat shall clearly indicate the
type of dedication, uses, locations, dimensions, inclusions and exclusions.
      11.   Contain the approved,
9-1-1 compliant street names, pursuant to the city-adopted street naming
standards.
      12.   Contain the required certificates, including:
         a.   Owner's certificate and acknowledgments;
         b.   Project surveyor;
         c.   County surveyor;
         d.   Health District;
         e.   Independent Highway District, when applicable
         f.   City Engineer;
         g.   City Zoning Administrator;
         h.   Mayor;
         i.   Clerk;
         j.   County Treasurer;
         k.   Recorder. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-9-2: COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION:
Before submittal of the final plat or recordation of the plat, the subdivider
shall complete all required improvements and repairs in accord with the
development agreement and conditions of approval. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-9-3: SURETY IN LIEU OF COMPLETION OF WORK:
In lieu of completion of required improvements, the city council may permit the
developer to provide surety for incomplete construction or repairs to public
infrastructure associated with the subdivision. For a phased subdivision, the
required bonding and warranty shall be for the phase that is being developed,
plus any portions of other phases that are instrumental to the function of the
phase being developed. The form of surety may be a cash deposit, certified
check, irrevocable letter of credit backed by a federal or state chartered
bank, corporate surety bond written by an insurance company licensed in Idaho
having a rating from AM Best & Company of "A" or better. The surety form shall
be approved by the city attorney. The surety shall be in the amount of one
hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost to complete the required
improvements. The surety shall be accompanied by:
   A.   An agreement executed by the subdivider and in a form approved by the
city attorney that provides at a minimum the terms of the agreement, amount of
the surety, release of surety upon completion of work, warranty periods,
inspections, and approvals by parties having jurisdiction over the work,
expiration dates, and rights of the city to proceed against the surety if work
is not completed pursuant to the agreement and recovery of costs exceeding the
estimate to complete.
   B.   An estimate of the costs of the work to be completed, prepared by an
Idaho-licensed engineer. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-9-4: WARRANTIES AND REPAIRS:
The subdivider shall be responsible for the successful operation and all
repairs of required city infrastructure installed for the subdivision. Prior to
final plat submission and after the city engineer's approval of constructed
municipal improvements, the subdivider shall provide a warranty guaranteeing
the successful operation and providing for all repairs to the city
infrastructure installed for the subdivision for a period of eighteen (18)
months, in the amount of twenty-five percent (25%) of the actual costs of
installation of the infrastructure. The estimate of construction costs shall be
prepared by an Idaho-licensed professional engineer. The warranty shall be
secured by a cash deposit, certified check, irrevocable letter of credit, or
other form approved by the city attorney. The warranty shall cover a period not
less than eighteen (18) months following the city council approval of the final
plat. The warranty shall be accompanied by an agreement identifying the terms,
timely completion of improvements, release of warranty, and city recovery of
repair costs if the expenses exceed the amount secured by the warranty. The
warranty may be released by the city upon written confirmation from the city
engineer that there are no defects in material or workmanship of the required
infrastructure. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-9-5: FINAL PLAT:
Following the completion of the draft final plat review, the developer shall
provide the following to the city for final plat processing:
   A.   A final plat mylar, prepared in accord with the requirements of Idaho
Code, Title 50, Chapter 13, reflecting the requested corrections and additions
from the draft final plat review and containing the signatures on all required
certificates except the city engineer, city planning and zoning administrator,
county recorder, city clerk, and the mayor.
   B.   The development project engineer's certification that all streets,
water system, sanitary sewers, stormwater facilities, irrigation systems, and
other public or private improvements have been completed and accepted as
required in these regulations, or that a guarantee has been submitted in the
proper form as set forth in this title.
   C.   Warranty guarantees, as identified in this title.
   D.   Written confirmation of the city engineer's acceptance of the project
engineer's certifications for on- and off-site improvements.
   E.   Any written confirmations from other public entities or utility
providers certifying completion of improvements in accord with plans and
specifications of the jurisdiction.
   F.   Confirmation of the completion of any other requirements identified in
conditions of approval or the development agreement.
   G.   All remaining fees and any applicable recording fees. (Ord. 172, 7-8-
2021)
11-9-6: STAFF REVIEW:
The planning and zoning administrator and the city engineer shall review the
final plat to determine whether all conditions of the approved development
agreement have been completed and whether the final plat is consistent with the
approved preliminary plat, including any requirements for warranties, sureties,
or other arrangements. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-9-7: CITY COUNCIL REVIEW:
When the planning and zoning administrator and the city engineer reviews of the
final plat are completed and all required terms and conditions are satisfied,
the administrator may forward the plat to the city clerk recommending that it
be submitted to the city council for approval. The city clerk shall place the
request for plat approval on the next available city council agenda. The city
council shall review the subdivision and plat and, upon finding that all of the
requirements have been satisfied, shall authorize the mayor and the city clerk
to sign the plat. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-9-8: RECORDATION:
After the mylar representing the final plat is signed by the mayor and city
clerk, the administrator shall record the final plat with the county recorder.
The applicant shall pay all review, recording, copying, and processing costs
prior to final plat recording. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
CHAPTER 10
CONDOMINIUM PLAT
SECTION:
11-10-1: Applicability
11-10-2: General Provisions
11-10-3: Application
11-10-4: Procedures
11-10-5: Final Condominium Plat
11-10-1: APPLICABILITY:
Any division of an existing or permitted building under construction and land
in combination into two (2) or more distinct units of ownership with common or
limited common ownership of any portion of the structure or structure or lands
in combination shall proceed in compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 172, 7-8-
2021)
11-10-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Condominium subdivisions are permitted in any zone.
   B.   The proposed condominium subdivision shall not result in any additional
lots or parcel.
   C.   The condominium structure shall comply with applicable local, state,
and fire district standards pertaining to fire walls and zero lot line
construction.
   D.   The application shall be in compliance with the Idaho Condominium
Property Act. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-10-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   An application for a condominium plat may be submitted for existing
buildings, buildings under construction, or proposed buildings that have issued
building permits.
   B.   The application shall include the following:
      1.   Applicable fees.
      2.   Diagrammatic floor plans of the building as built or to be built,
providing sufficient detail to identify each unit, unit numbers or letters,
relative unit location in the building, approximate dimensions, elevations
where multi-storied, common area, and limited common area.
      3.   Copies of certificates consenting to the condominium project
executed by the project owner and any holder of recorded surety interest in the
property, pursuant to the Idaho Condominium Property Act.
      4.   Declaration of condominium, articles of incorporation, and proposed
bylaws, per the Idaho Condominium Property Act.
      5.   A preliminary title report disclosing owners of property and holders
of recorded security interest in the property.
      6.   A preliminary survey of the site drawn to scale, showing the subject
property, location of buildings as built or to be built, unit numbers or
letters, and locations and including:
         a.   Project name and north arrow;
         b.   Road patterns adjoining the subject land;
         c.   All easements of record;
         d.   All common and limited common area;
         e.   Acreage of subject land and common areas;
         f.   Survey ties from the structures to at least two lot lines;
         g.   Any additional information deemed necessary by the city to
complete the application. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-10-4: PROCEDURES:
   A.   The administrator shall review and process the condominium plat
application in accord with procedures for administrative review established at
Section
12-3-8 of city code.
   B.   The administrator shall determine whether the application and
preliminary plat are in conformance with city development standards, the
provisions of this chapter, and the requirements of the Idaho Condominium
Property Act. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-10-5: FINAL CONDOMINIUM PLAT:
   A.   The preliminary condominium plat approval shall expire if the final
plat is not recorded within two (2) years of the written decision. An extension
not to exceed two (2) years may be granted by the city council if a written
request is filed prior to the expiration date.
   B.   The applicant shall provide a draft final condominium plat to the city
for review prior to recording.
   C.   The administrator shall review the final plat for conformance with
local and state codes and the conditions of preliminary plat approval.
   D.   Once the final plat is determined to be in compliance, the condominium
plat shall be recorded in accord with the Idaho Condominium Property Act and
the requirements of the county recorder's office.
   E.   The applicant shall provide an electronic copy of the plat to the city
after recording. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
CHAPTER 11
CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION
SECTION:
11-11-1: Purpose
11-11-2: Applicability
11-11-3: Application Procedures
11-11-4: Design Standards
11-11-5: Open Space
11-11-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of a conservation subdivision is to create development options to
encourage open space, the preservation of viewsheds, forest and agricultural
lands, wildlife habitat, environmentally sensitive and unique features, and
natural lands through creative, non-conventional subdivision design. To
accomplish this purpose, flexibility from the standard design and density
requirements is permitted to achieve conservation goals of reducing site
disturbance, encouraging cluster development, and mitigating impacts on
wildlife, habitat, and working lands. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-11-2: APPLICABILITY:
Conservation subdivisions may be permitted in all zoning districts except
commercial, industrial, or mixed-use zones. Conservation subdivisions shall
meet the following criteria:
   A.   Minimum acreage. To be eligible for a conservation subdivision, the
subject property shall contain a minimum of five (5) acres, exclusive of
submerged land. Submerged lands, as defined, shall not be counted to calculate
density.
   B.   Features. Properties eligible for conservation subdivision shall be
shown on the comprehensive plan future land use map as "conservation
subdivision" or contain one or more of the following features, which together
comprise fifteen percent (15%) or more of the gross land area:
      1.   Actively managed forestland, including tree planting and timber
production;
      2.   Productive farmland;
      3.   Wetland, as confirmed by a qualified wetlands specialist;
      4.   Floodplain, as shown on the community Flood Insurance Rate Map;
      5.   Natural areas containing identified unique or rare plant
communities, wildlife corridors, or other important wildlife habitat;
      6.   Cultural resource areas requiring protection or avoidance;
      7.   Public or private recreational facilities;
      8.   Waterfront. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-11-3: APPLICATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Prior to submitting an application for a conservation subdivision, the
applicant shall meet with the planning and zoning administrator or designee to
review design standards and application processes. The applicant shall provide
a conceptual sketch plan showing the general layout of the proposed
subdivision, housing types, general street layout, open space, any bonus
density requests, proposed open space management and other details necessary
for a complete overview. The purpose of the pre-application review is to
familiarize the applicant with the process, requirements, and feasibility of
the subdivision and does not guarantee approval of the project.
   B.   Application. The conservation subdivision preliminary plat application
and fees shall be submitted to the city clerk and shall include:
      1.   A completed application on a form provided by the city;
      2.   The minimum contents of a preliminary plat required at Chapter 4 of
this title, with the following additions:
         a.   A depiction of all open space and a table summary of acreage,
land types, uses, and proposed ownership;
         b.   Proposed housing types and locations for each housing type;
         c.   Any sensitive, protected, or restricted use areas, such as
wetlands, unique plant communities, etc.;
         d.   Proposed setbacks;
         e.   Required or proposed buffer areas;
         f.   Any specific notes to carry out intent of conservation plat.
      3.   A draft plan for the ownership and management of the open space.
      4.   Any proposals for bonus density.
   C.   Review Process. The conservation preliminary plat shall be reviewed by
staff and agencies, pursuant to procedures in Chapter 4 of this title.
   D.   Decision Process. The preliminary plat applicant shall be considered by
the planning and zoning commission and city council consistent with the
procedures and standards of review provided for regular plats at chapters 4 and
5 of this title.
   E.   Development Agreements. A development agreement, in accord with Chapter
7 of this title, is required. The agreement shall also address the open space
dedication and ownership, long-term maintenance of open and common areas, and
other details that may be required as conditions of approval.
   F.   Construction Improvements, Final Plat. The completion of improvements
and final plat approval shall be in accord with provisions of this title. (Ord.
172, 7-8-2021)
11-11-4: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Allowed uses. Uses permitted shall be the same as those allowed within
the zoning district in which the property is located, with allowances for
single-family, duplexes, and multi-family dwellings, subject to the applicable
design and density standards of this chapter.
   B.   Density. The maximum density shall not exceed the density standards of
the zoning district in which the property is located, plus any additional
dwelling units earned through bonus actions identified in this chapter.
Submerged land, as defined, shall not be counted toward allowable density.
   C.   Lot Design. Within the conservation subdivision, the following design
options and requirements apply:
      1.   Lots may be smaller than the minimum lot size of the zoning
district.
      2.   Clustering of lots shall be provided to reduce infrastructure and
land disturbance, protect sensitive areas, average density, and provide open
space. Clustering shall mean the grouping of a minimum of two (2) lots that are
smaller than the zoning district minimum. Clustered lots shall be located so as
to create a buffer between adjoining properties.
      3.   Reduced setbacks are permitted where structures adjoin common/open
space, private streets, and within clustered housing units.
      4.   Where attached multi-family dwelling units are proposed, they shall
be designed to:
         a.   Be integrated architecturally and in scale with single-family
dwelling units and shall not be isolated into separate areas;
         b.   Be set back a minimum of one hundred feet (100') from all
external road rights-of-way.
         c.   Be set back a minimum of fifty feet (50') from all adjoining
property lines.
   D.   Bonus density. An increase in the number of dwelling units may be
granted for providing: Public trails; additional open space; public access to
water; land trust endowments; other dedications or enhancements in keeping with
the conservation nature of the subdivision. Bonuses of additional dwelling
units shall:
      1.   Not exceed an additional fifty percent (50%) of the density allowed
for land within the Agriculture and Rural Residential districts;
      2.   Not exceed an additional twenty percent (20%) in the Suburban
district;
      3.   Not be awarded in the Residential District.
   E.   Basis for Bonuses: Bonuses shall be based upon the following:
      1.   Dedication of additional open space. For each additional percentage
of the gross acreage of the subject property dedicated to open space in excess
of the minimum required, an additional bonus percentage of density shall be
awarded.
      2.   Public access. For the dedication of greenways, trails, waterfront,
recreational areas or open space to the public, one bonus dwelling unit shall
be awarded for every three (3) acres of land dedicated and opened to the
public.
      3.   Affordable housing. For each affordable housing unit provided, a
bonus housing unit shall be awarded. Affordable housing is defined as units to
be sold and rented to families earning seventy percent (70%) to one-hundred
twenty percent (120%) of the county median income, adjusted for family size, as
determined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. The
applicant shall demonstrate how the dwelling unit will be retained in the long
term for affordable housing.
      4.   Land trust endowments. For each additional percentage of the gross
acreage of the subject land granted to a qualified land trust to be held in
perpetuity with relinquishment of development rights, an additional bonus
percentage of density shall be awarded.
      5.   Other public amenities. Public trails, parks, or other amenities may
be awarded bonus density through a negotiated process with the city, in keeping
with the basic formulas of this subsection.
   F.   Transportation. Streets and paths shall be designed and constructed to
meet the minimum standards of the subdivision regulations. Variations to
achieve design objectives may be permitted, provided the designs meet accepted
engineering practices, to the satisfaction of the city engineer.
   G.   Utilities. Where municipal water or sewer services do not exist, water
or sewage treatment or disposals systems may be permitted in the open space,
subject to health district approval. Confirmation of soil suitability, required
separations, and water availability are required to be presented at time of
application. Future connections to city services may be required, where access
to utilities is feasible.
   H.   Fire Safety. Within forestlands, the subdivision shall provide the
following, to the satisfaction of the fire district:
      1.   An emergency escape route;
      2.   Water system for firefighting;
      3.   Recommended fire resistant building construction materials;
      4.   Recommended landscaping requirements for defensible space;
      5.   Sufficient distance between lots and structures to allow adequate
defensible space.
   I.   Buffers. A minimum buffer consisting of no-build setback lines or
common/open space of a minimum of fifty feet (50') shall be provided from all
boundaries of the subdivision.
   J.   Farm and Forest Preservation. For any subdivisions designed to protect
working farms and forests, a plan shall be included with the application
detailing how the lands are to be preserved as working farms or forests. (Ord.
172, 7-8-2021)
11-11-5: OPEN SPACE:
   A.   Minimum Required: At least thirty percent (30%) of the total land area
shall be dedicated and set aside as protected open space. The open space shall
remain undivided and shall not be incorporated or converted into individual lot
ownership.
   B.   Types of Open Space. The open space shall contain one or more of the
following types of land:
      1.   Wetlands, as identified by a wetlands specialist.
      2.   Floodplain (100-year), as identified on the community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map.
      3.   Farmland, whether actively or passively maintained for cropland,
hayfields, pastures, or meadows.
      4.   Forestland, where land is managed for planting and selective logging
to preserve a tree canopy.
      5.   Natural areas, identified by state or federal agency, Nature
Conservancy, land trust, botanist, or biologist as having important features
for preserving wildlife corridors, wildlife habitat, native plant, or unique
vegetative communities.
      6.   Trails.
      7.   Protected cultural resource areas.
      8.   Recreational areas, public or private. Passive recreational uses,
such as pedestrian/bicycle pathways, picnic areas, riding trails, common
greens, parks, or similar uses, shall be given full credit for open space
calculations.
      9.   Waterfront, stream corridors, waterways. Submerged lands shall not
exceed fifty percent (50%) of total required open space area.
   C.   Types of Land Ineligible for Required Open Space. The following lands
shall not be counted toward open space:
      1.   Public or private rights-of-way or travelways.
      2.   Above-ground utility areas. Area that is above underground utilities
may be permissible as open space if it does not detract from open space
function.
      3.   Parking areas.
      4.   Slopes of greater than twenty-five percent (25%).
   D.   Open Space Ownership. The open space shall be owned and administered by
any of the following:
      1.   City of Dover, where the city is a willing party;
      2.   A willing state or federal agency, whose proposed ownership shall be
confirmed as part of the conservation plat process;
      3.   A qualified land trust;
      4.   A qualified conservation entity;
      5.   Homeowner association;
      6.   A single, non-commercial ownership for proposed large working farm
or forest land, which may incur one dwelling unit counted toward the allowed
density. This allows a large forest or farm lot, balanced against smaller
residential lots, that together meet the overall density requirements.
   E.   Open Space Maintenance and Preservation. Unless accepted for dedication
by a local, state, federal, or land trust entity, the costs and responsibility
for the long-term maintenance and preservation of the open space shall be borne
by the homeowner association. An agreement for maintenance shall be recorded
with the final plat and shall at a minimum address:
      1.   Maintenance and enhancement of natural features;
      2.   Replacement of vegetation features when lost due to fire, disease,
pests, or other losses;
      3.   A funding mechanism for long-term care;
      4.   Designation of responsible parties for care. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
CHAPTER 12
BOUNDARY AND LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS, MINOR NOTATIONAL CHANGES
SECTION:
11-12-1: Purpose
11-12-2: Applicability
11-12-3: Requirements
11-12-4: Exceptions
11-12-5: Applications
11-12-6: Procedures
11-12-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide standards and a review process for
platted lot and unplatted parcel adjustments and notational changes to existing
plats to ensure the resulting configurations of land and modifications meet the
minimum zoning and subdivision standards of the city. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-12-2: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to the following adjustments of property lines and
modifications to recorded plats:
   A.   The reconfiguration of two (2) or more parcels or lots to adjust
boundary lines;
   B.   Property line adjustments to combine lots or parcels to create fewer
lots or parcels;
   C.   The addition of unplatted land to a platted subdivision;
   D.   The amendment of a recorded plat to correct drafting errors, modify
notes, or make similar minor notational changes. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-12-3: REQUIREMENTS:
A boundary line, lot line adjustment, or minor plat amendment shall not:
   A.   Result in the creation of more lots or parcels than originally existed.
   B.   Cause any adjusted parcel or lot to be in violation of zoning or
subdivision standards. No adjustment shall cause a lot or parcel to be reduced
below the minimum acreage for the subject zoning district. If a parcel or lot
is already less than the minimum acreage, the adjustment shall not further
reduce the acreage of the non-conforming parcel or lot. A reconfiguration of
non-conforming lots or parcels shall not create any parcels that are smaller
than the smallest original lot or parcel.
   C.   Include dedications of rights-of-way or lands to the public;
   D.   Be in conflict with the conditions of approval for the original plat.
(Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-12-4: EXCEPTIONS:
Boundary line adjustments and reconfigurations of unplatted parcels are exempt
from requirements to file an application with the city for the adjustments. The
boundary line adjusted parcels shall be in accord with the requirements of
Section
11-12-3. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-12-5: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for lot adjustments of platted lots or for minor notational
changes shall be filed with the city and shall include:
   A.   A completed application on a form provided by the city;
   B.   Applicable fees;
   C.   Current deeds;
   D.   A copy of the original plat or parcel map, clearly marked to show the
proposed changes and resulting acreage;
   E.   A preliminary plat, prepared by an Idaho-licensed surveyor, containing
the contents of a final plat, as set forth in Chapter 9 of this title;
   F.   A current title report that is not less than six (6) months old for
subject lots to be adjusted;
   G.   Additional information reasonably required by the city for a thorough
review of the application. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-12-6: PROCEDURES:
   A.   The administrator shall review and process the lot line adjustment or
minor notational change in accord with procedures for administrative review
established at Section
12-3-8 of city code.
   B.   The administrator shall determine whether the application and
preliminary plat are in conformance with city zoning and subdivision standards
and the provisions of this chapter and shall:
      1.   Provide a copy of the plat to the city engineer, county surveyor,
county assessor and other applicable agencies for comment;
      2.   Provide requested revisions and corrections to the applicant;
      3.   Review the final mylar for completion of corrections and readiness
for recording;
      4.   Coordinate the final plat review, city council consideration, and
recording in accord with Chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
CHAPTER 13
MODIFICATIONS
SECTION:
11-13-1: Procedures
11-13-1: PROCEDURES:
   A.   The terms and conditions of an approved preliminary plat or final plat
may only be modified by the city council.
   B.   Applications to modify terms or conditions shall be filed with the city
clerk, along with the applicable fees.
   C.   Requests for modifications shall be considered by the city council at
any regular or special meeting, allowing sufficient time for required public
notice.
   D.   The review and action on the modification shall be in accord with the
procedures and standards of the original plat application. The review shall be
confined to the proposed modification.
   E.   Minor modifications to preliminary plats may be considered by the city
administrator or city engineer for:
      1.   Interior lot line locations adjustments;
      2.   Minor acreage adjustments that do not result in an increase in the
number of lots or significantly alter the lot layout;
      3.   Minor realignments of driveways, paths, or streets;
      4.   Consolidation of proposed lots to reduce density.
   F.   The council shall render a decision in writing on the proposed
modification after consideration of the application. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
CHAPTER 14
SHORT PLATS
SECTION:
11-14-1: Applicability
11-14-2: Application
11-14-3: Procedures
11-14-1: APPLICABILITY:
The division of land into four (4) or fewer lots shall constitute a short plat,
provided all of the following criteria are met. If any of these criteria are
not met, the plat shall be processed as a regular plat.
   A.   All lots comply with the existing zoning and no zone change is
requested;
   B.   No new public right-of-way dedications, sewer, or water main extensions
are proposed or required;
   C.   Existing access, water, and sewer services are adequate to serve the
proposed subdivision;
   D.   The applicant is not seeking any variations to subdivision standards;
   E.   All land under common ownership at the time of application is included
in the short plat application so that there are no unplatted remainders. (Ord.
172, 7-8-2021)
11-14-2: APPLICATION:
The preliminary plat application contents, administrative and agency review,
design standards, construction, standards of review, and final plat processing
shall be the same as for a regular plat. A pre-application meeting is
recommended but not required prior to submitting a short plat application.
(Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
11-14-3: PROCEDURES:
   A.   The short plat review shall be completed in accord with section
11-4-5 of this title. After the planning and zoning commission makes its
recommendation to the city council, the council may accept the recommendation
and render a final decision or may schedule a public hearing to consider the
application, allowing sufficient time for public notice.
   B.   Short plats are subject to the same final plat processing and
expiration dates as regular plats. (Ord. 172, 7-8-2021)
TITLE 12
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE
SECTION:
12-1-1: Short Title
12-1-2: Authority
12-1-3: Purpose
12-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the CITY OF DOVER ZONING REGULATIONS. (Ord. 146,
9-22-2016)
12-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This title is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by Idaho Code title 67,
chapter 65, local land use planning act; title 50, chapter 13, plats and
vacations; and the Idaho constitution, article XII, section 2, as currently
comprised or as subsequently amended. Provisions of this title shall apply, to
the extent permitted by law, to all property in the incorporated boundaries of
the city. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-1-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this title is to promote the health, safety and general welfare
of the city by establishing zoning regulations and districts, in accord with
the adopted comprehensive plan, in order to:
   A.   Protect property rights while making accommodations for other necessary
types of development, such as low cost housing and mobile home parks;
   B.   Ensure that adequate public facilities and services are provided to the
people at reasonable cost;
   C.   Ensure that the economy of the city and its residents is protected;
   D.   Ensure that the important environmental features are protected;
   E.   Encourage, where appropriate, the protection of prime agricultural,
forestry and mining lands and land uses for production of food, fiber and
minerals, as well as the economic benefits they provide to the community;
   F.   Encourage urban and urban type development within incorporated cities;
   G.   Avoid undue concentration of population and overcrowding of land;
   H.   Ensure that the development on land is commensurate with the physical
characteristics of the land;
   I.   Protect life and property in areas subject to natural hazards and
disasters;
   J.   Protect fish, wildlife and recreation resources;
   K.   Avoid undue water and air pollution;
   L.   Allow local school districts to participate in the community planning
and development process so as to address public school needs and impacts on an
ongoing basis. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
12-2-1: Interpretation Of Terms Or Words
12-2-2: Enforcement
12-2-3: Complaints Of Violation
12-2-4: Violations And Penalties
12-2-5: Authority, Issuance Of Stop Work Order, Unlawful Continuance
12-2-6: Planning And Zoning Commission
12-2-7: Area Of City Impact
12-2-1: INTERPRETATION OF TERMS OR WORDS:
The rules and definitions contained in this title shall be observed and
applied, except when the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future and words used
in the singular number shall include the plural number and the plural the
singular;
   B.   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary;
   C.   The word "may" is permissive; and
   D.   The word "lot" shall include the words "piece" and "parcel"; the word
"building" includes all other structures of every kind, regardless of
similarity to buildings; and the phrase "used for" shall include the phrases
"arranged for", "designed for", "maintained for", and "occupied for". (Ord.
146, 9-22-2016)
12-2-2: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Administrator: The administrator, or designee, shall have the authority
to enforce this title. The administrator shall not issue a permit unless the
intended uses of the buildings and land conform in all respects with the
provisions of this title. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
   B.   Civil Remedies: The city attorney may take any legal action considered
necessary to enjoin a violation of this title. The city attorney may, with the
consent of the council, bring a civil action considered necessary to enjoin a
violation of this title. Civil remedies may be sought in addition to, or in
lieu of, criminal penalties, including the recovery of any costs, civil fines
or penalties imposed by this title. The city may also record a notice to title
for any zoning violation that has remained unresolved for forty five (45) days
or more after the first notice of violation was sent by certified mail by the
city to the landowner at the address shown on the county assessor's tax rolls.
The notice of violation shall identify the zoning violation, location and the
actions required to resolve the violation. After the violation has been
resolved, the landowner shall pay a fee as set forth in the official fee
schedule established by this title, or by mediated restitution to process and
record a lifting of the notice to title. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016; amd. 2017 Code)
12-2-3: COMPLAINTS OF VIOLATION:
When a violation of this title occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any
person may file a written complaint. The complaint shall state fully the causes
and basis for the complaint and shall be filed with the city. The city has the
authority to investigate and take actions on the complaint as provided in this
title. The city may also dismiss the complaint based upon a finding that there
is insufficient evidence that a violation exists. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-2-4: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Failure to comply with any provisions of this title shall
be deemed a misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Each Day Separate Violation: Each day a violation continues may be
considered a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during
which any violation of this title is committed, continued or permitted.
   C.   Civil Remedies: Nothing contained herein shall preclude the city from
pursuing enforcement through injunctive relief or any other civil remedies
available. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-2-5: AUTHORITY, ISSUANCE OF STOP WORK ORDER, UNLAWFUL CONTINUANCE:
If the administrator finds any activity regulated by this title being performed
in a manner contrary to the provisions of this title, the administrator or
designee may issue a stop work order.
   A.   Written Order; Notification: The stop work order shall be in writing
and shall be posted on the premises where the activity is occurring or given to
the owner of the property involved, or to the owner's agent, or to any person
performing the work. Written notice shall also be provided by the city by
certified mail to the landowner at the address shown on the county assessor's
tax rolls. On issuance of a stop work order, the cited activity shall
immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order,
and the conditions under which the cited activity will be permitted to resume.
   B.   Unlawful Continuance: Any person who continues to work or perform an
activity after having been served with a stop work order, without express
written authorization of the administrator, or designee, shall be subject to
the penalties as prescribed by this title. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-2-6: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Created:
      1.   Appointment; Terms: A planning and zoning commission of the city is
hereby created pursuant to Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65. The planning and
zoning commission shall consist of not less than three (3) nor more than twelve
(12) voting members, and the initial commission, until changed by resolution,
shall consist of five (5) persons appointed by the mayor and affirmed by a
majority vote of the city council. The term of office for the initial
commission shall be as follows:
         a.   One member of the planning and zoning commission shall be
appointed for a term of four (4) years;
         b.   Two (2) members shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years;
and
         c.   Two (2) members shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years.
      2.   Successors; Vacancies; Terms: Their successors shall in all cases be
appointed for terms of four (4) years and all appointments to fill vacancies
shall be for the unexpired terms.
   B.   Qualifications For Commission Members: An appointed member of the
commission must have resided in Bonner County for two (2) years prior to
appointment and must remain a resident of the county during service on the
commission. The appointed member must also be a resident of the city or must
reside in an area of city impact for the city.
   C.   Compensation: Members of the planning and zoning commission shall
receive no compensation for their services as such commissioners.
   D.   Organization: The planning and zoning commission shall elect a
chairperson and create and fill any other office it may deem necessary for the
proper conduct of the affairs and business of the commission. Such organization
and expenditures for staff shall be in accordance with Idaho Code section 67-
6504.
   E.   Rules, Records And Meetings; Quorum: At least one regular meeting shall
be held each month for not less than nine (9) months in a year. The record of
meetings, hearings, resolutions, studies, findings, permits and actions taken
by the planning and zoning commission shall be maintained and all meetings and
records shall be open to the public. The majority of voting members of the
commission shall constitute a quorum.
   F.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the planning and zoning commission to
work closely with the city council to:
      1.   Conduct a planning process designed to prepare, implement, review
and update the comprehensive plan that includes all lands within the governing
boards of jurisdiction;
      2.   Hold public hearings prior to recommending the changes to the
comprehensive plan;
      3.   Provide ways and means to obtain citizen participation in the
planning process;
      4.   Provide ways and means to obtain citizen participation in the
administration of ordinances;
      5.   Prepare procedure for processing zoning permits, namely: special use
permits, rezone applications, planned unit development proposals, lot line
adjustments, and to hold hearings and make recommendations to the council for
resolving said proposals;
      6.   Hear all requests for amendment to this title, hold at least one
public hearing and make its recommendation to the governing board;
      7.   Review and recommend changes to planning and zoning ordinances and
comprehensive plan;
      8.   Complete tasks as assigned by the city council, including, but not
limited to, researching an issue and review and submit findings to the council.
(Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-2-7: AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
   A.   Authority And Purpose: Idaho Code section 67-6526 requires that cities
and counties negotiate an area of city impact. The purpose of establishing an
area of city impact is to identify a logical fringe area adjoining the city.
The fringe area includes the unincorporated area surrounding Dover that has a
potential for development that could affect the provision of public services or
the quality of life in the city.
   B.   Consideration: The following factors were considered by the city
council in identifying the area of city impact for the city:
      1.   Trade areas;
      2.   Geographical factors;
      3.   Area that can reasonably be expected to be annexed in the city in
the future;
      4.   The memorandum of understanding and settlement agreement resulting
from Bonner County case no. CV95-01111.
   C.   Geographic Area Of Impact: The officially adopted geographic area of
city impact for Dover, Idaho, is identified by the "Area Of City Impact Map"
adopted by the city and recorded as instrument 720402, records of Bonner
County, Idaho, and any subsequent amendments to the map adopted in accord with
Idaho Code and this title. The map is available for review at city hall during
regular business hours. All parcels of land lying all or in part within the
area of city impact shall be subject to provisions of the Dover area of city
impact agreement with Bonner County.
   D.   Governing Comprehensive Plan: The comprehensive plan and subsequent
amendments thereof as officially adopted by Bonner County, Idaho, shall apply
to the unincorporated portions of Bonner County, Idaho, lying within the Dover
area of city impact.
   E.   Governing Zoning And Subdivision Ordinances: The zoning and subdivision
ordinances and subsequent amendments thereto as officially adopted by Bonner
County, Idaho, shall apply to the unincorporated portion of Bonner County,
Idaho, lying within the Dover area of city impact.
   F.   Review And Comment: Any request for development, zone change,
conditional use permit, variance or subdivision in the unincorporated portion
of Bonner County, Idaho, lying within the Dover area of city impact, shall be
referred to the city council of Dover, Idaho, for review and comment. The city
council shall have thirty (30) days to consider the request and submit a reply
to the board of county commissioners, Bonner County, Idaho. If no reply is
received by the board within the thirty (30) day period, processing shall
continue under the board's administration.
   G.   Administrative Jurisdiction: The administration of plans and ordinances
which apply to the Dover area of city impact shall be the duty of Bonner
County. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
CHAPTER 3
PROCEDURES AND ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
12-3-1: Interpretation
12-3-2: Other Codes, Resolutions, Rules And Regulations
12-3-3: Governing Board To Exercise Powers
12-3-4: Zoning Administrator
12-3-5: Administrative Appeals
12-3-6: Assignment Of Liability
12-3-7: Schedule Of Fees, Charges And Expenses
12-3-8: Procedures For Administrative Reviews
12-3-9: Zoning Site Permit
12-3-10: Application Requirements
12-3-11: Issuance Of Permit
12-3-12: Processing Applications Requiring Public Hearings
12-3-13: Public Hearings
12-3-14: Applications Requiring Public Hearings
12-3-15: Notice
12-3-16: Making Decisions
12-3-17: Modification Of Terms And Conditions Of Permit Approval
12-3-18: Application For Modification
12-3-19: Administrative Site Plan Review
12-3-1: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of the provisions of this title, the
requirements will be held to be minimum requirements. This title is adopted in
compliance with Idaho Code for the purpose of promoting the health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of the city and the state. (Ord. 146, 9-22-
2016)
12-3-2: OTHER CODES, RESOLUTIONS, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
When this title imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or
premises, or requires larger spaces than are imposed by other codes,
resolutions, rules and regulations, or covenants, the provisions of this title
shall control. The provisions of this title shall be so interpreted as shown on
the official zoning map on file in the city clerk's office, in compliance with
this title as adopted, and the city comprehensive plan. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-3-3: GOVERNING BOARD TO EXERCISE POWERS:
The council shall, as permitted by Idaho Code section 67-6503, exercise the
powers granted by the local land use planning act. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-3-4: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
The mayor may, subject to confirmation by the council, appoint an administrator
who has the following duties:
   A.   Assist the public in understanding the requirements of this title;
   B.   Accept and process applications for permits required by this title;
   C.   Arrange for review of building permit applications for compliance with
this title and other applicable city codes;
   D.   Arrange for professional review of applications if required or
necessary;
   E.   Arrange for and assist in the conduct of public hearings held by the
planning and zoning commission and city council;
   F.   Issue certificates of occupancy, based on on site inspections and
supporting data;
   G.   Investigate possible violations of this title;
   H.   Properly account for all fees collected by the administrator;
   I.   Perform all other duties assigned by this title or city council. (Ord.
146, 9-22-2016)
12-3-5: ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS:
Decisions of the administrator may be appealed to the council using the
procedure described herein, and as provided by Idaho Code:
   A.   Filing; Time Limit: The appellant shall file a written appeal and
supporting materials clearly stating the reasons for the appeal with the
administrator within thirty (30) days of a final, written administrative
decision.
   B.   Placement On Agenda: Upon receipt of the appeal and any applicable fee,
the administrator shall place the appeal on the agenda of the next available
council meeting, allowing sufficient time for required meeting notice.
   C.   Decision Of Council: The council shall determine whether the decision
being appealed is in compliance with this title, and affirm, modify or overturn
that decision accordingly.
   D.   Notification To Appellant: The administrator shall notify the appellant
in writing of the council's decision.
   E.   Further Recourse: The council decision shall be final, and any further
recourse shall be as provided in Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65. (Ord. 146, 9-
22-2016)
12-3-6: ASSIGNMENT OF LIABILITY:
No person who acts in good faith and without malice in the performance of
duties assigned by this title shall be held liable for errors or omissions in
its administration. A suit brought against such an individual shall be defended
by the city and any judgment resulting from such a suit shall be the liability
of the city. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-3-7: SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES:
The council shall establish by resolution a schedule of fees, charges and
expenses and a collection procedure for zoning permits, amendments, appeals,
variances, special use permits, plan approvals and other matters pertaining to
the administration and enforcement of this title requiring investigations,
inspections, legal advertising, postage and other expenses. The schedule of
fees shall be retained in the office of the city clerk and may be altered or
amended only by the council. Until all applicable fees, charges and expenses
have been paid in full, no action shall be taken on any application or appeal.
(Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-3-8: PROCEDURES FOR ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEWS:
Administrative reviews are authorized for those applications, petitions or
requests for review and/or interpretations that do not require a public hearing
pursuant to this title or the state local land use planning act, Idaho Code
title 67, chapter 65. The following procedures apply for administrative or
zoning reviews:
   A.   File Request: The applicant shall file an application, petition or
written request with the city along with any fees as set forth by resolution.
The administrator shall have reasonable time to examine it for completeness
with the standards of this title or applicable other titles of this code. If
the application, petition or request is determined to be incomplete or lacking
information, the administrator shall inform the applicant in writing of
additional items or information necessary to complete the request.
   B.   Decision Of Administrator; Notice: After careful review of the
completed application, petition or request, the administrator shall set forth
the decision in writing, explaining the reasons for the decision; citing the
title standards and/or resources used in making the decision. Where required by
law, the administrator shall develop findings of fact and conclusions in
support of the decision. If the administrator denies the application, the
administrator shall also set forth in writing the actions, if any, the
applicant could take to obtain approval.
   C.   Appeal: Any decision by the administrator shall be considered final,
unless appealed to the city council as set forth at section
12-3-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-3-9: ZONING SITE PERMIT:
Prior to the construction, remodel, modification or placement of any structure,
the property owner shall make application and obtain a zoning permit from the
city. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-3-10: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Specified: All applications for a zoning permit shall contain at least
the following:
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of applicant;
      2.   Present land use;
      3.   Present zoning district;
      4.   Proposed land use;
      5.   Site plan depicting the proposed or existing location of the
structure, public rights of way and setbacks.
   B.   Fee: Zoning site permit applications shall be accompanied by an
application fee in an amount set by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 146,
9-22-2016)
12-3-11: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   Permitted: A zoning site permit will be issued by the administrator if
the structure and the proposed use are in conformance with applicable city
codes.
   B.   Compliance Required: No zoning permit shall be issued for the
construction, remodel, modification or placement of any structure that is not
in conformance with the use or development standards set forth in this title or
other applicable titles. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-3-12: PROCESSING APPLICATIONS REQUIRING PUBLIC HEARINGS:
Applications requiring public hearings, as specified in this title, shall be
processed as follows:
   A.   Submittal; Fees: All applications shall be submitted with their
required fees to the city.
   B.   Time For Review: The city shall have a reasonable amount of time to
review the application to determine its completeness based on the requirements
in this title for each type of application. A reasonable time frame may include
up to thirty (30) days.
   C.   Notice Of Incomplete Application: The city shall inform the applicant
in writing if the application is incomplete and specify the items or
information necessary to complete the application.
   D.   Public Agency Review: Once the application has been determined to be
complete, the city may send copies of the application to public agencies and
entities that may be affected by the proposal, including, but not limited to,
the health district, fire districts, the city sewer and water departments,
private water districts, the school district, transportation agencies and state
or federal agencies. The city may stipulate the length of time for response. As
a general rule, a time frame may include up to thirty (30) days.
   E.   Completion Of Agency Review: When the agency comment period is
complete, the city will forward all public agency comments to the applicant for
review. If additional agency information is requested, the city may request the
applicant to provide adequate evidence that the proposal meets the standards of
this title or the city may list the application as incomplete at the agency
level, pending the receipt of the additional information.
   F.   Public Hearing: Upon completion of the public agency review, the city
will schedule the application to the next available public hearing before the
governing body authorized to consider the application, as provided in this
title, allowing sufficient time for public hearing notice.
   G.   Concurrent Considerations Permitted: The governing body may consider
related permits concurrently at a single public hearing for the convenience of
the applicant and the public.
   H.   Notice Of Decision: When the governing body has made a final decision
on an application, the city shall provide written notice to applicant of the
final decision pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6535, or subsequent amendments
thereof. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-3-13: PUBLIC HEARINGS:
All planning and zoning applications requiring public hearings shall be subject
to the requirements of the local land use planning act, Idaho Code title 67,
chapter 65, this title, and the adopted city public hearing procedures
resolution. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-3-14: APPLICATIONS REQUIRING PUBLIC HEARINGS:
The following applications are subject to public hearings before the planning
and zoning commission and city council. The planning and zoning commission
shall make a recommendation to the city council following its public hearing.
After conducting a public hearing and considering the planning and zoning
commission recommendation, the city council shall make the final decision.
   A.   Comprehensive plan text and map amendments.
   B.   Zone text and map amendments.
   C.   Special use permits.
   D.   Variances. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-3-15: NOTICE:
All public hearings under this title shall be noticed in compliance with Idaho
Code title 67, chapter 65.
   A.   Two Hundred Or More Property Owners: When notice is required to two
hundred (200) or more property owners or purchasers of record, notice may be
given through a display advertisement at least four inches (4") by two (2)
columns in size in the official newspaper of the city at least fifteen (15)
days prior to the hearing date, in addition to site posting on all external
boundaries of the site, in lieu of mailed notice. The applicant shall bear the
responsibility and cost of all legal publications and the public notice.
   B.   Cost Paid By Applicant: The applicant shall bear the cost of
publication of the notice and mailing.
   C.   Ownership Report: The applicant shall supply an ownership report
prepared by a title company, licensed in the state, of all property owners
within three hundred feet (300') of the subject property boundary, according to
the county tax roll. The city shall prepare and send by mail the public hearing
notice. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-3-16: MAKING DECISIONS:
Whenever an application is subject to a public hearing, as specified in this
title, the planning and zoning commission and city council shall specify the
relevant facts considered in evaluating the application, the reasons for
approval or denial, and the actions, if any, the application could take to
obtain approval.
   A.   Recommendations Of Planning And Zoning Commission: The planning and
zoning commission may make one of the following recommendations to the city
council after its public hearing:
      1.   Approval;
      2.   Conditional approval, as authorized by this title and Idaho Code;
      3.   Denial of application, as presented; or
      4.   Remand to the applicant for additional information.
   B.   City Council Consideration: Upon receipt of the recommendation from the
planning and zoning commission, the city council shall conduct its own public
hearing and may:
      1.   Approve;
      2.   Conditionally approve, as authorized by this title and Idaho Code;
      3.   Deny application, as presented;
      4.   Remand to the applicant for additional information and subsequent
public hearing;
      5.   Continue the public hearing to a specified date and time for further
deliberations.
   C.   Recourse: The city council decision shall be final, and any recourse
shall be as provided in Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-3-17: MODIFICATION OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PERMIT APPROVAL:
The terms and conditions of the approval of any permit authorized or required
in this title may be modified only by the administrator, commission and/or
council as established in section
12-3-18 of this chapter. This section applies to modifications of approved
permits, including, but not limited to, zoning permits, special use permits,
variances, preliminary plats, final plats, lot line adjustments and planned
unit developments. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-3-18: APPLICATION FOR MODIFICATION:
An application to modify the terms and/or conditions of approval shall be filed
with the city and shall be accompanied by the required fee specified in the
resolution adopted by the city. The application shall be processed as follows:
   A.   Consideration: The administrator, commission or council shall consider
the proposed modification in accordance with the procedures and standards of
the original permit and shall confine the review to the proposed modification.
   B.   Original Governing Body: Review and action on the modification shall be
made by the same governing body authorized to make the final decision on the
original permit.
   C.   Review: The administrator, commission or council shall consider the
proposed modification in accordance with the requirements for the original
permit application and shall confine the review to the proposed modification.
   D.   Decision: The administrator, commission or council shall render a
decision in writing on the proposed modification pursuant to section
12-3-8 or
12-3-16 of this chapter, after consideration of the proposal. The decision
shall conform to the procedures, standards and requirements pertaining to the
original permit. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-3-19: ADMINISTRATIVE SITE PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   Site Plan Review: Where required by this title, various proposed types
of development are subject to administrative site plan reviews to ensure new
developments that are not subject to the public hearing process will meet
applicable provisions of Dover City Code and address potential impacts to
neighborhoods through mitigation measures.
   B.   Application: A site plan review application and applicable fees shall
be filed with the city clerk prior to any construction, placement, or use of a
site that is subject to the site plan review requirements as noted in the use
tables of chapter 12-5 of this title. The site plan application shall be
completed on a form provided by the city and shall include:
      1.   A scaled drawing of the site showing the vicinity, all proposed
structures, setbacks, parking, pathways and circulation, landscaping, signs,
lighting, solid waste disposal, water and sewer services, drainage patterns,
environmental impacts, fire protection, utilities, and other information
determined by the city as necessary to properly assess the impact of the
proposed development on the neighborhood and city services.
      2.   A narrative addressing, but not limited to: the proposed use, hours
of operation, expected traffic and attendance, compliance with zoning
regulations, expected impacts to neighborhood and plans to mitigate potential
impacts.
      3.   A stormwater/erosion control application and plan, where applicable.
      4.   Any additional information deemed necessary by the administrator for
a thorough review of the proposed development.
   C.   Review: The zoning administrator shall consider the site plan
application using the procedures set forth at section
12-3-8 of this title. The administrator shall provide a copy of the application
to affected agencies and may schedule neighborhood or agency meetings to review
the proposal. Sufficient time shall be allowed for agency comment prior to
issuing the final determination, not to exceed thirty (30) days, unless the
administrator determines there are extenuating circumstances requiring the
extension of the comment period.
   D.   Notice: Prior to issuance of the site plan review decision, the city
shall provide notice of the application to landowners within three hundred feet
(300') of the subject property boundaries. Any public comment on the proposed
use shall be based on whether it meets the standards of this title and
suggested mitigation measures. The deadline to submit written public comment to
the city clerk shall be fourteen (14) days from the date the public notice is
mailed.
   E.   Decision: The zoning administrator may approve, approve with
conditions, or deny the application, based upon the following:
      1.   Compliance with zoning, floodplain, and stormwater/erosion control
regulations;
      2.   Adequacy of public and private services;
      3.   Assurance that the proposed plan can be developed in accord with
city land use regulations and service requirements;
      4.   Ability to mitigate potential neighborhood impacts;
      5.   Assurances that the proposed use can and will meet the standards for
low-intensity facilities.
   F.   Conditions: The administrator may impose conditions of approval to
address zoning standards, health, safety or welfare issues, and impacts to the
neighborhood that are a direct and proportionate cause of the development.
Conditions may also be imposed to ensure the dedication or installation of
improvements required by city service standards or other city regulations. No
construction authorization, commencement of use, or building permit issuance
shall occur until the site plan review is approved.
   G.   Expiration: The site plan approval shall expire if development or use
has not commenced within one year of the written decision. Prior to the
expiration date, the applicant may seek an extension of up to one year, upon a
showing of good cause as to why development has not commenced.
   H.   Appeals: Any administrative decision made by the zoning administrator
in the administration of this section may be appealed, subject to the
procedures and standards of section
12-3-5 of this title. (Ord. 180, 11-15-2022)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING MAP
SECTION:
12-4-1: Zones
12-4-2: Official Zoning Map
12-4-3: Map Changes
12-4-4: Rules For Interpretation Of Zone Boundaries
12-4-5: Replacement Of Official Zoning Map
12-4-1: ZONES:
The City is hereby divided into zones, as shown on the official zoning map,
which, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this title. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-4-2: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official zoning district
map that may from time to time be made or published, the official zoning
district map, which shall be located in the Office of the City Clerk, shall be
the final authority as to the current zoning status of land and water area,
buildings and other structures in the City. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-4-3: MAP CHANGES:
   A.   Changes Entered: If, in accordance with the provisions of this title,
changes are made in zone boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official
zoning district map, such changes shall be entered on the official zoning
district map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the Council.
   B.   Unauthorized Changes: No changes of any nature shall be made in the
official zoning district map or matter shown thereon except in conformity with
the procedures set forth in this title. Any unauthorized changes of whatever
kind by any person or persons shall be considered a violation of this title.
(Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-4-4: RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF ZONE BOUNDARIES:
When uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of a zone as shown on the official
zoning district map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Centerline Of Streets: Boundaries indicated as approximately following
the centerline of streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow such
centerlines;
   B.   Platted Lot Lines: Boundaries indicated as approximately following
platted lot lines shall be construed as following such lot lines;
   C.   City Limits: Boundaries indicated as approximately following City
limits shall be construed as following such City limits;
   D.   Railroad Lines: Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall
be construed to be midway between the main tracks;
   E.   Shorelines, Bodies Of Water: Boundaries indicated as following
shorelines shall be construed to follow such shorelines and legally established
meander lines, which may be referenced as ordinary high water marks (OHWM). In
the event of change in the shoreline, it shall be construed as moving with the
actual shoreline; boundaries indicated as approximately following centerlines
of streams, rivers, canals, lakes or other bodies of water shall be construed
to follow such centerlines;
   F.   Section, Township Lines: Boundaries indicated as following section or
township lines shall be construed as following such section or township lines;
   G.   Parallel To Extensions Of Features: Boundaries indicated as parallel to
extensions of features indicated in subsections A through F of this section,
shall be so construed. Distances that are not specifically indicated on the
official zoning district map shall be determined by the scale of the map;
   H.   Variance; Interpretation By Council: When physical or cultural features
existing on the ground are at variance with those shown on the official zoning
district map, or in the other circumstances not covered in subsections A
through G of this section, the Council shall interpret the district or zone
boundaries;
   I.   Special Exceptions: Where a zone boundary line divides a lot that was
in single ownership at the time of passage hereof, the Council may permit, as a
special exception, the extension of the regulations for either portion of the
lot not to exceed fifty feet (50') beyond the district or zone into the
remaining portion of the lot. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-4-5: REPLACEMENT OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
If the official zoning map is damaged, lost, destroyed, difficult to read due
to multiple amendments, or contains outdated aerial imagery, parcel
information, or mapping technology, the City Council may adopt by resolution a
replacement official zoning map to supersede it. The replacement map may also
correct drafting errors upon a finding by Council that the correction
accurately represents the approved zoning boundaries. The replacement map shall
not amend any zoning district boundaries but shall only serve to replace the
official zoning map. (Ord. 155, 5-24-2018)
CHAPTER 5
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
12-5-1: Zoning Districts
12-5-2: Restrictions
12-5-3: Standards By Zone
12-5-4: Use Tables By Zone District
12-5-5: Residential Use Table
12-5-6: Public Use Table
12-5-7: Commercial Use Table
12-5-1: ZONING DISTRICTS:
All land within the city boundaries shall be divided into "districts" as set
forth below:
   A.   Residential Zone (R): The purpose of the residential district is to
allow moderately higher density lots where residential pursuits can be
achieved. Minimum parcel sizes should include twelve thousand (12,000) square
foot lot sizes and provide for single-family and multi-family affordability.
The residential district is where limited commercial opportunities are
available and where the city desires to have adequate streets and public spaces
to serve the residents who live within this district. City services to this
zone should include both city water and sewer and paved city streets. Planned
unit developments, while encouraged, should be reviewed carefully for
appropriate combinations of lot sizes, uses and existing or expansion of city
services. Lands appropriate for the residential zone district should include
property classified on the future land use map as residential, suburban or
rural residential.
   B.   Suburban Zone (S): Generally speaking, the purpose of this zone is to
provide for similar residential pursuits as the residential district, but with
lower levels of density; one acre minimums. Opportunities for residential and
duplex households are afforded to this district, but higher density residential
uses such as apartments and multi-family units should consider districts such
as residential. This zone may be served by either city water or sewer or by
other sources, such as private or independent water and sewer systems. However,
it is encouraged that the city eventually provide city sewer to all lands
within this district. The lands zoned for suburban are described as being
classified as suburban or rural residential on the city's future land use map.
   C.   Rural Residential Zone (RR): This zone district is established to
provide for residential pursuits combined with rural pursuits. The keeping of
livestock and animal husbandry are promoted in this district, so long as they
are done adequately so as not to interfere with adjoining properties. Due to
the nature of different rural and residential pursuits, this district
establishes larger lot or parcel sizes in order to provide separation of uses
on individual properties. Residents are encouraged to connect to city services,
if available. However, with proper approval from respective agencies,
development on lands zoned rural residential may seek connections to individual
systems to serve immediate or surrounding land uses. Properties zoned rural
residential can be described as being three (3) acres or larger, and classified
on the future land use map as being designated rural or agriculture.
   D.   Agriculture Zone (A): The agriculture district is established to allow
for rural, agricultural and residential pursuits to intermix with adequate
separation encouraged. Thus, this district provides for the largest minimum lot
size at six (6) acres. Resource or agricultural based uses are encouraged,
provided adequate property is provided. Residents are encouraged to connect to
city services, if available. However, with proper approval from respective
agencies, development on lands zoned agriculture may seek connections to
individual systems to serve immediate or surrounding land uses. Lands
appropriate for the agriculture zone district will be properties that already
have active farms or animal husbandry occurring on site and are adequately
sized. Generally, these lands are classified on the future land use map as
agriculture.
   E.   Commercial Zone (C): The commercial district is suitable for activities
directly serving the public, including, but not limited to, retail sales,
service shops, restaurants, bars and entertainment centers. The commercial zone
is also a land use classification for a district suitable for limited
production or manufacture of products, processing, fabrication, assemblage,
freight handling, or similar operations of a nonnuisance character that
generally do not provide services directly to the public. The purpose of this
zone is to encourage the business development that is clean, quiet and free of
noise, odor, dust and smoke. Planned unit developments should be encouraged in
this district to provide for the greatest flexibility of design, street layout
and public and private amenities. Development and design standards for specific
uses should be considered for lands zoned commercial and should include all
urban services. Adequate existing transportation systems and existing urban
services should be considered when rezoning lands to commercial. Lands that do
not require extension or expansion of streets, sewer or water services should
be considered first for development before rezoning lands to commercial. Lands
appropriate for the Commercial District should include property classified on
the future land use map as commercial or residential. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-5-2: RESTRICTIONS:
No building or premises shall be used, nor shall any building or structure
hereafter be erected or altered, unless otherwise provided in this title,
except for uses or special uses in accordance with the standards set out in the
applicable tables and development standards as incorporated herein as part of
this title. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-5-3: STANDARDS BY ZONE:
Unless otherwise permitted, those uses not specifically provided for shall be
prohibited. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-5-4: USE TABLES BY ZONE DISTRICT:
The following use tables list various land use classifications and zoning
districts.
   A.   New and unlisted uses shall follow the requirements listed in section
12-6-2 of this title.
   B.   Uses are subject to all applicable standards of this title and this
Code. In addition, any notes as provided for within the tables are in addition
to those standards listed within this title and any other applicable Code
sections of this Code. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-5-5: RESIDENTIAL USE TABLE:
   P = Authorized; S = Specially permitted; [vacant] = Prohibited use
Use Residential Suburban Rural Residential Agriculture Commercial
Use             Residential Suburban Rural Residential Agriculture Commercial
Accessory       P1          P1,6     P1,6              P1,6        S1
dwelling unit
Accessory
structure,      P12         P12      P12               P12         P12
residential11
Apartment
buildings,      S4,5        S2                                     S4,5,9
condominiums,
multi-family
Churches and
nonprofit       S           S        S                 S           P
community halls
Duplex          P4,5        P2,4     P2,4              P3          P5,9
In home daycare P7          P7       P7                P7          P7
Keeping of      P8          P8       P8                P8          P8
livestock
Short-term      P10         P10      P10               P10         S10
rentals
Single-family   P2,4        P2,4     P2,4              P3          P9
dwelling
 
Notes:
All uses shown above shall be required to follow any standards listed within
this title and any of the following as specifically enumerated in the above
table.
1.   Subject to specific standards found at section
12-7-3 of this title.
2.   1 "dwelling unit" shall be allowed per lot or parcel pursuant to the
definition listed at section
12-13-4, "Appendix D; Definitions", of this title, up to a maximum of 2
dwelling units are permitted, provided an overall density of 1 unit per 3 acres
is provided.
3.   1 "dwelling unit" shall be allowed per lot or parcel pursuant to the
definition listed at section
12-13-4, "Appendix D; Definitions", of this title, up to a maximum of 2
dwelling units are permitted, provided an overall density of 1 unit per 6 acres
is provided.
4.   Shall not exceed an overall lot coverage of 35 percent.
5.   Overall density shall not exceed 1 unit per 12,000 square feet of overall
lot or parcel area. Lands that are submerged or inundated with water for
portion or portions of the year shall not be included in the overall acreage
amount.
6.   An accessory dwelling unit may be detached, provided all the other
standards of section
12-7-3 of this title are adhered to.
7.   Shall not exceed a total maximum number of 6 children under the age of 12,
other than those who reside in the home. Shall also follow any standards of a
home occupation listed at section
12-7-2, "Home Occupations", of this title.
8.   The keeping of 1 large animal (horse, llama, sheep, cow or goat, including
offspring until weaned) for each 20,000 square feet of parcel or lot area is
permitted in all zones.
9.   Residential buildings are encouraged to have retail or commercial activity
on the first floor and contain living space on the next floor(s).
10.   Short-term rentals are subject to the specific standards of section
12-7-4 of this title.
11.   Residential accessory structures are subject to the specific standards of
section
12-6-12 of this title.
12.   Includes accessory structures associated with permitted agricultural
uses.
(Ord. 146, 9-22-2016; amd. Ord. 151, 8-17-2017; Ord. 178, 6-9-2022)
12-5-6: PUBLIC USE TABLE:
   P = Authorized; S = Specially permitted; [vacant] = Prohibited use
Use Residential Suburban Rural Residential Agriculture Commercial
Use               Residential Suburban Rural Residential Agriculture Commercial
Municipal parks,
municipal         P           P        P                 P           P
recreation
facilities
Museums           S           S        S                 S           S
Parks, recreation
facilities, high- S1          S1       S1                S1          S1
intensity, public
or private
Parks, recreation
facilities, low-  P1, 2       P1, 2    P1, 2             P1, 2       P1, 2
intensity, public
or private
Public
information,      P           P        P                 P           P
kiosk centers
Schools, public   S           S        S                 S           S
or private
Structures,
facilities, yard
activities and
other             P           P        P                 P           P
infrastructure
necessary to
provide public or
private utilities
Municipal
facilities and
structures,
including         P           P        P                 P           P
administrative
offices,
services, and
U.S. post office
                 S           S        S                 S           S
 
Public Use Table Notes/Standards:
1.   Subject to the specific standards of section
12-7-5 of this title.
2.   Subject to administrative site plan review requirements of section
12-3-19 of this title.
(Ord. 146, 9-22-2016; Ord. 174, 10-14-2021; Ord. 180, 11-15-2022; Ord. 184, 7-
10-2023)
12-5-7: COMMERCIAL USE TABLE:
   P = Authorized; S = Specially permitted; [vacant] = Prohibited use
Use Residential Suburban Rural Residential Agriculture Commercial
Use               Residential Suburban Rural Residential Agriculture Commercial
Daycare centers   S           S        S                 S           S
Equipment service
and repair                                                           S
business
Home occupations, P3          P3       P3                P3          P3
Tier 1
Home occupations, S3          S3       S3                S3          P3
Tier 2
Hotels, motels                                                       S
and motor inns
Light
manufacturing,                                                       S1,2
processing and
fabrication
Professional      S           S        S                 S           S
offices
Radio, TV or
broadcast                                                            S
stations
facilities
Residential       S           S        S                 S           S
lodging
Retail, service
or repair
business,                                                            S
including eating
and drinking
establishments
Veterinary
hospitals,                                                           S
clinics
Warehouse,                                                           S
ministorage
 
Notes:
All uses shown above shall be required to follow any standards listed within
this title and any of the following as specifically enumerated in the above
table.
1.   Minor changes in occupancy in commercial buildings shall be allowed,
provided the change does not result in the expansion of building or creation of
new or expanded outdoor sales, work or storage area.
2.   All manufacturing activities shall be contained indoors. Manufacturing
activities shall not include mining extractions or operations.
3.   Home occupations are subject to the specific standards of section
12-7-2 of this title.
(Ord. 146, 9-22-2016; Ord. 180, 11-15-2022)
CHAPTER 6
STANDARDS OF ALL ZONE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
12-6-1: Minimum Regulations Of All Districts
12-6-2: New And Unlisted Uses; Procedure For Determination
12-6-3: Nonconforming Uses And Structures
12-6-4: Standards By Zone District
12-6-5: Access To Public Streets
12-6-6: Easements
12-6-7: Nuisances
12-6-8: Off Street Parking And Loading
12-6-9: River Corridor Development
12-6-10: Visibility At Intersections And Driveways
12-6-11: Wetlands
12-6-12: Yards And Building Height
12-6-13: Sewer And Water Services
12-6-14: Standards For Large Scale Development
12-6-15: Continuing Maintenance Of Improvements Required
12-6-16: Maintenance Mechanism
12-6-17: Failure To Maintain
12-6-18: Recreational Vehicle Occupancy, Storage And Parking
12-6-1: MINIMUM REGULATIONS OF ALL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to set forth general
development standards for all districts in order to carry out the goals and
objectives of the adopted comprehensive plan.
   B.   Regulations: The following regulations set by this title within each
zone shall be minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or
kind of structure or land use:
      1.   Conformance Required: No building, structure or land shall hereafter
be used or occupied, and no building or structure or part thereof shall
hereafter be erected, constructed, placed, reconstructed, moved or structurally
altered, except in conformity with all of the regulations herein specified for
the zone in which it is located;
      2.   Yard, Lot Requirements: No yard or lot existing at the time of the
passage hereof shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum
requirements set forth herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date
hereof shall meet at least the minimum requirements;
      3.   Prohibited Uses: Any use not explicitly permitted in a zoning
district is prohibited;
      4.   Less Than Required Right Of Way: All principal structures located on
streets having less than a required right of way shall be required to have a
setback, plus one-half (1/2) the needed distance to equal the required right of
way. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-6-2: NEW AND UNLISTED USES; PROCEDURE FOR DETERMINATION:
It is recognized that new or unanticipated types of land use will be proposed
in the city. In order to provide for such changes and contingencies, a
determination as to the appropriate classification of any new or unlisted form
of land use shall be made as follows:
   A.   Request; Information Required: An applicant may seek the opinion of the
administrator concerning any new or unlisted use. The request shall be
accompanied by a statement of facts, listing the nature of the use, including,
but not limited to, whether it involves dwelling activity, sales, processing,
type of project, storage, enclosed or open storage, anticipated employment and
the amount of noise, odor, fumes, dust, toxic materials and vibration likely to
be generated.
   B.   Review: The administrator shall review the use consistent with the
administrative procedures listed at section
12-3-8 of this title, and shall consider the nature and performance of the
proposed use and its compatibility with the uses permitted in the various
districts and determine whether the use is permitted, specially permitted or
prohibited based on existing established uses. The "Standard Industrial
Classification Manual" or "North American Industry Classification System", as
amended, modified or superseded, may be consulted to determine whether the new
use is similarly classified. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-6-3: NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Scope: Within the district or zone established by this title or
amendments that may later be adopted, there exist lots, structures, uses of
land and structures and characteristics of uses which were lawful before this
title was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated or
restricted under the terms of this title or future amendment. The purpose of
this section is to permit these nonconformities to continue until they are
removed or brought into conformance with this title.
   B.   Expansion Of Nonconformity: It is further the purpose of this title
that a nonconforming structure or land use shall not be enlarged upon, expanded
or extended, and not be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses
prohibited elsewhere in the same zone or district, unless it is to bring the
nonconformity into compliance with this title.
   C.   Undue Hardship: To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this title shall be
deemed to require a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any
building on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the adoption
of this title, or any amendments thereto, and upon which actual building
construction has been carried on diligently. "Actual construction" is hereby
defined to include the placing of construction materials in its permanent
location, or demolition or removal of an existing building has been
substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, such excavation or demolition or
removal shall be deemed to be actual construction; provided, that work shall be
carried on diligently.
   D.   Repairs, Maintenance And Continued Use:
      1.   On any nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing
a nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs, such as walls,
fixtures, wiring or plumbing; provided, that the cubic content existing when it
became nonconforming shall not be increased.
      2.   A legal, nonconforming structure or portion of a structure may
continue to be used, maintained, and repaired, in accordance with city zoning
and permitting standards. A nonconforming structure shall not be altered or
enlarged in any way that would increase its nonconformity. A nonconforming
building destroyed by accidental or unintended means such as fire, flood,
earthquake, or other such means, may be replaced without the applicable special
use permit or variance, provided:
         a.   A building permit is obtained and the replacement is initiated
within twelve (12) months of the building’s destruction;
         b.   There is no increase in the degree of nonconformity;
         c.   The replacement structures shall not encroach into public rights-
of-way, easements, public, properties, or adjoining private properties not
owned by the applicant;
         d.   All flood damage prevention standards shall be met.
      3.   If a nonconforming use is discontinued for a period of one year or
longer, the city may request in writing that the landowner provide a written
statement detailing the intended further use of the property. The written
statement shall be provided within twenty eight (28) days of the city request.
Discontinued use of the property is subject to the provisions of Idaho Code
section 67-6538, and subsequent amendments thereto.
   E.   Lots and Parcels of Record: A lot or parcel that was lawfully created
in accord with the city land use laws in effect at the time of its creation or
was described prior to city incorporation but does not currently conform to
city lot size minimums, lot design, or other land use regulations is eligible
for development in accord with the standards of this title. No such
nonconforming lot or parcel shall be further adjusted or divided to increase
its nonconformity.
(Ord. 146, 9-22-2016; amd. Ord. 185, 7-10-2023)
12-6-4: STANDARDS BY ZONE DISTRICT:
TABLE A
ZONE DISTRICT STANDARDS
Standard By Zone Residential Suburban Rural Residential Agriculture Commercial
Standard By     Residential   Suburban    Rural       Agriculture Commercial
Zone                                      Residential
Minimum lot     12,000 square 1 acre      3 acres     6 acres     12,000 square
size            feet                                              feet
Setback:
 Front yard    20 feet       25 feet     25 feet     25 feet     10 feet1,2
 Side yard     10 feet5      10 feet     10 feet     20 feet     10 feet
 Flanking      20 feet       25 feet     25 feet     25 feet     25 feet1
  street
 Rear yard     20 feet       25 feet     25 feet     25 feet     25 feet1,2
 Bodies of     40 feet4, 6   40 feet4, 6 40 feet4, 6 40 feet4, 6 40 feet4, 6
  water
Maximum lot     50 percent    50 percent  50 percent  50 percent  50 percent3
coverage
Maximum         30 feet       30 feet     30 feet     30 feet     30 feet
building height
 
Table A Notes/Standards:
In addition to the dimensions required above, the following shall also be
adhered to, where noted.
1.   Where the building abuts a sidewalk along the full length of the lot or
parcel, a 0 foot setback may be administratively approved, pursuant to the
procedures set forth at section
12-3-8 of this title.
2.   Where it can be demonstrated by the applicant or landowner that the
building has multiple fronts, the point of access shall be considered the front
yard.
3.   Where the applicant or landowner has demonstrated that adequate measures
have been taken to treat stormwater leaving the site, pursuant to this title or
the laws of the City, the site may incur a building lot coverage of up to 80
percent.
4.   Distance shall be measured from the ordinary or artificial watermark, as
defined herein, of the body of water. All applicable bodies of water or streams
shall be those identified on the United States geological survey (USGS) maps.
5.   Interior side yard setbacks, not adjoining flanking streets, for lots or
parcels fifty feet (50') or narrower, the minimum setback shall be five feet
(5') to all architectural projections. Eaves, gutters, bay windows or similar
above-ground features shall not project into the required setbacks. The
structure shall be designed, constructed, and maintained to retain snowshed and
stormwater runoff on site.
6.   Exceptions for access to the waterfront are provided at Section
12-6-12 paragraph G.
(Ord. 146, 9-22-2016; amd. Ord. 178, 6-9-2022)
12-6-5: ACCESS TO PUBLIC STREETS:
   A.   Driveways: All access driveways, including residential driveways, shall
comply with the spacing standards for access driveways from off street parking
and loading areas found in section
12-13-1, appendix A of this title.
   B.   Highway 2 Access: The number or points of access to U.S. Highway 2
shall be minimized by reliance on access via other streets wherever possible.
Where access to U.S. Highway 2 is unavoidable, site planning shall emphasize on
site circulation to minimize the number of highway access points. (Ord. 146, 9-
22-2016)
12-6-6: EASEMENTS:
No structure shall be placed in any utility easement, public or private, with
the exception that wire or rail fences, or solid wood fences with a separable
section across the easement, may be constructed across utility easements, as
well as any public utility buildings required to be located within the
easement. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-6-7: NUISANCES 1 :
The intent of this section is to prevent or eliminate public nuisances promptly
and to defray taxpayer costs of enforcement. Anything that is injurious to
health, morals, safety, welfare, or indecent, or offensive to the senses, or an
obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisance and is subject to
action by the City. All nuisances and hazards shall be mitigated by appropriate
means. Public nuisances shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
   A.   Noise, Vibration: Between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the next morning, there shall be no loud, excessive,
disruptive, or annoying sounds produced by voices, instruments, electronic
devices, machinery, animals, or other means that disturbs the peace, quiet, and
comfort of any reasonable person of normal sensitivities. To be considered
loud, the sound must be plainly audible one hundred fifty feet (150') or more
from the source.
   B.   Light, Glare, Heat: No activity shall direct light, glare, or heat
beyond its property line. Welding equipment and other sources of intense light
or glare shall be shielded from the view of neighboring properties or public
ways by enclosure in a building, location on the property, or construction of a
fence or wall.
   C.   Electrical Interference: No activity shall create electrical
interference that adversely affects other uses.
   D.   Dust, Smoke, Pollution: No activity shall generate dust, smoke, odors
or other airborne pollutants that travel beyond its property line, except as
permitted by State and Federal air quality standards.
   E.   Solid Waste: All solid waste shall be stored in enclosures or
containers and shall not:
      1.   Attract animals or insects, or be susceptible to spillage;
      2.   Generate odors or liquid runoff beyond the property line;
      3.   Permit the overflow or dispersal of any waste;
      4.   Be left unscreened in certain areas. All commercial, industrial, and
high density residential solid waste handling areas and containers shall be
effectively screened from the public view by enclosure in a building, location
on the property, or construction of a sight-obscuring fence or wall.
   F.   Junk, Junk Yard: No junk, as defined by section
12-13-4, appendix D of this title, shall be kept, accumulated, or stored within
the public right-of-way, public property, or in the open on private property.
Junk yards are prohibited in all zoning districts. (Ord. 158, 12-13-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 4, chapter 1 of this Code.
12-6-8: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
All buildings and uses shall provide the off street parking and loading areas
required by section
12-13-1, "Appendix A; Detailed Performance Standards For Off Street Parking And
Loading", of this title. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-6-9: RIVER CORRIDOR DEVELOPMENT:
The "river corridor" is defined as being within three hundred feet (300') of
the Pend Oreille River, or within any mapped flood hazard area. It is the
intent of the City to identify these lands because they represent unique
opportunities for beneficial development. These lands are also uniquely
vulnerable to development that may damage water quality, wildlife habitat and
scenic values. Due to these vulnerabilities, the landowner shall demonstrate
that any development proposed in the river corridor will not cause significant
loss of water quality, wetlands, wildlife and fisheries and their habitats, or
scenic values. Proposed development shall not foreclose any significant
optional development patterns for the river corridor that may be considered in
the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-6-10: VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS AND DRIVEWAYS:
A clear vision triangle in conformance with section
12-13-3, appendix C of this title shall be maintained at all intersections and
points of access to a public street.
   A.   Visual Obstructions: No solid fence or wall, planter, hedge, shrub or
other visual obstruction more than three feet (3') in height above grade shall
be permitted in a clear vision triangle.
   B.   Parking: No parking shall be permitted in a clear vision triangle.
   C.   Trees: Trees shall be permitted in clear vision triangles, but only if
all branches are removed to a height of at least seven feet (7') above grade.
(Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-6-11: WETLANDS:
No development that disturbs jurisdictional wetlands shall be permitted until
the developer demonstrates written compliance with all State and Federal
wetlands protection requirements. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-6-12: YARDS AND BUILDING HEIGHT:
The yards created by required setbacks shall remain unoccupied and
unobstructed, except as otherwise permitted in this section or elsewhere within
this title:
   A.   Required setbacks. All required setbacks shall be measured from the
structure's greatest architectural projection to the property line or other
point of measurement established by this title, unless otherwise specified in
this title. The zoning administrator may grant an exception not to exceed one
foot to any setback or height standard, upon a showing of undue hardship or
extraordinary physical conditions of the property or structure. Above-grade
extensions, such as eaves, rain gutters, bay windows and similar above-grade
extensions may extend no more than three feet (3') into a required yard.
   B.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   Accessory buildings of two hundred (200) square feet or less shall
be permitted in required rear yards where a setback of ten feet (10') from all
property lines is maintained. No accessory building shall be located in the
required front or side yard area. Front and side yards may be used for parking.
      2.   Residential accessory structures within the Residential and Suburban
zoning districts shall be constructed or placed simultaneously or subsequent to
the construction of the dwelling. Exceptions are permitted to allow for storage
or tool sheds, gazebos, or other similar structures not greater than two
hundred (200) square feet of floor area.
      3.   An accessory structure may be placed on a separate, contiguous lot
from the residence if the lot or parcel is combined for development purposes
into one lot, pursuant to paragraph F of this section.
      4.   The combined floor area square footage for all residential accessory
structures shall not be greater than a 1:1 ratio of the combined floor area
square footage of the residence(s) on a lot or parcel in the Residential
district. (Example: if a residence contains 1,000 square feet of floor area, a
garage cannot be larger than 1,000 square feet of floor area.) Accessory
structures may be attached or detached. Structures such as tool sheds,
greenhouses and other such non-habitable structures that are two hundred (200)
square feet or less of floor space and exempt from requirements to obtain a
building permit shall not be included in the accessory residential structure
calculations.
      5.   Residential accessory structures shall be limited to the private use
by residents of the property and their visitors. Commercial uses, except
permitted home occupations, are prohibited with accessory residential
structures.
   C.   Required Space: No space required to make up the required yards for any
principal building shall be removed from the lot on which that building is
sited by sale, lease or other conveyance.
   D.   Fences: No fence shall exceed seven feet (7') in height. Fences are
subject to the following standards:
      1.   Exceptions to height may be considered as a special use permit or
variance.
      2.   Fencing exceeding seven feet (7') in height is defined as a
structure and is subject to the structure standards of this title and the
standards of Title 9, Chapter 1, Building Codes and Regulations.
      3.   All fencing is subject to other title provisions, such as
maintaining clear vision at intersections as provided in section
12-6-10 of this chapter, which may affect placement and height.
      4.   Fences not exceeding seven feet (7') in height may be located along
property lines, except that no fence shall exceed four feet (4') in height
within twenty feet (20') of the natural, ordinary, or artificial high water
mark of a water body identified on the United States Geological Survey maps,
with the exception of seawalls, bulkheads, or breakwater permitted by the state
for shoreline protection.
      5.   Fence height shall be considered the vertical distance from the base
of the fence to the highest point on the fence or fence structure, including
all caps, finials, posts, lights, latticework, screens, landscaping berms,
rockery, bases, or other similar fencing materials or features. Measurement
shall be determined from the natural grade of the property at the fence line,
prior to development. An arbor serving as a landscaping feature over a gate,
walkway or entrance may be permitted to a maximum nine feet (9') in height and
four feet (4') in width.
      6.   Fencing materials such as junk and tires and other such materials
and those that pose hazards or safety concerns, such as razor wire or broken
glass, are prohibited.
   E.   Maximum Building Height: The maximum building height is set forth at
section
12-6-4 of this chapter. "Building height" is defined at section
12-13-4, appendix D of this title. All proposed structures shall be required to
provide with building permit application materials side elevation drawings of
all sides of the structure with building height and predevelopment grades
depicted. For structures greater than twenty five feet (25') in height,
including stem walls, such information shall be certified by an Idaho licensed
surveyor, or Idaho licensed engineer, or Idaho licensed architect qualified to
establish elevations, and be submitted with building permit application
materials. Predevelopment elevations shall be determined by the presence of
undisturbed topsoil and/or vegetation or similar indications to the
satisfaction of the City. Any costs incurred by the City to determine building
height shall be in addition to other building or zoning permit fees and shall
be the responsibility of the landowner.
   F.   Contiguous Properties: Structures may be placed or constructed across
parcel or lot lines provided the land is under the same ownership, legally
created, and contiguous. The landowner shall record a lot combination agreement
stating the land is considered one property for purposes of land development.
The land shall be considered one for determination of zoning standards.
   G.   Placement of a single tram, rail, uncovered steps, stairs or walkway
may be within the waterfront setback for bodies of water, as established by
this title, provided such structures are not greater than four feet (4') wide
and installed to provide access to the shoreline and are generally
perpendicular to the shoreline. Boardwalks or other platforms, decks, or
similar structures paralleling the shore are prohibited within the waterfront
setback area for which the City has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 146, 9-22-2016; Ord. 150, 3-23-2017; Ord. 157, 12-13-2018; Ord. 165, 10-
10-2019; Ord. 178, 6-9-2022; amd. Ord. 185, 7-10-2023)
12-6-13: SEWER AND WATER SERVICES:
All development shall provide evidence of adequate City sewer and water
services, or approved alternative systems if City services are not available.
(Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-6-14: STANDARDS FOR LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Additional Public Facilities: Large scale developments shall provide
additional public facilities necessitated by their development. Such facilities
shall be provided in compliance with all requirements of this title and may
include: off site road improvements, such as deceleration or acceleration
lanes, left turn lanes, signs or signals, and bridges or culverts; solid waste
transfer stations; emergency services buildings and apparatus, including fire
engines and ambulances; and the neighborhood parks (which may include space
used for recreational trails) at a rate of two (2) acres per thousand
population.
   B.   Fact Finding Process: The public facilities needs of any large scale
development shall be determined through a fact finding process conducted by the
Council, at the expense of the developer. The Council may retain professional
planners and/or engineers to conduct this study, the purpose of which shall be
to determine what new facilities needs may be attributed to the proposed
development. The large scale development study process shall be conducted as
follows:
      1.   The Administrator shall determine whether a proposed development is
a "large scale development" as defined herein;
      2.   The Administrator shall not schedule a hearing on an application
determined to be for a large scale development, but shall place initiation of a
large scale development study on the agenda of the next available Council
meeting;
      3.   The Council shall review the application at that meeting. If the
Council confirms the Administrator's determination, a large scale development
study shall be required;
      4.   Where a large scale development study is required, the developer
shall place a deposit with the Administrator in the amount required by the
resolution establishing fees for the administration of this title. The
Administrator shall retain appropriate professional assistance for the study,
drawing against the deposit as necessary. Additional actual costs shall be
billed to the developer, with such costs being paid before a hearing on the
application is scheduled. Any unused funds shall be returned to the developer
upon completion of the study;
      5.   An application shall be considered complete and a hearing conducted
only after completion of the large scale development study. (Ord. 146, 9-22-
2016)
12-6-15: CONTINUING MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
The continuing maintenance of any improvement required for compliance with any
performance standard of this title shall be required. This provision applies
to:
   A.   Mitigation Of Nuisances: Improvements required for the mitigation of
potential nuisances;
   B.   Streets, Parking, Loading: Private streets, off street parking and
loading areas;
   C.   Runoff, Erosion Control: Improvements required for the on site
retention of storm or melt water runoff, or for runoff or erosion control;
   D.   Landscaping: Landscaped areas, including required buffers. The
maintenance of landscaped areas includes irrigation, maintenance of the
irrigation system, and weed and pest control; and
   E.   Other Required Improvements: Any other improvement required for
compliance with this title. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-6-16: MAINTENANCE MECHANISM:
Any development subject to continuing maintenance requirements that results, or
may reasonably be expected to result, in the creation of multiple ownerships
shall create a community association or other mechanism to assure continuing
maintenance. The developer shall submit the proposed declaration of covenants,
articles of incorporation, application for a permit, and shall provide evidence
that these documents have been recorded before a certificate of occupancy is
issued. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-6-17: FAILURE TO MAINTAIN:
Failure to maintain any required improvement shall be a violation of this
title. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-6-18: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OCCUPANCY, STORAGE AND PARKING:
Purpose and Standards: To protect the health, safety and welfare of persons
occupying Recreational Vehicles (RVs) and to address the service and
neighborhood impacts of such occupancy, the following standards shall apply in
all zoning districts:
   A.   A Recreational Vehicle (RV) is not considered a dwelling. Occupancy of
a recreational vehicle (RV) on a lot or parcel shall not exceed thirty (30)
days in a calendar year, unless located within a permitted recreational vehicle
park. Different, temporary RVs may be occupied on the same lot or parcel during
the calendar year, so long as the total days occupied for all RVs does not
exceed thirty (30) days in a calendar year. The number of occupied RVs is
limited to two (2) such vehicles per lot or parcel at any given time. Stored,
unoccupied RVs are not subject to the thirty (30) -day maximum. The limits on
occupancy and number of RV units do not apply to lands within the Agriculture
zoning district.
   B.   Occupancy shall mean eating, sleeping, living, cooking, or other use of
the unit for human habitation.
   C.   To protect the property rights of adjoining neighbors from rain run-
off, snow shed, and fire hazards, the RV shall meet the following minimum
setbacks, whether stored or occupied:
      1.   Ten feet (10') from rear and side property lines;
      2.   Up to zero (0) front yard setback, provided RV is parked or stored
within a private driveway. RVs not parked or stored within a private driveway
shall meet the minimum front yard setback requirements of the zoning district.
The RV shall not protrude into or block any public easements, pathways, or
rights-of-way. The minimum number of off-street parking spaces required by this
title shall be maintained and shall not be reduced or eliminated with the
parking of an RV.
   D.   To prevent street congestion and potential hazards, an RV shall not be
parked in an area that is not designated for parking.
   E.   No decks, platforms, roofs, porches, skirting, or other structural
extensions shall be attached to the RV.
   F.   The RV shall not be used as a rental on the lot or parcel.
   G.   The RV shall either be completely self-contained and shall be taken to
an approved site for routine emptying of the holding tank or shall be served by
a sewage disposal system approved by the City of Dover for municipal services
or Panhandle Health District where no municipal connections are available.
   H.   An RV may be used as a temporary dwelling unit while a residence is
under construction on the same lot or parcel provided:
      1.   There is no other dwelling located on the site.
      2.   The City of Dover has issued a building permit for a residence on
the same site as the proposed RV temporary dwelling.
      3.   The landowner has notified the City in writing in conjunction with
the building permit of the intent to occupy the RV while the dwelling is under
construction.
      4.   The building permit for the residence remains active. Occupancy of
the RV shall cease if the building permit for the residence is abandoned,
expired, or otherwise invalidated.
      5.   Approved water and sewer provisions are available.
      6.   Placement of the RV shall be in compliance with the flood damage
prevention standards of Title 10 for RVs.
      7.   The RV is equipped with egress windows, a smoke detector, carbon
monoxide (CO) detector, and fire extinguisher.
      8.   Occupancy of the RV does not exceed one hundred eighty (180) days.
The RV occupancy shall cease when the certificate or temporary certificate of
occupancy has been issued for the residence or within 180 (one-hundred eighty
days) of building permit issuance, whichever comes first. The city zoning
administrator may grant an RV occupancy extension for reasons or conditions
beyond the landowner's control, such as weather delays, site development
issues, or other such reasons. The extension shall not exceed 180 (one-hundred
eighty days). (Ord. 190, 7-9-2025)
CHAPTER 7
STANDARDS FOR SPECIFIC USES
SECTION:
12-7-1: Purpose
12-7-2: Home Occupations
12-7-3: Accessory Dwelling Units
12-7-4: Short-Term Rentals
12-7-5: Parks And Recreation Facilities
12-7-6:    Wireless Communication, Telecommunication Facilities
12-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish basic development standards
consistent with the goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan and to set
specific conditions for various uses or areas where problems are frequently
encountered within the City. The regulations set forth are adopted to serve,
protect and promote the public health, safety and welfare, and to preserve and
enhance the aesthetic qualities of the City, while allowing for the orderly and
efficient development of property in accordance with all State and Federal
regulations. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-7-2: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
The purpose of the home occupation standards is to define, design and set
minimum requirements for home occupations in the Residential Districts in order
to protect and maintain the character of the residential neighborhoods in the
City.
   A.   Standards For All Home Occupations:
      1.   Maximum Floor Area: A home occupation may be located within a
dwelling or any accessory building, but no home occupation shall occupy a floor
area larger than that of the dwelling to which it is accessory to.
      2.   Business Registration: All home occupations shall be registered as a
business or as otherwise required by other titles of this Code.
      3.   Signage: All signage proposed shall be wholly contained within the
boundaries of the property and shall not extend or project into any public
rights-of-way or public easements.
      4.   Illumination Of Signs Prohibited: All signage shall not be
illuminated or internally lit.
      5.   Off Street Parking: Home occupations shall provide off street
parking for all employees and any vehicles associated with the home occupation
in compliance with the requirements of section
12-13-1, appendix A of this title.
   B.   Prohibited Activities: The following activities and/or similar
activities are prohibited home occupations:
      1.   Repair Shops: Mechanic or automobile repair shop;
      2.   Manufacturing: Industrial manufacturing of goods or products; (Ord.
146, 9-22-2016)
      3.   Other Activities:
         a.   Any activity that is specifically prohibited within the zoning
district;
         b.   Any activity that specifically requires a special use permit.
(Ord. 146, 9-22-2016; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Tier 1 Home Occupations: All Tier 1 home occupations shall be processed
consistent with the administrative review processes as established at section
12-3-8 of this title. All Tier 1 requests shall be in compliance with the
requirements of this section and the following:
      1.   Employees: No person other than those residing on the premises shall
be engaged in such occupation;
      2.   Use Incidental: Use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use
of the property for dwelling purposes;
      3.   Outside Alterations: There shall be no alteration, structural or
otherwise, in the outside appearance of the building or premises, or other
visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation, other than one (1)
sign affixed to the structure, not exceeding twelve (12) square feet in area.
No freestanding signs are allowed;
      4.   Commercial On Premises Sales: There shall be no commercial on
premises sales in connection with such home occupation, nor shall there be any
commercial or manufacturing uses specifically provided for in other parts of
this title;
      5.   Traffic: Vehicular traffic generated by such home occupation shall
not significantly exceed the traffic attributable to a normal dwelling unit
(generally no more than 10 vehicle trips per day on average);
      6.   Manufacturing: Manufacturing shall be limited to the small scale
assembly of already manufactured parts, but does not preclude production of
small, individually handcrafted items, furniture or other wood items as long as
the activity meets the other standards of this section;
      7.   Storage: Storage of items in relation to the home occupation shall
not occur in a manner that would cause it to be seen from any public right of
way, including public bodies of water. All storage related to the home
occupation shall be stored completely indoors.
   D.   Tier 2 Home Occupations:
      1.   Special Use Permit: Tier 2 home occupations shall be allowed only by
special use permit. Reasonable conditions limiting hours of operations, traffic
generated and activities associated with the proposed home occupation may be
considered by the city;
      2.   Employees: Tier 2 home occupations shall be carried out by those
residing in the dwelling and up to two (2) additional employees;
      3.   Activities, Storage: Limited activities and outside storage of
materials and/or equipment are permitted, provided the site is sufficiently
screened from the street and surrounding properties as determined by the city,
or all items are stored entirely within a building;
      4.   Traffic: Vehicular traffic generated by such home occupation may
exceed ten (10) vehicle trips per day on average as established by condition of
the special use permit, provided the applicant can demonstrate that the traffic
will not constitute a nuisance with the surrounding residential neighborhoods;
      5.   Signage: Signage shall be limited to one freestanding sign and one
affixed sign not exceeding a total combined square footage of twenty four (24)
square feet. Freestanding signs shall not exceed eight feet (8') in height,
measured from existing grade;
      6.   Statement Of Compatibility: An application for a tier 2 home
occupation shall include a statement indicating how the proposed activity is
compatible with and will not change the character of the neighborhood and how
the activity will address such elements as noise, light/glare, traffic, dust,
storage and any other activity the city deems necessary to properly assess the
impacts on neighboring property owners.
   E.   Procedures For Processing Home Occupation Requests:
      1.   Tier 1 Procedures: Any applicant seeking approval of a tier 1 home
occupation shall make application for such request on a form provided by the
city. The administrator shall review the application for consistency with the
standards of this section and shall follow those administrative procedures as
established at section
12-3-8, "Procedures For Administrative Reviews", of this title.
      2.   Tier 2 Procedures: Any applicant seeking approval of a tier 2 home
occupation shall submit, where applicable, an application for a special use
permit on a form provided by the city. Staff shall evaluate the proposal
consistent with the procedures of section
12-3-12 of this title and those requirements as set forth in chapter 10 of this
title. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-7-3: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS:
   A.   Purpose: The allowance for accessory dwelling units is to promote
infill housing in close proximity to existing infrastructure and services,
including public transportation, parks, employment centers, and other public
areas, and to conserve land, house more people within the city limits, and
prevent sprawl.
   B.   Standards For All Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs): Where allowed in the
city, any request for an accessory dwelling unit shall comply with the
following standards:
      1.   Permanent Provisions: An ADU has provided for permanent provisions
for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation;
      2.   Location: An ADU may either be attached, having any portion of one
or more walls in common with the principal dwelling, or be interior, located
entirely within the walls of the principal dwelling, or be located on the same
lot or parcel of the main dwelling unit;
      3.   Size: Accessory dwelling units shall be no larger than forty percent
(40%) of the habitable living space of the primary residence or no more than
one thousand (1,000) square feet, whichever is less;
      4.   Number Of Bedrooms: Bedrooms for ADUs shall be limited to no more
than two (2); (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
      5.   Renting: An ADU rented for a period of fewer than thirty (30) days
shall meet the standards of section
12-7-4 of this chapter; (Ord. 151, 8-17-2017)
      6.   Zoning Standards: All ADUs shall be subject to the zoning standards
as provided within this title;
      7.   Density: No more than one (1) ADU shall be located on an individual
lot or parcel. For ownerships that span several lots, the combined ownership
shall be considered when calculating density;
      8.   Owner Occupancy: Either the principal residence or the ADU shall be
occupied by the owner of the property on which they are located;
      9.   Design: The ADU shall be consistent in design with the principal
residence, including roof pitch, siding, color, materials, and windows;
      10.   Entrance: The ADU may have a separate exterior entrance or an
entrance to an internal common area accessible to the outside, which shall be
located to the side or rear of the principal residence;
      11.   Parking: One (1) additional off street parking space, in addition
to a minimum of two (2) spaces for an existing residence, shall be provided.
   C.   Procedures For Processing Accessory Dwelling Unit Requests: Building
and zoning permits shall be required for all accessory dwelling units and shall
be processed in accordance with section
12-3-8, "Procedures For Administrative Reviews", of this title. Once approved
by the City, it is the landowner's responsibility to ensure that the ADU
remains compliant with the standards of the City and that the ADU is operated
in a manner in accordance with all other provisions of this chapter. At a
minimum, a permit application shall include:
      1.   Name, Location: The name of landowner and property location;
      2.   Contact Information: Address and phone number for contact person;
      3.   Design Drawings: Design drawings showing how the ADU will meet the
provisions of subsection B of this section, which shall include the location on
the lot or parcel, setbacks from property lines, proposed landscaped areas, and
lot coverage;
      4.   Utilities: Written notification from the respective agency or
department that the existing utilities are adequate to accommodate the future
ADU, or utility plans indicating how the site will handle the future use;
      5.   Owner Agreement: An agreement signed by the landowners that they
shall adhere to the City codes regulating the use of ADUs as an owner occupied
property;
      6.   Fee: Any applicable fee as established by the City.
   D.   Standards For ADU Approval: Permit application shall be approved by the
City if all of the following standards have been met:
      1.   ADU Requirements: The ADU, as proposed, meets all applicable
requirements of this section;
      2.   Code Requirements: The ADU, as proposed, meets all applicable
requirements of the City's adopted Building and applicable Electrical Codes;
      3.   Other Standards: The ADU, as proposed, does not violate any other
applicable chapters or standards of the City, State and Federal government.
(Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-7-4: SHORT-TERM RENTALS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide standards and a
process for permitting the use of dwellings for vacation rentals or short-term
occupancy so that:
      1.   Property rights of landowners and integrity of residential
neighborhoods are protected;
      2.   Safety of short-term rental occupants and the general public is
ensured;
      3.   Adequate services, health standards, and parking are addressed;
      4.   The general welfare of the City as it relates to impacts to the
City's amenities and resources are taken into consideration;
      5.   Overcrowding is avoided so that life/safety, service availability,
and general welfare concerns are met.
   B.   Findings: The City of Dover finds the following with respect to short-
term rentals:
      1.   There are economic benefits to the community to allow short-term
rental/vacation homes because they expand lodging opportunities;
      2.   The permit process allows the City to address impacts of these uses
on neighborhoods and City resources;
      3.   The establishment of standards and procedures provides an
opportunity to ensure health and life/safety issues are addressed;
      4.   Permit procedures create a process to ensure the health, safety, and
welfare concerns are adequately addressed by the landowner and guests.
   C.   Applicability: The standards of this section shall apply to all short-
term rentals, as defined. All requirements, standards, and permits imposed by
this section are in addition to any other applicable regulations of this Code.
   D.   Permit Required: Prior to the operation of a short-term rental, as
defined by this title, the owner of the dwelling unit shall obtain a "short-
term rental permit", pursuant to the administrative procedures of section
12-3-8 of this title. A short-term rental permit is not required for RV parks
or campgrounds, hotels, or motels. In addition, short-term rental permits are
not required for any existing bed and breakfasts authorized through the special
use permit process or short- term rental units within the existing Dover Bay
planned unit development. All other short-term rentals shall obtain permits.
      1.   A separate permit shall be required for each dwelling unit to be
used for short-term rental.
      2.   The permit shall be issued only to the owner of the dwelling unit,
who bears the responsibility for compliance with the standards and regulations
of this section, whether an agent, co-host, manager, or other person or entity
operates the short-term rental.
      3.   Short-term rental permits are not transferrable.
      4.   Prior to issuance of the short-term rental permit, the City shall
provide notification of permit application by regular mail to landowners within
three hundred feet (300') of the property. Any public comment on the proposed
short-term rental application shall be based on whether it meets the standards
of this section. The deadline to submit written public comment to the city
clerk shall be fourteen (14) days from the date the public notice is mailed.
      5.   Conditions may be set to ensure the purposes of subsection A of this
section are met.
      6.   The City has the authority to revoke the short-term rental permit if
the terms of the permit relating to health, safety, or general welfare are
violated more than three (3) times during any three hundred sixty five (365)-
day cycle. Prior to such revocation, the City shall provide written notice to
the landowner by certified mail at the address shown on the current County
Assessor records. The notice shall identify the violations, the actions
required to eliminate the violations, and a request for the landowner to
respond within ten (10) days of the issuance of the notice, identifying how the
violations are to be remedied. If the landowner fails to respond or fails to
remedy the violations, the permit may be administratively revoked by providing
the landowner written notification, sent by certified mail. The administrative
decision is subject to the rights of appeal of section
12-3-5 of this title. The enforcement process is subject to the provisions of
sections
12-2-2 through
12-2-5 of this title.
   E.   Standards: Short-term rentals shall conform to the following standards:
      1.   Occupancy of the rental shall be based upon the number of bedrooms
within the dwelling unit. A bedroom is a room designed for sleeping. A den,
library, office, game room, alcove, or other rooms or open space shall not be
used to calculate occupancy. The number of short-term rental occupants, as
defined, shall not exceed two (2) persons per bedroom. The number of guests of
the short-term rental occupants shall not exceed double the occupancy rate.
Guests of rental occupants are not permitted to stay overnight. The maximum
number of bedrooms available for short-term rental within any dwelling unit
shall not exceed five (5).
      2.   Short-term rentals shall be limited to residential dwelling units
only.
      3.   The owner shall post the following information in a conspicuous
place within the dwelling unit:
         a.   Occupancy maximum as authorized by zoning permit;
         b.   Parking requirements and parking locations;
         c.   Name and 24-hour contact information for owner and at least one
(1) other contact person;
         d.   Trash disposal requirements;
         e.   Good Neighbor Policy;
         f.   Consequences of violations;
      4.   The rental unit shall conform to the Life/Safety Codes of current,
applicable International Residential and Fire Codes, as adopted by the City.
Prior to the issuance of the short- term rental permit, the owner shall obtain
an inspection report from the local fire district or building official,
confirming the home is equipped with smoke detectors, fire extinguishers,
carbon monoxide detectors, where applicable, egress windows, exit plans, exit
equipment for upper-level escape, emergency action plans, and other such life/
safety measures identified by the inspector as necessary to meet life/safety
standards. The applicant or owner is responsible for any applicable inspection
fees. After the initial inspection, the owner shall provide to the city clerk
by January 1st of each year an annual report confirming the safety measures
that were identified as required in the initial report are maintained. Should
fire district or building official inspection services be unavailable, as
determined by the City, the owner shall submit to the city clerk a completed
self-inspection life/safety checklist, on a form provided by the City,
confirming the home is equipped with the required life/safety measures.
      5.   All trash shall be retained within an approved solid waste
container. No trash shall be placed outside the approved container.
      6.   Parking is subject to the standards of titles 6 and 12 of this Code.
   F.   Permit Issuance: Prior to issuance of the short-term rental permit, the
owner shall provide the following to the City:
      1.   Contact information of the owner and at least two (2) additional
individuals who have the authority to respond to emergencies or rental
violations.
      2.   A statement that will be provided to all guests regarding City
nuisance and disturbing the peace laws.
      3.   A written agreement with the City, outlining at a minimum the
occupancy load, emergency response, parking standards, and any conditions
identified during the permit review related to health, safety or general
welfare of the occupants or the public.
   G.   On-Going Operations:
      1.   The owner of the property is responsible for compliance with the
provisions of this Code. Any failure to comply by an agent, representative,
guest, or local contact person is deemed to be non-compliance by the owner. The
owner shall be liable for ensuring occupants and guests do not create
unreasonable noise or disturbance, engage in disorderly conduct, or violate
provisions of this Code, other local, State, or Federal Codes pertaining to
noise, disorderly conduct, or nuisance behavior.
      2.   No commercial activities or uses that would otherwise be prohibited
in the applicable zoning district or that would require approval of a special
use permit shall be permitted with the operation of the short-term rental,
including the use of the dwelling for residential lodging, as defined.
   H.   Violations: It shall be unlawful for any person, agent, or entity to
offer for rent or rent a short-term rental without first obtaining a zoning
permit from the City. Any violation of this section is subject to the penalties
of section
12-2-4 of this title. (Ord. 151, 8-17-2017; amd. Ord. 177, 4-14-2022)
12-7-5: PARKS AND RECREATION FACILITIES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide standards and a
process for permitting the use of land for private and public parks and
recreational facilities to:
      1.   Protect property rights of landowners and the integrity of
residential neighborhoods;
      2.   Ensure public health, safety and welfare;
      3.   Address impacts associated with parks and recreation uses and
establish mitigation measures where warranted.
   B.   Applicability And General Requirements: The standards of this section
shall apply to all public and private parks and recreational facilities, except
as otherwise provided by this title.
   C.   The standards of this section do not apply to swimming pools, tennis or
sports courts, or similar facilities developed as accessory uses to an
individual residence or multi-unit residential development and are not open to
the public.
   D.   Low-Intensity Park And Recreation Facilities: Low-intensity parks and
recreational facilities, as defined, are subject to the following standards:
      1.   The use is included in the low-intensity parks and recreation
facilities definition or is similarly classified.
      2.   The use is subject to the site plan administrative review procedures
of section
12-3-19.
      3.   Use of the facility is limited to daylight hours only.
      4.   The parking lot serving the use shall not exceed twenty (20) spaces,
based upon the parking standards of Appendix A of this title.
      5.   Overnight parking is prohibited.
      6.   Use of motorized vehicles is prohibited, except for access to the
site's parking area, facility maintenance vehicles, or motorized wheelchairs or
similar power-driven vehicles for use by individuals with mobility
disabilities.
      7.   Development or minor modifications to the land may include shaping
and grading of areas for pathways, placement of small accessory structures, or
construction of berms and buffer areas. Minor modifications to the land shall
generally mean land-disturbing activities not exceeding five thousand (5,000)
square feet of area, new impervious surface not exceeding one thousand (1,000)
square feet and fill or excavation not exceeding fifty (50) cubic yards.
      8.   Development is subject to the stormwater provisions of Title 9,
Chapter 4 of city code.
      9.   Uses exceeding the low-intensity standards shall be considered high-
intensity and are subject to the standards of subsection E of this section.
      10.   Lighting of the site shall be limited to necessary illumination for
emergency access, street intersections, or similar lighting required by the
city.
      11.   Noise produced by the activities or participants shall not be loud,
excessive, or disruptive sounds produced by voices, instruments, electronic
devices, machinery, animals, or other means that disturb the peace and quiet of
any reasonable person of normal sensitivities. To be considered loud, the sound
must be plainly audible one hundred fifty feet (150') from the source.
      12.   No retail sales are permitted on site except when allowed with a
special event permit.
      13.   The zoning administrator has the authority to classify the uses as
low- or high-intensity based upon similar uses contained in the definitions of
this title and the procedures for determination of new and unlisted uses at
section
12-6-2 of this title.
   E.   High-Intensity Parks And Recreation Facilities: High-intensity parks
and recreational facilities, as defined, are subject to the following
standards:
      1.   The use is included in the high-intensity parks and recreation
facilities definition or is similarly classified.
      2.   The use is subject to the special use permit application and
procedures of Chapter 12-10 of this title.
      3.   The use is subject to the conditions of approval to mitigate
potential effects on adjoining properties.
   F.   Prohibited Parks And Recreational Facilities: Mud bogs, moto-cross,
motorized racetracks and courses, or other similarly classified uses.
(Ord. 180, 11-15-2022)
12-7-6: WIRELESS COMMUNICATION, TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide standards and a
process for the consideration of applications for wireless telecommunication
facilities to:
      1.   Protect property rights and property values;
      2.   Protect public health, safety, and welfare by regulating the siting
of wireless telecommunication facilities;
      3.   Establish adequate safety standards for the placement and use of
telecommunication facilities.
      4.   Address visual impacts upon the City, located along the designated
Panhandle Historic Rivers Passage Scenic Byway and within a unique natural
setting;
      5.   Minimize impacts of wireless telecommunication facilities of
surrounding properties by setting standards for placement, structure safety,
and compatibility with nearby lands;
      6.   Encourage location of facilities on existing structures to reduce
visual impact, public safety, and the environment.
   B.   Applicability: The standards of this section shall apply to the
development, installation, construction, or modification of Wireless
Communication, Telecommunication Facilities (WCF) and including new,
replacement, or modified facilities; amateur radio towers; co-location of
existing towers or new support cabinets or equipment shelters.
   C.   Exemptions: The following are exempt from this section, unless
otherwise specifically addressed:
      1.   Non-commercial amateur radio towers or antennas that are less than
fifty feet (50') tall.
      2.   A government-owned tower or emergency beacon placed or required by
local, state, or federal agencies.
      3.   Regular maintenance of existing WCF that does not include any
additional antenna, equipment or shelter expansion, or other additional
equipment.
      4.   A residential or commercial wireless internet or television antenna
or dish for sending and receiving signals that is located at its point of use.
   D.   Permitted: Wireless telecommunication towers shall be permitted in all
zoning districts, subject to the standards and procedures of this title.
   E.   Permits Required: The following permits shall be required for the
development, installation, construction, or modification of WCF, including new,
replacement, modifications, or co-location of facilities and new or expanded
support cabinets or equipment shelters:
      1.   Where permitted by the zoning district, special use permits are
required for all new, expanded, or modified facilities, except as provided in
subsection 12-7-6 E.2. Any proposed co-location facility that does not meet the
criteria for an administrative permit shall require a special use permit.
      2.   Administrative zoning permits are required for all proposed co-
location facilities. To be eligible for the administrative permit, the proposed
co-location facility shall:
         a.   Be proposed for an existing, lawfully permitted structure or a
legal, non-conforming facility;
         b.   Not extend beyond the height of the existing support structure;
         c.   Not expand the existing lease or property boundaries for the
facility;
         d.   Not expand the equipment shelter or equipment cabinets.
      3.   Administrative encroachment permits shall be required for all
facilities, where permitted, that are proposed within the public right-of-way.
   F.   Applications: An application for a facility governed by this section
shall be completed on a form provided by the City for the type of application
listed in Section 12-7-6 E. The application and fee established by the official
fee schedule shall be submitted to the city clerk. The application shall
contain the minimum requirements for the applicable special use permit or
administrative applications, in addition to the following:
      1.   Detailed construction drawings showing the proposed facility and
support structures, including structure footprint and height, antenna and
antenna array placement, and dimensions.
      2.   A structural report performed by an Idaho-licensed engineer
certifying the pole, tower, or other structure can support the proposed
facility in accord with applicable codes and standard engineering practices.
      3.   Visual depictions, photographs, or representations of the proposed
facility from multiple vantage points showing pre- and post-construction views,
detailing any buffering, camouflage, paint colors, vegetation, or other
measures to screen the facility. Include proof that the facility will be
configured and located in a manner that shall minimize adverse effects
including visual impacts on adjacent properties.
      4.   Evidence, prepared by a radio frequency engineer and reviewed by an
independent radio frequency engineer at the applicant’s expense, demonstrating
the need for the proposed facility and proof that no other existing WCF can
meet the need. The applicant shall demonstrate through a narrative and graphic
depiction that a significant service gap in service exists and that alternative
locations, configurations, and facility types have been examined and the
results of those findings. The application shall include a map of wireless
service coverage or lack thereof for the vicinity and the effect of the
proposed facility on that coverage.
      5.   A report prepared by an Idaho-licensed engineer confirming
compliance with FCC standards for emissions as set forth in the current Code of
Federal Regulations. The report shall demonstrate the proposed facility will
not exceed the maximum permissible exposure level to the general public and
will remain in compliance with FCC standards.
      6.   Any additional information deemed necessary by the zoning
administrator for a thorough review of the proposed development.
      7.   A report confirming compliance with the National Environmental
Policy Act for the proposed facility.
   G.   Design Standards: Wireless Communication, Telecommunication Facilities
are subject to the following minimum standards:
      1.   Security fencing: An opaque fence or masonry wall no taller than
seven feet (7') tall from finished grade shall be provided around the perimeter
of all development areas for ground-mounted wireless communication facilities
and support facilities. If a fence will enclose the site, the fence shall be
constructed of wire mesh, metal picket, or an alternative material approved by
the zoning administrator. Access to the development area shall be through a
locked gate.
      2.   Tower height: Towers shall be designed and constructed to a Minimum
Functional Height. Applicants shall submit documentation justifying the total
height. The applicant shall demonstrate that the facility is the minimum height
necessary in order for the facility to meet its intended function in the
applicant’s system and to provide reliable service. This shall be done through
the testimony of a radio frequency design engineer, provided at the expense of
the applicant.
      3.   Setbacks: The base of a tower shall not be any closer to any
property line than the distance equal to the tower height but not less than one
hundred feet (100'), as measured from the base to the topmost component of the
tower.
      4.   Landscaping/buffering: Landscaping and buffering shall be required
around the perimeter of development areas, unless waived by the City as part of
the permitting process due to existing buffering features, such as berms,
walls, or other buffers. Existing vegetation may be used to meet landscaping
requirements, subject to approval by the decision makers for the respective
permit. Landscaping shall be designed in accord with the buffering and
landscaping requirements of this title and placed in a manner so as to minimize
the views of the WCF from residential areas.
      5.   Visibility: Antennas and related service equipment mounted on a
service tower shall be mounted as close to the tower as possible. All antennas,
antenna arrays, transmission lines, equipment enclosures or other ancillary
equipment for WCF that are located on existing structures in order to conceal
them, such as flagpoles, light standards, church steeples, bell towers, clock
towers, or similar facilities, shall not be positioned in such a way that they
are readily identifiable from the public domain as wireless communication,
telecommunication equipment. Design for the proposed concealment shall be
included in the permit application.
      6.   Camouflage: In order to protect the scenic qualities of the
community, the provider is required to provide a design and install features to
conceal the facility that are compatible with the existing structure or
surrounding natural terrain. To meet this design standard, there shall be as
little contrast as possible between the communications equipment and the
structure or natural terrain. A determination of appropriate concealment design
shall be based on the proposed location and environment, as determined by the
governing body or zoning administrator who is charged with permit approval. If
the provider proposes the use of artificial trees or vegetation, they shall
approximate the features of trees native to Bonner County. The artificial
vegetation shall provide sufficient branching, foliage and height to conceal
antenna, panels, and any other tower equipment and shall be colored to simulate
the native vegetation. Artificial branches shall be applied to the tower in a
multi-dimensional pyramid shape pattern to the top of the tower, with branches
and foliage material in variable length, width and depth sufficient to obscure
physical view of the tower, antenna elements and brackets. As an alternative to
the constructed camouflage features, the provider may propose to use existing
tree cover to conceal the tower, and shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the decision makers that the vegetative coverage is sufficient to conceal the
tower. Provisions to retain the vegetation or replace it in the event of loss
shall be included in the design plans.
      7.   Lighting: Towers shall be illuminated only when required and in
accordance with Federal Aviation Administration requirements to provide
aircraft obstruction lighting. All other on-site lighting required for security
or emergency purposes shall be in accordance with local fire district and City
standards.
      8.   Rights-of-way: Towers, ground-mounted equipment and equipment
shelters shall not be located within the public right-of-way unless granted by
the City through an approved encroachment permit.
   H.   Procedures: The process for consideration of the WCF permit, as
provided in this subsection, shall be in accord with the following:
      1.   Special Use Permits. Those facilities requiring special use permits
are subject to the procedures of Chapter 10 of this title. In addition to the
conditions and standards of Chapter 10, the governing body shall also determine
whether the proposal is in compliance with standards of this subsection.
      2.   Administrative Zoning Permits. Those facilities requiring an
administrative zoning permit are subject to the procedures of section 12-3-19
of city code. The noticing requirements of section
12-3-19 D. shall not apply.
      3.   Encroachment permits. Those facilities proposed for location within
the public rights-of-way are subject to the procedures of title 7, chapter 1 of
city code.
   I.   Conditions of Approval: In addition to the conditions that may be
imposed by the respective type of permit, the governing body may impose
conditions, including, but not limited to the following:
      1.   Proof of the FAA compliance form, where applicable.
      2.   Modifications to size or setbacks to fit particular sites or
situations.
      3.   Secure access to the site.
      4.   Adjustments to limit obstructions of view or compatibility to
surroundings.
   J.   Abandonment: Any WCF that has been damaged, destroyed, or ceases to be
used for communication purposes for a period exceeding one year shall be
considered abandoned and deemed a nuisance. Upon abandonment of a WCF, the
landowner shall remove the facility with all supporting equipment, apparatus,
and foundation. If the landowner fails to remove the abandoned structure, the
City is authorized to seek civil or criminal remedies as provided by this code
to obtain abatement.
   K.   Prohibited Uses: WCF shall not be used for signage, symbols, flags,
banners or other devices or objects attached to or painted or inscribed upon
any communication facility for the purposes of displaying a message of any
kind, except as required by a governmental agency.
(Ord. 184, 7-10-2023)
CHAPTER 8
VARIANCES
SECTION:
12-8-1: Purpose And General Provisions
12-8-2: Application Contents
12-8-3: Standards For Variance Review
12-8-4: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
12-8-5: Administration Of Variances
12-8-6: Notification To Applicant; Expiration
12-8-1: PURPOSE AND GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The city council may authorize in specific cases such variance from the terms
of this title as will not be contrary to the public interest, where, owing to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this title would
result in unnecessary hardship because of the physical characteristics of the
site. No nonconforming use of lands, structures or buildings in other districts
shall be considered grounds for issuance of a variance. Variances shall not be
granted on the grounds of convenience or profit, but only where strict
application of the provisions of this title would result in unnecessary
hardship not created by the property owner. Variances can be granted for a
modification of the requirements of this title as to the lot size, lot
coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear yard, setbacks, parking
space, height of buildings, or other title provisions affecting the size or
shape of a structure or the placement of the structure upon lots. (Ord. 146, 9-
22-2016)
12-8-2: APPLICATION CONTENTS:
A variance from the terms of this title shall be processed in accordance with
section
12-3-12 of this title. An application for variance shall include, but is not
limited to, the following items:
   A.   Applicant Information: Name, address and telephone number of applicant
(s);
   B.   Legal Description: Legal description of the property;
   C.   Description Of Variance Requested: Description of nature of variance
requested, including a narrative explaining how:
      1.   Special conditions and circumstances exist that are peculiar to the
land, are not applicable to other lands, structures or buildings in the same
district;
      2.   A literal interpretation of the provisions of this title would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this title;
      3.   Special conditions and circumstances do not result from actions of
the applicant; and
      4.   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant any
special privilege that is denied by this title to other lands, structures or
buildings in the same district;
   D.   Site Plan/Plot Plan: A site plan/plot plan, drawn to a readable scale,
containing and showing the following information:
      1.   Dimensions of all property under review;
      2.   Location of the present building on the subject property
(applicants) with the dimensions of the front, side and rear yards;
      3.   Dimensions of all other buildings or structures on subject property;
      4.   Location of any proposed building or structures on the proposed
extension, expansion or relocation of a building or structure on the property;
      5.   Location of the buildings on adjacent lots, giving the depth of the
front, rear and side yards, showing all dimensions;
      6.   The existing use of each building or structure and the proposed use
of the existing or new building;
      7.   The name and location of all streets and alleys;
      8.   The location and arrangement of all parking facilities;
      9.   A landscaping plan, showing how the project will be landscaped,
placement of trees, shrubs, lawns and other ground cover;
      10.   Location of fencing, garages, driveways, sidewalks, water lines,
sewer lines and other utility improvements. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-8-3: STANDARDS FOR VARIANCE REVIEW:
A variance shall not be granted unless the city council makes specific written
findings of fact based directly on the particular evidence presented to it
which supports all of the following conclusions:
   A.   Special Conditions And Circumstances: Special conditions and
circumstances exist that are peculiar to the land, structures, or buildings in
the same district;
   B.   Applicant Deprived Of Common Rights: A literal interpretation of the
provisions of this title would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed
by other properties in the same district under the terms of this title;
   C.   Applicant Actions: Special conditions and circumstances do not result
from actions of the applicant;
   D.   Special Privileges: Granting the variance requested will not confer on
the applicant any special privilege that is denied by this title to other
lands, structures or buildings in the same district; and
   E.   Public Interest Conflict: Granting the variance is not in conflict with
the public interest. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-8-4: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
Under no circumstances shall the city council grant a variance to allow a use
not permissible under the terms of this title in the district involved, or any
use expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of this title in said
district. In granting any variance, the city council may prescribe appropriate
conditions and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violation of such
conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which a variance
is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-8-5: ADMINISTRATION OF VARIANCES:
An application for variance shall proceed consistent with the public hearing,
noticing and decision making procedures, as set forth in chapter 3 of this
title. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-8-6: NOTIFICATION TO APPLICANT; EXPIRATION:
The administrator shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action
on the request pursuant to section
12-3-12 of this title. The variance shall be valid for two (2) years from the
date of the written decision unless an extension, not to exceed two (2) years,
is granted by the city council prior to the expiration of the variance. Unless
approved application conditions are completed within said time frame,
application approval shall expire. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
CHAPTER 9
ZONING AND COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
12-9-1: Amendments To Text And Maps
12-9-2: Initiation Of Amendments
12-9-3: Applications
12-9-4: Amendment Procedures And Standards
12-9-1: AMENDMENTS TO TEXT AND MAPS:
Whenever the public necessity, convenience and general welfare or good zoning
practices require, the city council may amend, supplement, change or repeal the
regulations, restrictions and boundaries or classification of property
established by the adopted zoning regulations, official zoning map,
comprehensive plan or land use map. Procedures for consideration of text or map
amendments shall be as provided by Idaho Code and the provisions of chapter 3
of this title. Amendments to the zoning map and regulations shall be by
ordinance and amendments to the comprehensive plan map and text shall be by
resolution. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-9-2: INITIATION OF AMENDMENTS:
Amendments to zoning regulations, comprehensive plan text, zoning maps or land
use maps may be initiated by the council, planning and zoning commission, or by
any citizen, landowner or taxpayer of the city by filing an application with
the administrator. Advertisement and notice costs shall be paid by the
applicant, as set forth in the city fee schedule. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-9-3: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for map or text amendments shall be filed with the administrator
on forms provided by the city. The application shall contain at least the
following:
   A.   Reasons: The reasons for the proposed amendment;
   B.   Legal Description: For map amendments, a legal description, vicinity
map (drawn to a readable scale) showing property lines, thoroughfares, current
zoning, linear feet measurements for all parcels of land within three hundred
feet (300') of the subject property, excluding streets and alleys;
   C.   Relationship To Comprehensive Plan: A statement on how the proposed
amendment relates to the comprehensive plan, availability of public facilities
and compatibility with the surrounding area. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-9-4: AMENDMENT PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS:
Amendments to the map or text of the zoning regulations or comprehensive plan
shall be made in the following manner:
   A.   Submittal: Requests shall be submitted to the administrator and shall
be processed in accordance with the procedures set forth at section
12-3-12 of this title. The planning and zoning commission and city council
shall evaluate the request in accord with section
12-3-16 of this title.
   B.   Approval By City Council: If the request is in accordance with the
general and specific goals and objectives of the adopted comprehensive plan,
the city council may adopt the ordinance amendment or comprehensive plan
resolution under the notice and hearing procedures as set forth at Idaho Code
sections 67-6509 and 67-6511.
   C.   Submittal To Planning And Zoning Commission: If a zoning map request is
found by the city council to be in conflict with the adopted comprehensive
plan, or would result in demonstrable adverse impacts upon the delivery of
services by any political subdivision providing public services, including
school districts, the council may require the request to be submitted to the
planning and zoning commission for consideration of an amendment to the
comprehensive plan pursuant to the notice and hearing procedures provided in
Idaho Code section 67-6509. After the plan has been amended, the request may
then be considered for amendment pursuant to the provisions of this title and
Idaho Code.
   D.   Approved Amendments: Upon approval of a map amendment, the official
zoning district map shall be amended pursuant to section
12-4-3 of this title. Approved zoning amendments shall thereafter be made a
part of this title, following the preparation, passage and publication of an
ordinance. Approved comprehensive plan amendments shall become a part of the
Dover comprehensive plan, upon approval of a resolution by the city council.
(Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
CHAPTER 10
SPECIAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
12-10-1: Purpose
12-10-2: Application For Special Use Permit
12-10-3: General Standards For Approval
12-10-4: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
12-10-5: Standards Applicable To Special Uses
12-10-6: Public Hearing Administration Of Special Use Permits
12-10-7: Notification To Applicant; Expiration
12-10-8: Issuance And Continuation Of Special Use Permit
12-10-9: Modifications And Revocations
12-10-1: PURPOSE:
The special use permit procedure is intended to provide uses that may be
specially permitted under this title, subject to conditions. A special use
permit shall not be considered as establishing a binding precedent to grant
other special use permits. A special use permit is not transferable from one
parcel of land to another. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-10-2: APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
An application shall be filed with the administrator by at least one owner or
lessee of property for which such special use is proposed. Special uses are
subject to the standards of chapter 6 of this title, applicable specific
standards of chapter 7 of this title and buffering standards of section
12-13-2, appendix B of this title. Applications for special use permits shall
be processed in accordance with the standards of section
12-3-12 of this title. Applications shall be submitted to the administrator on
forms provided by the city, and shall include the following:
   A.   Site Plan: A site plan, drawn to a readable scale, showing the location
of all buildings, parking and loading areas, traffic access and traffic
circulation, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service areas, utilities,
signs, yards and such other information as the city may require to determine if
the proposed special use meets with the intent and requirements of this title.
   B.   Elevation Drawings: Conceptual elevation drawings of proposed
structures.
   C.   Ownership Report: An ownership report, as required by subsection
12-3-15C of this title.
   D.   Narrative Statement: A narrative statement addressing:
      1.   The effects of the use on adjoining property;
      2.   The effect of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes, and
vibration on adjoining property;
      3.   The general compatibility with adjacent and other properties in the
district;
      4.   Traffic impacts to the surrounding area;
      5.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-10-3: GENERAL STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL:
In addition to development standards contained within this title, and prior to
approving a special use, the city council shall review the particular facts and
circumstances of each proposed special use in terms of the following standards
and shall find adequate evidence showing that such use at the proposed
location:
   A.   Constitutes Special Use: Will constitute a special use as established
in this title for the zoning district involved;
   B.   Objectives: Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general
objectives or with any specific objective of the comprehensive plan and the
zoning ordinance;
   C.   Character: Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and that such use will not change the
essential character of the same area;
   D.   Public Facilities: Will not create excessive additional requirements as
to public cost for public facilities;
   E.   Detrimental: Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials,
equipment and conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons,
property or the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic,
noise, smoke, fumes, glare or odors;
   F.   Traffic: Will have vehicular approaches to the property that are so
designed as to not create interference with traffic and surrounding public
thoroughfares. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-10-4: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
In granting any special use, the city council may prescribe appropriate
conditions, bonds and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violations of
such conditions, bonds or safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which
the special use is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title. In
addition, the city council may also set conditions to:
   A.   Adverse Impact: Minimize adverse impact on other development;
   B.   Sequence, Timing: Control the sequence and timing of development;
   C.   Duration: Control the duration of development;
   D.   Maintenance: Assure that development is maintained properly;
   E.   Location, Nature: Designate the exact location and nature of
development;
   F.   Public Facilities, Services: Require the provision for on site or off
site public facilities or services;
   G.   More Restrictive Standards: Require more restrictive standards than
those generally required in an ordinance;
   H.   Mitigation Of Effects: Require mitigation of effects of the proposed
development upon service delivery by any political subdivision, including
school districts, providing services within the planning jurisdiction. (Ord.
146, 9-22-2016)
12-10-5: STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO SPECIAL USES:
In addition to the standards for all zone districts provided at chapter 6 of
this title, the following shall also be applicable to special uses in the city:
   A.   Buffering And Screening:
      1.   All commercial developments and public buildings shall provide an
effective buffer for adjoining residences, adjoining undeveloped parcels and
the river;
      2.   All high density residential developments shall provide an effective
buffer for existing commercial or industrial uses or public buildings,
adjoining residences, adjoining undeveloped parcels and the river;
      3.   Existing vegetation shall be retained to serve required buffering or
screening functions wherever possible;
      4.   All buffers shall be installed in compliance with the detailed
performance standards for effective buffering found in section
12-13-2, appendix B of this title.
   B.   Street Connections: All developments shall be designed to maximize
functional connections with adjoining developments, including shared access to
arterial streets, shared parking and service access, shared buffers and open
space areas, and shared pedestrian circulation.
   C.   Runoff And Erosion Control: A professionally prepared runoff and
erosion control plan shall be implemented by all developments located on land
with a slope of more than eight percent (8%) or where a cumulative total of
more than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of impervious cover will be
created. That plan shall:
      1.   Identify runoff and erosion hazard areas on the site;
      2.   Identify areas and facilities, both on and down stream from the
site, that are vulnerable to damage from accelerated runoff or erosion;
      3.   Show where existing vegetation will be retained and land disturbance
minimized (retention of existing vegetation in buffers wherever possible is
required);
      4.   Show how existing trees that are to be retained will be protected
from damage during construction;
      5.   Show how the area disturbed by construction at any one time will be
minimized, and how runoff will be diverted away from areas disturbed by
construction;
      6.   Show how disturbed areas will be stabilized during the construction
period;
      7.   Show how disturbed areas will be promptly, permanently stabilized by
revegetation and/or structural techniques;
      8.   Show how runoff velocities will be minimized and drainageways will
be prepared to handle any acceleration or increase of runoff;
      9.   Show how any additional runoff generated will be retained on site
and absorbed, evaporated or released from the site at a rate not exceeding the
predevelopment rate of release;
      10.   Show how sediment resulting from accelerated soil erosion will be
retained on site;
      11.   Show how water quality in adjoining or nearby streams and wetlands
will be protected by retention of existing vegetation, installation of
vegetative filter strips or other means.
   D.   Hazardous Substances: Any use that is, or may reasonably be, expected
to involve the handling or storage of hazardous substances shall demonstrate
continuing compliance with state and federal requirements for the storage and
handling of hazardous substances. No such uses, other than marinas, shall be
located within the river corridor.
   E.   Land Use Compatibility: Special uses shall be designed for
compatibility with neighboring uses, with compatibility being evaluated using
the following factors:
      1.   Lot coverage and extent of landscaping (including the effectiveness
of the proposed buffers);
      2.   Building bulk, height and scale;
      3.   Effect on scenic views from adjoining properties and public spaces;
and
      4.   Hours of operation, lighting, activity levels, as measured by
traffic and noise generation, parking and storage area requirements, the number
and size of signs, and similar indicators.
   F.   Location Of Parking Area: Parking areas accessory to commercial uses
and public buildings shall be located to the side or rear of the principal
building so the predominant streetscape perception of the city will be one of
building facades and landscaped areas, not asphalt and automobiles.
   G.   Pedestrian Circulation: All land use changes shall provide safe and
adequate nonmotorized travelways.
   H.   Snow Storage: All developments shall provide for adequate on site snow
storage. Snow storage shall not be permitted to reduce the size of required off
street parking or loading areas. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-10-6: PUBLIC HEARING ADMINISTRATION OF SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
An application for a special use permit shall proceed consistent with the
public hearing, noticing, and decision making procedures, as set forth in
chapter 3 of this title. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-10-7: NOTIFICATION TO APPLICANT; EXPIRATION:
The administrator shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action
on the request pursuant to section
12-3-12 of this title. The special use permit shall be valid for two (2) years
from the date of the written decision unless an extension, not to exceed two
(2) years, is granted by the city council prior to the expiration of the
special use permit. Unless approved application conditions are completed within
said time frame, application approval shall expire. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-10-8: ISSUANCE AND CONTINUATION OF SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   Permitted: A special use permit shall not be considered valid until
issued by the city. If the application is approved or approved with
modifications or conditions, the administrator shall issue a special use permit
once the city has determined that all conditions pertaining to the set up and
operations of the use have been met to the satisfaction of the city.
   B.   Runs With Land: A special use permit shall run with the land and may be
transferable to a future property owner, provided the use remains in compliance
with the permit and conditions it is bound by. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-10-9: MODIFICATIONS AND REVOCATIONS:
   A.   Filing, Processing: Modification to a special use shall be filed and
processed in accord with sections
12-3-17 and
12-3-18 of this title.
   B.   Revocation: Continued operation of a use requiring a special use permit
that is in noncompliance with any condition of a special use permit, shall
constitute a violation of this title and may be subject to revocation of the
permit.
   C.   Recommendation For Revocation; Hearing: The administrator may present
to the council a recommendation to revoke a special use permit upon finding of
substantial evidence that the permit is not in compliance with the terms,
conditions or restrictions of the use permit. Prior to revoking a permit, the
council shall conduct a public hearing, in accord with the noticing and
procedures set forth by section
12-3-13 of this title.
   D.   City Council Authority: The city council may revoke the permit or
impose additional conditions or restrictions to bring the permit into
compliance, upon a finding that there is substantial evidence that the terms of
the permit approval have been violated. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
CHAPTER 11
SIGNS
SECTION:
12-11-1: Purpose And Intent
12-11-2: Definitions
12-11-3: Permit Required
12-11-4: Exceptions To Permit Requirements
12-11-5: Prohibited Signs
12-11-6: Placement Of Signs Prohibited
12-11-7: Design And Performance Standards
12-11-8: Signs Permitted By Zone
12-11-9: Nonconforming Signs
12-11-10: Administration
12-11-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
Signage is a significant design element, affecting the visual quality and
therefor the viability of activity and quality of life of residents and
visitors within city limits. Signs not only enhance and define architecture,
but support the intended function of the business being advertised and/or
convey other important information. Because they are publicly viewed, signs can
either add or detract from the community character. Therefore, the purpose of
this chapter is to:
   A.   Provide reasonable guidelines and restriction on signage types to
enhance and protect the physical appearance of the community;
   B.   Ensure standards are in place that will reduce hazards caused by
placement or erecting of signs;
   C.   Reduce sign or advertising distractions and obstructions that may
contribute to traffic accidents or distracted driving;
   D.   Curb the deterioration of the natural environment and to enhance
community development. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions are subject to administration within this chapter and
within this title:
ANIMATED SIGN: A sign depicting action, motion, light or color changes through
electrical or mechanical means. Although technologically similar to flashing
signs, the animated sign emphasizes graphics and artistic display.
AWNINGS: Fabric shelters supported by a rigid framework attached to a building.
CONSTRUCTION SIGN: A nonpermanent sign identifying the planned use of the
building and/or persons, firms or businesses directly connected with a
construction project.
DEVELOPMENT SIGN: A temporary construction sign denoting the architect,
engineer, contractor, subcontractor, financier or sponsor of a residential or
commercial development that may also be designated the future occupant or use
of the development.
DIRECTIONAL/INSTITUTIONAL SIGN: A. A permanent instructional sign located on
private property at or near the public right of way, directing or guiding
vehicular traffic onto the property and/or toward parking or other identified
locations on the property.
   B.   On site directional signs identify points of access, the direction of
travel, and handicapped parking spaces, and to perform similar functions in off
street parking and loading areas. They include no advertising or promotional
copy, but may include a logo.
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD: Includes those displaying time and temperature and
also refers to digital or video displays or any sign that contains dynamically
generated digital content.
FREESTANDING SIGN: Any sign which is permanently affixed in or upon the ground,
supported by one or more structural members, with air space between the ground
and the sign face.
GOVERNMENT SIGNS: A sign erected and maintained pursuant to and in discharge of
any governmental functions, or required by law, ordinance or other governmental
regulation.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: Any sign for which an artificial source of light is used in
order to make readable the sign's message, including internally and externally
lighted signs and reflectorized, glowing or radiating signs.
LOGO: A graphic symbol used to identify a use or product.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: A sign which was validly installed under laws or ordinances
in effect at the time of its installation, but which is in conflict with the
current provisions of this title.
PERMANENT SIGN: A sign attached to a building or structure, or to the ground in
a manner that enables the sign to resist environmental loads, such as wind, and
that precludes ready removal or movement of the sign.
PROJECTING SIGN: A sign which projects from and is supported by a wall or
parapet of a building with the display surface of the sign in a plane
perpendicular to or approximately perpendicular to the wall. Including, but not
limited to, blade signs, canopy signs, marquee signs, or any other sign that
projects away from the building, but are not freestanding.
SANDWICH BOARD SIGN: A portable, A-frame sign that complies with the
requirements of this title for size and shape.
SIGN: Any object or structure used to identify, advertise or in any way attract
or direct attention to any use, building or person by any means, including, but
not limited to, the use of lettering, words, pictures, and other graphic
depictions or symbols.
SMALL SIGN: A freestanding sign not exceeding six (6) square feet in gross sign
area and five feet (5') in height, which is not illuminated.
TEMPORARY SIGN: Any sign intended to remain in use for a period of time (not
exceeding 90 days) which is not permanently installed.
WALL SIGN: Any sign attached to or painted on the wall of a building or
structure in a plane parallel or approximately parallel to the plane of said
wall. Attached wall signs extend no more than one foot (1') from the building
to which they are attached. Wall signs shall not extend above the roofline or
parapet of the building to which they are attached.
WAYFINDING SIGN: Advertises publicly accessible facilities remote from the sign
location and provides general descriptions of facilities or commercial areas,
but shall not advertise specific business names. These signs may be located on
public or private property.
WINDOW SIGN: Appear within the frame of a window and are affixed directly to
that window. Window displays of merchandise are not signs; provided, that no
part of the display is affixed to the window. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-11-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
A building and/or zoning site permit, pursuant to section
12-3-9 of this title and title 9 of this code shall be required for the
placement or installation of any sign, including replacements of existing
signs, except as provided in section
12-11-4 of this chapter. The location, type and size of proposed signs shall be
included in the materials required for special use permit applications. A
zoning permit shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of section
12-3-9 of this title. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-11-4: EXCEPTIONS TO PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
The signs listed here are not exempt from any requirement of this title, except
the requirement for a permit. No permit shall be required for:
   A.   Addressing numbers/mailboxes;
   B.   Directional or institutional signs that do not in any way advertise a
business. Signage includes, but is not limited to: signs identifying publicly
accessible facilities; signs providing direction, such as parking lot entrance
and exit signs; and those of similar nature;
   C.   Governmental signs for the control of traffic or other regulatory
purposes, or signs of public service companies indicating danger, which are
erected by or on the order of a public officer in the performance of public
duty;
   D.   Flagpoles that do not exceed a height of thirty five feet (35');
   E.   Sandwich board signs not exceeding six (6) square feet for each side;
   F.   Small signs, as defined in section
12-11-2 of this chapter, which shall not be illuminated, animated or contain
reader boards;
   G.   Temporary signs, as defined in section
12-11-2 of this chapter, not in excess of six (6) square feet and not
permanently installed;
   H.   Wall signs not exceeding four (4) square feet;
   I.   Wayfinding signs;
   J.   Window signs. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-11-5: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
All signs not expressly permitted by section
12-11-8, table A of this chapter, shall be prohibited. Signs prohibited within
the city shall include:
   A.   Signs that mimic or simulate traffic control signs or public notices
placed by the city or other public agencies;
   B.   Signs that obstruct or interfere with vehicle and pedestrian traffic.
Signs located in such a manner as to obstruct or otherwise interfere with an
official traffic sign, signal or device, or obstruct or interfere with a
driver's view of approaching, merging or intersecting traffic;
   C.   Oscillating, flashing, rotating, flickering or blinking lights unless
otherwise specifically permitted by this title;
   D.   Signs on public property or attached to trees, utility poles, public
benches or streetlights, unless authorized by the city or specifically
permitted within this title. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-11-6: PLACEMENT OF SIGNS PROHIBITED:
No sign shall be placed:
   A.   In a public right of way, except traffic control or regulatory signs
placed by public agencies;
   B.   On a tree, utility pole or fence;
   C.   On a vehicle or trailer parked in a visible location for the primary
purpose of displaying the sign;
   D.   Where it creates a traffic safety hazard by obstructing vision at an
intersection or driveway or obscures traffic control signs. (Ord. 146, 9-22-
2016)
12-11-7: DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Conformance To City Codes: Any sign hereafter erected shall conform to
provisions of this title, and all other applicable provisions of other titles
of this code, unless where otherwise exempted at section
12-11-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Construction Standards:
      1.   Plans: All applicable signs, subject to a building permit, shall
accompany construction quality stamped plans by an engineer certified in the
state to do such work. The plan shall illustrate how the proposed sign is
engineered to be compliant with the minimum design criteria as adopted and
shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city engineer or designee, that
the sign will not constitute a public hazard.
      2.   Electrical, Building Codes: All applicable signs shall comply with
the applicable provisions of the national electrical code and applicable
building codes.
      3.   Materials; Installation: Signs shall be constructed of permanent
materials and permanently affixed to the ground or building, except for those
signs that are intended to be temporary.
      4.   Maintenance: Signs and sign support structures, together with their
supports, braces, guys and anchors, shall be kept in repair and in proper state
of preservation. The display surfaces of signs shall be kept neatly painted or
posted at all times.
   C.   Lighting: Only nonilluminated and indirectly lit signs shall be
permitted inside the city limits. Spotlights or other fixtures used for the
indirect illumination of a sign shall be placed so as not to result in
violations of section
12-11-5 of this chapter.
   D.   Measurement Standards:
      1.   Determining Sign Height:
         a.   The height of a freestanding sign shall be measured from the base
of the sign or supportive structure at its point of attachment to the ground,
to the highest point of the sign. A freestanding sign on a manmade base,
including a graded earth mound, shall be measured from the grade of the nearest
pavement or top of any pavement curb.
         b.   Clearance for freestanding and projecting signs shall be measured
as the smallest vertical distance between finished grade and the lowest point
of the sign, including any framework or other embellishments.
      2.   Determining Sign Area:
         a.   The surface area of a sign shall be computed as including the
entire area within a regular, geometric form or combinations of regular,
geometric forms comprising all of the display area of the sign and including
all of the elements of the matter displayed. Frames and structural members not
being advertising matter shall not be included in computation of surface area.
         b.   When two (2) identical sign faces are placed back to back so that
both faces cannot be viewed from any point at the same time, and are part of
the same sign structure, the sign area shall be computed as the measurement of
one of the two (2) faces. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-11-8: SIGNS PERMITTED BY ZONE:
Unless otherwise permitted, those signs not specifically provided for shall be
prohibited.
   TABLE A
   P = Authorized or permitted; S = Specially permitted; [vacant] = Prohibited.
          Zone District
Sign Type Agriculture/ Suburban Residential Commercial
          Rural
                                 Zone District
Sign Type                        Agriculture/ Suburban Residential Commercial
                                 Rural
Awning                                                             P3
Development signs                P            P        P           P
Electronic message boards
Freestanding                     P6           P6,8     P6,8        P1,2
Neighborhood identification sign P            P        P           P
Projecting/                                                        P5
suspended
Sandwich board signs                                               P9
Small signs                      P6           P6       P6
Temporary                        P7           P7       P7          P7
Window, wall, affixed                                              P2,4
 
Notes:
All signs shall comply with the standards listed within this title, and
specifically with those standards listed in section
12-11-7 of this chapter. All signs requiring a permit are subject to the
permitting requirements of section
12-11-3 of this chapter.
1.   All freestanding signs shall not be greater than 6 feet in height and no
sign shall be greater than 24 square feet as determined by subsection
12-11-7D of this chapter.
2.   Total combined sign area shall not exceed 120 square feet, where no single
sign shall be larger than 24 square feet.
3.   Awnings may be used to display the name or logo of the owner or operator.
4.   Window signs shall not occupy any more than 29 percent of any window area.
5.   Buildings with canopies or arcades may use 1 projecting sign of no more
than 4 square feet for each use or occupancy with access from the canopied area
or arcade. Signs shall not project into a public right of way. A minimum
clearance of 8 feet from adjacent grade shall be maintained for the sign at all
times the sign is in operation.
6.   Only allowed where authorized by an approved use.
7.   Where the sign will not exceed 90 days in use and is not permanently
installed. Total number of temporary signs shall not exceed 3 per lot/parcel.
8.   Residential freestanding signs shall not exceed 4 feet in height and shall
not exceed 6 square feet in area.
9.   Shall not be placed in a public right of way and shall not impede the flow
of pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-11-9: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   A.   Defined: A "nonconforming sign" is a sign that meets the definition in
this chapter.
   B.   Alterations: No such nonconforming sign may be enlarged or altered in a
way which increases its nonconformity, but any sign may be altered to bring it
into conformity.
   C.   Bringing Into Compliance; Exceptions: Except for ordinary maintenance,
copy changes or repairs not involving structural, material or electrical
changes, no sign, or part thereof, shall be changed, converted, additionally
illuminated, enlarged or moved, unless the entire sign and structure are
brought into conformity with this title, unless such sign was damaged or
partially destroyed by man caused or natural act, such as fire, accident,
explosion, flood, lightning, wind or other calamity. In such cases, the sign or
structure may stay at its current location, provided the sign shall not be
improved upon, constructed, altered, changed or reerected without review and
approval by the city. Nonconforming signs shall be required to come into
compliance with any building standards relating to such uses, as determined by
the building inspector and/or engineer. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-11-10: ADMINISTRATION:
The city shall have the authority to ensure that all measures of this chapter
are enforced. As such, the following standards shall be adhered to:
   A.   Permit Required: A permit shall be required for all signs, except for
those expressly exempt in section
12-11-4 of this chapter. Exemption from permit shall not, however, exempt the
owner of the sign from responsibility for its installation and maintenance in a
safe manner, and in a manner in accordance with all other provisions of this
chapter or title. Applications for sign permits shall be pursuant to section
12-3-10 of this title. The application, at a minimum, shall include the
following:
      1.   Name of organization and location;
      2.   Contact person;
      3.   Address and phone number for contact person;
      4.   Description of the activities occurring on the site where the sign
will be installed;
      5.   Description of any existing signage that will remain on the site;
      6.   Identification of the type of sign/signs to be erected by the
applicant;
      7.   Site plan depicting the locations of proposed signage, including
setbacks from property lines, proposed landscaped areas and existing remaining
signage;
      8.   Construction quality plans of the sign and supporting structures
stamped by an engineer certified in the state to do such work. The
administrator may allow an exemption for stamped plans where the sign clearly
does not require engineering, such as signs painted on an existing wall,
sandwich board signs, or similar situations;
      9.   Written description explaining the drawing of the proposed signage,
including a detailed description of materials, colors, and letter height, type,
and style;
      10.   Any applicable fee as established by the city.
   B.   Removal Of Unsafe Signs: Whenever a sign becomes structurally unsafe or
endangers the safety of the public or a building, the city administrator,
engineer or designee, shall order that such sign be made safe or be removed.
Following receipt of said order, the person, firm or corporation owning or
leasing the sign shall remove it immediately.
   C.   Appeals: Any person aggrieved by a decision in this chapter shall have
recourse as set forth in section
12-3-5 of this title.
   D.   Enforcement: All matters pertaining to the enforcement of this chapter
shall be in accord with the standards listed in section
12-2-2 of this title.
   E.   Abandoned Signs: Abandoned signs shall be removed within sixty (60)
days of the adoption of this section or within sixty (60) days of the
abandonment of the use to which the sign is appurtenant. Abandonment shall not
be a matter of the owner's intent, but shall be considered to occur whenever a
use ceases operation for more than one year. Any sign that due to lack of
maintenance or is not structurally sound shall be considered abandoned. (Ord.
146, 9-22-2016)
CHAPTER 12
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
12-12-1: Intent
12-12-2: Goals
12-12-3: Conflicting Provisions
12-12-4: Density
12-12-5: Uses Permitted
12-12-6: Ownership Requirements
12-12-7: Common Open Space
12-12-8: Perimeter Requirements
12-12-9: Underground Utilities
12-12-10: Increased Residential Density
12-12-11: Commercial Uses
12-12-12: Application Procedure
12-12-13: Planned Unit Development Review Criteria
12-12-14: Professional Services Required As Condition Of Approval
12-12-15: Public Services And Facilities
12-12-16: Modification Of Development Standards
12-12-17: Security For Improvements
12-12-18: Parties Bound
12-12-19: Administration And Enforcement; Appeal
12-12-20: Minor And Major Adjustments
12-12-21: Fees
12-12-1: INTENT:
The intent of the planned unit development (PUD) is to permit building and
development flexibility by permitting a PUD within any zoning district through
a rezone and/or special use permit, or in those areas designated as PUD on the
city's official zoning map. Map designation of a PUD still requires the
processing of a special use permit for a PUD. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-12-2: GOALS:
It shall be the policy to guide development of land and construction by
encouraging PUDs to achieve the following goals:
   A.   Development Choices: A choice of development environments by allowing a
variety of building types and permitting an increased density per acre and a
reduction in lot dimensions, yards, building setbacks and area requirements,
provided appropriate amenities are provided by the development;
   B.   Accessory Uses And Services: A more useful pattern of open space, more
convenience in the location of accessory commercial uses and services;
   C.   Pattern Of Development: A development pattern that preserves and
utilizes natural topography and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees and
other vegetation, and prevents the disruption of natural drainage patterns;
   D.   Efficient Use Of Land: A more efficient use of land than is generally
achieved through conventional development resulting in substantial savings
through shorter utilities and streets;
   E.   Harmony: A development pattern in harmony with land use density,
transportation and community facilities objectives of the comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-12-3: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
Whenever there is a conflict or difference between the provisions of this
chapter and those of other provisions of this title, the provisions of this
chapter shall prevail. Subjects not covered by this chapter shall be governed
by the respective provisions found elsewhere in this title. (Ord. 146, 9-22-
2016)
12-12-4: DENSITY:
   A.   Scope: The overall density of a PUD shall not exceed the requirements
of the underlying zone(s), except as provided in sections
12-12-10 and
12-12-16 of this chapter. Common open space and buffering may be included in
calculation of the overall density.
   B.   Separate Calculation: If a PUD is located in more than one zoning
district, the space and density requirements shall be calculated separately for
each zone. However, the distribution of dwellings or other land uses within the
PUD need not be affected by the zoning district boundaries. (Ord. 146, 9-22-
2016)
12-12-5: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Specified: A variety of residential, commercial, recreational or
combinations of these land uses may be permitted within a PUD. Residential
areas within PUDs may include both single-family and multi-family dwelling
units, such as townhouses, garden apartments, common wall single-family and
multi-family dwellings, either as separately deeded lots, condominiums or as
lease or rental housing.
   B.   Zero Lot Line: Zero lot line development and condominiums. (Ord. 146,
9-22-2016)
12-12-6: OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Specified: The PUD application shall be filed in the name or names and
with the consent of the recorded owner or owners of property included in the
development. An application for approval of a PUD may be filed by a property
owner or a person having an existing interest in the property to be included in
the PUD. However, the application may be filed by the holder(s) of an equitable
interest in such property.
   B.   Single Ownership Prior To Approval: Before approval is granted to the
final development plan, the entire project shall be under single ownership or
control and legal title must be presented with the final development plan or
approval may be granted subject to this condition. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-12-7: COMMON OPEN SPACE:
   A.   Required: A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the gross land area
developed in any PUD project shall be reserved for common open space and/or
recreational facilities for the residents or users of the area being developed.
The applicant/developer shall demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the council,
the proposed common area/open space is a percentage of the total area developed
to adequately serve the needs and impacts of the development.
   B.   Ownership: The required amount of common open space land reserved under
a PUD shall either be held in corporate ownership by owners of the project area
for the use of each owner who buys property within the development and/or be
dedicated to the public and retained as common open space for parks, recreation
and related uses. Public utility and similar easements and rights of way for
watercourses and other similar channels are not acceptable for common open
space dedication unless such land or right of way is usable as a trail or other
similar purpose and is approved by the city council.
   C.   Maintenance: The responsibility for the maintenance and security of all
open spaces shall be specified by the developer before approval of the final
development plan. The city may require sufficient guarantees to ensure such
maintenance and security.
   D.   Standards: Common open space shall meet the following standards:
      1.   The location, shape, size and character of the common open space
shall be provided in a manner to meet the needs of the PUD;
      2.   The uses intended for the common open space must be appropriate to
the scale and character of the PUD, considering its size, density, expected
population, topography, and the number and type of structures and uses to be
provided;
      3.   Common open space should be suitably improved for its intended use,
although common open space containing natural features, existing trees and
ground cover worthy of preservation may be proposed to be left unimproved. The
buildings, structures and improvements which are permitted in the common open
space shall be appropriate to the uses which are approved for the common open
space and shall conserve and enhance the amenities of the common open space
having regard to its topography and unimproved condition. The city may use
conditions of approval or require guarantees that ensure required improvements
are constructed;
      4.   The development schedule must coordinate the improvement of the
common open space and the construction of all buildings and facilities within
the PUD;
      5.   The use and improvement of the common open space shall be planned in
relation to any existing public or semipublic open space which adjoins or is
within one thousand feet (1,000') of the perimeter of the PUD;
      6.   The form of ownership and maintenance of the open space must be
approved by the city prior to recording of the final PUD. The individual or
organization shall not dispose of the common open space without written
approval by the city council. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-12-8: PERIMETER REQUIREMENTS:
If topographical or other barriers do not provide adequate protection for
existing or planned uses adjacent to the PUD, the city may impose either, or
both, of the following requirements:
   A.   Setback: Structures located within the perimeter of the PUD must be set
back by a distance sufficient to protect the privacy and amenity of adjacent
existing uses;
   B.   Screening: Such structures located adjacent to the perimeter of the PUD
must be permanently screened or buffered in a manner approved by the council.
Screening/buffering includes, but is not limited to, berming, fencing,
landscaping or combination thereof;
   C.   Modification: Modification of perimeter requirements can be made when
accommodating subsection
12-12-7D5 of this chapter. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-12-9: UNDERGROUND UTILITIES:
Underground utilities, including telephone and electrical systems, are required
within the limits of all PUDs. Appurtenances to these systems which can be
effectively screened may be excepted from this requirement if the council finds
that such exemption will not violate the intent or character of the proposed
PUD. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-12-10: INCREASED RESIDENTIAL DENSITY:
To provide for an incentive for quality PUDs, the council may authorize an
increased density in excess of that permitted in the applicable residential
zoning district. The increased density shall be negotiable. Character,
identity, architectural and siting variation incorporated in a development
shall be considered cause for density increases, provided these factors make a
substantial contribution to the objectives of the PUD, including:
   A.   Landscaping: Landscaping, streetscape, open spaces and plazas, use of
existing landscaping, pedestrianway treatment and recreational areas;
   B.   Physical Features: Siting, visual focal points, use of existing
physical features, such as topography, view, sun and wind orientation,
circulation pattern, physical environment, variation in building setbacks and
building grouping (such as clustering);
   C.   Design: Design features, street sections, architectural style,
harmonious use of materials, parking areas broken by landscaping features and
varied use of housing types;
   D.   Services: Public and/or community services, such as water and sewer,
are appropriate for the proposed densities;
   E.   Unbuildable Lands: Unbuildable lands cannot be used in density
calculations;
   F.   Overcrowding: Increased density will not permit overcrowding. (Ord.
146, 9-22-2016)
12-12-11: COMMERCIAL USES:
   A.   Planning: When PUDs include commercial uses, commercial buildings and
establishments shall be planned as groups having common parking areas and
common ingress and egress points in order to limit the number of encroachments
and intersections. Planting screens or fences may be provided on the perimeter
of the commercial areas abutting residential development or zone districts.
   B.   Design: The plan of the project shall provide for the integrated and
harmonious design of buildings, and for adequate and properly arranged
facilities for traffic circulation, landscaping and such other features and
facilities as may be necessary to make the project attractive and efficient
from the standpoint of the adjoining and surrounding noncommercial areas.
   C.   Undeveloped Areas: All areas designed for future expansion or not
intended for immediate improvement or development shall be landscaped or
otherwise maintained in a neat and orderly manner.
   D.   Access Roads: Access roads shall not have a substantial adverse effect
on properties adjoining the access roads. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-12-12: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Approval Procedure: The granting of a special use permit for a PUD
shall require a preapplication, the submission of a preliminary development
plan and approval by the city council of a final development plan as specified
within this title.
   B.   Preapplication Meeting: The developer shall meet with the public works
administrator prior to the submission of the preliminary development plan. The
purpose of this meeting is to discuss early and informally the purpose and
effect of this chapter and the criteria and standards contained herein, and to
familiarize the developer with the comprehensive plan, this title, the
subdivision title, and such other plans and ordinances as are deemed
appropriate.
   C.   Preliminary Plan:
      1.   Filing: An application for a preliminary PUD shall be filed with the
administrator by a property owner or person having existing interest in the
property for which the PUD is proposed. At a minimum, the application shall
contain the following:
         a.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
         b.   Name, address and phone number of registered surveyor, registered
engineer and/or urban planner assisting in the preparation of the preliminary
development plan;
         c.   Legal description of property including a plat map prepared by a
surveyor licensed in the state;
         d.   Description of existing use;
         e.   Zoning districts;
         f.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the administrator showing
property lines, streets, existing and proposed zoning and such other items as
the administrator or city council may require to show the relationship of the
PUD to the comprehensive plan and to existing schools and other community
facilities and services;
         g.   A preliminary development plan at a scale approved by the
administrator showing topography at two foot (2') contour intervals, except in
areas of steep or high slopes where five foot (5') contours are required;
location and type of residential, commercial and industrial land uses, layout
and dimensions of lots and building setback lines; preliminary improvement
drawings showing water, sewer, drainage, electricity, telephone and natural gas
and such other characteristics as the administrator or city council deem
necessary. The plan will show the proposed general layout; the location of
various types of land uses; the approximate location, use, height and bulk of
buildings; the proposed density of population in each distinct residential
area; the location and size of recreational spaces, parks, schools and other
facilities which are intended for public use; the provisions for automobile
parking; and the size and floor space of commercial or industrial uses;
         h.   Proposed schedule for the development of the site;
         i.   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the land
in question to file the final plan of the proposed development plan within two
(2) years;
         j.   A preliminary plat, in accordance with other provisions of the
city subdivision regulations, when the PUD includes a platted subdivision;
         k.   A land capability report, prepared by a person or firm qualified
by training and experience to have expert knowledge of the subject, identifying
the capability of the land to withstand disturbance without risk of substantial
harmful consequences of floods, sewage, drainage, erosion, sedimentation, or
geological or surface slippage;
         l.   A public utility plan for sanitary sewer, water and storm
drainage;
         m.   A plan showing the design and construction standards and location
of proposed streets, grades and public ways, together with a traffic study of
existing roads to build out;
         n.   Additional copies of the application shall be required if
requested by the administrator;
         o.   The applicant shall also submit a written statement providing the
following information:
            (1)   An explanation of the character of the PUD and the reasons
why the PUD is consistent with all applicable city ordinances and why, in the
applicant's opinion, the PUD is in the public interest;
            (2)   Two (2) copies of restrictive covenants, grants or easements,
or other restrictions proposed to be imposed upon the use of the land,
buildings and structures, including easements or grants for public utilities;
            (3)   Proof of the present ownership of all of the land included
within the PUD and the applicant's interest in the land proposed for
development;
            (4)   The form of organization proposed to own and maintain the
common open space;
            (5)   Letters of comment from the appropriate road, fire, school,
health, sewer and water districts, and other appropriate agencies, shall be
provided. The letters shall indicate that the agency has reviewed the proposal,
and stipulate any conditions or requirements necessary for approval;
            (6)   A development schedule indicating the approximate date when
construction of the project can be expected to begin;
            (7)   The approximate dates in which phases of the project will be
built;
            (8)   The approximate date when the development will be completed.
         p.   The application shall include a deposit, in an amount set by the
administrator, to be applied toward processing fees and postage.
      2.   Notice Requirements: Following the filing of a complete application
as determined by the administrator, and prior to granting a special use permit
for a PUD, at least one public hearing in which interested persons shall have
an opportunity to be heard shall be held. At least fifteen (15) days prior to
the hearing, notice of the time and place and a summary of the proposal shall
be published in the official newspaper of the city. Notice by mail shall be
given by mailing of the public notice fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing to
property owners within three hundred feet (300') beyond the external boundaries
of the land to be considered, excluding streets and alleys, and any additional
area that may be substantially impacted by the proposed special use as
determined by the commission, using the last known name and address of such
owners on the latest adopted tax roll of the county. The applicant shall bear
the responsibility and costs of public notice by mail and by publication. The
city shall have the responsibility of preparing the public notice for the
applicant. The applicant shall provide an ownership report pursuant to
subsection
12-3-15C of this title. Additional notice requirements as provided for by Idaho
Code section 67-6512, shall be met as required.
      3.   City Council Review For Approval:
         a.   Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing, the city
council shall review the preliminary development plan to determine if it is
consistent with the intent and purpose of this chapter; whether the proposed
development advances the general welfare of the community and neighborhood; and
whether the benefits, combination of various land uses and the
interrelationship with the land uses in the surrounding area justify the
deviation from standard district regulations. The city council's approval in
principle of the preliminary development plan shall be necessary before an
applicant may submit a final development plan. Approval in principle shall not
be construed to endorse a precise location of uses, configuration of parcels or
engineering feasibility.
         b.   The city council shall consider the general standards applicable
to special use permits and criteria for special uses before approving in
principle a preliminary development plan.
         c.   The city council shall not make a determination on a preliminary
plan unless permitting costs and fees, that are the responsibility of the
applicant/developer, have been paid.
   D.   Final Plan:
      1.   Filing: An application for approval of the final development plan
must be filed within two (2) years of approval of a preliminary development
plan. The final plan shall be filed with the administrator by at least one
property owner or person having a presently existing interest in the property
for which the PUD is proposed. Applications shall be signed by the owner,
attesting to the truth and exactness of all information supplied on the
application for final development plan. Each application shall clearly state
that the approval shall expire and may be revoked if construction on the
project has not begun within two (2) years from the date of issuance of the
approval unless specifically allowed otherwise by the city council. At a
minimum, the application for a final plan shall contain the following
information:
         a.   A survey of the proposed development site, showing the dimensions
and bearings of the property lines, areas in acres, topography, existing
features of the development site, including major wooded areas, wetlands,
structures, streets, easements, utility lines and land uses;
         b.   All the information required on the preliminary development plan,
the location and sizes of lots, location and proposed density of dwelling
units, nonresidential building intensity and land use considered suitable for
adjacent properties;
         c.   A schedule for the development of units to be constructed in
progression and a description of the design principles for buildings and
streetscapes; tabulation of the number of acres in the proposed project for
various uses; the number of housing units proposed by type; estimated
residential population by type of housing; estimated nonresidential population;
anticipated timing of each unit and standards for height, open space, building
density, parking areas, population density and public improvements proposed for
each unit of the development whenever the applicant proposes an exception from
standard zoning districts or other ordinances governing development;
         d.   Engineering feasibility studies and plans showing, as necessary:
water, sewer, drainage, electricity, telephone and natural gas installations;
waste disposal facilities; street improvements; and nature and extent of
earthwork required for site preparation and development;
         e.   Site plan showing building(s), various functional use areas,
circulation and their relationship;
         f.   Preliminary building plans and proposed exterior elevations;
         g.   Landscaping plans;
         h.   Deed restrictions, protective covenants and other legal
statements or devices to be used to control the use, development and
maintenance of the land, and the improvements thereon, including those areas
which are to be commonly owned and maintained;
         i.   A final plat if a subdivision is included in the PUD.
      2.   City Council Recommendation:
         a.   Within sixty (60) days after receipt of the final development
plan, the administrator shall recommend that the final development plan be
approved as presented, approved with supplementary conditions or disapproved.
The administrator may, upon showing cause, request and receive time extensions
from the city council. The administrator shall then transmit all papers
constituting the record and the recommendations to the city council;
         b.   The city council shall find that the facts submitted with the
application and presented to them establish that:
            (1)   The proposed development can be initiated within two (2)
years of the date of approval or as otherwise stipulated by the city council;
            (2)   Each individual unit of the development, as well as the total
development, can exist as an independent unit capable of creating an
environment of sustained desirability and stability, or that adequate assurance
will be provided that such objective will be attained; the uses proposed will
not be detrimental to present and potential surrounding uses, but will have a
beneficial effect which would not be achieved under standard district
regulations;
            (3)   The streets and thoroughfares proposed are suitable and
adequate to carry anticipated traffic, and increased densities will not
generate traffic in such amounts as to overload the street network outside the
PUD;
            (4)   Any proposed commercial development can be justified at the
locations proposed;
            (5)   Any exception from standard district requirements is
warranted by the design and other amenities incorporated in the final
development plan and is in accordance with the PUD and the adopted policy of
the city council;
            (6)   The area surrounding said development can be planned and
zoned in coordination and substantial compatibility with the proposed
development;
            (7)   The PUD is in general conformance with the comprehensive
plan;
            (8)   The existing and proposed utility services are adequate for
the population densities and nonresidential uses proposed;
            (9)   Permitting costs, that are the responsibility of the
applicant/developer, have been paid by the applicant/developer.
      3.   Council Action:
         a.   Within sixty (60) days after receipt of the final recommendation
of the administrator, the city council shall either approve, approve with
supplementary conditions or disapprove the application as presented. Upon
granting or denying the application, the city council shall specify:
            (1)   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the
application;
            (2)   The reasons for approval or denial;
            (3)   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
a permit.
         b.   Prior to an approval of a final plan, the city may require the
applicant/developer enter into a development agreement with the city setting
forth: the scope of the project; conditions of development; and describing all
improvements and amenities which the applicant/developer has agreed to
construct.
         c.   If the application is either approved or approved with
conditions, the city council shall direct the administrator to issue zoning
permits only in accordance with the approved final development plan and the
supplementary conditions attached thereto.
   E.   Extensions: Extensions for final plan filing and/or initiation of
construction of a project may be administratively granted by the city council,
at a regular business meeting, upon the applicant/developer showing cause for
an extension. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-12-13: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT REVIEW CRITERIA:
A PUD may be approved only if the proposal conforms to the following criteria
to the satisfaction of the city council:
   A.   Environment: The proposal produces a functional, enduring and desirable
environment;
   B.   Consistency: The proposal is consistent with the city comprehensive
plan and the city zoning regulations;
   C.   Design Compatibility: The design and site planning is compatible with
existing uses on adjacent properties. Design elements to be considered include,
but are not limited to, density, architectural style, placement of buildings
upon land, building heights and bulk, off street parking, open space, privacy
and landscaping;
   D.   Natural Features: The proposal is compatible with natural features of
the site and adjoining properties. Natural features to be considered include
topography, native vegetation not restricted by law, wildlife habitats,
watercourse, floodplains, floodways and view corridors;
   E.   Services: The location, design and size of the proposal are such that
the development will be adequately served by existing public facilities or
services. Addition to, or expansion of, existing facilities or the creation of
new facilities may be required as a condition of PUD approval. Additions and
expansions shall be the responsibility of the developer;
   F.   Open Space: The proposal provides adequate private common open space
area, as determined by the city council, of no less than ten percent (10%) of
gross land area, free of buildings, streets, driveways or parking area. The
common open space shall be accessible to all users of the development and
usable for open space and recreational purposes;
   G.   Off Street Parking: Off street parking provides parking sufficient for
users of the development and shall be integrated into the development to
minimize exposure and impact;
   H.   Maintenance, Security: The proposal indicates the form of management,
acceptable to the city, for the perpetual maintenance and security of all
common property;
   I.   Traffic: The location, design and size of the proposal are such that
the traffic generated by the development can be accommodated safely on major
streets and without requiring unnecessary utilization of other local streets
without appropriate improvements and mitigation measures;
   J.   Access: Access to the PUD, traffic congestion in the streets which
adjoin the PUD, and the burden on public facilities which serve or are proposed
to serve the PUD have been adequately addressed by the development;
   K.   Traffic Congestion: All elements of the design of the land, including
vehicular ingress and egress, internal circulation of vehicles, pedestrian
walkways, buildings, structures and related improvements, landscaping, signs,
and exterior illumination are so arranged that traffic congestion is avoided,
pedestrian and vehicular safety and welfare are protected, and physical
disruption of surrounding property will not result;
   L.   Nonvehicular Travelways: The city council may require dedication of
land and/or the construction of nonvehicular travelways that will facilitate
nonvehicular travel within the development and complement a citywide
nonvehicular transportation system. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-12-14: PROFESSIONAL SERVICES REQUIRED AS CONDITION OF APPROVAL:
The city council shall have the authority to require the applicant to utilize
appropriate competent professionals for a specific input regarding special
areas of concern, such as traffic, hydrology and engineering studies, as a
condition for approval of a PUD or a limited design PUD. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-12-15: PUBLIC SERVICES AND FACILITIES:
The city council may, as a condition of approval of PUDs, and when the need is
caused by the PUD, require mitigation of impacts to the extent required by the
PUD to public services and facilities, including, but not limited to, schools,
parks, playgrounds and associated services. Areas for such services may be set
aside and negotiated for public use or be permanently reserved for the owners,
residents, employees or patrons of the development. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-12-16: MODIFICATION OF DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
In order to achieve the purposes of these provisions, the following standards
may be modified with conditions imposed:
   A.   Standards: Any provision pertaining to site performance standards,
including, but not limited to, height, bulk, setback or maximum dimensions of
any facility;
   B.   Site Design: Any provision establishing buffering, landscaping or other
similar requirements pertaining to site design;
   C.   Lot Dimensions: Any provision pertaining to the minimum or maximum
dimensions of any lot(s);
   D.   Facilities, Uses: Any provision pertaining to the type of facilities
and uses allowed;
   E.   Signs: Any provision pertaining to sign regulations;
   F.   Off Street Parking, Loading: Any provision pertaining to off street
parking and loading, except that required parking spaces shall be located
within two hundred feet (200') of the building containing the living units.
(Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-12-17: SECURITY FOR IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Requirements: The city council may, as a condition of approval of a
final PUD, require the applicant to enter into a contract with the city to
install the required public improvements. The applicant shall furnish an
irrevocable letter of credit, performance bond or other sufficient security
acceptable to the city for the installation and associated costs. However, if
an applicant/developer completes all public improvements prior to lease, sale
or use of properties, bonding will not be required. The administrator may
extend the completion date for additional six (6) month periods upon written
request from the applicant showing cause and need for the extension.
   B.   Forfeiture: In the event the developer fails to complete such work
within the period of time as required by the conditions of the guarantee for
the completion of public improvements, the guarantee shall be forfeited to the
city. The city shall arrange to have such work completed up to the amount of
the guarantee. In no case shall the city be required to expend any funds other
than those provided by the guarantee. In order to accomplish this, the city
shall reimburse itself for any cost and expense thereof by appropriating the
guarantee. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-12-18: PARTIES BOUND:
Once the preliminary development plan is approved, all persons and parties,
their successors, heirs or assigns, who own, have, or will have by virtue of
purchase, inheritance or assignment, any interest in the real property within
the proposed PUD, shall be bound by the conditions attending the approval of
the development and the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-12-19: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT; APPEAL:
Building permits and other permits required for the construction or development
of property under the provisions of this chapter shall be issued only when, in
the opinion of the administrator, the work to be performed meets the
requirements of the final plan and program elements of the PUD. Any
determination made by the administrator, in regard to administering this
chapter, can be appealed to the city council. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-12-20: MINOR AND MAJOR ADJUSTMENTS:
   A.   Minor: Minor adjustments may be made and approved by the administrator
when a building permit is issued. Minor adjustments are those which may affect
the precise dimensions or siting of buildings, but which do not affect the
basic character or arrangement of buildings approved in the final plan, nor the
density of the development or the open space requirements. Such dimensional
adjustments shall not vary more than ten percent (10%) from the original.
   B.   Major: Major adjustments are those which, in the opinion of the
administrator, substantially change the basic design, density, open space or
other requirements of the PUD. When, in the opinion of the administrator, a
change constitutes a major adjustment, no building or other permit shall be
issued without prior review and approval by the city council of such
adjustment. (Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-12-21: FEES:
It is the intent of the city for the applicant/developer to assume all
permitting costs associated with processing a PUD. Permitting costs shall
include processing fees, postage and reasonable professional fees, such as
engineering and legal service fees. The city may set such fees by resolution.
(Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
CHAPTER 13
APPENDICES
SECTION:
12-13-1: Appendix A; Detailed Performance Standards For Off Street Parking And
Loading
12-13-2: Appendix B; Detailed Performance Standards For Buffering
12-13-3: Appendix C; Detailed Performance Standards For Street Design And
Construction
12-13-4: Appendix D; Definitions
12-13-1: APPENDIX A; DETAILED PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR OFF STREET PARKING AND
LOADING:
   A.   Purpose: These performance standards are intended to prevent traffic
congestion on public streets by requiring provision for adequate off street
parking and loading areas.
   B.   Off Street Parking Required: All buildings and uses shall provide the
minimum number of off street parking spaces required by table A1 of this
section. Off street parking requirements for different uses housed in the same
building (a retail outlet in a manufacturing plant, for example) shall be
calculated separately.
   C.   Off Street Parking Requirements For Uses Not Listed: The classification
of uses and the off street parking requirements for uses not listed in table A1
of this section shall be determined by the administrator.
   D.   Location Of Off Street Parking:
      1.   Off street parking spaces shall be provided on the same lot and
under the same ownership or control as the building or use they serve, except
two (2) or more buildings or uses may share an off street parking area where
the total number of spaces provided is not less than the sum of spaces required
for all buildings or uses served. Where buildings or uses sharing a parking
area are not in the same ownership or control, a contract providing for shared
parking for a period of ten (10) or more years shall be executed before
approval of a permit and recorded before issuance of a certificate of
occupancy.
      2.   Required off street parking spaces shall be within six hundred feet
(600') of a main entrance of the building or use being served, except that
spaces serving a dwelling shall be within one hundred feet (100') of the
dwelling unit served.
   E.   Passenger Loading Areas: Where located on an arterial street, daycare
centers, preschools, public schools and places for public assembly shall
provide at least one off street passenger loading area. The minimum standards
for passenger loading areas shall be:
      1.   Such areas shall be located where there is adequate visibility for
their safe use;
      2.   Off street passenger loading areas shall:
         a.   Be divided from the street by a curbed barrier at least four feet
(4') in width;
         b.   Be at least sixty feet (60') in length and twelve feet (12') in
width;
         c.   Accommodate one-way traffic only;
         d.   Include a depressed curb section for handicapped access; and
         e.   Be marked by signs facing both traffic lanes.
   F.   Off Street Loading Areas: Commercial buildings and uses shall provide
one off street loading area for each ten thousand (10,000) square feet of gross
floor area.
      1.   Off street loading areas shall be on the same lot and under the same
ownership and control as the building or use they serve.
      2.   Off street loading areas shall be designed to accommodate the
largest vehicle reasonably anticipated to be used on the site, and shall have
the following minimum dimensions:
         a.   Vertical clearance: Fourteen feet (14');
         b.   Width: Twelve feet (12'); and
         c.   Depth (length): Thirty five feet (35').
      3.   Off street loading areas shall be designed so that no vehicle parked
in the loading area shall extend into a public right of way.
   G.   Access To Off Street Parking And Loading Areas: Access driveways shall
be provided for safe access to all off street parking and loading areas. The
following standards apply to off street parking and loading areas:
      1.   No parking area, except those serving single-family dwellings, shall
be designed or constructed to create a situation in which vehicles are required
to back onto a public street;
      2.   Parking and loading areas shall be sited and designed to minimize
the number of access points to arterial streets;
      3.   No access driveway to a local street shall be within twenty feet
(20') of any intersection or alley, or ten feet (10') of another access point;
      4.   No access driveway to an arterial street shall be within forty feet
(40') of its intersection with a local street, or sixty feet (60') of its
intersection with another arterial;
      5.   The distance from an access driveway to an intersection is measured
from the junction of the corner lot lines at the intersection, to the nearest
side of the driveway;
      6.   Clear vision triangles shall be provided for all access driveways,
as required by section
12-6-10 of this title and section
12-13-3, appendix C of this chapter;
      7.   Access driveways for single-family dwellings shall be a minimum of
ten feet (10') wide, with a curb radius of five feet (5'). Access driveways for
other uses shall be designed to accommodate the reasonably anticipated level of
use;
      8.   Where required for drainage, access driveways shall be constructed
over a minimum twelve inch (12") culvert capable of supporting a load of forty
thousand (40,000) pounds.
   H.   Circulation Within Off Street Parking Areas: The pattern of circulation
within parking areas shall be designed to provide safe and efficient access to
individual parking spaces, protect pedestrians moving through the parking area,
and facilitate safe access to public streets.
      1.   Minimum aisle widths shall be:
         a.   For two-way circulation and/or ninety degree (90o) parking:
Twenty four feet (24');
         b.   For one-way circulation and/or sixty degree (60o) angle parking:
Eighteen feet (18');
         c.   For one-way circulation and/or forty five degree (45o) angle
parking: Fifteen feet (15');
         d.   For one-way circulation and/or thirty degree (30o) angle parking:
Thirteen feet (13').
      2.   Where one-way circulation is used, directional signs shall be
installed at all access points to the parking area.
      3.   No parking area shall be designed so that circulation from one
portion of the parking lot relies on a public street to gain access to another
portion of the parking lot.
   I.   Protecting Pedestrians In Off Street Parking, Loading Areas: There
shall be safe pedestrian access around or through all parking and loading
areas.
   J.   Off Street Parking And Loading Area Surface: All off street parking and
loading areas, except those serving individual single-family dwellings, shall
be constructed with an all weather paved surface.
   TABLE A1
   MINIMUM OFF STREET PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS
Type Use Spaces Required (Per 1,000 Sq. Ft. Of Gross Floor Area Unless
         Otherwise Noted1)
                                              Spaces Required (Per 1,000 Sq.
Type Use                                      Ft. Of Gross Floor Area Unless
                                              Otherwise Noted1)
Entertainment:
    Bowling alleys, arcades, similar         5
     amusements; health clubs, spas
    Theaters, other places of assembly       0.3 per seat3
Residential:
    Boarding houses, dormitories             1 per bed
    Dwellings                                2 per unit2
Retail:
    Apparel, accessories                     3
    Automotive, marine craft, aircraft, access:
        Sales and services               5
        Sales, no services               1
    Building materials, hardware, farm       1
     equipment
    Eating and drinking places               15
    Furniture, home furnishings, equipment   1
    General merchandise                      4
    Groceries, other food stores             4
    Other retail trade                       3
    Shopping centers less than 200,000 sq.   4
     ft.
    Shopping centers over 200,000 sq. ft.    5
Service:
    Business services                        3
    Finance, insurance, real estate          3
    Health services:
        Hospitals                        2 per bed
        Physicians, dentists, outpatient 5
     clinics
        Rest homes, etc.                 2 per bed
    Miscellaneous services                   3
    Office parks - mixed use                 3
    Personal services:
        All others                       3
        Beauty and barber services       6
    Professional services                    3
Other (the following have the listed parking requirement, plus 1 space for
each employee anticipated when operating at capacity):
    Contract construction services           2
    Daycare centers, preschools              1
    Elementary, junior high schools          1 per class
    Lodging places                           1 per room
    Manufacturing, wholesaling               2
    Transportation, communication, utilities 2
 
Notes:
   1.   These requirements do not include parking for company vehicles. 1 space
shall be added for each such vehicle anticipated.
   2.   The off street parking requirement for housing developments occupied by
the elderly shall be reduced to 1 space for each dwelling unit.
   3.   Where a place of assembly does not have fixed seating, 1 space shall be
provided for each 25 square feet of assembly area.
(Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-13-2: APPENDIX B; DETAILED PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR BUFFERING:
   A.   Purpose: Landscaping requirements are an essential element in
mitigating potential land use conflicts and enhancing the visual appeal of the
city. The purpose of this section is to assure that the landscaped buffers
required by this title effectively accomplish these goals.
   B.   Location Of Buffers: Buffers should be located along property lines
where competing land uses are located or as directed by the city where the
purpose is to mitigate competing land uses. Buffers, where approved by the
city, may be located along property lines that front public rights of way or
public property.
   C.   Buffer Widths And Buffer Width Reductions:
      1.   Buffer Widths: The width of required buffers shall vary with the
nature of the uses being separated, the height of the buildings being
separated, and the construction of the buffer. Table B1 of this section
provides the width required. The buffer shall consist of a level or gently
sloping area of sod or ground cover and four (4) major trees per hundred linear
feet of buffer. Table B1 of this section also shows where a security fence and/
or a solid fence, wall or berm is required as part of a buffer.
      2.   Buffer Reduction Berms: The width requirements of table B1 of this
section may be reduced where a berm is included in the buffer. The width
reduction shall be twice the height of the berm, with a maximum permitted
reduction of ten feet (10').
      3.   Additional Plantings: The width requirements of table B1 of this
section may be reduced where a greater density and diversity of plantings is
included in the buffer. The buffer width reductions permitted in this section
are cumulative and may result in a total reduction of up to thirty percent
(30%). Buffer width reductions permitted above are cumulative with those
permitted here.
         a.   Major Trees: The required buffer width shall be reduced by ten
percent (10%) where five (5) or more major trees per hundred linear feet are
planted.
         b.   Understory Trees: The required buffer width shall be reduced by
ten percent (10%) where five (5) or more understory trees per hundred linear
feet are planted.
         c.   Shrubs: The required buffer width shall be reduced by ten percent
(10%) where twenty (20) or more shrubs per hundred linear feet are planted.
   D.   Buffer Crossings/Inclusions:
      1.   Driveways, Utility Lines, Sidewalks: Buffers may be crossed by
access driveways, utility lines and/or sidewalks. A sidewalk may run along the
length of a buffer, with its width, up to a maximum of five feet (5'), being
included in the required buffer width. Buffers may also include permitted
signs.
      2.   Obstruction Of Sight: Where access points and driveways intersect
buffer areas, no element of the buffer area shall obstruct the line of sight of
the driving traffic so as to create a hazard or potential hazard to the public.
   E.   Plant Materials Specifications: Plant materials installed in required
buffers shall meet the following minimum specifications:
      1.   Trees: All trees, major and understory, shall be containerized or
bagged and burlapped stock in good condition with a diameter at breast height
(dbh) of at least one inch (1"); and
      2.   Shrubs: All shrubs shall be minimum two (2) gallon containerized
stock in good condition.
      3.   Warranty: All plant materials shall be warranted for one year by the
provider.
   F.   Maintenance: Perpetual maintenance of required buffers is required.
   TABLE B1
   REQUIRED BUFFERS
Required      Use Being Basic Buffer    Buffer Height Security Fence Headlight
Buffered Uses Buffered  (Width In Feet) Adjustment    Required?      Buffer
                                        Factor                       Required?
Required      Use Being    Basic Buffer  Buffer Height Security  Headlight
Buffered Uses Buffered     (Width In     Adjustment    Fence     Buffer
                           Feet)         Factor        Required? Required?
Commercial    Residential  20            1:1           No        Parking area
and/or public River        40            None          No        No
Outdoor       Residential/ 20            None          Yes       Yes
materials     vacant
handling/     Public way   12            None          No        Yes
storage area;
solid waste
handling and  River        20            None          No        No
storage less
than 10,000
sq. ft.
Outdoor       Residential/ 40            None          Yes       Yes
materials     vacant
handling/     Public way   12            None          No        No
storage area;
solid waste
handling and  River        40            None          No        No
storage more
than 10,000
sq. ft.
Parking areas Residential/ 12            None          No        Yes
with +4       vacant
spaces        Public way   12            None          No        Yes
High density  Residential  12            80:1          No        Parking area
residential   River        20            None          No        No
uses
 
Notes:
Basic Buffer: Basic buffer width is required in all cases, except where a width
reduction is permitted by subsection C2 or C3 of this section.
Buffer Height Adjustment Factor: The height adjustment factor is a ratio
stating how many additional feet of buffer width must be added for each 1 foot
of building height, after the first 10 feet.
Security Fence: A security fence is at least 6 feet in height and designed to
prevent unauthorized entry to the site.
Headlight Buffer: A headlight buffer is a solid fence or wall, dense hedge or
berm of at least 4 feet in height placed or planted to block headlight glare
originating in parking areas or other areas of frequent vehicle movement.
(Ord. 146, 9-22-2016)
12-13-3: APPENDIX C; DETAILED PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR STREET DESIGN AND
CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide standards for the
construction or reconstruction of streets. These standards are for streets in
low to medium density residential and light commercial areas. A large scale
development study will be required for any development that generates
sufficient traffic to necessitate additional construction requirements.
   B.   Street Classification: U.S. Highway 2 is an arterial.
   C.   Street Design:
      1.   Right Of Way Width: A sixty foot (60') right of way shall be
dedicated for all streets. This requirement may be altered as the result of a
large scale development study, as provided at section
12-6-14 of this title.
      2.   Street Construction: All streets shall be paved, unless otherwise
approved by the city council, and properly drained as directed by the city
engineer.
      3.   Minimum Width: The final paved width of all streets shall be in
accordance with adopted street standards. This requirement may be altered as
the result of a large scale development study.
      4.   Minimum Sight Distance: A minimum sight distance of two hundred feet
(200') shall be provided along all streets. This requirement may be altered as
the result of a large scale development study.
      5.   Maximum Grade: The maximum grade of any street shall be eight
percent (8%), except at intersections, as provided in subsection D of this
section.
      6.   Cul-De-Sacs, Turnarounds And Connections: Cul-de-sacs and
turnarounds shall be consistent with adopted codes and master plans, and be
approved by the fire district and city council. Dead end streets shall be
discouraged and all developments shall be designed to maximize functional
connections with adjoining developments. This includes, but is not limited to,
general access and traffic and pedestrian circulation, access to shared access
to arterial streets, shared parking and service access, shared buffers and open
space areas, and shared pedestrian circulation.
      7.   Minimum Centerline Radius Of Curves: The minimum centerline radius
of curves shall be two hundred fifty feet (250').
      8.   Minimum Tangent Between Reverse Curves: The minimum tangent between
reverse curves shall be fifty feet (50').
   D.   Intersection Design:
      1.   Approach Speed: The design approach speed for all intersections
shall be twenty five (25) miles per hour. This requirement may be altered as
the result of a large scale development study.
      2.   Clear Sight Distance And Vision Triangle: A minimum clear sight
distance of ninety feet (90') shall be maintained along each approach leg at
all street intersections. Additionally, a clear vision triangle to provide
visibility required for safe access to streets shall be provided. Clear vision
triangles are determined as follows:
         a.   At Street Intersections: The clear vision triangle includes the
area defined by extending a line between two (2) points, one on each lot line
paralleling the street, each of which is forty five feet (45') from the lot
corner at the intersection; and
         b.   At Other Points Of Access: The clear vision triangle includes the
area defined by extending a line between two (2) points, one on the lot line
paralleling the street, and one on the out edge of the driveway, each of which
is fifteen feet (15') from the point where the driveway crosses the lot line.
      3.   Grade At Intersection: The maximum grade at, and within fifty feet
(50') along both approaches to, any intersection shall be two percent (2%).
      4.   Alignment Of Intersection: All intersections shall be at a ninety
degree (90o) angle, with both approaches running at ninety degrees (90o) for at
least fifty feet (50') before the intersection.
      5.   Curb Radius: Curb radius at all intersections shall be twenty feet
(20'), except at intersections with arterials, where it shall be twenty five
feet (25').
      6.   Minimum Centerline Offset Of Intersections: The minimum centerline
offset of intersections shall be one hundred twenty five feet (125'), except
for intersections with arterials, where it shall be two hundred feet (200').
      7.   Signs: The developer shall install stop signs at all intersections
with arterial streets. The developer shall also install all other signs
required for safe traffic and pedestrian movement in the subdivision.
   E.   Additional Standards For Culverts And Bridges:
      1.   Design: All culverts and bridges shall be designed by an Idaho
licensed engineer.
      2.   Fish Protection: Use of bridges rather than culverts shall be
required wherever the Idaho fish and game department requests the use of
bridges to protect fisheries.
      3.   Flood Damage Prevention:
         a.   All bridges and culverts on natural watercourses shall be
designed to pass a 100-year flood without damage to the bridge or its
approaches and without diverting floodwaters onto neighboring properties.
         b.   Culverts not included in subsection E3a of this section shall be
designed to pass the runoff from the 10-year, 6-hour storm.
      4.   Vehicle Load: The minimum gross vehicle load supported by any bridge
or culvert shall be forty thousand (40,000) pounds. A higher load bearing
capacity may be required by a large scale development study.
      5.   Approach: There shall be a minimum fifty foot (50'), ninety degree
(90o) approach to all bridges.
   F.   Sidewalks Required: A sidewalk shall be installed along all streets.
Sidewalks shall be located one foot (1') from and parallel to the outer edge of
the street right of way. Sidewalks shall be at least four feet (4') wide and
consist of:
      1.   Subbase: Minimum of four inches (4") of crushed coarse aggregate;
and
      2.   Base: Minimum of four inches (4") of portland cement sidewalk. (Ord.
146, 9-22-2016)
12-13-4: APPENDIX D; DEFINITIONS:
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU): A second, subordinate dwelling unit for use as a
complete, independent dwelling located on the same lot or parcel as the main
dwelling and complying with all standards associated with such use as adopted
by the city of Dover.
ACCESS, PRIMARY: A driveway or other access point providing the main ingress
and egress from abutting property to the adjacent street and generally the
point from which an address is assigned.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE, RESIDENTIAL: Structures such as garages, tool or garden
sheds, carports and other such structures that are incidental and customarily
associated with dwellings and located on the same lot or parcel as the
residence.
ADMINISTRATOR: The City Mayor or designee, who may be typically known as the
Planning and Zoning Administrator.
ANTENNA: An apparatus, including wires, poles, rods, dishes, or other similar
devices, designed to transmit or receive radio frequency (RF) signals for
wireless communication, to be operated or operating from a fixed location
pursuant to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) authorization, for the
provision of personal wireless service and any commingled information services.
ANTENNA ARRAY: Two or more devices used for the transmission or reception of
radio frequency signals, microwave or other signals for commercial
communications purposes.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance between predevelopment ground elevation
and the highest point on the building or structure. The maximum building height
shall be measured immediately adjacent to the building from a horizontal plane
set by the highest structural point on the building to the highest
predevelopment ground elevation on the uphill side of the building, excluding
chimneys, vents and antennas.
CELL TOWER: A free-standing structure that is attached to the ground, a
rooftop, or other structure that is used for the installation and operation of
wireless communication facilities, including monopoles, lattice towers, guy-
wire supported towers, or other similar structures.
CO-HOST: An agent, company or individual acting on behalf of short-term rental
property owners or renters to assist with listings, bookings, property
maintenance, or similar rental management tasks.
CO-LOCATION OR CO-LOCATE: The addition or installation of new equipment to an
eligible, pre-existing wireless communication structure or facility to allow
service by a different provider than the original developer of the site so that
a new support system is not required.
COMMUNICATION FACILITY, WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY (WCF): The
collective components of an unstaffed facility and its support structures for
the transmission and/or reception of radio frequency, microwave or other
signals for commercial communication purposes, including towers, antennas,
antenna arrays, equipment shelters, equipment cabinets, transmission cables, a
support structure required to generate, transmit, or receive communication
signals.
DAYCARE CENTER: A place, home, building or location providing care, with or
without instruction, for more than six (6) children not residing on the same
premises.
DAYCARE, HOME: A home providing care, with or without instruction, for six (6)
or fewer children not residing on the same premises.
DWELLING: A single unit or structure providing an independent living facility
for human habitation, including provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking, and
sanitation. A recreational vehicle (RV), as defined by Idaho State Code, is not
a dwelling.
DWELLING UNIT: One (1) or more rooms designated for, or used as a residence
for, not more than one (1) family, including all necessary household employees
of such family, and constituting a separate and independent housekeeping unit,
with a single kitchen permanently installed. The term does not imply or include
such type of occupation as a lodging or boarding house, club, hotel or group
home.
FAMILY: Two (2) or more people living together in a single domicile for an
extended period of time.
FENCE: An enclosure or barrier, such as wooden posts and rails, masonry, stone,
wire, iron, or other such common fencing materials used as a boundary or
enclosure for privacy, protection, or confinement, but not including hedges,
shrubs, trees, or other natural growth.
GOOD NEIGHBOR POLICY: A short-term rental operating policy that encourages
occupants to respect the rights and expectations of a residential neighborhood
and the local environment by informing them of local laws, subdivision rules,
shoreline issues, no-wake zones, recycling programs, parking requirements, and
general safety awareness and respect for the neighborhood.
GROUP HOME: A place, home, building or location providing care for six (6) or
more unrelated children as a member of the household for the purpose of
providing substitute parental care.
HABITABLE LIVING SPACE: An area within a residential building used for living,
sleeping, eating or cooking purposes. Those areas not considered to meet this
definition include garages, decks, covered porches and utility spaces.
HOME OCCUPATION: A business, profession, occupation or trade conducted for gain
or support entirely within a residential building or accessory residential
structure, which is incidental and secondary to the principal residential use
meeting all requirements and standards of the City of Dover.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any structure, surface or improvement that reduces and/or
prevents absorption of stormwater into land. Common "impervious surfaces"
include, but are not limited to, rooftops, walkways, patios, driveways, parking
lots, concrete or asphalt paving, gravel roads, packed earthen materials and
oiled, macadam or other surfaces that impede the natural infiltration of
stormwater. Open, uncovered retention or detention facilities are not
considered to be impervious surfaces for the purposes of this title.
JUNK: Includes, but is not limited to, manufactured goods, appliances,
fixtures, scrap metal, salvaged building materials, agricultural or yard
wastes, plastics, garbage, furniture, rags, clothing and accessories, paper, or
paper products, glass, machinery or vehicle parts, inoperable or unlicensed
vehicles, construction wastes, or any other personal property, whether of value
or valueless, that is demolished, discarded, dismantled or partially
dismantled, dilapidated, or deteriorated so that it cannot be used for its
original intended use.
JUNK YARD: An area, structure, building, or enclosure where junk is accumulated
or stored, placed in transit, baled, packaged, sold, or exchanged.
KITCHEN: Any room principally used, intended, or designed to be used for
cooking or the preparation of food. The presence of a range or oven, or utility
connections suitable for servicing a range or oven, shall normally be
considered as establishing a kitchen.
LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT: Any subdivision or land use change, or group of
subdivisions or land use changes created from the same parcel or adjacent
parcels under the same ownership, that includes more than one hundred (100)
proposed dwelling units or that potentially generates more than one thousand
(1,000) automobile trips per day at peak occupancy.
LOT COVERAGE: The percentage which the aggregate building area of all buildings
on the lot bears to the area of the lot (a ratio of total building area to
total lot area).
MINIMUM FUNCTIONAL HEIGHT: Minimum height necessary for a WCF to function
satisfactorily.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: A structure or building, or portion thereof, which was
lawfully erected or altered and maintained at the time this title was adopted,
but which because of the applications of this title to it, no longer conforms
to the use, height or area regulations of the zone in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use which was lawfully established and maintained at the
time this title was adopted, but which, because of the application of this
title to it no longer conforms to the use regulations of the zone in which it
is located.
OWNER OCCUPANCY: A property owner, as reflected in title records, who makes his
or her legal residence at a site, as evidenced by voter registration, vehicle
registration or similar means.
PARK: A public or privately owned area of land, with or without buildings,
intended for outdoor active or passive recreation, scenic areas, natural areas,
open space, community gardens, or similar facilities intended for public use.
PARKS AND RECREATION FACILITIES, HIGH-INTENSITY: Site development for a park or
recreational development that does not meet the standards and definitions of a
low-intensity park or recreation facility and may cause significant impacts to
neighborhoods by the development of structures to accommodate park or
recreation facilities that are not minor accessory structures.
PARKS AND RECREATION FACILITIES, LOW-INTENSITY: Site development for
recreational activities or park that generally causes little or no
modifications to the land other than for pedestrian or bicycle pathways and the
associated parking areas, and creates minimal noise and traffic. Low-intensity
park uses may include the following: pathways and trails of various surface
materials, boat launches for non-motorized boats, minor accessory structures
such as bathrooms, picnic tables, benches, gazebos, storage sheds, trail
displays, trail signage and other accessory structures that do not
significantly alter the land. Low-intensity forms of recreation or park
development generally include: hiking, horseback riding, walking, picnicking,
bicycling, birdwatching, small outdoor courts without bleachers or spectator
seating, cross-country skiing, non-motorized water sports, and similar
recreational activities and parks in natural settings with limited impacts to
surrounding neighborhoods due to noise, lights, or glare.
PROVIDER: An entity or person that builds, installs, or operates the
communication or wireless service.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV): A vehicular unit primarily designed as temporary
living quarters for recreation, camping, or travel use, which either has its
own motive power or is mounted or drawn by another vehicle. RV types include
motor home, travel trailer, truck camper, fifth-wheel trailer, as defined by
Idaho Code §39-4201, park model recreational vehicles, as defined by Idaho §49-
117. The definition also includes a bus, van, trailer, or other vehicle
converted for living quarters. In no case shall a recreational vehicle be
considered a dwelling.
RESIDENTIAL LODGING: A single-family residence, occupied year-round, which
provides sleeping rooms for the lodging of transient guests for a fee, and
which includes the serving of or facilities for the preparation of meals for
overnight guests. The term shall not include bed and breakfasts of five (5) or
fewer bedrooms.
RESIDENTIAL LODGING: A single-family residence, occupied year-round, which
provides sleeping rooms for the lodging of transient guests for a fee, and
which includes the serving of or facilities for the preparation of meals for
overnight guests. The term shall not include bed and breakfasts of five (5) or
fewer bedrooms.
SETBACK: The minimum distance required between a structure's greatest
architectural projections and the property line or other point of measurement
established by this title.
SHORT-TERM RENTAL: The rental of one or more dwelling units for a term less
than thirty (30) days, whether or not funds, goods or services are exchanged
for the use. The term shall include vacation rental, Air BnBs, home sharing,
co- hosted rentals, bed and breakfast facilities of five (5) or fewer bedrooms,
and any other occupancy subject to the standards established by section
12-7-4 of this title. The term shall not include on-going, month-to-month
rental tenancy granted to the same occupant. Short-term rental shall not
include any retail, restaurant, banquet space, event center, or other similar
uses.
SHORT-TERM RENTAL OCCUPANT: Any person or persons who occupy, rent, possess or
are entitled to occupy a short-term rental by a rental agreement, contract, or
other authorization. The term shall not include children age two (2) and
younger.
SIGN: Any object or structure used to identify, advertise or in any way attract
or direct attention to any use, building or person by any means, including, but
not limited to, the use of lettering, words, pictures, and other graphic
depictions or symbols.
   Construction Signs: Ground or wall signs that identify a building's planned
use while under construction.
   Ground Signs: Freestanding signs not exceeding six feet (6') in height above
grade.
   Home Occupation Signs: Which identify a business which operates out of a
home and in compliance with the standards of this title.
STREET, FLANKING: A public or private right-of-way abutting the side of a
parcel, lot or development site that does not provide primary access.
STRUCTURE: An object constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or is attached to something having a location on the ground, including
towers, smokestacks, overhead transmission lines, but not including fences or
walls used for fences not exceeding seven feet (7') in height when measured
from predevelopment elevations.
STRUCTURE, ATTACHED: A structure that has at least one wall in common with
another building.
STRUCTURE, DETACHED: Freestanding and structurally separated from other
buildings.
TOWER, CELLULAR, WIRELESS: Any structure built or placed for the sole or
primary purpose of supporting a wireless facility, such as a self-supporting
tower/monopole; a lattice tower, or guyed-wire tower.
USE, PERMITTED: An activity or use so designated in any given zone, and which
may occur without special action by the City Council, which may or may not need
authorization by the City, subject to the provisions of the zone in which it is
located.
USE, SPECIAL: A use listed among those designated in any given zone but which
may be permitted to locate only after review by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and the City Council.
VARIANCE: A modification of the requirements of this title as to the lot size,
lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear yard, setbacks, height
of buildings, or other title provisions affecting the size or shape of a
structure or the placement of the structure upon lots.
WALL: An upright structural feature of building material, such as masonry,
wood, or plaster, serving to enclose, divide, or protect an area, especially a
vertical construction forming an inner partition or exterior siding of a
building.
WATER MARK, NATURAL, ORDINARY AND ARTIFICIAL: The natural or ordinary high
water mark is an elevation at which water impresses a line on the shore by
covering it for sufficient time to deprive soil of its vegetation and destroy
its value for agricultural purposes. The artificial water mark is created by
manmade dams or controls and similarly impresses a new vegetation line on the
shore.
YARD: An open space, on a lot or parcel, unoccupied and unobstructed from the
ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this title.
YARD, FLANKING STREET: An open unoccupied space on the same lot or parcel as
the structure that is at a street intersection on the side that does not
provide primary access.
YARD, FRONT: An unoccupied space extending across the full width of a parcel or
lot that abuts a street or access easement that is the primary access for the
property. Property fronting on parallel streets shall be deemed to have two (2)
front yards. The city may designate the front yard for properties located on
intersecting streets or irregular-shaped lots or parcels, with consideration
given to such factors as the primary access, the orientation of the building
entrance, and addressing. Property on intersecting streets shall have one front
yard and a flanking street yard.
YARD, REAR: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot or parcel as the
structure that is most opposite the front yard. Triangular lots shall be deemed
to have no rear yard.
YARD, SIDE: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot or parcel as the
structure that is generally perpendicular to the front and rear yards. Any yard
not defined as front or rear shall be considered a side yard. Triangular-shaped
properties shall have one front yard and two side yards.
ZONING PERMIT: A permit that requires approval by the Administrator or the City
Council, including, but not limited to, building permits, administrative
reviews, site plans and/or home occupations, as applicable.
(Ord. 146, 9-22-2016; amd. Ord. 151, 8-17-2017; Ord. 158, 12-13-2018; Ord. 165,
10-10-2019; Ord. 178, 6-9-2022; Ord. 180, 11-15-2022; Ord. 184, 7-10-2023; Ord.
185, 7-10-2023; Ord. 190, 7-9-2025)
