CITY CODE
OF
EDEN, IDAHO
2015
Code current through:
Ord. 1-2023, passed 2-13-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Eden, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 1-2023, passed 2-13-2023. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2015-1
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE EDEN , IDAHO CITY CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and city council of the city of EDEN, IDAHO, as
follows:
Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the city code
of the city of EDEN , IDAHO prepared by Sterling Codifiers, containing the
compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the city,
shall be accepted in all courts Without question as the official code and law
of the city as enacted by the mayor and city council.
Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification, the
loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official city code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the city clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official city
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official city code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the city code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official city code.
Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, fum or corporation to change or
amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or to insert
or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in
any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby.
Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are, to
the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication as provided by law.
 
Passed this 9th day of February, 2015.
Approved this 9th day of February, 2015.
_______________
Mayor
Attest:
___________________
City Clerk
Roll Call Vote:
Aye: 5
Nays:
Absent:
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
EDEN CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of Eden. This code of ordinances
shall be known and cited as the EDEN CITY CODE and is hereby published by
authority of the city council and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most
recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2015 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE 1 :
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2015 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Codification of ordinances authorized per IC §§ 50-903 - 50-906.
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifier, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2015 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code books,
while in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be
and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the
city clerk when directed so to do by order of the city council. (2015 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances; Exceptions
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES; EXCEPTIONS:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Tax levy ordinances.
   B.   Appropriation ordinances.
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations.
   D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations.
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants.
   F.   Salary ordinances.
   G.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places.
   H.   Improvement ordinances.
   I.   Bond ordinances.
   J.   Ordinances relating to elections.
   K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the city.
   L.   Zoning or rezoning of specific land areas.
   M.   All special ordinances. (2015 Code)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2015 Code)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code,
or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The city council hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2015 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and city council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   D.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   E.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is mandatory.
   F.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   G.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   H.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the city of Eden".
   I.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   J.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city
has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the city ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2015 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them unless the context makes such meanings
repugnant thereto:
CITY: The city of Eden, county of Jerome, state of Idaho.
CODE: The city code of the city of Eden.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of Eden.
COUNTY: The county of Jerome, state of Idaho.
IC: Idaho Code, as amended.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, limited liability
partnership, trust, association, limited liability company, organization,
government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a natural person.
STATE: The state of Idaho. (2015 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2015
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Misdemeanor: Except in cases where a different punishment is hereafter
prescribed by city ordinance, every offense declared to be a misdemeanor is
punishable by imprisonment in jail not exceeding six (6) months, or by a fine
not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by both, together with such
costs as may be required by law. These punishments shall comply with Idaho Code
section 18-113, as amended.
   B.   Infraction: When the offense is designated as an infraction by any
section or provision of this code or by state law, it is punishable only by a
penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) and no incarceration may be
imposed.
   C.   Federally Mandated Programs: When the city is participating in a
federally mandated program, wherein penalties or enforcement remedies are
required by the terms of participation in the program, the city may enforce
such requirements by ordinance, to include a criminal or civil monetary penalty
not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or imprisonment for criminal
offenses not to exceed six (6) months, or to include both a fine and
imprisonment for criminal offenses. (2015 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-302.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty Provisions:
      1.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in
this code.
      2.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   B.   One Recovery For Same Offense: In all cases where the same offense is
made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code,
the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced. (2015 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2015
Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election
1-5-2: Duty; General Laws
1-5-3: Council Meetings
1-5-4: Ordinances
1-5-1: ELECTION 1 :
The city council shall consist of four (4) council members and one mayor to be
elected from the city at large as provided by the laws of the state of Idaho.
(2015 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-7-1 of this title.
1-5-2: DUTY; GENERAL LAWS:
It shall be the duty of the city council to provide for the adoption and
enforcement of the laws for persons, firms or corporations on a county, state,
and federal level where such laws fall within the jurisdictional responsibility
of said council. (2015 Code)
1-5-3: COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Time Of Meetings: Regular meetings of the city council shall be held at
six o’clock (6:00) P.M. on the second Monday of each month.
   B.   Quorum: A majority of three (3) of the city council members shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of the city business. (2015 Code; amd.
Ord. 5-2018, 9-11-2018)
1-5-4: ORDINANCES 1 :
   A.   Presentment Of Ordinances: All ordinances shall be written or printed
and presented to the city council by a member of the council at a regular or
special meeting of the council.
   B.   Manner Of Passing:
      1.   Every ordinance shall be read at length in meetings of the council
on three (3) different days, unless a three-fourths (3/4) majority of the
council present dispense with the rule requiring three (3) readings, in which
case the ordinance may be passed at any meeting. Whether after three (3)
readings and discussions, or under suspended reading rules, a majority of the
entire membership of the council shall be required to pass an ordinance.
      2.   In the event of a tie vote, the mayor shall cast the tie breaking
vote for or against the ordinance.
   C.   Recording Votes: On the passage or adoption of every ordinance and
every resolution or order to enter into contract by the city council, the yeas
and nays shall be called by the mayor and recorded by the city clerk.
   D.   Titles Of Ordinances: Ordinances shall contain no subject not clearly
expressed in the titles of such ordinances.
   E.   Approval Of Ordinances: When an ordinance has been passed by the city
council, it shall be signed by the city clerk and the date of its passage by
the council added thereto, and within five (5) days after its passage, it shall
be presented to the mayor for his consideration. If he approves the same, he
shall affix his signature thereto, together with the date of his approval.
   F.   Veto Of Ordinances: If the mayor does not approve the ordinance, then
he shall issue a written veto statement with his objections appended thereto
before the date of the next regular meeting of the city council.
   G.   Approval Of Ordinances Over Veto: If, upon reconsideration by the city
council and the ordinance then is passed by the required two-thirds (2/3) vote
of the city council, then the city clerk shall attach a certificate thereto
stating that the same was vetoed by the mayor, giving the date of such veto,
and that the required two-thirds (2/3) majority vote of the members elected to
the city council, together with the date of said approval over veto by the city
council.
   H.   Ordinances Becoming Law Without Mayor's Signature: Should the mayor
refuse or neglect to approve an ordinance or to return it with his written
objections appended after the ordinance was submitted to him, it shall become
law without his signature and shall be published as any other ordinance. The
clerk shall attach thereto a certificate to the effect that the mayor has
failed to approve or veto such ordinance and the same has become law without
his approval.
   I.   When Ordinance Considered Passed: An ordinance shall be considered as
passed when approved by the mayor or when passed over his veto or at the
conclusion of the next regular meeting of the city council whenever the mayor
has failed to approve or veto an ordinance, and it becomes law without his
approval.
   J.   Effective Ordinance Date: Unless otherwise provided in the ordinance,
all ordinances, regardless of when or how passed, shall take effect upon
publication. Publication shall be made by publishing the entire ordinance in
one issue of some newspaper which has general circulation in the city. (2015
Code)
 
Notes
1 2. IC § 50-901 et seq.
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: City Clerk
1-6-2: City Treasurer
1-6-3: City Attorney
1-6-4: Other Officers
1-6-1: CITY CLERK:
   A.   Appointment: The city council shall appoint a city clerk to serve the
pleasure of the council.
   B.   Compensation: The city clerk shall receive a sum agreed upon by the
city council and as set forth in the fiscal budget of the city. (2015 Code)
1-6-2: CITY TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment; Clerk May Serve As: The city council shall appoint a city
treasurer to serve at the pleasure of the council. The city clerk may serve as
both city treasurer and city clerk at the pleasure of the city council.
   B.   Compensation: The city treasurer shall receive a sum agreed upon by the
city council and as set forth in the fiscal budget of the city. (2015 Code)
1-6-3: CITY ATTORNEY:
   A.   Appointment: The city council shall appoint a city attorney to serve at
the pleasure of the city council.
   B.   Compensation: The city attorney shall receive compensation for services
as considered necessary at the pleasure of the city council. (2015 Code)
1-6-4: OTHER OFFICERS:
The city council shall appoint by ordinance, and fix compensation for in the
fiscal budget, such other officers as it deems necessary for the proper
administration of the city. (2015 Code)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: City Council
1-7-2: Time Of Election
1-7-1: CITY COUNCIL 1 :
The council members and mayor shall be adult persons who are qualified electors
of the state of Idaho, an inhabitant and taxpayer of the city at the time of
their election, and one who shall have resided therein for not less than three
(3) months immediately preceding their election. (2015 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-5-1 of this title.
1-7-2: TIME OF ELECTION:
City elections shall be held on election day and voters may cast their ballots
at the times specified as set forth in the laws of Idaho Code or as otherwise
deemed necessary by the city council. (2015 Code)
CHAPTER 8
MISCELLANEOUS ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Official Newspaper
1-8-2: Equal Opportunity Employer
1-8-1: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The "Times News", a newspaper of general circulation, printed and published in
Jerome County, within which county the city of Eden is located, is hereby
designated the official newspaper for the city. (Ord. 16, 8-11-1971; amd. 2015
Code)
1-8-2: EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER:
The mayor and city council support equal opportunities in employment for
employees of the city. (Res. 94-15, 8-8-1994; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 9
AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
1-9-1: Legislative Purpose
1-9-2: Geographic Area Of City Impact
1-9-3: Comprehensive Plan
1-9-4: Subdivision Ordinance
1-9-5: Zoning Ordinance
1-9-6: Code And Ordinance Administration And Enforcement
1-9-7: Renegotiation
1-9-1: LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE:
The purpose for establishing an area of city impact is to identify a logical,
urban fringe area adjoining the city. The urban fringe area is realizing, or
will realize, growth and development pressures that must be planned and managed
in an orderly fashion. The area of city impact recognizes trade area,
geographic factors and the potential delivery of public services as being
associated with the city. (Ord. 2-2-96, 2-12-1996)
1-9-2: GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
The officially adopted and agreed upon "Area Of City Impact For Eden, Idaho",
is established by ordinance 2-2-96, Eden, Idaho, and by Jerome County, Idaho,
and is set forth therein on the map entitled "Area Of City Impact For Eden,
Idaho", dated February 12, 1996, attached as exhibit A to the ordinance
codified herein. Outside of the area of impact boundaries, in areas
specifically marked as such, there shall exist a transitional zoning area that
shall be zoned "A-2" and "C" or a comparable zone under the county zoning
ordinance. (Ord. 2-2-96, 2-12-1996; amd. 2015 Code)
1-9-3: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The comprehensive plan and subsequent amendments thereto as officially adopted
by Jerome County shall apply to the area of city impact within the
unincorporated area of Jerome County. Both the city and county shall amend
their comprehensive plans to be consistent with this agreement, if required.
(Ord. 2-2-96, 2-12-1996)
1-9-4: SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE:
The subdivision ordinance and subsequent amendments thereto as officially
adopted by Jerome County shall apply to the area of city impact within the
unincorporated area of Jerome County, with the following exception:
Any developments within the area of city impact desiring water, sewer, an
extension of roads, or a new road network to be accepted and maintained by the
city of Eden shall be under the city of Eden's zoning and subdivision ordinance
procedures. (Ord. 2-2-96, 2-12-1996)
1-9-5: ZONING ORDINANCE:
   A.   Classes Of Zoning Activities: Control of zoning activities in the areas
surrounding Eden is of the following classes:
      1.   Those parcels of land which are contiguous with the city boundary
line.
      2.   Those parcels of land which are not contiguous with the city
boundary line.
      3.   Major transportation routes as identified by the "Idaho
Transportation Department Rural Functional Classification Map", including
arterials and collectors.
      4.   Those areas lying within the transitional overlay zone contiguous
with the established area of impact.
   B.   Principal Authority:
      1.   The city shall have principal authority in classes described in
subsections A1 and A3 of this section with both the county planning and zoning
commission and the county commissioners having the right to advise.
      2.   The county shall have principal authority in the classes described
in subsections A2 and A4 of this section with the city having the right to
advise.
   C.   Hearings: The hearings concerned with the area of city impact shall be
under the direction of the entity having principal authority as outlined in
subsections B1 and B2 of this section. (Ord. 2-2-96, 2-12-1996)
1-9-6: CODE AND ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Responsibility:
      1.   The county shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of the county's ordinances listed in sections
1-9-3,
1-9-4, and
1-9-5 of this chapter and shall receive all permit fees for inspection
performed to recapture direct costs of inspections, administration, legal
publications, and other costs arising from the process.
      2.   Should the development activity fall within the areas described in
section
1-9-4 or subsections
1-9-5A1 and A3 of this chapter, then the city shall be responsible for
administration and enforcement and shall also be entitled to fees to recapture
all costs.
   B.   County Notify City Of Certain Actions: Amendments to the Jerome County
comprehensive plan, requests for preliminary and final plats or the vacation
thereof, and requests for zone changes involving property located in the area
of city impact and within the transitional overlay zone lying contiguous to the
established area of impact within the unincorporated area of Jerome County
being proposed for nonagricultural development of any type shall be reviewed by
the city council and shall make recommendation to the county in accordance with
Idaho Code titles 50 and 67. The county agrees to notify the city within
fifteen (15) days of receipt of any application of this type and allow the city
fifteen (15) days to respond with a recommendation for approval, denial or the
placement of special conditions. Should the development activity fall within
the areas described in section
1-9-4 or subsections
1-9-5A1 and A3 of this chapter, then the city shall be responsible for
notification of the county under the same notification guidelines as listed
above.
   C.   Cooperation Between Cities Of Eden And Hazelton: The established areas
of city impact of the city of Eden and the city of Hazelton meet at Valley
Road. Both cities agree to notify each other if a development application falls
within one-half (1/2) mile of Valley Road on either side. Each city agrees to
cooperate with the other in attempting to address any concerns that the other
city may have concerning the development, including the possible inclusion of
those concerns within any recommendations forwarded to the county.
   D.   Maintenance Of Public Thoroughfares: Maintenance of public
thoroughfares located in the area of city impact, with the exception of State
Highway 25, shall be the exclusive responsibility of the Hillside highway
district unless otherwise stipulated by written agreement between the highway
district and the city of Eden.
   E.   Law Enforcement And Fire Services: Law enforcement and fire services in
the area of city impact shall remain the responsibility of Jerome County and
the First Segregation fire district unless otherwise stipulated by written
agreement between the county and/or fire district and the city of Eden. (Ord.
2-2-96, 2-12-1996)
1-9-7: RENEGOTIATION:
The area of city impact agreement shall be reviewed by the city of Eden and
Jerome County at least once every five (5) years and shall be renegotiated at
any time upon the request of either party hereto. Renegotiation shall begin
thirty (30) days after written request by either the city or county and shall
follow procedures for the original negotiation, as set forth in Idaho Code
section 67-6526. (Ord. 2-2-96, 2-12-1996)
CHAPTER 10
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SECTION:
1-10-1: Plan Adopted
1-10-1: PLAN ADOPTED:
The city hereby adopts the Eden comprehensive plan to be used as a guide for
land use and development decisions in the city. (Res. 2-96, 2-12-1996)
TITLE 2
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Licensing Requirements
2-1-2: Form Of License
2-1-3: License Fees Payable In Advance
2-1-4: Application For License
2-1-5: Approval Of License
2-1-6: Expiration Date
2-1-7: Display Of License
2-1-8: License Nontransferable
2-1-9: Separate Licenses Required
2-1-10: Invitation Required For Soliciting Or Peddling
2-1-11: License Revocation; Notice; Hearing
2-1-12: Penalty A Misdemeanor
2-1-1: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: No person shall operate, conduct or engage in any
industry, vocation, occupation, trade or other business for profit within the
city limits without first obtaining an appropriate license from the city.
   B.   Exceptions: Units of local government, state or federal agencies or
departments, bona fide churches and persons or entities engaged entirely in
charitable activities shall be exempt from the license requirements of this
chapter.
   C.   Conditions For Issuance: Licenses shall be issued upon payment of the
fees specified in this chapter, upon the applicant's compliance with the
applicable provisions of this chapter and upon approval of the city council.
   D.   Personal Privilege: All licenses shall be a personal privilege of the
holder. Except as expressly provided in this chapter, a license shall become
null and void if the holder ceases to personally supervise, conduct and operate
the trade or business for which the license has been issued.
   E.   No Refund Of License Fee: Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, no
license fee or any part thereof may be refunded even though the licensee does
not operate for the period or any portion of the period for which the license
was issued. (Ord. 2009-9, 11-9-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
2-1-2: FORM OF LICENSE:
   A.   Preparation And Contents: The city clerk shall prepare license forms
for licenses issued under this chapter. The license shall specify the holder's
name, the type of business licensed, the principal place of business of the
licensee and the expiration date of the license.
   B.   Duties Regarding License: The clerk shall account for all licenses
signed by the mayor, shall countersign the licenses and deliver the licenses to
licensees. The city clerk shall collect all license fees. The city clerk shall
issue a receipt for any license fees received from the clerk. (Ord. 2009-9, 11-
9-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
2-1-3: LICENSE FEES PAYABLE IN ADVANCE:
   A.   License fees shall be paid in advance at the office of the city clerk.
   B.   Fees under this chapter shall be established by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. 2009-9, 11-9-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
2-1-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Required Information: Any person desiring to obtain any license
provided for in this chapter shall first apply in writing under oath to the
city council. The application, together with the license fee, shall be
delivered to the city clerk. The city clerk shall prescribe the form of the
application. The application shall contain the following information:
      1.   Applicant's full name, form of doing business (i.e., sole
proprietorship, partnership or corporation) and the name under which the
business is to be conducted;
      2.   Applicant's state of residence and principal place of business;
      3.   Applicant's business and residential mailing addresses and telephone
numbers;
      4.   The street address within the city where each place of business is
to be conducted;
      5.   The nature of the business to be licensed;
      6.   The number of years the applicant has engaged in such business;
      7.   Any other information required by this chapter or by the clerk in
order to determine the applicant's fitness or qualifications for the license.
   B.   City Council Review: The city clerk shall forward a copy of each
business license application to the city council for its review. (Ord. 2009-9,
11-9-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
2-1-5: APPROVAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Council Consideration: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter,
the city clerk shall present all license applications to the city council not
later than the regular council meeting after the application was delivered to
the clerk. At that meeting, the city council may grant or deny the application
or refer it to the proper authorities for further investigation and review. In
any event, the council shall grant or deny the application on or before the
second regular council meeting following its initial presentation to the
council.
   B.   Council Decision: After due consideration of the application, the
council shall either grant the application and order the clerk to issue the
license or deny the application and return the license fee with a notice of
rejection to the applicant. The council may deny the application upon finding:
      1.   That the applicant does not meet any of the qualifications of this
chapter;
      2.   That applicant's conduct of business will contravene any provision
of the city's other ordinances; or any other applicable regulation, ordinance
or statute of the city, Jerome County, state of Idaho or the United States;
      3.   That the applicant has been convicted of a felony; or
      4.   That the applicant has engaged in any fraudulent, deceptive or
unlawful business practices within ten (10) years prior to the date of his or
her application for a business license. (Ord. 2009-9, 11-9-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
2-1-6: EXPIRATION DATE:
No license shall be granted for a period greater than one year, and all
licenses shall expire on December 31 of the calendar year for which they are
issued, unless another expiration date is endorsed on the license by the clerk.
(Ord. 2009-9, 11-9-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
2-1-7: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
All licensees shall post their licenses in a place conspicuous to the public in
each business location and shall produce the license whenever required by any
officer or other person having the authority to examine such license. If an
applicant desires to conduct business in more than one location, the clerk may
issue duplicate originals of the license for display in each place of business.
(Ord. 2009-9, 11-9-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
2-1-8: LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
Except as specifically provided by this chapter or state law, licenses issued
by the city shall not be assigned or transferred to any person other than the
named holder. Issuance of a license by the city shall not authorize any person
other than the person or entity named thereon to conduct such business, nor
shall it authorize any business other than that named to be done or transacted.
Issuance of a license shall not permit the named business to be conducted in
any place other than the location or locations described in the application
without prior approval of the council. All licenses shall state the location of
the business upon the face thereof. (Ord. 2009-9, 11-9-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
2-1-9: SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED:
A separate license and license fee shall be required for each business subject
to the provisions of this chapter, regardless of whether two (2) or more
businesses are conducted or operated by the same person or entity or whether
two (2) or more businesses are conducted within the same building or at the
same location. A license under this chapter shall not affect the requirement to
obtain any other license required by other ordinances of the city, or by other
units of government. (Ord. 2009-9, 11-9-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
2-1-10: INVITATION REQUIRED FOR SOLICITING OR PEDDLING:
The practice of being in or upon private residences, business establishments
and offices in the city for the purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of
goods, wares, merchandise, or services and/or peddling or hawking the same, by
persons who have not been invited or requested to do so by the owner or
occupant of such premises, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and punishable,
upon conviction thereof, as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code)
2-1-11: LICENSE REVOCATION; NOTICE; HEARING:
The city council may revoke any license issued under this chapter at any time
if the licensee does not comply with the applicable provisions of this chapter
or for other just cause. Before revoking any license, the city clerk shall give
written notice to the license holder of such proposed action at least ten (10)
days prior to the date such proposed action is submitted to the council. The
license holder shall be given an opportunity to appear before the council and
show cause why his or her license should not be revoked. (Ord. 2009-9, 11-9-
2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
2-1-12: PENALTY A MISDEMEANOR:
A violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. Each day that violation of
this chapter continues shall be a separate offense. (Ord. 2009-9, 11-9-2009,
eff. 1-1-2010)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR, BEER AND WINE SALES
SECTION:
2-2-1: Definitions
2-2-2: Application For License; Investigation
2-2-3: Grounds For Rejection
2-2-4: License Fees And Purposes
2-2-5: Limitation On Number Of Licenses
2-2-6: Posting License
2-2-7: Place Of Business And Assignment Of License
2-2-8: Inspection Of Business
2-2-9: Hours Of Sale
2-2-10: Revocation Of License; Grounds
2-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt and/or other ingredients in drinkable water.
In the enforcement of this chapter, the term "beer" shall also include the
terms "alcoholic liquor" and "wine".
LIQUOR: All kinds of liquor sold by and in a state liquor store of the state of
Idaho.
PERSON: Means and includes any person, firm or corporation, and shall include
the plural as well as the singular.
RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of beer to the
consumer. (2015 Code)
2-2-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INVESTIGATION:
   A.   Required Information: Every retailer desiring to obtain a license for
the first time for the sale, barter, trade or distribution of beer in the city
shall make a written application therefor to the city council, which said
application shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name and residence of applicant.
      2.   Legal description of room or building in which said business shall
be conducted.
      3.   Statement that applicant is a citizen of the United States and is a
bona fide resident of the state of Idaho for a period of one year prior to the
date of making such application.
      4.   Statement that applicant is a citizen of good moral character, and
is over the age of twenty one (21) years.
      5.   Statement that the applicant has not been convicted of any felony,
or of any crime involving moral turpitude, or of any law regulating, governing
or prohibiting the sale of alcoholic beverages or intoxicating liquor.
      6.   A statement that there is no portion of the building or place
designated in the application for license partitioned, set aside, enclosed or
available for use, for the entertainment and amusement of patrons or customers
of the applicant which is not open to the general public.
   B.   Investigation; Recommendation For Denial: No license shall be granted
hereunder until there has been an investigation by the police department of the
city, or other designated official representative so empowered by the city
council, of all applicants hereunder. After investigation, the application
shall be forwarded to the city council with a recommendation from the police or
other representative. If the recommendation is that an application should be
denied, then the said representative shall state in writing:
      1.   The statutes or ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
      2.   The reason for the denial; and
      3.   The action, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof.
   C.   Conditions For Granting Or Denial Of License: All licenses shall be
granted by the city council for a period of one year beginning January 1 and
ending December 31. A full year's license fee shall be collected after January
1. The city council shall grant or deny the application within thirty (30) days
of the time it is filed with the city clerk. Prior to any revocation or
suspension, the licensee shall be afforded a hearing according to Idaho Code
section 23-1016. Whenever the mayor and city council denies an application,
they shall specify in writing:
      1.   The statutes, ordinances, and standards used in evaluating the
application;
      2.   The reason for the denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer, or renewal of the license thereof.
   D.   Maintaining Records And Minutes Of Proceedings: In all cases where the
city council is considering applications for license, transfer of license, or
renewal of license thereof, a transcribable, verbatim record of the proceeding
shall be made. If the applicant for a license, transfer or renewal is denied, a
transcribable, verbatim record of the proceedings shall be kept for a period of
not less than six (6) months after a final decision on the matter. Upon written
request and within the time period provided for retention of the record, any
person may have the record transcribed at their expense. The city council shall
also provide for the keeping of the minutes of the proceedings. Minutes shall
be retained indefinitely or as otherwise provided by law. (2015 Code)
2-2-3: GROUNDS FOR REJECTION:
No license shall be issued by the city council to any of the following or in
consideration of section
2-2-5 of this chapter:
   A.   Any person who is not of good moral character.
   B.   Any person who does not meet the citizenship and resident requirements.
   C.   Any person convicted of a felony or of the violation of any law
governing, regulating or prohibiting the sale of alcoholic beverages.
   D.   Any person who has sold or permitted the sale of beer to any person
under the legal age of drinking according to the current laws of the state of
Idaho.
   E.   Any person who wishes to sell and dispense beer by peddling.
   F.   Any person under the legal age of license ownership according to the
current laws of the state of Idaho.
   G.   Any person who wishes to sell for consumption upon the premises, whose
place of business is within one hundred feet (100'), measured on street lines,
of any public building, church, school, or hospital.
   H.   Any person whose place of business does not meet the requirements set
forth in section
2-2-2 of this chapter.
   I.   Any person whose place of business does not conduct a quiet and orderly
place of business including, but not limited to, areas associated with patron
parking.
   J.   Any person who sells beer or allows the distribution of beer within the
city between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.,
or at other designated times herein prohibited.
   K.   Any person who employs a person convicted of a felony or of a crime
involving moral turpitude or a violation of any law governing, regulation or
relating to the same of intoxicating liquor or to the possession or sale of
narcotic drugs; provided, however, that the licensee's license shall not be
suspended or revoked for the acts of his employees unless such acts arose
within the scope of their employment by the licensee.
   L.   Any person who allows anyone except the license holder and any employee
of the license holder to remain in or on the premises of the establishment from
the hours of one thirty o'clock (1:30) A.M. to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M., or
other premises closure times contained herein.
   M.   Any person who allows the sale of beer on Sunday except between the
hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and one o'clock (1:00) P.M. as of current
resolution now in effect. (2015 Code)
2-2-4: LICENSE FEES AND PURPOSES:
   A.   License Term: All licenses issued hereunder shall terminate on December
31 of the year for which issued.
   B.   Fees Enumerated:
      1.   Retailer's license fee for the sale of bottled or canned beer or
wine, none of which is to be consumed on the premises where sold, shall be
seventeen dollars fifty cents ($17.50) per year for beer and fifty dollars
($50.00) per year for wine.
      2.   Retailer's license fee for the sale of bottled, canned, or draft
beer or wine, which is to be consumed on the premises where sold, shall be
seventy dollars ($70.00) per year.
      3.   Retailer's license fee for the sale of bottled, canned, etc., which
is to be consumed on the premises where sold, shall be a two hundred twenty
five dollar ($225.00) license fee per year.
   C.   Effect: The fee schedule in subsection B of this section shall be in
effect regardless of when the license is granted and shall terminate according
to subsection A of this section.
   D.   Renewal Of Fees: The fee schedule in subsection B of this section shall
be renewed in the event a new assignment is made in accordance with section
2-2-7 of this chapter and a new fee collected. (2015 Code)
2-2-5: LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF LICENSES:
   A.   On Premises Consumption: The number of retail licenses for the sale of
beer through on premises consumption within the area of the city is hereby
limited to the two (2) licenses presently in existence and in full force and
effect.
   B.   Off Premises Consumption: The number of retail licenses for the sale of
beer through off premises consumption within the city is hereby limited to the
three (3) licenses presently in existence and in full force and effect.
   C.   No Additional Licenses Granted: No additional retail licenses for the
sale of beer by on or off premises consumption shall be granted by the city at
the present time. (Res., 7-12-1972)
2-2-6: POSTING LICENSE:
Every person to whom a license is issued shall at all times keep posted in a
conspicuous place on the licensed premises all permits and licenses issued
therefor and shall keep the same so posted for the full period for which
issued. (2015 Code)
2-2-7: PLACE OF BUSINESS AND ASSIGNMENT OF LICENSE:
Retail beer licenses shall be granted only for a certain room, building or
place designated in said license therefor, not obstructed by any curtain, blind
or partition, and the place of business shall not be changed or moved without
the consent of the city council in regular session. No license issued hereunder
shall be sold, transferred, or assigned without the consent of the city
council. (2015 Code)
2-2-8: INSPECTION OF BUSINESS:
Every person to whom a license has been granted to sell, barter, trade or
dispose of beer under the provisions of this chapter shall, at all regular
business hours, be open to the inspection of a city police officer or other
designated representative, a peace officer of the county of Jerome, a peace
officer of the state of Idaho, or officer of the United States Of America; and
shall at these times allow said officers to make an examination and inspection
of the licensed premises to ascertain if the licensee of such premises is
conforming to the provisions hereof, the laws of the county of Jerome, state of
Idaho, or the United States applicable thereto. (2015 Code)
2-2-9: HOURS OF SALE:
Beer, wine and/or liquor may be sold by a holder of a valid license to sell
beer, wine and/or liquor within the city limits only between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) A.M. and one o'clock (1:00) A.M. of the following day. (Ord.
2006-8, 9-11-2006)
2-2-10: REVOCATION OF LICENSE; GROUNDS:
The city council, in connection with every license issued hereunder, reserves
the right to suspend or revoke such license:
   A.   Where such license was procured by fraud or misrepresentation.
   B.   Upon violation or failure to comply with any provision hereof.
      1.   To suspend or revoke a license, the city council must have reason to
believe that any licensee hereunder is in violation of the provisions hereunder
and hold a hearing on the violations of the provisions hereof.
      2.   The city council shall cause to be delivered to the licensee, or
mailed to him at his last known place of business, a notice of the hearing
considering suspension or revocation of the license, and state the time and
place of the hearing and the basis thereof at least three (3) days before the
said hearing date. At such hearing, the licensee shall be entitled to be heard
and to introduce evidence on his own behalf.
      3.   After hearing the evidence, the city council shall either dismiss
the proceedings or proceed to revocation or suspension of license. If either
latter courses is followed, the action of the city council shall be by
resolution, and shall take effect immediately. Revoked licenses shall be
immediately surrendered by the licensee, and he shall not be allowed to reapply
for at least one year from the date of the action by the city council.
Suspensions of licenses may be imposed by the city council for a period of time
not less than ten (10) days and not more than sixty (60) days.
      4.   Suspended licenses shall be delivered by the licensee to the city
clerk, who shall retain the same for the period of suspension. (2015 Code)
TITLE 3
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES; PUBLIC SAFETY
SECTION:
3-1-1: Attractive Nuisances Prohibited
3-1-2: Fire Hazards
3-1-3: Weeds On Vacant Property
3-1-4: Violation; Penalty
3-1-1: ATTRACTIVE NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to create or leave any
excavation, wells, holes or other hazards to life or safety in such a condition
as to attract or enable any person to enter or to become precariously placed
therein or thereon, or to obstruct, or destroy or deface any public way,
street, alley, sidewalk, park, trees or shrubbery thereon or therein. (2015
Code)
3-1-2: FIRE HAZARDS:
   A.   Contained Fires Defined: "Contained fires" are hereby defined as fires
wholly within a metal, mortar, brick or stone container which is
noninflammable, and which is equipped with an adequate screen to prevent the
scattering of sparks or burning material from the flue or smoke exit.
   B.   Burning Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to make or kindle or cause to be made or kindled, any fires which
are uncontained, unless such fires are at least twenty five feet (25') from any
building and at least fifteen feet (15') from any wooden fence or other
materials liable to take fire. (2015 Code)
3-1-3: WEEDS ON VACANT PROPERTY:
   A.   Notice To Remove: Whenever the owner or person in charge of vacant
property permits the growth or accumulation of weeds, grass, or plants thereon,
it shall be the duty of a designated representative of the city to serve notice
upon such owner or person in charge, that such weeds, grass, or plants
constitute a fire hazard and must be removed within seventy two (72) hours of
such notice.
   B.   Failure To Comply; Removal By City; Costs: If such owner or person in
charge fails to comply with such notice, he shall be subject to the penalty
provided in section
3-1-4 of this chapter, and in addition to imposing such penalty, the city may
enter upon such property, remove the hazardous growth thereof, and charge the
cost of such removal against such property, the city clerk certifying such
charges to the proper county official for collection in the same manner as
other city taxes. (2015 Code)
3-1-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
an infraction, upon conviction thereof, and shall pay a fine of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per offense. Every day in which any such violation continues
may be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 2-2017, 7-10-2017)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Garbage Collection; Fees
3-2-3: Receptacles Required
3-2-4: Hauling Garbage And Rubbish
3-2-5: Scattering Prohibited
3-2-6: City Dump
3-2-7: Violation; Penalty
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
GARBAGE: Kitchen and table refuse, waste meat, swill, waste fruit or vegetable
matter, waste fish or fowl.
REFUSE: Ashes, broken crockery, broken bottles, broken bricks, tin vessel;
lawn, hedge, shrubbery or tree trimmings; pasteboard boxes, paper sacks, straw,
sawdust, packing materials, shavings, discarded stoves; furniture or building
materials; uprooted trees, severed tree limbs and trunks; and discarded, junked
or abandoned automobiles, except such as are accumulated in connection with an
authorized wrecking business approved by the city council, and operating under
a valid state store license. (2015 Code)
3-2-2: GARBAGE COLLECTION; FEES:
   A.   Voluntary Or Mandatory System: The city council shall officially
designate by resolution a garbage collection system as: 1) voluntary; or 2)
mandatory. A voluntary garbage collection system shall allow an independent
garbage collection firm to solicit services for a fee to residences within the
city, or allow residences to haul their own garbage as provided for in section
3-2-4 of this chapter. All independent garbage collection firms who wish to
solicit services within the city shall make application to the city council to
do so in accordance with section
2-1-10 of this code. A mandatory garbage collection system shall charge a
monthly fee for garbage collection and shall designate a city owned or an
independent garbage collection firm to collect the garbage on a timely basis
and in an equitable manner as determined by resolution under this chapter.
   B.   Voluntary System; Independent Collection Firm: The current resolution
has designated a voluntary system of garbage collection and has designated
Western Waste Services, Jerome, Idaho, as an independent garbage collection
firm to solicit services within the city. (2015 Code)
   C.   Collection Fee: The garbage collection fee per customer authorized by
this section shall be established by resolution of the City Council. (Res.
2012-02, 11-19-2012; amd. Ord. 4-2017, 9-11-2017)
3-2-3: RECEPTACLES REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
accumulate or permit the accumulation of any "garbage" or "refuse", as defined
in section
3-2-1 of this chapter, except in receptacles provided by such person, firm or
corporation.
   B.   Specifications: Such receptacles shall be of sufficient size as to
accommodate the uses of such person, firm or corporation, and shall be equipped
with a flytight lid. Racks or other provisions shall be made by the owner such
as to prevent such receptacles from being tipped over by dogs. (2015 Code)
3-2-4: HAULING GARBAGE AND RUBBISH:
It shall be the duty of each owner or occupant of premises at which garbage or
rubbish is accumulated to haul or provide for hauling such garbage or rubbish
to the city authorized dump at such intervals as will prevent garbage or
rubbish from overflowing the required receptacle, and at such intervals as will
prevent the creation of a fly attraction or an odor nuisance. (2015 Code)
3-2-5: SCATTERING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to scatter any garbage
or rubbish in the open anywhere in the city, or to haul any garbage or rubbish
in any vehicle not equipped to prevent scattering of same in transit. (2015
Code)
3-2-6: CITY DUMP:
   A.   Limitation On Dumping: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to dump any garbage within the territorial jurisdiction of the
city, except in such location as has been officially designated. It shall
further be unlawful to dump any garbage or refuse upon, along or near the
access road leading to or from such dump ground, wherever it may be situated.
   B.   Jerome County Dump: The current resolution has designated the current
Jerome County Dump as the location for the city dump grounds. (2015 Code)
3-2-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
an infraction, upon conviction thereof, and shall pay a fine of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per offense. Every day in which any such violation continues
may be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 2-2017, 7-10-2017)
CHAPTER 3
ABANDONED OR JUNKED VEHICLES, EQUIPMENT, APPLIANCES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Declaration Of Nuisance
3-3-3: Unlawful Placement
3-3-4: Abatement Procedure
3-3-5: Interference With City Official
3-3-6: Violation Deemed Misdemeanor
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them:
                               With reference to motor vehicles, any motor
                               vehicle which meets any one of the
                               following qualifications:
ABANDONED, WRECKED AND JUNKED: A. The motor vehicle does not carry a
                               current, valid state registration and/or
                               license plate;
                               B. The motor vehicle cannot be safely
                               operated under its own power.
                               An enclosed structure used or intended for
BUILDING:                      supporting or sheltering a use or
                               occupancy, consisting of, at a minimum,
                               constructed floor, walls, and roof.
                               Any article of industrial, commercial,
MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT:       agricultural or domestic machinery or
                               equipment composed of metal, plastic, or
                               other material.
                               Any large item commonly used to furnish or
                               equip a domestic household or commercial
                               business including, but not limited to,
MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCES AND chairs, tables, sofas, beds, refrigerators,
FURNISHINGS:                   stoves, washers, freezers, dryers,
                               furnaces, television sets, stereo systems,
                               air conditioning units, or other similar
                               articles.
                               Shall be defined as now defined in Idaho
MOTOR VEHICLE:                 Code section 49-123(g) as it now exists or
                               as it may hereafter be amended.
                               Any individual, corporation, limited
                               liability company, partnership, limited
PERSON:                        partnership, trust, estate, or other legal
                               entity. (Ord. 3-2009, 5-11-2009; amd. Ord.
                               2-2017, 7-10-2017)
 
3-3-2: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE:
   A.   Accumulation Discouraged: The city hereby discourages the accumulation
and storage of abandoned, wrecked or junked motor vehicles, major household
appliances and furnishings, equipment or parts thereof, or the accumulation of
animal feces on public or private property within the city, which may:
      1.   Create conditions tending to reduce the value of property within the
city;
      2.   Promote blight and deterioration;
      3.   Create fire hazards;
      4.   Constitute attractive nuisances;
      5.   Create a potential hazard to the health and safety of minor
children;
      6.   Create a habitat for rodents and other vermin; or
      7.   Create offensive odors; and
      8.   Are otherwise injurious to the health, safety and general welfare of
the citizens of the city.
   B.   Public Nuisance Declared: The presence of such items on public or
private property within the city limits, except as otherwise permitted by this
chapter, is hereby declared to constitute and be a public nuisance which may be
abated as such, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-
1, 7-14-2014)
3-3-3: UNLAWFUL PLACEMENT:
   A.   Streets: It is unlawful for any person to place, allow, maintain, park
or store any abandoned, wrecked or junked motor vehicle, major household
furnishing or appliance, equipment, or any parts thereof, upon any public
street, alley, sidewalk or other public property within the city limits.
   B.   Private Property: It shall be unlawful for any person, in any capacity,
to place, allow, maintain, park, store or permit to be placed, allowed,
discarded, parked or stored, upon any private property within the city limits,
for a period of time exceeding thirty (30) days, consecutive or not, any
abandoned, wrecked or junked motor vehicle, major household furnishing or
appliance, equipment or parts thereof; provided, however, that the provisions
of this subsection shall not apply to placement, allowance, maintenance,
parking, storage, or permission of any of the foregoing personal property on
private property, if such item is housed within a building, or where such
personal property is placed, allowed, maintained, parked, stored or permitted
in a lawful manner in connection with or incidental to a lawful business or
commercial enterprise which constitutes the primary use of such property.
   C.   Retroactive Applicability: Pursuant to the city’s police powers, uses
or conditions not in conformance with any portion of Chapter 3, Title 3, shall
be a violation of this chapter, or any amendment thereof. An emergency existing
therefore, which emergency is hereby declared to exist, Chapter 3, Title 3 and
its amendments shall be in full force and effect on and after passage and
approval, and retroactively. (Ord. 3-2009, 5-11-2009; amd. Ord. 2-2017, 7-10-
2017)
3-3-4: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Order For Removal: By the order of the mayor, after approval of the
city council, the city may order any abandoned, wrecked or junked motor
vehicle, major household furnishing or appliance, or equipment or parts
thereof, or accumulated animal feces, removed from the premises on which they
are located in violation of this chapter, within five (5) days of giving such
notice or such order, as described herein.
   B.   Notice Of Order: Notice of such order shall be placed by an authorized
city employee upon the abandoned, wrecked or junked motor vehicle, household
furnishing or appliance, or equipment or parts thereof, and a copy of the
notice shall also be served upon any adult person occupying the property on
which such item is then located. Service of the notice shall also be made upon
the owner of the real property on which the item is located if the identity of
such person is known.
   C.   Service Of Notice: If there is no occupant of the real property where
the prohibited equipment is stored, or animal feces has accumulated, any notice
required by subsection B of this section may be affixed to any building or
structure upon the real property and shall then constitute notice to all
occupants. If the owner is not an occupant of the real property, the owner
shall also be served by certified mail at the last known address of the owner.
   D.   Failure To Comply; Court Order: If full compliance is not made with the
notice of removal within the time and in the manner prescribed by the notice,
the city may seek an order from a court of competent jurisdiction, directed to
the owner or occupant of the real property, mandating the removal of the
abandoned, wrecked or junked motor vehicle, household furnishing or appliance,
or equipment or parts thereof, or accumulated animal feces.
   E.   Removal By City; Public Auction; City Costs:
      1.   Upon obtaining an order from a court of competent jurisdiction for
the removal of any abandoned, wrecked or junked motor vehicle, household
furnishing or appliance, or equipment or parts thereof, such property may be
removed by the city at the expense of the owner and placed in an impounding
yard where it may be offered for sale to the highest and best bidder at public
auction, conducted after at least two (2) publications in a newspaper in
general circulation within the city limits, the last publication of which must
appear at least five (5) days prior to the auction.
      2.   In the case of any abandoned motor vehicle, the city may also
proceed in conformance with provisions of the Idaho Code pertaining to such
vehicles.
      3.   The owner of the real property from which the personal property is
removed pursuant to the notice under this section shall be responsible to the
city for all costs, expenses and fees incurred, including attorney fees which
may be incurred by the city in obtaining removal of the property subject to
this section.
      4.   In the event the city incurs costs and expenses in removing
abandoned, wrecked or junked motor vehicles, household furnishings or
appliances or equipment or parts thereof, or accumulated animal feces, and the
owner or occupant of the property does not pay the costs or expenses incurred
by the city, the city shall be authorized to pursue a judgment against the
owner or occupant for the costs and expenses incurred and shall be entitled to
recover any fees and costs associated with obtaining such judgment. (Ord. 2014-
1, 7-14-2014)
3-3-5: INTERFERENCE WITH CITY OFFICIAL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or refuse to
allow any authorized city employee to enter upon private or public property
during usual business hours to enforce any provision of this chapter. (Ord. 3-
2009, 5-11-2009)
3-3-6: VIOLATION DEEMED MISDEMEANOR:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
an infraction, upon conviction thereof, and shall pay a fine of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per offense. Every day in which any such violation continues
may be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 2-2017, 7-10-2017)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC DISTURBANCE NOISES
SECTION:
3-4-1 :    Public Disturbance Noises
 
3-4-1:    PUBLIC DISTURBANCE NOISES:
It is unlawful for any person to cause, or for any person in possession of
property to allow to originate from the property, sound that is a public
disturbance noise. The following sounds are determined to be public disturbance
noises:
   A.   The frequent, repetitive, or continuous sounding of any horn or siren
attached to a motor vehicle, except as a warning of danger or as specifically
permitted or required by law.
   B.   The creation of frequent, repetitive, or continuous sounds in
connection with the starting, operation, repair, rebuilding, or testing of any
motor vehicle, motorcycle, off highway vehicle, or internal combustion engine
within a residential district, so as to unreasonably disturb or interfere with
the peace, comfort, and repose of owners or possessors of real property. This
also includes the use of motor vehicles without mufflers. The use of engine
brakes on commercial semitractor trucks, commonly known as "jake brakes" or
"pac brakes" is also prohibited within the city.
   C.   The creation of frequent, repetitive or continuous sounds which emanate
from any building, structure, apartment, or condominium, which unreasonably
interferes with the peace, comfort, and repose of owners or possessors of real
property, such as sounds from audio equipment, musical instrument, band
sessions, or social gatherings.
   D.   Sound from motor vehicle sound systems, such as tape players, radios,
and compact disc players, operated at a volume so as to be audible greater than
fifty feet (50') from the vehicle itself.
   E.   Sound from audio equipment such as tape players, radios, or compact
disc players, operated at a volume so as to be audible greater than fifty feet
(50') from the source, and if not operated upon the property of the operator.
   F.   Frequent and continuous barking or howling of dogs on any premises or
property owned or controlled by any person in the city, particularly between
the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. or at any
time and place so as to unreasonably disturb or interfere with the peace,
comfort, and repose of owners or possessors of real property.
   G.   The foregoing provisions shall not apply to regularly scheduled and
city approved events at parks, streets, parking lots, or halls, such as public
address systems for baseball games or park concerts, or street dances.
   H.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be deemed
guilty of an infraction, upon conviction thereof, and shall pay a fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per offense. (Ord. 2-2022, 1-10-2022)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Liquor Consumption In Public; Open Containers
4-1-2: Weapons
4-1-1: LIQUOR CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC; OPEN CONTAINERS:
   A.   Practice Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume beer or alcoholic
liquor upon the public streets or public areas within the city.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to break open, or to allow to be
broken open, any container of beer or alcoholic liquor while the same is being
transported or is in an automobile or vehicle upon the public or private
streets and areas within the city.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to scatter
beer containers or other related garbage in any open area within the city of
Eden.
   B.   Penalty: Violations of this section by any person shall be considered
misdemeanors and, upon conviction thereof, such person shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code)
4-1-2: WEAPONS:
   A.   Discharge Of Firearms: It is unlawful for any person not a peace
officer in the discharge of his duty, to discharge any gun, revolver or pistol
within the city, except in the necessary defense of person or property.
   B.   Use Of Air Guns, BB Guns, Bows And Arrows Or Similar Devices: It shall
be unlawful for any person to discharge any device commonly known as an air
gun, BB gun, pellet gun, slingshot, bow and arrow, crossbow, paintball gun, or
any other device that propels a projectile at a speed to which it can cause
serious bodily harm within the city limits.
   C.   Exemptions For Legitimate And Sanctioned Competitions And Exhibitions:
An individual, club, or association may sponsor a public or private exhibition,
competition, contest, training, or educational presentation within the city
limits, and may be permitted to allow the use and/or discharge of a firearm,
air gun, BB gun, pellet gun, paintball gun, bow and arrow, crossbow and arrow,
slingshot, or any similar device within the city limits, only with the written
permission of the mayor or his/her designee, and only after obtaining any other
permits or licenses required by state law or city ordinance. The sponsor must
provide protective measures, approved by the mayor or his/her designee, which
are adequate to protect the participants, spectators, and the general public
from harm or injury. As a precondition to authorization for such an event, the
mayor or his/her designee may require the sponsor to provide proof of or
procure liability insurance, and may also require the sponsor to give notice to
the owners or occupants of any residential, industrial, or commercial
properties, or other interested parties located in the vicinity of the proposed
activity.
   D.   Violation A Misdemeanor: Any violation of a provision of this section
shall be a misdemeanor. (2015 Code)
CHAPTER 2
MINORS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Curfew
4-2-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Age And Hour Restrictions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any child under the age of twelve (12)
years to be upon the streets or alleys of the city unless accompanied by an
adult, after the hour of eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. on weeknights and Sundays,
or after the hour of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Friday and Saturday nights.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for children twelve (12) years of age or more,
but under eighteen (18) years of age, to be upon the streets or alleys of the
city unless accompanied by an adult after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on
weeknights and Sundays, and after twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on Friday and
Saturday nights.
   B.   Parental Responsibility: It shall be the responsibility of all parents,
guardians or persons in custody of children, referred to in subsection A of
this section, for compliance of such children with the provisions of said
subsection. Violation by any child of the provisions of said subsection shall
be prima facie evidence of neglect of duty by such parent, guardian of person
in custody, and shall subject such person, in addition to any corrective action
taken with respect to such children, to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A. DOGS
SECTION:
4-3A-1: Definitions
4-3A-2: Licensing Requirements; Fees
4-3A-3: Vicious And Dangerous Dogs
4-3A-4: Declaration Of Nuisance; Abatement; Fees And Fines
4-3A-5: Breeding Prohibited
4-3A-6: Running At Large Prohibited
4-3A-7: Disposition Of Unclaimed Dogs
4-3A-8: Violation; Penalty
4-3A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the owner
or a member of his immediate family or other authorized agent by leash, cord,
chain or other means.
CONFINED: Keeping an animal within an enclosure that cannot be opened by any
person other than the owner or with the owner's assistance or consent and from
which an animal cannot escape.
DANGEROUS DOG: A dog with a propensity, tendency or disposition to attack, to
cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings, domestic
animals, or livestock.
DOG: Any member of the animal species canis familiaris six (6) months of age or
older.
OWNER: Any person who keeps, harbors, or has charge or control of, or permits
any animal to habitually be or remain on, or be lodged or fed, within his/her
house, yard, or premises.
SECURE ENCLOSURE: An enclosure that shall not allow the egress of the animal in
any manner without human assistance.
SECURE TEMPORARY ENCLOSURE: A secure enclosure used for purposes of
transporting a vicious dog and which includes a top and bottom permanently
attached to the sides except for a door for removal of the animal. Such
enclosure shall be of such material and of such construction that when the door
is closed the vicious dog cannot exit the enclosure on its own.
VICIOUS DOG: Any dog that has a known propensity to attack or bite human beings
or other animals. Any dog that has bitten two (2) or more persons or one person
on two (2) or more separate occasions, in a manner causing harm or injury to
the person or persons, shall be conclusively presumed to be vicious. (2015
Code)
4-3A-2: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; FEES:
   A.   License Required; Fees:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep,
own, or harbor, any dog, the age of six (6) months or older, within the city
without having first paid for and obtained a license for such dog. Commencing
March 1, 2000, the fees for dog licenses shall be as follows: (Ord. 2014-3, 7-
14-2014; amd. 2015 Code)
 
Males (unneutered) $20.00 per year unneutered
Males              $10.00 per year
Females            $20.00 per year
Spayed females     $10.00 per year
 
      2.   For each calendar year, dog license(s) must be purchased by the
owner(s) of any dog(s) living within the city on or before April 1 of each
respective year. Failure to purchase the license(s) in such yearly time frame
will result in a fine as prescribed herein.
      3.   No person shall own, keep or harbor within the city more than three
(3) dogs without applying for and obtaining a kennel license. Every person
keeping, owning, or harboring four (4) or more dogs and no more than six (6)
dogs within the city must apply for a kennel license. The fee for each kennel
license shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      4.   Every person applying for a dog license shall provide the owner's
name and address, together with the dog's name, breed, color, and sex, and
shall further indicate whether the dog is spayed or neutered. Proof of rabies
vaccination or inoculation shall also be provided. (Ord. 2014-3, 7-14-2014)
   B.   Due Date; License Term: All licenses for dogs shall be renewed on or
before March 1 of each year. All dogs owned, harbored or being kept within the
city on March 1 of each year shall become subject to the tax of subsection A1
of this section, and all dogs brought into the city between March 1 and October
1 of any year shall become immediately subject to the tax set forth herein.
Dogs brought into the city between October 1 of any year and March 1 of any
year shall become licensed for the following year of the dog license tax year
upon immediate payment by the owner or keeper of such dog.
   C.   Issuance Of Licenses; Records: The city clerk shall receive all dog
license fees and issue all dog licenses, shall issue receipts for such fees and
deliver all such fees to the city treasurer. The clerk shall keep records of
all licenses issued under this article, which record shall contain a
description of the dog licensed, the license number and the name and address of
the owner or person responsible for the licensing of such dog. (2015 Code)
   D.   License Exemptions:
      1.   Exemptions Enumerated: The following dogs need not be licensed:
         a.   Any dog not yet six (6) months of age.
         b.   Any dog whose owner, keeper or possessor is a nonresident of the
city and who is temporarily within the city for fourteen (14) days or less.
         c.   Any dog brought into the city for the sole purpose of
participating in any dog show or dog contest. (Ord. 2007-03, 1-8-2007)
      2.   Assistance Dogs: Any dog which has been duly or properly trained to
assist the physically or mentally challenged and is now acting in that capacity
shall be licensed without fee. (Ord. 2007-03, 1-8-2007; amd. 2015 Code)
   E.   Licensing Tag; Number; Affixing: The city clerk shall provide metal
tags suitable for attaching to dog collars or harnesses, which tags shall be
serially numbered and stamped with the fiscal year of issue. The owner or
keeper of the dog licensed shall affix and keep affixed such metal tag to the
collar or harness of the dog licensed. (2015 Code)
4-3A-3: VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS:
   A.   Period Of Impoundment; Authority To Destroy: Any vicious dog shall, if
found running at large, be impounded for a period not to exceed fourteen (14)
days, the exact length of which time shall be determined by the mayor or a
designee of the mayor. Any such dog, found at large, which cannot be safely
taken up or impounded may be killed by an authorized agent of the city.
   B.   Impoundment; Action For Destruction: Any vicious dog may be impounded
for a period not to exceed fourteen (14) days at the direction of the mayor or
a designee of the mayor. In any case where a person has been charged or cited
with the offense of owning or having custody of a vicious or dangerous dog or
other animal pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, the city attorney may
file a motion requesting destruction of the animal prior to a final
adjudication of the criminal charges. The animal shall remain confined at the
animal shelter or pound pending a final decision on the motion. The court may
order the destruction of the animal upon making a finding that the animal is
vicious as defined in this chapter, and that it poses a danger to the public if
allowed to be released from confinement.
   C.   Fee For Impounding: Any person keeping or owning a dog taken up or
impounded under this section shall pay to the clerk of the city or any agent of
the city, authorized by the city on behalf of the city, a sum to be fixed by
resolution of the city council from time to time for confinement after the day
the dog is taken up.
   D.   Classification As Vicious Dog; Owner Requirements; Challenge By Owner:
      1.   Upon a finding by the mayor or designee of the mayor that a dog is a
vicious dog, either because: a) the dog has bitten, clawed or otherwise harmed
a person or other domestic animal, or b) the dog, because of its temperament or
habits, is an imminent threat to the health and safety of the public because it
is overly aggressive, frequently unrestrained, or uncontrollable. The mayor or
designee of the mayor may, in addition to any other action allowed under this
article, issue a written order informing the owner that the dog has been found
to be a vicious dog and requiring the owner to do any one or combination of the
following:
         a.   To keep the vicious dog "confined", as that term is defined in
section
4-3A-1 of this article.
         b.   To keep the vicious dog, at all times when the dog is away from
the property of the owner, either securely leashed with chain leash and muzzled
or in a "secure temporary enclosure", as that term is defined in section
4-3A-1 of this article.
         c.   To have the vicious dog spayed or neutered at the owner's own
expense.
         d.   To post at each possible entrance to the owner's property where
the vicious dog is kept a conspicuous and clearly legible sign warning of the
presence of the dog.
         e.   To take such other reasonable protective or remedial measures as
may be reasonably necessary to protect the public from harm or injury, or fear
of harm or injury.
      2.   Failure to comply with a lawful written order of the mayor or
designee of the mayor under this section shall be a misdemeanor, and shall
constitute a separate offense from any other violation under this article.
      3.   If the owner of a dog disputes the classification of his/her dog as
a vicious dog or the validity of a written order issued pursuant to this
section, the owner of such dog may file a written petition with the court
requesting a hearing concerning such classification or the validity of the
order no later than ten (10) days after receiving written notice of the order.
If the animal has been impounded, the dog shall remain confined at the animal
shelter or pound pending a final decision on the petition. The petitioner has
the burden of proving that the animal is not a "vicious dog", as defined in
section
4-3A-1 of this article. If the animal is found not to be a vicious dog, such
that it poses no imminent threat or danger to the public, the dog shall be
released to the owner. (Ord. 2007-04, 2-12-2007)
4-3A-4: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE; ABATEMENT; FEES AND FINES:
The keeping of any unlicensed dog, the keeping of any fierce or dangerous dog
and/or the permitting of any female dog in heat to run at large, or the keeping
of any dog which has been declared a nuisance by its unbecoming action, shall
all, if committed within the city, constitute a public nuisance abatable under
the police power of the city. A police officer or other person so authorized by
the city council shall summarily abate such nuisance by seizing and impounding
such dog and/or levying a fine as described herein. The police office or other
person authorized by the city council shall also issue a notice of ordinance
violation and the named defendant therein shall pay the fixed penalty for such
offenses as provided for in this section
4-3A-4 within fourteen (14) days of the date of the issuance of the notice of
ordinance violation. Such dog may be returned to the owner or keeper thereof
within forty eight (48) hours, provided such owner or keeper:
   A.   Of an unlicensed dog pays the license fee plus a twenty five dollar
($25.00) impounding fee and additionally pays a fine of twenty five dollars
($25.00) for the first such offense, and fifty dollars ($50.00) for any
subsequent offense.
   B.   Of a fierce or dangerous dog suffers revocation of license, if any,
theretofore issued, pays a twenty five dollar ($25.00) impounding fee and
permanently removes said dog from the city.
   C.   Of a female dog in heat pays the twenty five dollar ($25.00) impounding
fee and additionally pays a fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first
such offense, and fifty dollars ($50.00) for an subsequent offense and either:
      1.   Has said female spayed; or
      2.   Provides a dogproof enclosure and keeps said female locked therein
during periods of heat; or
      3.   Permanently removes said dog from the city.
   D.   Of a dog declared a nuisance pays the twenty five dollar ($25.00) and
additionally pays a fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first such
offense, and fifty dollars ($50.00) for an subsequent offense impounding fee
and either:
      1.   Provide a dogproof enclosure; or
      2.   Permanently removes said dog from the city.
   E.   Of a dog running "at large", as defined in section
4-3A-1 of this article and/or without tags pays the twenty five dollar ($25.00)
impounding fee and additionally pays a fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for
the first such offense, and fifty dollars ($50.00) for any subsequent offense.
   F.   Of a dog determined to be fierce or dangerous pays the twenty five
dollar ($25.00) impounding fee and additionally pays a fine of fifty dollars
($50.00) for the first such offense and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for any
subsequent offense.
   G.   In the event payment is not made in accordance with the administrative
procedure set out herein, a uniform citation alleging an ordinance violation
shall be filed in the magistrate division of the district court and the named
defendant shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof,
shall pay a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per offense. (Ord. 2014-3, 7-
14-2014; amd. Ord. 2-2019, 4-8-2019)
4-3A-5: BREEDING PROHIBITED:
Breeding of any dog(s) within the city limits is strictly prohibited. Failure
to abide by this no dog breeding prohibition will result in a fine of fifty
dollars ($50.00) for the first offense, and a one hundred dollar ($100.00) fine
for any subsequent offense. (Ord. 2014-3, 7-14-2014)
4-3A-6: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Allowing Dog To Run At Large: It shall be unlawful for any owner or
keeper of any dog, whether or not the same has been licensed, to permit such
dog, at any time, to run at large within the city.
   B.   Control Of Dog: All dogs on city rights of way must be on a leash,
cord, chain, electronic device or other means. Other means shall not include
voice or verbal commands issued by the dog's handler and/or owner.
   C.   Separate Violation For Each Dog: If two (2) or more dogs belonging to
the same "owner", as defined in section
4-3A-1 of this article, are found to be running at large in violation of this
section, each dog running at large shall constitute a separate offense subject
to the enhanced penalties of section
4-3A-8 of this article.
   D.   Citation; Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be served
with a uniform citation signed by an animal control officer, police officer or
citizen who has actually witnessed the occurrence of such violation. Any such
violation shall be a misdemeanor punishable pursuant to section
4-3A-8 of this article. (Ord. 2007-04, 2-12-2007)
4-3A-7: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED DOGS:
Any dog impounded as herein provided which is not claimed and redeemed within
forty eight (48) hours shall be sold for the charges against it, including
license and impounding fees, or shall be destroyed by the city person
responsible and the body disposed of by burial or cremation. (2015 Code)
4-3A-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this article, or
making false statements hereunder, or interfering with the enforcement of the
provisions hereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code)
ARTICLE B. LIVESTOCK, SWINE AND POULTRY
SECTION:
4-3B-1: Running At Large Prohibited
4-3B-2: Keeping Prohibited; Exceptions
4-3B-3: Swine Prohibited
4-3B-4: Nuisance Premises; Abatement
4-3B-5: Tethering Or Grazing
4-3B-6: Violation; Penalty
4-3B-1: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to permit any horses,
cattle, sheep, goats or chickens to run at large upon any street, alley or
public park, or upon private property of another within the city. (2015 Code)
4-3B-2: KEEPING PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   General Prohibition: The keeping of horses, cattle, sheep, goats, or
chickens, except such as are used in business, trade or for domestic purposes,
and kept upon the private property of the owner or keeper where such animals
are securely fenced so as to be not less than fifty feet (50') away from any
private dwelling and not less than twenty feet (20') from any public street or
thoroughfare, is prohibited.
   B.   Chickens, Poultry And Fowl In Residential Zones; Special Use Permit:
Specifically, with respect to the keeping of chickens, poultry or fowl within
residential zones in the city:
      1.   No household or parcel of property shall keep more than five (5)
chickens, poultry or fowl, and only by special use permit.
      2.   Roosters are prohibited.
      3.   The chickens, poultry or fowl shall be contained to the site or the
site shall be fenced.
      4.   Any chicken coop or accessory structure associated with the
chickens, poultry or fowl shall be placed in accordance with the accessory
structure setback requirements.
      5.   Chickens, poultry or fowl shall not be kept in the front yard.
      6.   Special use permits shall be purchased for one year at a time and
shall be purchased no later than April 1 of each calendar year. Failure to
acquire a special use permit as described in this article and within the
prescribed time period shall result in a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the
first offense, and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each subsequent offense.
(Ord. 2014-2, 7-14-2014)
4-3B-3: SWINE PROHIBITED:
The keeping, grazing, tethering, and/or driving of swine, hogs, or pigs within
the city is prohibited. (2015 Code)
4-3B-4: NUISANCE PREMISES; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Accumulation Of Manure: Accumulating or permitting the accumulation of
any manure in any corral, stable, or confinement area within the city, or the
deposit of any manure or offal upon any street, alley or thoroughfare in the
city shall constitute a nuisance.
   B.   Inspection Of Premises: The city marshal or such other person as the
city council shall designate shall inspect all premises where cattle are kept,
under this article, and upon determining that an undue or unwholesome
accumulation of manure exists, he shall notify the owner or person responsible
of such fact and such person shall, within forty eight (48) hours, correct the
condition so as to remove the nuisance. (2015 Code)
4-3B-5: TETHERING OR GRAZING:
It shall be unlawful to tether or graze any cattle upon the public streets or
alleys of the city or upon the city park; provided, however, that the city
council, upon proper advance application, may permit the tethering or grazing
of said animals upon sides of public streets or alleys or upon the city park
for limited and specific times and purposes. (2015 Code)
4-3B-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
The violation of any section of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor and
shall be punishable, upon conviction thereof, as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code)
ARTICLE C. KENNELS
SECTION:
4-3C-1: Definitions
4-3C-2: Licensing Requirements, Fees And Regulations
4-3C-3: Revocation Of License
4-3C-4: Right To Appeal
4-3C-5: Violation; Penalty
4-3C-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
DOG: Any member of the animal species canis familiaris six (6) months of age or
older.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which four (4) or more dogs are housed, groomed,
bred, boarded, trained or sold.
SECURE ENCLOSURE: One that:
   A.   Has secure sides at least eight feet (8') high, or if all sides are not
eight feet (8') high, one that has a secure top;
   B.   The sides are embedded or buried in the ground not less than one foot
(1') or if not embedded, the enclosure has a bottom permanently attached to the
sides; and
   C.   Is constructed of such material and secured in such a manner that the
dog cannot exit the enclosure on its own. (Ord. 2007-03, 1-8-2007)
4-3C-2: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS, FEES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to own, operate or maintain a
"kennel", as defined in this article, without a license.
   B.   Kennel Fees:
      1.   Any person conducting, operating or maintaining a "kennel" as herein
defined shall pay to the city clerk's office an annual license fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for the privilege of conducting, operating or
maintaining such kennel.
      2.   All license fees are renewable each year on March 1, and shall not
be prorated for part year licensing.
   C.   Qualifications For Issuance Of Kennel License:
      1.   The city clerk shall issue a license for a dog kennel in the city
only after the recommendation of the mayor or his/her designee. The mayor shall
inform the city clerk that the requirements of this article have been complied
with before the city clerk shall issue such license. The city clerk may deny
the issuance of a license if fraudulent or untrue representations are made by
the applicant, or if the applicant is in violation of any of the provisions of
this article.
      2.   Before being issued a license, the applicant shall circulate a
petition among those households located within three hundred feet (300') of the
applicant's property. The petition shall state the number and type(s) of dogs
the applicant wishes to keep and shall give the location of the property on
which the applicant wishes to keep the dogs. The applicant must receive the
approval of seventy five percent (75%) of the households located within three
hundred feet (300') of his property before a kennel license will be issued. The
city clerk shall not issue a license if seventy five percent (75%) of the
households located within three hundred feet (300') of the premises where any
of the dogs are being kept or maintained have not signed the petition.
      3.   Before being issued a license, the applicant must construct or
provide proof of an existing secure enclosure in which the applicant shall keep
the dogs.
      4.   The city clerk, prior to the issuance of a license, may inspect
places and premises where any of the dogs are kept or housed and, if a
violation of this article is found to exist, the city clerk may deny issuance
of the license to the applicant. (Ord. 2007-03, 1-8-2007)
4-3C-3: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Reasons For Revocation: The city clerk may recommend to the city
council the revocation of any kennel license upon evidence that any of the
conditions set forth in this article as a prerequisite to the issuance of a
license have been violated, or that the license was issued upon fraudulent or
untrue representations by the applicant, or seventy five percent (75%) of the
households located within three hundred feet (300') of the premises where any
of the dogs are being kept or maintained, file a petition for such revocation,
or that the person holding the license has violated any of the provisions of
this article.
   B.   Inspection Of Premises; Remedial Action For Violation:
      1.   All places and premises upon which any of the dogs are kept or
housed shall be open at all times for inspection by law enforcement, the city
clerk, or the mayor or his/her designee.
      2.   If, upon inspection, there is found to exist any violation of any
provision of this article, the city clerk shall give the person responsible for
such violation a written notice specifying the violation in particular and
requiring such offender to abate or correct the same within a period of twenty
four (24) hours. If the violation is not abated or corrected within the twenty
four (24) hour period, the city clerk shall recommend to the city council that
the license of such person be revoked.
   C.   Notice And Hearing:
      1.   The city council may revoke any kennel license issued under this
article for violation of any of the provisions of this code or this article, or
laws of the state of Idaho.
      2.   Prior to revocation by the city council, the city clerk or city
council shall notify the applicant in writing, setting forth specifically the
grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the hearing. Such notice
shall be personally served upon the licensee, or mailed postage prepaid to the
licensee at his/her last known address at least three (3) days prior to the
date set for the hearing. (Ord. 2007-03, 1-8-2007)
4-3C-4: RIGHT TO APPEAL:
   A.   Appeal Of City Clerk's Decision:
      1.   If the applicant is aggrieved by the decision of the city clerk, the
applicant may appeal such decision to the city council within seven (7) days of
notice of the decision of the city clerk.
      2.   The applicant must, in writing, appeal to the city council and set
forth the reasons therefor why the applicant should not be denied a license.
   B.   Time And Place For Hearing; Notice:
      1.   The city council shall set the time and place for a hearing a
reasonable period of time subsequent to applicant's written notice of appeal.
      2.   Notice of such hearing shall be personally served upon the
applicant, or mailed postage prepaid to the applicant at his/her last known
address, at least three (3) days prior to the date of the hearing.
   C.   Council Decision Final: The order of the city council shall be final.
(Ord. 2007-03, 1-8-2007)
4-3C-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Kennel Infractions: Whenever any law enforcement officer, duly
authorized representative of the city, or a citizen of the city finds or
discovers any violation of this chapter, or other rules or regulations
promulgated by the city council, the council shall immediately be notified of
said infraction, and the council shall, upon receipt of such notice,
immediately notify the owner or keeper of such kennel to appear before said
council at a date and time certain to show cause why the license should not be
revoked for such infraction.
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any person violating the provisions of this article,
upon conviction thereof, shall pay an infraction penalty of one hundred dollars
($100.00). Each day that a violation of this article is found shall constitute
a separate and distinct violation. (Ord. 2007-03, 1-8-2007)
TITLE 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CONTROL
SECTION:
5-1-1: Enforcement Of State Motor Vehicle Laws
5-1-2: City Speed Limit
5-1-3: Traffic Control Devices
5-1-4: Parking Limitations
5-1-5: Penalty
5-1-1: ENFORCEMENT OF STATE MOTOR VEHICLE LAWS:
The state of Idaho motor vehicle laws, and all revisions thereof, shall be
enforced upon all streets and public thoroughfares within the city by all
state, county, and city police authorities. (2015 Code)
5-1-2: CITY SPEED LIMIT:
All streets and public thoroughfares not constituting a state or federal
highway shall be subject to a speed limit of twenty (20) miles per hour. (2015
Code)
5-1-3: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
It shall be the duty of the city council to have constructed, posted, or
instituted the necessary traffic control devices to provide for the orderly
flow of traffic within the city. (2015 Code)
5-1-4: PARKING LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section:
 
           Dismantled, nonoperating, junked, damaged or destroyed motor
ABANDONED: vehicles and machinery and leaving it upon any public street, alley,
           sidewalk or other public property within the city.
           Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
VEHICLE:   be transported or drawn upon a public highway, excepting devices
           moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or
           tracks.
 
   B.   Area And Hours Of Limitation: Parking of motor vehicles shall be
prohibited on the following streets or parts of streets within the city at the
hours and under the conditions herein described:
      Parking for a period longer than fifteen (15) minutes shall be prohibited
on the north side of Wilson Street East, immediately in front of and to the
south of the United States post office located at Block 13 Lot 4 of the Eden
Townsite commonly known as 220 Wilson Street East, Eden, Idaho. Said
restriction on parking shall be in effect at such location only between the
hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M., Monday through
Friday, and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. through twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on
Saturday.
   C.   Parking In Alleys: No person shall park a vehicle in any alley within
the commercial zone of the city except for the specific purpose of loading or
unloading merchandise. In other than the commercial zone, no person shall park
a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave
available less than ten feet (10') in the width of the roadway for the free
movement of vehicular traffic. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle
within an alley in such position as to block the driveway entrance to any
abutting property. No person shall leave a vehicle unattended in an alley in
the commercial zone.
   D.   Obstruction Of Traffic Prohibited: No person shall park any vehicle
upon a street or alley in such a manner or under such conditions as:
      1.   To leave available less than ten feet (10') of the width of the
roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
      2.   To obstruct or obscure an individual’s view or ability to detect
traffic when entering onto a public street, alley or other public right of way.
      3.   The wheels of the vehicle are less than three feet (3') off of the
paved surface of all roads that are paved.
   E.   Overtime Parking; Prohibited: No person shall park a vehicle on any
street right of way for a period of time longer than seventy two (72) hours.
   F.   Overtime Parking; Abandoned Vehicles; Prohibited: No unused,
inoperative or abandoned vehicle shall be parked for a longer period than
twenty four (24) hours on any street right of way or alley.
   G.   Violation; Penalty:
      1.   Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be guilty
of an infraction and shall be subject to a fine not exceeding that allowed by
state statute. The cost of removal shall be included in any such fine imposed.
      2.   Each day of violation under this article shall be deemed a separate
offense and punishable as the same. (Ord. 4-2018, 5-2-2018; amd. Ord. 1-2019,
4-8-2019)
5-1-5: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, violations of any provisions of this chapter shall
be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
CITY PARK
SECTION:
6-1-1: Responsible Council Member
6-1-2: Creation Of City Park
6-1-3: Park Uses
6-1-4: Possession Or Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages
6-1-1: RESPONSIBLE COUNCIL MEMBER:
The mayor shall designate one member of the city council to have general
responsibility to see that the maintenance and uses of the city park are
conducted in a satisfactory manner and to make recommendations before the city
council and mayor on the needs of the park. (2015 Code)
6-1-2: CREATION OF CITY PARK:
All of block two (2) of the original townsite of Eden is set aside as a city
park, to be maintained by the city. Said park shall be an Idaho state
controlled park through admission of funding for park development. By current
resolution of the city council, the name of said park shall be the James E.
Lulow Memorial Park as of January 1987. (2015 Code)
6-1-3: PARK USES:
   A.   The city park shall be used for recreation and shall not be developed
for any residential, business, or industrial use.
   B.   There shall be no parking of vehicles, tethering or grazing of animals,
or the setting of fires outside prepared cooking areas thereon without the
advance consent of the city council. (2015 Code)
6-1-4: POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE(S): Beer, wine or alcohol as those terms are defined in
Idaho Code sections 23-105 and 23-1001, as those sections now exist or may
hereafter be amended.
   PUBLIC PARK: Shall refer to any public park owned by the city of Eden
located within the city limits.
   B.   Possession Or Consumption Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any
person to consume, possess, or allow to be consumed or possessed, any alcoholic
beverages within the confines of any public park within the city limits, in
violation of this section.
   C.   Use Of Licensed Vendors; Permit; Fee:
      1.   Permit Required; Application: Any person or organization desiring to
consume or possess alcoholic beverages within a public park may do so only with
respect to alcoholic beverages provided from a licensed vendor in valid
possession of a catering permit issued pursuant to the laws of the state of
Idaho and the city of Eden or from a person or entity holding a permit granted
by the city council upon an application, which shall contain the following
information:
         a.   Name of applicant;
         b.   Place of proposed consumption of alcoholic beverages;
         c.   Day of consumption of alcoholic beverages;
         d.   Hours between which alcoholic beverages will be consumed;
         e.   Name of responsible party for procurement of the alcoholic
beverages to be consumed;
         f.   Description of event at which alcoholic beverages will be
consumed;
         g.   Written statement that the applicant will permit no one under the
age of twenty one (21) years to consume alcoholic beverages in connection with
the application and that all containers and other refuse will be properly
discarded and the park left clean after the activity;
         h.   Written statement that alcoholic beverages will not be subject to
purchase by any individual at the event.
      2.   Fee: Every application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable
twenty five dollar ($25.00) fee.
      3.   Council Action; Imposing Conditions: The full application shall be
submitted to the city clerk and acted on by the city council at the next
regular council meeting following submission of the application. The council
may reject an application, approve the same, or impose reasonable conditions on
an application including, but not limited to, the number of persons involved,
hours of consumption, crowd control measures, and the posting of bond for
security and other reasons all as contained in a permit to be issued by the
city council. (Ord. 1-2005, 6-13-2005)
   D.   Penalty: Any violation of this section shall be deemed a misdemeanor
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1-2005, 6-13-2005; amd. 2015 Code)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
UTILITIES, GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Late Fees
7-1-2: Disconnection; Reconnection Fees
7-1-3: Returned Check Fee
7-1-4: Amendment Of Fees
7-1-1: LATE FEES:
Any bill for services sent to a customer under chapter 2 or 3 of this title, as
they now exist or as they may hereafter be amended, not paid within thirty (30)
days of the date it is mailed, shall cause the customer to be assessed a late
fee of five dollars ($5.00). In the event water service is terminated pursuant
to section
7-2-4 or
7-3-6 of this title, reconnection shall not be permitted until all delinquent
charges, including late fees, are fully paid. (Ord. 2012-1, 3-12-2012)
7-1-2: DISCONNECTION; RECONNECTION FEES:
Any customer whose drinking water has been disconnected pursuant to section
7-2-4 or
7-3-6 of this title will be required to pay, prior to reconnection, all
delinquent fees, including late fees, and a reconnection fee of ten dollars
($10.00). (Ord. 2012-1, 3-12-2012)
7-1-3: RETURNED CHECK FEE:
Any customer who submits a check to the city for water, wastewater treatment,
or garbage services which is returned due to the customer's account being
closed or for insufficient funds in the account will be assessed an additional
fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per each returned check. In the event city
water services to that customer are terminated pursuant to section
7-2-4 or
7-3-6 of this title, all fees assessed for the return of checks issued under
this section shall be paid to the city in addition to the fees as set forth in
sections
7-1-1 and
7-1-2 of this chapter in order for such service to be reconnected. (Ord. 2012-
1, 3-12-2012)
7-1-4: AMENDMENT OF FEES:
All fees assessed under sections
7-1-1,
7-1-2 and
7-1-3 of this chapter may be amended from time to time by a resolution passed
by the city council. (Ord. 2012-1, 3-12-2012)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
7-2-1: Responsible Council Member; Additional Personnel
7-2-2: Deposit Requirements
7-2-3: Schedule Of Rates
7-2-4: Billing Period, Discontinuance Of Service, Land Owner’s
Responsibilities, And Collection Clerk
7-2-5: Exclusive Control Of Facilities
7-2-6: Emergency Declaration; Water Use Restriction
7-2-1: RESPONSIBLE COUNCIL MEMBER; ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL:
   A.   Council Member Responsible: As soon as possible after his election as
such, the mayor shall appoint one member of the city council to be responsible
for all functions of the city domestic water system.
   B.   Additional Personnel: Such additional personnel as, in the judgment of
the city council are necessary, will be employed for the efficient and
effective operation of the city water department. (2015 Code)
7-2-2: DEPOSIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Deposits Required; Charges: There shall be required of all persons,
firms or corporations requesting new service connections; or all persons, firms
or corporations requesting service on old connections under a new name; and of
all persons, firms or corporations whose service has been disconnected or
discontinued for any reason, a deposit equal to the sum of the last three (3)
months of water charges, to the nearest greater even dollar, when the
connection has been in operation, or equal to the sum of two (2) months,
minimum charges where the service requested is new. This subsection shall only
be in force when deemed necessary by the city council by resolution from them
on a case by case basis.
   B.   Deposits Refundable: The deposit provided for in subsection A of this
section shall be retained by the city clerk in a separate fund known as
"customer's deposits". It shall draw no interest to the depositor. Upon
presentation of his receipt or other evidence of payment satisfactory to the
city representative in charge, the depositor shall be entitled to the return of
his deposit, less any charges for unpaid service, disconnect, connect or
reconnect charge. Any customer requesting refund of his deposit shall have his
service disconnected and final charge computed. He shall thereafter not be
entitled to any service until a new deposit has been made. (2015 Code)
7-2-3: SCHEDULE OF RATES:
   A.   Metered Water Rates: Where a meter exists, service charges for each
resident, business, school, or organization shall be determined by the city
council by resolution.
   B.   Nonmetered Water Rates: Where a meter does not exist, service charges
for each resident, business, school, or organization that is connected to the
city water system shall be determined by the city council by resolution.
   C.   Occasional Use Rates: When any resident, business, school, or
organization shall require water from the city of Eden for occasional purposes
such as, but not limited to, BLM firetrucks, commercial or private chemical
rigs, etc., the service charge shall be determined by the city council by
resolution.
   D.   Exemption From Rates:
      1.   When, in the view of the city council, any resident, business,
school, or organization that contributes to various determined purposes on
behalf of the city such as, but not limited to, services performed for the city
such as backhoe work, welding, outside fire protection, etc., then by
resolution of the city council, they may be exempt from water fees stated
herein and provided such resolution will list the amount and/or time of the
exempt fee.
      2.   The current resolution specifically exempts the First Segregation
fire department from subsection C of this section, as listed herein for an
indefinite period of time. (2015 Code)
7-2-4: BILLING PERIOD, DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE, LAND OWNER’S
RESPONSIBILITIES, AND COLLECTION CLERK:
All charges for the municipal water system shall be billed and collected
monthly by the city clerk from the land owner. The land owner shall be solely
responsible for any and all fees charged by the city for the use of the
municipal water system. Said charges shall be paid within thirty (30) days from
date of bill. Failure to pay said charges within thirty (30) days from date of
bill shall, without further notice, result in discontinuance of all city
municipal services, including water services to that particular residence,
business or organization user. The city council shall also have the authority
to request a designated representative to obtain payment for said water
services in an informal way from time to time as the situation may require in
lieu of discontinuance of all city municipal services (“Informal Collection
Efforts”). On each occasion the city pursues informal collection efforts, the
land owner shall be responsible for and shall pay a collection fee of ten
dollars ($10.00). The city may recover said informal collection efforts fee by
having such assessment certified to the county assessor or other property
county officer having charge of making up of the assessment rolls and such
assessment shall be placed on the assessment rolls and collected in the same
manner as other municipal taxes are collected. (2015 Code; amd. Ord. 3-2018, 1-
8-2020)
7-2-5: EXCLUSIVE CONTROL OF FACILITIES:
   A.   City Authority: All control, jurisdiction, management, and operation of
all facilities of the water system of the city shall be vested in the city as
administered by the city council, and in the personnel empowered by such
council, and by this code. To perform such functions, such personnel are
empowered to enter upon, over, across or into all property whereon or wherein
such facilities are located, whether such property be public or private.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to interfere in any way with the council members or any person
empowered by them to maintain and operate the water system of the city, or to
tamper with, or turn on or off, any valve, connection, main, pump, lateral or
any other device, equipment, machinery, or thing belonging to, connected with,
or constituting a part of said water system.
   C.   Penalty: Any violation of this section shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor, and in addition to such punishment, the city council is hereby
empowered to suspend all water service, either temporarily or permanently, to
such offender. (2015 Code)
7-2-6: EMERGENCY DECLARATION; WATER USE RESTRICTION:
   A.   In the event a state of emergency is declared by the city council, the
city's potable water shall not be used by persons or entities for irrigation of
lawns, whether by sprinkling, flooding, or other means. The right to use the
city's potable water for irrigation purposes will be discontinued altogether.
   B.   The city's potable water shall not be available for the filling of
tanks, trailers, or other receptacles by persons or entities for any purpose
other than personal or household use. (Ord. 2004-2, 8-9-2004)
ARTICLE A. IRRIGATION WATER
SECTION:
7-2A-1: Irrigation System Control
7-2A-2: Water Master
7-2A-3: Delivery And Cost Of Water
7-2A-4: Protection Of System
7-2A-1: IRRIGATION SYSTEM CONTROL:
Whereas, the city is the holder of legal title to more than a majority of the
shares of the capital stock of the North Side Canal Company, which represents
the water rights appurtenant to the lands and lots within the city, it is
hereby declared that the distribution and apportionment of irrigation water;
the conveyance of irrigation water through the public streets, alleys, avenues,
and rights of way of the city; and the construction, maintenance, and operation
of the irrigation system within the city are subject to regulation, control,
and supervision by the city council. (2015 Code)
7-2A-2: WATER MASTER:
   A.   Appointment: The city council shall, at the beginning of each
irrigation season, appoint a water master, fix his term of service and
compensation by resolution herein stated. Such water master shall be removable
at the pleasure of the city council.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   It shall be the respective duties of the water master, but not
necessarily limited to these duties, to keep the ditches comprising the city
system clean and free from obstructions and in good repair.
      2.   The water master shall supervise the control, under such regulations
as the city council may adopt, of all inhabitants of the city, and shall have
control of all head gates, weirs, delivery boxes, and other delivery and
measuring devices comprising a part of the city system.
      3.   The water master may set and enforce rotation hours and manner of
use so as to benefit the inhabitants as a whole to the greatest possible
extent. (2015 Code)
7-2A-3: DELIVERY AND COST OF WATER:
   A.   Water Users Responsible For Delivery Devices:
      1.   All head gates, tiling, weirs, delivery, and division boxes for the
delivery or measurement of water to individual users shall be paid for and
installed by the property owner or occupant measuring or receiving delivery of
water therefrom, and shall thereafter constitute a part of the city irrigation
system.
      2.   If such owner or occupant fails or refuses to provide necessary
delivery or measurement devices, the water master may refuse delivery of water
to such owner or occupant until such device is so installed.
   B.   Annual Assessment: The cost of acquisition of water, maintenance,
repair, operation, construction, and delivery of irrigation water shall be
assessed against each lot and parcel of land within the city. Such assessment
shall be made by the city council at the beginning of each irrigation season
and shall continue on a monthly basis to the end of the irrigation season to
each owner or occupant within the city. One certified copy of such assessment
roll shall be delivered by the city clerk to the proper official of Jerome
County for inclusion into the records of Jerome County. One certified copy of
such assessment roll shall be on hand at the city offices for inspection by the
irrigation users.
   C.   Irrigation Fund: The monies collected pursuant to subsection B of this
section shall be set aside in an irrigation fund and used to defray the costs
set forth in said subsection. (2015 Code)
7-2A-4: PROTECTION OF SYSTEM:
   A.   Interference With System Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
unauthorized person to change, alter, obstruct, destroy, disturb or interfere
with any measuring or delivery device or ditch constituting a part of the city
irrigation system.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of subsection A of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required; Restrictions
7-3-3: Private Sewage Disposal
7-3-4: Building Sewers And Connections
7-3-5: Prohibited Discharges; Restricted Use Of Public Sewers
7-3-6: Billing Procedure; Rates And Charges
7-3-7: Violations; Penalties
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The meanings of terms used in this chapter shall be as follows unless the
context specifically indicates otherwise:
BOD: The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic
matter under standard laboratory procedure in five (5) days at twenty degrees
Celsius (20°C), expressed in milligrams per liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both sewage and surface runoff.
COMMERCIAL USER: Any place of business, manufacturing facility, or other
enterprise not primarily used as a residence, connected to the city sewage
collection system, and which does not meet the definition of an "industrial
user".
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL USER: Any user connected to the city sewage collection system which
meets or exceeds one or more of the following criteria:
   A.   A flow rate of 0.025 million gallons per day during any one day or a
flow that will average over 0.5 million gallons per day for a monthly period.
   B.   A BOD discharge rate exceeding fifty (50) pounds in any one day.
   C.   A TSS discharge rate exceeding fifty (50) pounds in any one day.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct from
sanitary sewage.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body
of surface water or groundwater.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
RESIDENTIAL USER: Any single or multiple dwelling unit connected to the city
sewage collection system.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and into which stormwaters,
surface waters, and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
groundwaters, surface waters and stormwaters as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and disposing
of sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration
of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of
duration more than fifteen (15) minutes and more than five (5) times the
average twenty four (24) hour concentration or flow expected during normal
operation.
STORM SEWER OR STORM DRAIN: A sewer which carries stormwaters and surface
waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
SUPERINTENDENT: The city, or its authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids; and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 1-2006, 1-20-2006)
7-3-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Garbage Deposits: It shall be unlawful for any person to place,
deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or
private property within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
city, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste or
other material detrimental to health and safety or prohibited by subsections
7-3-5A through D of this chapter.
   B.   Discharge Of Polluted Waters: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any
natural outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
city, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Privies And Septic Tanks: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be
unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   Connection To Public Sewer Required: The owners of all houses,
buildings, or properties used for human occupancy, employment recreation, or
other purposes, situated within the city and abutting on any street, alley, or
right of way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a
public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is hereby required at his
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within ninety (90) days after date of official
notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within three hundred feet
(300') of the property line.
   E.   Injuring Sewage Works Prohibited: No unauthorized person shall
maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface
or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the
municipal sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be subject to
immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
   F.   Nonliability Of City: The city shall not be liable for damage to any
sewer user by reason of a stoppage or other interruption of his water supply or
sewer disposal service caused by scarcity of water, accidents to the sewage
works, alterations, additions, or repairs to the sewer system, or from other
unavoidable causes beyond the control of the city, or those which could be
avoided by appropriate check valve apparatus being installed by the sewer
users.
   G.   Right Of Entry For Inspection: The superintendent and other duly
authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification
shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, and testing, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   H.   Violations; Penalties:
      1.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter,
except section
7-3-5 of this chapter, shall be served by the city with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
      2.   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      3.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city
by reason of such violation. (Ord. 1-2006, 1-20-2006)
7-3-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Private System Allowed: Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is
not available under the provisions of subsection
7-3-2D of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary. A permit and
inspection fee shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
      2.   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
superintendent. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within forty
eight (48) hours of the receipt of notice by the superintendent.
   C.   Compliance With State And Local Health Requirements: The type,
capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal system shall
comply with all recommendations of the department of public health of the state
of Idaho and the local health district. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   D.   Connection To Public Sewer When Available; Exception:
      1.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in subsection
7-3-2D of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with clean
bank run gravel or dirt.
      2.   The city may, upon majority vote of the city council, allow a
private sewage disposal facility to remain in use, after a showing has been
made to the satisfaction of the council that the existing system is equivalent
to the public wastewater treatment system.
   E.   Maintenance In Sanitary Manner: The owner shall operate and maintain
the private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no
expense to the city.
   F.   Additional Requirements: No statement contained in this chapter shall
be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed
by the health officer. (Ord. 1-2006, 1-20-2006)
7-3-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to install, alter,
uncover, tap into, or connect to any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit to perform said work from the city.
(Ord. 1-2006, 1-20-2006; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Costs Borne By Owner: All costs and expenses incident to the
installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   C.   Separate Connections: A separate and independent building sewer shall
be provided for every building; except, where one building stands at the rear
of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
   D.   Old Building Sewers Used With New Buildings: Old building sewers may be
used in connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination
and test, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   E.   Compliance With Codes And Standards: The size, slope, alignment,
materials of construction of a building sewer, and the methods to be used in
excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench,
shall all conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or
other applicable rules and regulations of the city. In the absence of code
provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth
in appropriate specifications of the "Idaho Standards For Public Works
Construction" shall apply.
   F.   Laying Of Building Sewer: Whenever possible, the building sewer shall
be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all
buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the
public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by
an approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
   G.   Drainage Prohibited From Public Sewer: No person shall make connection
of roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other
sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain
which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   H.   Connection Of Building Sewer To Public Sewer: The connection of the
building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city, or the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the "Idaho
Standards For Public Works Construction". All such connections shall be made
gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the superintendent before installation.
   I.   Notify Superintendent For Inspection And Connection: The applicant for
the building sewer permit shall notify the superintendent when the building
sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The
connection shall be made under the supervision of the superintendent or his
representative.
   J.   Guarding Excavations; Restoration Of Streets And Sidewalks: All
excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with
barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   K.   Right Of Superintendent To Revoke Permission: Permission given to
connect sewers and drains shall be upon the express condition that the
superintendent may for good cause revoke the same and the person making such
connection, or his successor in interest, shall have no right to claim any
damage in consequence of such permission being revoked. (Ord. 1-2006, 1-20-
2006)
7-3-5: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; RESTRICTED USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   Stormwater, Other Drainage:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
      2.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the
superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
   B.   Prohibited Waters And Wastes: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazards in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter (2 mg/l) or CN in the wastes
as discharged to the public sewer.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   C.   Harmful Substances: No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged
the following described substances, materials, wastes, or waters if it appears
likely in the opinion of the superintendent that such wastes can harm either
the sewers, sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on
the receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or
constitute a nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the superintendent shall give consideration to such factors as to
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degrees of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The
substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      2.   Any water or waste containing fats, gas, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two (32) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (0 and
65°C).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the superintendent.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron, pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the superintendent for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction of such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.0.
      9.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      10.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   D.   Superintendent Authority Regarding Noncompliance:
      1.   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection C of this section, and which in
the judgment of the superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the
sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the superintendent
may:
         a.   Reject the wastes;
         b.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         d.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of subsection I of this section.
      2.   If the superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   E.   Grease, Oil, And Sand Interceptors:
      1.   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the superintendent and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      2.   In all cases where a building is used as a hotel, boarding house,
restaurant, service station, garage, etc., the owner or occupant shall provide
a properly constructed grease trap through which all wastes of a greasy nature
shall be drained. The superintendent shall have authority, and he is hereby
authorized and directed to compel any person to provide and use a grease trap
as aforesaid whenever, in his judgment, the same is necessary.
      3.   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors or other necessary removal
facilities shall be installed on the premises when, in the opinion of the
superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, high concentrations of blood, fruit,
vegetable, or grain liquors, milk waste; or any flammable wastes, sand, and
other harmful ingredients. All interceptors or removal facilities shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the superintendent and shall be so located as to
be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Where installed,
all grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be maintained by the owner or
occupant, at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
   F.   Preliminary Treatment Or Flow Equalizing Facilities: Where preliminary
treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at his expense.
   G.   Control Manhole: When required by the superintendent, the owner of any
property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial waste shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense,
and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   H.   Measurements, Tests And Analyses: All measurements, tests and analyses
of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this
chapter shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard
Methods For The Examination Of Water And Wastewater", published by the American
Public Health Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole
provided, or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event
that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out
by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the
sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and
property.
   I.   Special Agreements Or Arrangements: No statement contained in this
section shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment,
subject to payment therefor, by the industrial concern. (Ord. 1-2006, 1-20-
2006)
7-3-6: BILLING PROCEDURE; RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Charges Included With Water Bill; Failure To Pay:
      1.   The city clerk shall bill each sewer user at the same time each such
user is billed for domestic water consumption and such charge shall be included
on such water bill and shall show the amount due for sewer service for the
preceding month. (Ord. 1-2006, 1-20-2006)
      2.   If any person neglects to pay his sewer charge within the time
limited for the payment of water bills, or shall fail or refuse to pay such
sewer charge, the city shall cause the water supply to such person by the city
to be turned off from the premises of such delinquent, and before the water
shall be again turned on, all delinquent sewage charges must be paid in full,
together with a water turn on fee of ten dollars ($10.00). (Ord. 1-2006, 1-20-
2006; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Dispute; Complaint; Hearing:
      1.   Dispute as to the amount of a bill shall not justify the user in
refusing to pay the bill when due. In case of dispute, the user shall give
written notice to the city clerk at the time of payment that the bill is
disputed, stating the amount and reasons for the dispute.
      2.   The city will forthwith investigate such complaint and afford the
user a hearing before the mayor and council and if, following such
investigation and hearing, the city shall determine that the user's objections
are well founded, the city shall refund the amount of the overpayment, or
credit it upon the next monthly bill of the consumer.
   C.   Lien For Unpaid Charges: All charges or fees as provided for by this
chapter, not paid within thirty (30) days of the date when due, shall become
delinquent and shall be, and the same are hereby imposed as, a lien upon and
against the property or premises against which charge or fee is levied and
assessed, and the city clerk shall, at the time of certifying the city taxes,
certify such delinquencies, together with all penalties, to the tax collector
of the county; and when so certified, the same shall be a lien upon the
property and collectible as other charges. The lien herein provided for shall
be an additional remedy available to the city over and above any and all other
remedies herein provided for the enforcement of the fees and charges provided
for in this chapter.
   D.   Sewer Service Charges Enumerated: The sewer service charges for city
sewer service shall be as follows:
      1.   Each residence, dwelling unit or building in the city limits that is
occupied for residential purposes, uses city sewer service and consumes less
than seven thousand five hundred (7,500) gallons of water per month, shall be
charged a rate of twelve dollars fifty six cents ($12.56) per month (that being
1 equivalent user fee). Sewer users consuming in excess of seven thousand five
hundred (7,500) gallons for water per month shall pay an increased sewer user
charge of one dollar ($1.00) per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water
consumed, or part thereof, in excess of seven thousand five hundred (7,500)
gallons.
      2.   Each commercial sewer user in the city limits that consumes less
than seven thousand five hundred (7,500) gallons of water per month, shall be
charged a rate of twelve dollars fifty six cents ($12.56) per month. Commercial
sewer users consuming in excess of seven thousand five hundred (7,500) gallons
of water per month shall pay the established rate of twelve dollars fifty six
cents ($12.56) per month times the total equivalent user fee calculated from
table A attached to the ordinance codified herein. (Ord. 1-2006, 1-20-2006)
   E.   New User Service Connection: Each new user service connection shall
require a nonrefundable fifty dollar ($50.00) connection charge to be paid to
the city clerk before the sewer connection is made. (Ord. 1-2006, 1-20-2006;
amd. 2015 Code)
   F.   Service Line Installation Fees: At the time an applicant applies for
city sewer service, a service line installation fee shall be charged. The
service line installation fee is to cover the costs incurred by the city in
installing the sewer service line from, and including, the sewer tap at the
main to a point ten feet (10') beyond the edge of the street or alley right of
way or easement line.
      1.   The service line installation fee for the various sizes of service
lines shall be as follows:
         a.   Four inch (4") sewer tap, plus four inch (4") sewer service line
at eight dollars ($8.00) per linear foot: One hundred sixty dollars ($160.00)
each.
         b.   Six inch (6") sewer tap, plus six inch (6") sewer service line at
nine dollars ($9.00) per linear foot: Two hundred dollars ($200.00) each.
         c.   Eight inch (8") sewer tap (including manhole), plus eight inch
(8") sewer service line at twelve dollars ($12.00) per linear foot: One
thousand four hundred dollars ($1,400.00) each.
         d.   Rock excavation: Sixty dollars ($60.00) per cubic yard.
         e.   Repair of asphalt street surfacing: Seven dollars ($7.00) per
square foot.
      2.   Said fees and costs shall be reviewed and revised by resolution of
the city council as necessary so that said fees and costs adequately cover the
costs actually incurred by the city in installing these service lines. (Ord. 1-
2006, 1-20-2006)
7-3-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation; Time Limit To Remedy: Any person found to be
violating any provision of this chapter shall be served by the city with
written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within
the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(Ord. 1-2006, 1-20-2006)
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the
time limit provided for in subsection A of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall
be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 1-2006, 1-20-2006; amd. 2015 Code)
   C.   Liability For Damage: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the city by reason of such violation. (Ord. 1-2006, 1-20-2006)
CHAPTER 4
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
7-4-1: Purpose
7-4-2: Definitions
7-4-3: Protection Against Cross-connections
7-4-4: Use Of Backflow Prevention Devices
7-4-5: Supervision And Inspection
7-4-6: Violations And Penalties
7-4-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted for the benefit of consumers receiving their water
supply from the city by protecting the water supply system of the city from
actual or potential pollution or contamination through cross-connections. (Ord.
3-2017, 8-14-2017)
7-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
                            The flow, in the opposite direction from that
BACKFLOW:                   intended, of any foreign substance which may enter
                            the water supply system or of any contaminated or
                            polluted water.
                            An approved device which counteracts back pressure
                            and/or prevents back siphonage. A reduced pressure
                            principle backflow prevention device, a double
                            check valve assembly, a pressure or atmospheric
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: vacuum breaker shall be considered approved if it
                            has successfully passed the performance tests of
                            the University of Southern California engineering
                            center or other testing laboratories acceptable to
                            the city and the State of Idaho Department of
                            Environmental Quality.
CITY:                       The city of Eden or any authorized agent thereof.
                            The infiltration of either solids, liquids or gases
CONTAMINATIO N:             into the water supply system which does constitute
                            public health hazard.
                            Any physical arrangement whereby the water supply
                            system is connected either directly or indirectly
CROSS- CONNECTION:          with any unapproved water supply, sewer, drain,
                            conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture
                            or other device which contains or may contain any
                            substance capable of pollution or contamination.
CUSTOMER:                   Any persons and/or premises receiving water from
                            the city water supply system.
                            The infiltration of either solids, liquids or gases
                            into the water supply system which, although not
POLLUTION:                  constituting a public health hazard, does impair
                            the water quality with respect to taste, odor,
                            color or turbidity.
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM:        The potable water supply system provided by the
                            city of Eden. (Ord. 3-2017, 8-14-2017)
 
7-4-3: PROTECTION AGAINST CROSS-CONNECTIONS:
No water service or fire sprinkler system connection shall remain or be
installed to any customer unless the water supply system is adequately
protected against cross-connection by backflow prevention devices commensurate
with the degree of hazard that either does or potentially may exist. The
installation or maintenance of a cross-connection which may endanger the water
supply system quality shall be unlawful and is prohibited. Any such cross-
connections now existing or hereafter installed shall be abated. The control or
elimination of cross-connections shall be in accordance with this chapter, the
most current pacific northwest section - American water works association cross
connection control manual for accepted procedures and practices, and the Idaho
regulations for public drinking water systems, section 01-8601.04, dated July
1985, or subsequent revisions, together with any other publications pertaining
to cross connection control approved by the director of the state department of
environmental quality. (Ord. 3-2017, 8-14-2017)
7-4-4: USE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   Installation Requirements; Certain Circumstances: Backflow prevention
devices shall be installed, if possible, within the confines of the affected
building in a readily accessible location with adequate clearances for
maintenance and testing. If the preceding installation is not possible, the
device shall be installed in an accessible, aboveground, locked, heated,
enclosure adjacent to the structure. The structure shall be situated above
seasonal high ground water, shall contain a floor drain, shall provide adequate
room for testing and maintenance and shall protect the device against freezing.
Backflow prevention devices shall be installed under any circumstances included
in, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Premises housing an auxiliary water supply that has not been
approved by the city for its quality and protection.
      2.   Premises having intricate plumbing arrangements which make it
difficult to ascertain whether or not cross-connections exist.
      3.   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross-
connections could not be made during reasonable hours, at sufficiently short
notice to assure that cross-connections do not exist.
      4.   Premises where any substance handled under pressure could enter into
the water supply system. This shall include the handling of process and cooling
waters.
      5.   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
created or recreated.
   B.   Types of Facilities Requiring Devices:
      1.   The following types of facilities shall fall into one of the above
categories where a backflow prevention device is required to protect the water
supply system unless the city and the state department of environmental quality
determine that no hazard exists:
         a.   Sewage treatment plants.
         b.   Laboratories.
         c.   Food processing plants.
         d.   Chemical or other industrial plants.
         e.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics.
         f.   Agricultural chemical storage, formulation and distribution
facilities.
         g.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
         h.   Car washes.
         i.   Other facilities specified by the city and the state department
of environmental quality.
      2.   Certain public facilities present potential sources of cross-
connections. All of the following facilities and any others the city specify
shall be required to install backflow prevention devices as required by the
city.
         a.   Schools.
         b.   Movie theaters.
         c.   Recreation and sports grounds.
         d.   Restaurants.
         e.   Stores (wholesale or retail).
   C.   Types of Devices For Use: The type of backflow prevention device
required for a particular situation shall be commensurate with the degree of
hazard presented. The following guides shall be used:
      1.   Where the water supply system could be contaminated as a result of
cross-connection, an air-gap separation or a reduced pressure backflow
prevention device shall be installed.
      2.   Where cross-connection could result in pollution of the water supply
system, either of the above devices or a double check valve assembly shall be
used.
      3.   Back siphonage, such as from irrigation sprinkler systems, may be
prevented by the use of either atmospheric vacuum breakers or pressure vacuum
breakers, as directed by the city and the state department of environmental
quality.
   D.   Stagnant Water; Double Check Valve Assembly: Facilities having plumbing
arrangements connected to the water supply system, where the water remains
stagnant for prolonged periods of time, shall be required to install a double
check valve assembly. (Ord. 3-2017, 8-14-2017)
7-4-5: SUPERVISION AND INSPECTION:
   A.   Supervision; Expense: Backflow prevention devices required by this
chapter shall be installed under the supervision of and with the approval of
the city. Such installations shall be completely at the customer's expense.
   B.   Inspection And Testing:
      1.   Inspecting Firm; Customer's Expense: Backflow prevention devices
installed prior to the effective date hereof, shall be inspected and tested by
a testing firm of the customer's choice that is qualified and approved by the
city to inspect and test said devices. This work shall be at the customer's
expense and the results forwarded to the city. Any protection device installed
prior to the effective date hereof that is not approved by the city shall be
replaced by an approved device, at the customer's expense.
      2.   Replacement of Faulty Parts: Annual inspection and testing of all
installed backflow prevention devices shall be carried out by a qualified and
approved testing firm of the customer's choice. Any parts found faulty shall be
replaced. All inspection, testing and parts replacement data shall be forwarded
to the city. All of this work shall be carried out at the customer's expense.
      3.   Frequency of Testing: When the city considers it necessary, because
of the degree of hazard involved should any cross connection occur, inspection
and testing may be more frequent than annually.
      4.   Right of Entry Allowed: During reasonable hours, all customers shall
permit entry of the city to inspect for cross connections.
      5.   Newly Constructed Premises; Compliance Required: No water service
shall be supplied to any newly constructed premises until the said premises has
successfully passed the city inspection for cross connections and complies with
this chapter.
   C.   Verify Need For Cross Connection: Inspection shall be made by the city
waterworks department to verify requirement of a cross connection control
device. Inspection shall be made by the city waterworks department after the
device has been installed and prior to its certification. Request for
inspection shall be the responsibility of the customer.
   D.   Final Determination: The Eden water department shall make the final
determination regarding cross connections. (Ord. 3-2017, 8-14-2017)
7-4-6: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Grounds For Termination Of Water Service:
      1.   The following shall be grounds for termination of water service to a
customer:
         a.   Failure to install, maintain, inspect and test any backflow
prevention device required by this chapter.
         b.   Refusal of access, during reasonable hours, to any property for
the purpose of determining whether or not cross connections exist.
         c.   Any owner who refuses to comply with current procedures and
practices required by this chapter.
      2.   Only upon the customer's complete compliance with this chapter shall
the service be resumed.
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any customer who violates or refuses to comply with
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall for each offense be subject to penalty as provided in section 1-
4-L of this code. (Ord. 3-2017, 8-14-2017)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE ENFORCEMENT; BUILDING PERMITS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Code Enforcement Services
8-1-2: Building Permit Requirements; Fees
8-1-3: Violation; Penalty
8-1-1: CODE ENFORCEMENT SERVICES:
   A.   Enforcement: The city hereby elects to provide building code
enforcement services within the city limits by administering the provisions of
the 2006 international building code, and subsequent versions adopted by the
state of Idaho pursuant to Idaho Code section 39-4109(1), including appendices
thereto pertaining to building accessibility, but excluding the incorporated
electrical code, mechanical code, fuel gas code, plumbing code, fire code, and
other property maintenance codes other than specifically referenced subjects or
sections of the international fire code, and including the incorporated
international residential code parts I, II, III, IV and IX; the Idaho energy
conservation code, and all rules promulgated thereunder. (Ord. 2012-02, 12-10-
2012; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Statutory Authorization: This election to provide local building code
enforcement services is made pursuant to Idaho Code section 39-4109. (Ord.
2012-02, 12-10-2012)
8-1-2: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; FEES:
   A.   Application For Permit: Any person, firm or corporation desiring to
construct, add to, or alter any structure or building within the city
(hereinafter for purposes of this Section
8-1-2 “New Structure or Building”) shall make application for a permit for such
work to the city council or city building official as appointed by the city
council. As a condition of approval and at the applicant’s expense, such
application shall be accompanied by:
      1.   Plans and specifications for the new structure or building as may be
required by the city council: These shall include at a minimum floor plans,
foundation plans, structural plans, framing plans, and mechanical, electrical,
and plumbing plans and a site plan/map;
      2.   Water modeling results which indicates the new structure or building
can be completed in a manner that will provide adequate water supply for
domestic water and fire protection and the new structure or building will not
adversely affect the city’s ability to continue to provide adequate domestic
water and fire protection to the existing water system users; and
      3.   Sewer service treatment modeling results which indicates the new
structure or building can be completed in a manner that will provide adequate
sewer service and sewer treatment capacity by the city and the new structure or
building will not adversely affect the city’s ability to continue to provide
adequate sewer treatment capacity to the existing sewer system users.
   B.   Issuance Of Permit; Expiration: Upon approval of the application by the
city council, the mayor shall issue a permit allowing the applied for
construction in accordance with the fee set forth in subsection E of this
section. Provided, that the permit issued under the provisions of this section
shall expire by limitations and become null and void if the building or work
authorized by such permit is not commenced within one hundred twenty (120) days
from the day such permit, or if the building or work authorized by such permit
is suspended or abandoned, at any time after the work is commenced for a period
of one hundred twenty (120) days. Before such work can be recommenced, a new
permit shall be first obtained to do so and the fee therefor shall be one-half
(1/2) the amount required for a new permit for such work, provided, no changes
have been made or will be made in the original plans and modifications for
such; and provided further, that such succession or abandonment has not
exceeded one year.
   C.   Extension Of Time: Any permittee holding an unexpired permit may apply
for an extension of time within which he may commence work within the time
required by this section for good and satisfactory reasons. The city council
may extend a time for action by the permittee for a period not exceeding one
hundred eighty (180) days upon written request by the permittee showing that
circumstances beyond the control of the permittee have prevented action from
being taken. No permit shall be extended more than once. In order to renew
action on a permit after expiration, the permittee shall pay a new full permit
fee.
   D.   Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit: The city council may, in writing,
suspend or revoke a permit issued under the provisions of this chapter whenever
the permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect information
supplied, or in violation of any ordinance of the city.
   E.   Permit Fees:
      1.   Fees Enumerated: The applicant for construction, alteration, or
addition to any building or structure within the city shall, before their
permit is issued, pay a fee which has been agreed upon by the city council by
resolution. Building permit fees shall be as follows:
   Small storage buildings up to 1,000 square feet = 0.45 per square foot
      Example: 20 x 24 = $216.00
   Warehouse type building 1,000 square feet and larger = 0.10 per square foot
      Example: 5,000 square feet = $1,000.00
   Modular homes with foundations = 0.20 per square foot
      Example: 24 x 60 = $288.00
   Singlewide mobile homes = 0.20 per square foot
      Example: 14 x 70 = $196.00
   Stick built home = 0.25 per square foot
      Example: 40 x 50 = $500.00
   Water and sewer connections shall be determined according to individual
projects.
      2.   Permit Fees Reduced: When in the opinion of the city council the
construction, alteration, or addition of the project is much lower than or at
zero cost of the minimum cost set forth in subsection E1 of this section, then
a reduced fee of one-half (1/2) the minimum fee may be set.
   F.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
deemed guilty of an infraction, upon conviction thereof, and shall pay a fine
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per offense. (2015 Code; amd. Ord. 1-2018, 1-
8-2018; Ord. 1-2023, 2-13-2023)
8-1-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct, alter,
or add to any structure within the city without complying with the requirements
set forth in this chapter. Such violation, upon conviction thereof, shall be an
infraction and punishable by a fine, as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, plus the necessary permit fees. (2015 Code; amd. Ord. 1-
2018, 1-8-2018)
CHAPTER 2
MOBILE AND MODULAR HOMES
SECTION:
8-2-1: Requirements And Restrictions
8-2-1: REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Requirements:
      1.   Mobile homes and modular homes must be placed on concrete or a
concrete block foundation or a two foot by four foot (2' x 4') or two foot by
six foot (2' x 6') stud wall and covered with metal skirting.
      2.   Mobile homes and modular homes must be inspected and approved and a
building permit issued prior to being placed on any lot within the city limits.
      3.   Mobile homes and modular homes must be a minimum of fourteen feet
(14') wide. Any mobile home or modular home less than fourteen feet (14') wide
shall be prohibited within the city limits, except those mobile homes and
modular homes located in a duly established mobile home park.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   Licensed recreational campers and trailers and vehicles with a valid
recreational sticker are excluded from this section.
      2.   This section shall not apply to mobile homes and modular homes
located in a duly established mobile home park. (Ord. 5-94, 8-8-1994)
CHAPTER 3
MANUFACTURED HOME AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
SECTION:
8-3-1: General Provisions
8-3-2: Minimum Area Requirements
8-3-3: Standards For Manufactured Home Parks
8-3-4: Standards For Recreational Vehicle Parks
8-3-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
Manufactured home and/or recreational vehicle parks shall be established or
enlarged in accordance with the following standards:
   A.   Design, construction, operation and maintenance will be harmonious and
appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended character of the
general vicinity and such use will not change the essential character of the
area;
   B.   Operation will not be hazardous or detrimental to existing or
neighboring uses, and the use will be consistent with the intent and purpose of
this chapter;
   C.   Parks will be screened by sight obscuring fences and/or shrubbery for
the protection of park residents or adjacent uses when deemed necessary by the
city council;
   D.   Vehicular approaches to the property will be designed so as not to
create an interference with traffic on surrounding public streets; and
   E.   Minimum health standards as set forth by the appropriate health
authorities will be met. (Ord. 96-6, 10-9-1996)
8-3-2: MINIMUM AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Manufactured Home Park: The minimum area required for a new
manufactured home park shall not be less than two (2) acres. Expansion of any
existing manufactured home park must increase the overall size to not less than
two (2) acres. Any increase or expansion of a mobile home park shall be in an
acre or larger increments. In addition to this minimum area, the following is
required:
      1.   Density shall not exceed seven (7) manufactured homes per acre
including road area requirements; and
      2.   A recreation area shall be required to serve the needs of park
residents for any park over two (2) acres in size. The size of the recreation
area shall be a minimum of five percent (5%) of the overall park size.
   B.   Recreational Vehicle Park: The minimum area required for a new
recreational vehicle park shall not be less than two (2) acres. Expansion of an
existing travel trailer park must increase the overall size to not less than
two (2) acres.
   C.   Combined Manufactured Home Park And Travel Trailer Park: A manufactured
home park and travel trailer park may be combined; however, the minimum area
requirement shall be as provided in subsections A and B of this section and the
uses shall be separate. (Ord. 96-6, 10-9-1996)
8-3-3: STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS:
The city council shall review the proposed plans for each new or expanding
manufactured home park in terms of the following minimum standards and shall
find adequate evidence showing that each has been addressed and complied with:
   A.   Space:
      1.   The average size of a manufactured home space shall not be less than
four thousand (4,000) square feet and no space shall have a width of less than
thirty six feet (36');
      2.   Each manufactured home space shall be provided with a minimum
outdoor living area of three hundred (300) square feet; and
      3.   Each manufactured home space shall be provided with a patio paved
with asphalt, concrete or suitable hard surface material which shall have a
minimum area of one hundred forty (140) square feet with a minimum width of ten
feet (10'). Such patio may not occupy more than one-half (1/2) of the outdoor
living area.
   B.   Stands:
      1.   Occupied manufactured homes shall be parked on stands paved with
asphaltic or concrete surfacing or with crushed rock contained within curbing
or other approved methods;
      2.   Minimum space between stands shall be fourteen feet (14'), end to
end; twenty five feet (25'), side to side, one side yard, twenty feet (20') and
one side yard five feet (5'); and
      3.   Temporary or permanent structures situated in one space shall be
separated by at least five feet (5') from temporary or permanent structures or
manufactured homes in an adjoining space. (Ord. 96-6, 10-9-1996)
   C.   Setbacks: A manufactured home park shall observe a twenty foot (20')
setback from all abutting property. (Ord. 96-6, 10-9-1996; amd. 2015 Code)
   D.   Accessway:
      1.   Accessways shall connect each manufactured home space to a public
roadway and shall be constructed to conform to standard engineering practice
based on the bearing ratio of the soil and shall be designed to allow for
access of emergency equipment and vehicles.
      2.   Accessways shall have the following minimum widths:
         a.   Entrance and collector accessways with guest parking on both
sides: Thirty six feet (36');
         b.   Collector accessways with parking on one side: Twenty eight feet
(28');
         c.   Minor accessway to cul-de-sac with no parking: Twenty feet (20');
and
         d.   Cul-de-sac diameter: Fifty feet (50').
      3.   Accessways shall be lighted at night to provide a minimum of one and
one-half (11/2) foot-candles of illumination.
   E.   Walkways:
      1.   Walkways shall be provided from each manufactured home space to the
service building and recreational area or areas and from the patio to the
accessway;
      2.   Common walkways shall have a minimum width of two and one- half feet
(21/2') and shall be constructed to conform to standard engineering practice;
      3.   Accessways may be considered as part of the walkway to the service
buildings and recreation areas, provided said accessway shall be widened by
three feet (3') over the minimum requirements set forth by county ordinance and
policies and shall be striped to prevent parking within that area; and
      4.   Walkways shall be lighted at night.
   F.   Parking:
      1.   One vehicle parking space of at least twenty feet by twenty feet
(20' x 20') in size for each manufactured home space shall be provided and said
space shall have unobstructed access to an accessway; and
      2.   One guest vehicle parking space for each manufactured home space
shall be provided.
   G.   Structures:
      1.   Structures located in any manufactured home space shall be limited
to a storage building, garage or carport;
      2.   The permanent storage structures shall contain a minimum of thirty
two (32) square feet of floor area;
      3.   The storage structures, garage or carport may be combined as one
structure;
      4.   No structural additions shall be built onto or become part of any
manufactured home, and no manufactured home shall support any building in any
manner; and
      5.   Skirting of manufactured homes is encouraged, but such skirting
shall not attach the manufactured home permanently to the ground, provide
shelter for rodents or create a fire hazard.
Note: "Structural additions" shall not be construed to exclude the construction
of an awning, patio cover, deck or cabana adjacent to a manufactured home.
   H.   Storage:
      1.   A general fenced storage area shall be provided for the storage of
accessory items such as boats, vacation trailers, campers and related equipment
owned by park residents; and
      2.   Such items shall be stored in the storage area and not parked beside
the manufactured homes.
   I.   Refuse Disposal:
      1.   Where available, public or private refuse collection must be used;
and
      2.   Where public or private collection is not available, the following
standards shall be followed:
         a.   Storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the park shall be
so managed as to create no health hazards;
         b.   All refuse shall be stored in rodentproof containers which shall
be provided in sufficient number and capacity to prevent refuse from
overflowing; and
         c.   All refuse shall be collected and disposed of weekly by the
manufactured home park owner.
   J.   Utilities:
      1.   All gas shall be installed as regulated by appropriate code or
ordinance;
      2.   An electrical outlet supplying at least two hundred (200) amps shall
be provided for each manufactured home space and lines for service to light
poles and manufactured home spaces shall be underground and waterproof;
      3.   Provisions for adequate drainage shall be made;
      4.   Sewage disposal must meet all rules and regulations of the health
authority; and
      5.   An accessible, adequate, safe and potable central supply of water
shall be provided if connection to a city water supply is unavailable. (Ord.
96-6, 10-9-1996)
8-3-4: STANDARDS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS:
   A.   Compliance With Manufactured Home Standards; Exceptions: Standards for
manufactured home parks shall also apply to recreational vehicle parks with the
following exceptions:
      1.   Recreational vehicle stands shall be a minimum of twenty feet by
fifty feet (20' x 50'), located at least five feet (5') from all accessways,
and shall be so placed as to maintain at least fifteen feet (15') between
stands;
      2.   One parking space shall be provided for each recreational vehicle
space and shall be within fifty feet (50') thereof;
      3.   No patio or storage building shall be required; and
      4.   A convenience store may be allowed as a part of the park.
   B.   Service Building: Service building shall be:
      1.   Located at least fifteen feet (15'), but not more than four hundred
feet (400'), from any recreational vehicle space;
      2.   Of permanent construction of moisture resistant material to permit
frequent washing and cleaning; and
      3.   Adequately lighted and well ventilated with all openings effectively
screened.
   C.   Toilet Fixtures And Laundry Facilities: Recreational vehicle parks
shall provide adequate flush type toilet fixtures and laundry facilities. The
following shall be the minimum required facilities:
      1.   One laundry unit for every ten (10) recreational vehicle spaces, but
in no instance shall there be less than one laundry unit. Such unit shall be
separate from the toilet rooms and shall have an exterior entrance only; and
      2.   One shower for each sex for every ten (10) recreational vehicle
spaces, but in no instance shall there be less than two (2) water closets, one
lavatory including one shower for women and one shower for men. Each water
closet and each shower shall be in a separate compartment with self-closing
doors on all water closet compartments. The shower stall shall have a dressing
compartment with stool or bench. (Ord. 96-6, 10-9-1996)
TITLE 9
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Short Title
9-1-2: Authority
9-1-3: Interpretation
9-1-4: Scope
9-1-5: Definitions
9-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE CITY
OF EDEN. (Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996)
9-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This zoning title is adopted pursuant to authority granted by Idaho Code title
67, chapter 65, and article XII, section 2 of the Idaho constitution, as
amended or subsequently codified. (Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996)
9-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public
health, safety and welfare, to retain and enhance upon the aesthetics of the
community, to preserve and enhance land values, to separate incompatible uses
and to promote security within the community. To protect the public, among
other purposes, such provisions are intended to provide for adequate light,
safety from fire and other danger, and undue concentration of populations.
(Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996)
9-1-4: SCOPE:
   A.   It is not intended by this title to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any
way impair or interfere with existing provisions of other laws or ordinances,
except those specifically repealed by this title, or with private restrictions
placed upon property by covenants running with the land to which the city is a
party.
   B.   Where this title imposes a greater restriction upon land, buildings or
structures than is imposed or required by such existing provisions of law,
ordinance, contract or deed, the provisions of this title shall control. (Ord.
96-5, 10-9-1996)
9-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
ACCESSORY USE OR BUILDING: A subordinate use or building customarily incident
to and located on the same lot with the main use or building.
ALLEY: Any public space or thoroughfare twenty five feet (25') or less in
width, but no less than fifteen feet (15') in width which has been dedicated or
deeded to the public for public travel and which affords secondary access to
abutting property. Access through an alley to property will not be considered
legal access for purposes of fulfilling the requirements of this title.
ALTERATION: As applied to a building or structure, is a change or rearrangement
in the structural parts or in the exit, facilities, or an enlargement, whether
by extending on a side or by increasing in height, or in the moving from one
location to another.
DAIRY: The congregation of more than one animal unit per acre on a single
parcel of ground raised for the purpose of production, sale and distribution of
milk, butter or cheeses.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any gainful operation, profession or craft which is
customarily incidental to or carried on in a dwelling place and wherein the use
is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling
purposes, and which occupation is carried on only by the immediate members of
the family residing within the dwelling place. Signage for the home occupation
shall be limited to two (2) square feet and traffic will be minimal. The
business shall not create a nuisance to the surrounding neighborhood in the
form of noise, odors, traffic generated or in any other manner.
JUNKYARD OR SECONDHAND SALES: Shall include any business in which used goods
are collected and sold for reuse even as a secondary business related to the
primary business on site. It shall consist of an outdoor space where junk,
waste, discarded or salvaged material are stored or handled, including
automobile wrecking yards and yards for used building materials and places or
yards for storage of salvaged equipment, automobiles or machinery.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, constructed according the HUD/FHA mobile home
construction and safety standards, transportable in one or more sections,
which, in the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width or is
forty (40) body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is three
hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent
chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing,
heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein, except
that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of
this definition except the size requirements and with respect to which the
manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of
housing and urban development and complies with the standards established under
42 USC 5401 et seq.
MOBILE HOME: A structure similar to a manufactured home, but built to a state
mobile home code which existed prior to the federal manufactured housing and
safety standards act (HUD code).
NONCONFORMING BUILDING: A building, structure, or portion thereof which does
not conform to the regulations of this title applicable to the zone or district
in which such building is situated, but which existed prior to and was in
compliance with the existing regulations as of the effective date hereof.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use of premises which does not conform to the regulations
of this title, but which was in existence and conformance with the existing
regulations on the effective date hereof. (Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-2-1: Administrative Procedures
9-2-2: Zoning Permits; Fees
9-2-3: Building Permits
9-2-4: Annexations; Comprehensive Plan And Zoning Changes
9-2-5: Variances
9-2-6: Separability
9-2-1: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES:
Upon receipt of a development application, the city council shall follow the
notification and public hearing requirements specified in Idaho Code title 67.
All applications must be signed by the property owner in question. It shall be
the applicant's responsibility to collect and turn into the city as part of
his/her application the names of all property owners within three hundred feet
(300') of the property (excluding streets and alleys) if such notification is
required. (Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996)
9-2-2: ZONING PERMITS; FEES:
The following land use changes shall require a written application to the city
council, accompanied by the listed fees:
   A.   Changing of zoning boundaries: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
   B.   Special use permit: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
   C.   Variance: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
   D.   Change to the comprehensive plan: Seventy five dollars ($75.00).
   E.   Vacation of streets/alleyways: Twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 96-
5, 10-9-1996)
9-2-3: BUILDING PERMITS:
No vacant land and buildings hereafter erected or altered shall be occupied, or
used in whole or in part, nor shall any owner or tenant of any land or building
hereafter change the use classification or enlarge the use in any building or
on any premises without a certificate of occupancy from the city council.
Reference should be made to this code concerning building, electrical and
plumbing permit processes. (Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996)
9-2-4: ANNEXATIONS; COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND ZONING CHANGES:
Prior to annexation of an unincorporated area, the city council shall review
proposed comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance changes for the unincorporated
area. The council shall follow the notice and hearing procedures provided in
Idaho Code section 67-6509. Concurrently or immediately following the adoption
of an ordinance of annexation, the council shall amend the plan and zoning
ordinance. (Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996)
9-2-5: VARIANCES:
Applications for variances to this title shall be considered when they are not
contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal
enforcement of the provisions of this title will result in an unnecessary
hardship because of the physical characteristics of the site. A variance is a
modification of the requirements of this title such as minimum lot size, width,
depth, setbacks affecting the size or shape of the structure or the placement
of the structure upon lots, or the size of the lots. A variance shall not be
considered a right or privilege and will only be granted to the applicant if
hardship is proven and it is not in conflict with the public interest. (Ord.
96-5, 10-9-1996)
9-2-6: SEPARABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this title
is for any reason held invalid, or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions thereof. (Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996)
CHAPTER 3
DISTRICTS; MAP
SECTION:
9-3-1: Districts Designated
9-3-2: Map And Boundaries
9-3-1: DISTRICTS DESIGNATED:
The city is hereby divided into the following use districts which shall be
known, in the order of restrictiveness, as:
      R Residential zone
      C Commercial zone
      I Industrial zone
(Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996)
9-3-2: MAP AND BOUNDARIES:
   A.   Use Districts: For the purposes of this title, the city is hereby
divided into use districts as provided for in this title.
   B.   Zoning Map: The boundaries of the use districts are hereby established
as shown on a map entitled "The Zoning Map Of The City Of Eden".
   C.   Boundaries: As much as possible, zoning district boundaries shall fall
at the alleyway or back property line so that like uses will be facing each
other.
   D.   Zoning Across Lot Lines: If a lot which was platted or recorded prior
to the effective date hereof is split by two (2) different zones, the lot shall
be considered, in whole, zoned to that use in which a majority of the lot is
zoned. (Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996)
CHAPTER 4
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. R RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
9-4A-1: Purpose
9-4A-2: Permitted Uses
9-4A-3: Uses Requiring Special Use Permit
9-4A-4: Specific Requirements And Restrictions
9-4A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the R residential zone is to have land area set aside by zoning
procedures and in accordance with the comprehensive plan to preserve and
enhance predominantly single-family living areas at a low density standard with
agricultural uses allowed. (Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996)
9-4A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the R residential zone:
Churches or parish halls.
Growing of all soil crops, including all farming, and all uses incidental to
the farming operation.
Home occupations.
Public facilities such as schools, city infrastructure, parks and playgrounds.
Raising of livestock and poultry on lots over one acre, under the following
conditions:
Excluding commercial feedlots, raising of swine, commercial poultry, dairies
(as defined in section
9-1-5 of this title) and similar intensive agricultural use. Horses or other
usual farm animals are permitted when kept on at least one acre of land per
animal unit per the U.S. department of agriculture, per the following
standards:
Two (2) cows;
Two (2) horses;
Five (5) sheep;
Seven (7) goats;
Other animals - maximum numbers shall be set by the city council;
or unless permitted to exceed this amount by special permit. Buildings housing
horses and other usual farm animals shall not be located closer than fifty feet
(50') from any property line.
Single-family dwellings, including manufactured homes, under the following
conditions:
   A.   The manufactured home shall be multisectional and enclose a space of
not less than one thousand (1,000) square feet.
   B.   The manufactured home shall be placed on an excavated and backfilled
foundation and enclosed at the perimeter such that the home is located not more
than twelve inches (12") above grade.
   C.   The manufactured home shall have a pitched roof, except that no
standards shall require a slope of greater than a nominal three feet (3') in
height for each twelve feet (12') in width.
   D.   The manufactured home shall have exterior siding and roofing which in
color, material and appearance is similar to the exterior siding and roofing
material commonly used on residential dwellings within the community or which
is comparable to the predominant materials used on surrounding dwellings as
determined by the local permit approval authority.
   E.   Additions to a manufactured home shall be of compatible construction
using like materials. (Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996)
9-4A-3: USES REQUIRING SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
The following uses shall be permitted in the R residential district only by
special use permit:
Farm animals exceeding more than one animal unit per acre.
Kennels, as defined in section
4-3C-1 of this code.
More than one permanent residence on a platted or recorded lot.
Multi-unit dwellings.
Temporary residence placed during the construction of a permanent residence,
not to exceed one year in duration. (Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996; amd. Ord. 2007-03,
1-8-2007)
9-4A-4: SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Use Of Public Facilities: It is desirable that in this zone the
principal designated uses involving structures be serviced from public sewer
facilities. However, since such public facilities might not be reasonably
available or feasible throughout the zone, then the minimum lot requirements
will be controlled by the specific requirements as stated in subsection B of
this section, or the requirements of the Idaho health department, whichever is
greater. (Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Standards: In this zone, no building or premises not customarily
incidental to agricultural pursuits, as herein noted, shall be used, nor shall
any building, structure or land usage be hereafter erected or altered (unless
otherwise provided in this article) except for one or more of the uses listed
in this article, in accordance with the following standards.
      1.   Lot And Site Requirements: The lot per dwelling unit and for all
uses in an R zone dependent on city water supply and individual septic disposal
systems in accordance with Idaho department of health standards for subsurface
sewage are to be used; lots shall not be less than            square feet. The
site shall be shown to have sufficient space, complying with the state health
department standards, for future construction of a replacement sewage disposal
system.
      2.   Yards:
         a.   Front: No building (not including uncovered porches or steps)
shall be constructed nearer than twenty five feet (25') from the front lot
line.
         b.   Rear: No dwelling shall be constructed nearer than fifteen feet
(15') from the rear lot line.
         c.   Side: No dwelling shall be constructed nearer than fifteen feet
(15') from the side lot line.
      3.   Accessory Use Buildings: No building shall be constructed nearer
than five feet (5') from the side and rear lot line and twenty five feet (25')
from front lot line.
      4.   Manufactured Home: One occupied manufactured home may be placed on a
lot size of the area           square feet or larger area.
      5.   Clear View Of Intersecting Streets: In all zones which require a
front yard, no obstruction to view in excess of three feet (3') in height shall
be placed on any corner lot within triangular area, from the street property
line, except for a reasonable number of trees pruned high enough to permit
unobstructed view. (Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996)
      6.   Sewage Disposal: All domestic and commercial sewage disposal
facilities must be approved by the Idaho health department. (Ord. 96-5, 10-9-
1996; amd. 2015 Code)
      7.   Well Water: Well water for domestic use shall be drilled and
supplied only by the city. (Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996)
ARTICLE B. C COMMERCIAL ZONE
SECTION:
9-4B-1: Purpose
9-4B-2: Permitted Uses
9-4B-3: Uses Requiring Special Use Permit
9-4B-4: Landscaping Required
9-4B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the C commercial zone is to provide for areas that will fulfill
the need for travel related services, retail sales and professional offices as
well as neighborhood commercial services throughout the area, and servicing the
major highways or arterials, catering both to local and travel related
services. "Neighborhood commercial" shall be defined to provide local
commercial service needs primarily located at selected places at the perimeter
of low density residential neighborhoods. All commercial applications will be
required to provide an environmental assessment of the use upon the community.
(Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996)
9-4B-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the C commercial zone:
All commercial uses that are retail in nature, both highway related and
neighborhood commercial.
Public facilities such as schools, city infrastructure, parks and playgrounds.
(Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996)
9-4B-3: USES REQUIRING SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
The following uses shall be permitted in the C commercial zone only by special
use permit:
Adult bookstores.
Churches and parish halls.
Junkyards/secondhand sales.
Kennels, as defined in section
4-3C-1 of this code.
Residential use directly related to the commercial use on the property.
Residential use for rental purposes, other than in a motel or RV park in which
the stay is limited, shall not be allowed.
Wholesale operations. (Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996; amd. Ord. 2007-03, 1-8-2007)
9-4B-4: LANDSCAPING REQUIRED:
Landscaping shall be required to cover at least five percent (5%) of the
parking lot areas of any commercial development in the city. This requirement
shall apply to all new commercial development after the effective date hereof,
and to any remodel of a commercial facility should it be determined that more
than fifty percent (50%) of the facility is being remodeled or expanded. The
city council shall review and approve all landscaping plans. (Ord. 96-5, 10-9-
1996)
ARTICLE C. I INDUSTRIAL ZONE
SECTION:
9-4C-1: Purpose
9-4C-2: Permitted Uses
9-4C-3: Landscaping Required
9-4C-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of the I industrial zone is to provide areas by zoning
procedures and in accordance with the comprehensive plan which encourage
suitable areas in which industrial uses may locate, substantially free from
residential, light industrial or retail commercial activities.
   B.   This zone shall also provide for industrial park development areas to
create, preserve and enhance areas containing manufacturing and related
establishments within an open and attractive setting, typically appropriate in
locations near major thoroughfares, freeways and other suitable places. All
industrial development applications will be required to provide an
environmental assessment of the use upon the community. (Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996)
9-4C-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the I industrial zone:
All industrial uses, including light and heavy industries, manufacturing
plants, processing plants and related uses.
Kennels, as defined in section
4-3C-1 of this code.
Public facilities.
Wholesale commercial businesses. (Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996; amd. Ord. 2007-03, 1-8-
2007)
9-4C-3: LANDSCAPING REQUIRED:
Landscaping shall be required to cover at least five percent (5%) of the
parking lot areas of any commercial development in the city. This requirement
shall apply to all new commercial development after the effective date hereof,
and to any remodel of a commercial facility should it be determined that more
than fifty percent (50%) of the facility is being remodeled or expanded. The
city council shall review and approve all landscaping plans. (Ord. 96-5, 10-9-
1996)
CHAPTER 5
UNIQUE LAND USES
SECTION:
9-5-1: Definitions
9-5-2: Performance Standards
9-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
DOG: Shall have the same meaning as provided in section
4-3C-1 of this code.
KENNEL: Shall have the same meaning as provided in section
4-3C-1 of this code.
VETERINARY ANIMAL HOSPITAL OR CLINIC: A place used for the care, grooming,
diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing, infirm or injured animals, and those
who are in need of medical or surgical attention, and may include overnight
accommodations on the premises for the treatment, observation and/or
recuperation. It may also include boarding that is incidental to the primary
activity. (Ord. 2007-03, 1-8-2007)
9-5-2: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Certain unique land uses pose special problems that may have detrimental
influences on surrounding land uses. The following performance standards for
such unique land uses shall be adhered to in addition to all other provisions
of this title:
Veterinary animal hospital or clinic or any kennel.
   A.   Must be located at least three hundred feet (300') from any residential
zone, including motels and hotels. The zoning administrator may modify these
requirements if the animals are completely housed in soundproof structures that
completely screen them from view of the abutting property; and
   B.   Must comply with all state and local regulations relative to such an
operation, and maintain adequate housekeeping practices designed to prevent the
creation of a nuisance and to reduce to a minimum factors of noise and odor.
(Ord. 2007-03, 1-8-2007)
CHAPTER 6
SPECIAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Application; Contents
9-6-2: Hearing, Notice, Action And Reconsideration
9-6-3: General Standards
9-6-4: Supplemental Conditions, Bonds And Safeguards
9-6-1: APPLICATION; CONTENTS:
An application for special use permit shall be filed with the zoning
administrator by at least one owner or lessee of property for which such
special use is proposed. At a minimum, the application shall contain the
following information:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
   B.   Legal description of property.
   C.   Description of existing use.
   D.   Zoning district.
   E.   Description of proposed special use.
   F.   A plan of the proposed site for the special use showing the location of
all buildings, parking and loading area, traffic access and traffic
circulation, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service areas, utilities,
signs, yards and such other information as the city council may require to
determine if the proposed special use meets the intent and requirements of this
title.
   G.   A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining property; the
effect of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes and vibration on adjoining
property; a discussion of the general compatibility with adjacent and other
properties in the district; and the relationship of the proposed use to the
comprehensive plan. (Ord. 2006-10, 3-12-2007)
9-6-2: HEARING, NOTICE, ACTION AND RECONSIDERATION:
   A.   Public Hearing; Notice:
      1.   Prior to approving or denying a special use permit, at least one
public hearing at which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be
heard, shall be held.
      2.   At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time
and place and a summary of the proposal shall be published in the official
newspaper or paper of general circulation within the jurisdiction. Notice may
also be made available to other newspapers, radio and television stations
serving the jurisdiction for use as a public service announcement. Notice shall
also be provided to property owners and residents within the land being
considered, three hundred feet (300') beyond the external boundaries of the
land being considered, and any additional area that may be substantially
impacted by the proposed special use as determined by the city council.
   B.   Council Action: Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing, the
city council shall either approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the
application as presented. If the application is approved or approved with
modifications, the city council shall issue a special use permit listing the
specific conditions specified by the council for approval.
   C.   Council Specifications: Upon granting or denying an application, the
city council shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reason for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   D.   Written Notice Of Action To Applicant: Within ten (10) days after a
decision has been rendered, the mayor shall provide the applicant with written
notice of the action on the request.
   E.   Petition For Reconsideration: The applicant or any affected person who
appeared in person or in writing before the city council may petition the
council for reconsideration of the decision; provided, that such petition is
submitted to the council within fifteen (15) days from the council's action.
(Ord. 2006-10, 3-12-2007)
9-6-3: GENERAL STANDARDS:
The city council shall review the particular facts and circumstances of each
proposed special use in terms of the following standards and shall find
adequate evidence showing that such use at the proposed location:
   A.   Will, in fact, constitute a special use as established by this title
for the zoning district involved;
   B.   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general objectives
or with any specific objective of the comprehensive plan and/or this title;
   C.   Will be designed, instructed, operated and maintained to be harmonious
and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended character of the
general vicinity and that such use will not change the essential character of
the same area;
   D.   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring
uses;
   E.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures,
refuse disposal, water and sewer and schools; or that the persons or agencies
responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide
adequately any such services;
   F.   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community;
   G.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment and
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property or
the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare or odors;
   H.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares; and
   I.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of natural, scenic
or historic features of major importance. (Ord. 2006-10, 3-12-2007)
9-6-4: SUPPLEMENTAL CONDITIONS, BONDS AND SAFEGUARDS:
In granting any special use, the city council may prescribe appropriate
conditions, bonds and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violations of
such conditions, bonds and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under
which the special use is granted shall be deemed a violation of this title.
Such conditions attached to a special use permit may include, but are not
limited to, those:
   A.   Minimizing adverse impact on other developments.
   B.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development.
   C.   Controlling the duration of development.
   D.   Assuring that development is maintained properly.
   E.   Designating the exact location and nature of development.
   F.   Requiring the provision for on site or off site public facilities or
services.
   G.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required in
this title. (Ord. 2006-10, 3-12-2007)
CHAPTER 7
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Nonconforming Uses
9-7-2: Street Access
9-7-3: Off Street Parking
9-7-4: Recreational Vehicles
9-7-1: NONCONFORMING USES:
The lawful use of any building, structure, or land existing on the effective
date hereof may be continued, although such use does not conform with the
provisions of this title, provided the following conditions are met:
   A.   Unsafe Structure: Nothing in this title shall prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition of any portion of a building or structure
declared unsafe by a proper authority.
   B.   Restoration: Nothing in this title shall prevent the reconstruction,
repairing, rebuilding and continued use of any nonconforming building or
structure damaged by fire, collapse, explosion, or acts of God, subsequent to
the effective date hereof, wherein the expense of such work does not exceed
forty percent (40%) of the replacement value of the building or structure at
the time such damage occurred.
   C.   Wear And Tear: Nothing in this title shall prevent the reconstruction,
repairing or rebuilding of a nonconforming building, structure or part thereof
existing on the effective date hereof, rendered necessary by wear and tear,
deterioration or depreciation.
   D.   Unlawful Use Not Authorized: Nothing in this title shall be interpreted
as authorization for or approval of the continuance of the use of a structure
or premises in violation of zoning regulations in effect at the time of the
effective date hereof. (Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996)
9-7-2: STREET ACCESS:
   A.   Public Street: No lot shall be developed without proper access to a
public street. Should such street not be improved, it shall be the
responsibility of the property owner of the property being developed to improve
the street to city standards, as follows:
      1.   Must have a recorded plat or other document dedicating public right
of way.
      2.   Must be constructed to city standards with an eight inch (8")
ballast surface, a four inch (4") gravel base and leveling course, graded and
compacted with a twenty four foot (24') wide all weather driving surface.
Drainage pits on either side shall be of a four to one (4:1) ratio slope and at
least one and one-half feet (11/2') deep.
      3.   Must be constructed with a turnaround of sixty feet (60') for
emergency equipment if longer than one hundred fifty feet (150').
   B.   Private Road: A private road will be allowed for access under the
following conditions:
      1.   Must have a recorded, permanent perpetual easement and a recorded
maintenance agreement signed by all those served.
      2.   Must exist entirely upon private property and not make use of public
right of way.
      3.   Must be constructed with six inch (6") gravel base and leveling
course, graded and compacted with a twelve foot (12') wide all weather driving
surface.
      4.   Must be constructed with a turnaround of sixty feet (60') for
emergency equipment if longer than one hundred fifty feet (150').
      5.   Must be extended to within one hundred fifty feet (150') of the most
distant corner of all inhabited buildings. (Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996)
9-7-3: OFF STREET PARKING:
Off street parking for all new development will be required at levels
delineated on the "off street parking schedule". (Ord. 96-5, 10-9-1996)
9-7-4: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, the term "recreational
motor vehicle (RV)" includes, but is not limited to: motor homes, fifth wheels,
over cab pickup campers, travel trailers and/or tents.
   B.   Prohibition Of Use As Primary Residence: No person(s) shall reside or
permit any other person(s) to reside in and utilize any RV as their primary
residence in any zoning district within the city unless otherwise prescribed
herein.
   C.   Temporary RV Residence: Pursuant to the regulations contained in
subsections D through G of this section, a person may obtain a license
permitting the use of an RV as a temporary residence on private property for a
period not to exceed fourteen (14) days. The RV must remain mobile and
roadworthy at all times. The RV may connect to electrical service, but it shall
not connect to any residential cleanouts or street manholes for disposal of
sewage.
   D.   Application Procedure: The applicant must submit an application to the
City Clerk and receive approval prior to residing in an RV on private property.
As part of said application, the applicant must provide the address, proposed
dates they will reside in the RV, and written consent from the property owner
where the RV will be located.
   E.   Renewal: Upon request by the applicant, and in the sole discretion of
the City Clerk, any temporary RV license obtained may be renewed for an
additional fourteen (14) day period. Provided, however, that any such license
may only be renewed twice during any calendar year for an absolute maximum of
forty two (42) days. Renewal request must be submitted with all of the
application materials listed in subsection D of this section and processed and
approved by the City Clerk before the expiration of the original approval.
   F.   Temporary RV Residence Exemption: Any person may reside in an RV on
private residential property with the property owner's consent for up to seven
(7) days without a license. The RV residence must remain mobile and roadworthy.
The RV residence may connect to electricity but it shall not connect to any
residential c1eanouts or street manholes for disposal of sewage.
   G.   Violation; Penalty: Violation of this section shall constitute an
infraction as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and result in a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
per violation, and each day the violation remains uncorrected shall constitute
an additional infraction and result in a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
per day. (Ord. 2-2018, 1-8-2020)
TITLE 10
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Jurisdiction; Compliance
10-1-2: General Procedures
10-1-3: Definitions
10-1-4: Penalty
10-1-1: JURISDICTION; COMPLIANCE:
From the effective date hereof, all subdivisions and plats of any tract of land
located wholly or in part in the city or within one mile of the city limits
shall comply with the requirements of this title. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-1-2: GENERAL PROCEDURES:
The following procedures shall be followed for all cases of subdividing within
the scope of this title:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the "preapplication procedure" is to afford the
subdivider an opportunity to avail himself of the advice and assistance of the
city council, city engineer and their staff before incurring the expense of
exhaustive surveys and calculations. Thorough analysis of the problems at this
stage will expedite approval of the preliminary and final plats.
   B.   Permits: No permits shall be issued by any administrative officer of
the city for the construction of any building, or other improvement requiring a
permit, upon any land for which a plat is required by law unless and until
there has been compliance with the requirements of this title.
   C.   Plat Approval Required: A plat shall be drawn for each subdivision of
land and submitted to the city council as provided in this title.
   D.   Agenda: Each plat submitted for preliminary or final approval shall be
placed on the council's agenda only after fulfilling the appropriate
requirements of this title. However, a plat not meeting all the requirements
may be submitted, provided the subdivider presents with the plat a letter
requesting any specific exception and enumerating in detail the reasons
therefor.
   E.   Irrigation Water Stocks: See section
10-5-14 of this title. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ALLEY: A minor public way providing secondary access at the back or side of a
property.
CITY: The city of Eden, Idaho.
COUNTY RECORDER: The office of the county recorder of Jerome County, Idaho.
CROSSWALK: A right of way dedicated to public use which cuts across a block to
facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent streets and properties.
CUL-DE-SAC: A dead end street provided with turnaround space at its terminus.
DEAD END STREET: A street connecting to another street at one end only and not
having provision for vehicular turnaround at its terminus.
EASEMENT: A grant of the right to use land for specific purposes.
ENGINEER: The city engineer of the city of Eden.
LOT: A portion of a recorded subdivision intended as a unit for transfer of
ownership or for development.
MASTER PLAN: A planning map of the city of Eden, Idaho, and the land area
within one mile of the city, showing the existing zoning and street layout
together with the future zoning and street layout as planned and proposed by
the city to secure and maintain an orderly growth and expansion program.
OWNER: An individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership or corporation
having sufficient proprietary interest in land to be subdivided to commence and
maintain proceedings under this title.
PLAT, FINAL: A plan of a subdivision dedication or any portion thereof prepared
for filing and recording by the Jerome County recorder and containing those
elements and requirements set forth in section
10-3-2 of this title. A final plat, upon its being filed and recorded by the
Jerome County recorder, shall thereafter be known as an authorized plat,
subdivision or dedication.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A preliminary plan of a proposed subdivision or dedication,
containing the elements and requirements set forth in chapter 2 of this title.
SHALL: Designates a mandatory requirement.
STREET: A right of way which provides vehicular and pedestrian access to
adjacent properties, the dedication of which has been officially accepted by
the council. The term "street" includes also the terms highway, thoroughfare,
parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place, and other such
terms.
STREET, ARTERIAL: A street designated as an arterial street by the council. It
is the primary purpose of an arterial street to carry fast or heavy traffic.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A street designated as a collector street by the council. A
collector street has the primary purpose of carrying traffic from minor streets
to other collector streets and arterial streets.
STREET, FRONTAGE: A minor street, parallel to and adjacent to an arterial
street, which has the primary purpose of providing access to abutting
properties.
STREET, RESIDENTIAL: It is the purpose of a minor street to provide access to
abutting properties.
SUBDIVIDER: An individual, corporation, firm or group who undertakes the
subdividing of a lot, tract or parcel of land for the purpose of transfer of
ownership or development, and including dedication of streets or changes in
street or lot lines.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a developed or undeveloped tract of land laid out
or to be laid out into more than two (2) building lots, which may or may not
include streets, highways, alleys or other land intended to be dedicated to the
public use.
UTILITIES: Installations for conducting water, sewage, gas or electricity and
similar facilities providing service to and used by the public. (Ord. 96-7, 11-
11-1996)
10-1-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any regulation of this title shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each and every day during which the violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURE
SECTION:
10-2-1: Procedures
10-2-2: Preparation
10-2-3: Proof Of Ownership Required
10-2-4: Irrigation Facilities
10-2-5: Review By Agencies
10-2-6: Submissions; Fees
10-2-7: Conditional Approval
10-2-1: PROCEDURES:
The following procedures in this chapter shall apply to the filing for
preliminary approval of any subdivision. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-2-2: PREPARATION:
The subdivider shall submit to the city engineer a drawing of the area to be
subdivided. Drawing shall note outside dimensions of property, proposed lot
sizes, location and width of streets, alleys, easement, strips for utilities
and other information he may have available. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-2-3: PROOF OF OWNERSHIP REQUIRED:
In making application, said owner shall submit current title report or such
other evidence as acceptable by the city council. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-2-4: IRRIGATION FACILITIES:
If rerouting of irrigation facilities is required, documentary evidence of
consent to the rerouting by all parties interested shall be presented to the
city council. See section
10-5-14 of this title. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-2-5: REVIEW BY AGENCIES:
The city council shall transmit one copy each of the preliminary plat to the
following agencies for review and recommendations and may request
recommendations from such other agencies as it may deem necessary:
      City-county health department
      Electric utility
      Gas utility
      Jerome County zoning commission
      School district
      Telephone company
(Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-2-6: SUBMISSIONS; FEES:
Eight (8) copies of the preliminary plat and supplementary material specified
shall be submitted to the city council at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
regularly scheduled meeting for consideration. A fee set by resolution of the
city council shall be paid at the time of application. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-2-7: CONDITIONAL APPROVAL:
   A.   Council Review: Following review of the preliminary plat and
supplemental material, as submitted or modified, the city council shall express
any approval of the plat as conditional approval and state the conditions.
   B.   Notice Of Approval: Approval or disapproval of the city council shall
be made within sixty (60) days of application and shall be noted on two (2)
copies of the preliminary plat. One copy shall be returned to the subdivider
and the other retained by the county.
   C.   Limitation Of Approval: Conditional approval of a preliminary plat
shall not constitute approval of the final plat for record. Rather, it shall be
a guide to the preparation of the final plat which will be submitted for
approval of the city council. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
CHAPTER 3
FINAL PLAT PROCEDURE
SECTION:
10-3-1: Procedures
10-3-2: Filing By Subdivider
10-3-3: Limitation On Time Of Filing
10-3-4: Review By Agencies
10-3-1: PROCEDURES:
The following procedures in this chapter shall apply to the filing for final
approval of any subdivision. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-3-2: FILING BY SUBDIVIDER:
   A.   After the approval or conditional approval of the preliminary plat, the
subdivider may cause the subdivision, or any part thereof, to be surveyed and a
final plat prepared in accordance with the preliminary plat as approved.
   B.   The final plat, prepared in accordance with Idaho Code title 50,
chapter 25, and the provisions set forth herein, shall be filed with the city
council together with a letter requesting that it be placed on their agenda for
consideration.
   C.   Such final plat, when submitted, shall be accompanied by eight (8) sets
of prints of the plans and specifications. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-3-3: LIMITATION ON TIME OF FILING:
   A.   Filing of the final plat shall be made within one year after action by
the council on said preliminary plat.
   B.   Failure to file a final plat within one year after the action by the
council approving said preliminary plat shall cause all approval of said
preliminary plat to have been voided; provided, however, that upon application
of the subdivider, the council may grant an extension of the one year period of
time not to exceed ninety (90) days. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-3-4: REVIEW BY AGENCIES:
The city council may transmit one copy of each of the final plat for review and
recommendation to the agencies listed in section
10-2-5 of this title and/or to such other agencies as it deems desirable. (Ord.
96-7, 11-11-1996)
CHAPTER 4
DRAFTING AND CONTENTS OF PLATS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Preliminary Plats
10-4-2: Final Plat
10-4-1: PRELIMINARY PLATS:
Preliminary plats shall be drawn at a scale of not less than one inch equals
one hundred feet (1" = 100') and shall show the following:
   A.   The scale, north point, etc.
   B.   The name of the proposed subdivision.
   C.   The name and address of the owner of record, the subdivider, and the
engineer, surveyor, and/or person preparing the plat.
   D.   The names, with locations of intersecting boundary lines, of adjoining
subdivisions, and the location of city limits if falling within or immediately
adjoining the tract.
   E.   The location of existing buildings, water bodies or watercourses, and
the location of dedicated streets at the point where they adjoin and/or are
immediately adjacent; provided, that actual measured distances shall not be
required.
   F.   The boundaries of the tract, as determined by a legal survey, area of
the tract, the proposed location, approximate grade, right of way width and
pavement width of streets and alleys, the proposed location and width of
easements and setback lines, proposed lot lines, and radius of all curves and
approximate lot dimensions.
   G.   The existing zoning boundary lines defining the proposed use of all
portions of the subdivision.
   H.   The proposed street names and system of numbering lots and blocks.
   I.   The location, size, and type of sanitary and storm sewers, water mains,
culverts, and other surface and subsurface structures existing within or
immediately adjacent to the proposed subdivision; and the location, layout,
type and size of any proposed water mains and storage facilities, sanitary
mains and laterals, storm sewers, culverts and drainage structures, street
improvements, and any other proposed utilities.
   J.   The location of all drainage channels and subsurface drainage
structures, and the proposed method of disposing of all runoff from the
proposed subdivision, and the location and size of all drainage easements
relating thereto, whether they are located within or outside the proposed plat.
(Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-4-2: FINAL PLAT:
The final plat shall meet all the requirements of Idaho Code title 50, chapter
25, and shall include the following information:
   A.   Name of the subdivision, the acreage enclosed, and the location of the
subdivisions by section, township and range. Boundary line of the tract,
bearings and distances, and the distances and bearings to closest land division
corner, i.e., section corner or quarter corner, and also the north point, scale
of drawing and date.
   B.   Streets and alleys. The location, name and curve dimension of each
street and alley or other public right of way. All curves shall be circular
arcs and shall be described by the degree of curvature, central angle, length
and bearing of the long chord, length and bearing of the tangents.
   C.   Easements. Location, width and type.
   D.   Existing utilities. Type, use, location and size.
   E.   A location or vicinity map showing the relationship to the near
surrounding area and the major existing streets of the surrounding and adjacent
area.
   F.   All lot lines with dimensions in feet and hundredths and with bearings
and angles to the nearest thirty (30) seconds of arc.
   G.   Blocks shall be numbered consecutively throughout the tract and lots
throughout each block.
   H.   Monuments. A certificate signed by the surveyor or engineer certifying
that the following points and corners and monuments have been set on the tract:
Centerline intersections and points of curvature and tangency of all street
centerlines shall be marked with a three-fourths inch (3/4") diameter iron rod
or standard brass cap set in concrete not less than six inches (6") square at
the top and not less than ten inches (10") square at the bottom. The concrete
block shall be at least twenty four inches (24") in vertical height. The iron
rod shall be a minimum of twenty four inches (24") long, extending one inch
(1") above the top of the concrete block. The top of the monument shall have a
minimum natural ground cover of one foot (1'). Block corners and major boundary
corners shall be five-eighths inch (5/8") diameter iron rods at least thirty
inches (30") in length. Lot corners shall be one-half inch (1/2") diameter
steel rods at least twenty four inches (24") in length.
   I.   Computations. A copy of the close traverse computations which shall be
sufficiently completed to show that all boundaries of lots, blocks, and the
entire subdivision close to an accuracy of not less than one part in four
thousand (4,000). (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
CHAPTER 5
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Minimum Design Standards Required
10-5-2: Dedication
10-5-3: Blocks
10-5-4: Lots
10-5-5: Streets
10-5-6: Alleys
10-5-7: Easements
10-5-8: Sewage System
10-5-9: Water Mains
10-5-10: Land Surface Drains
10-5-11: Curb And Gutter
10-5-12: Sidewalks
10-5-13: Driveway Curb Cuts And Approaches
10-5-14: Irrigation Lines And Water Stocks
10-5-1: MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS REQUIRED:
All plats submitted pursuant to the provisions of this title, and all
subdivisions, improvements and facilities done, constructed or made in
accordance with said provisions shall comply with the minimum design standards
set forth hereinafter in this chapter; provided, however, that any higher
standards adopted by any highway district, state highway department or health
agency shall prevail over those set forth herein. Off site improvements may be
required if deemed necessary by the impact of the subdivision. (2015 Code)
10-5-2: DEDICATION:
Arterial and collector streets shall be dedicated to the public in all cases;
in general, all other streets shall also be dedicated to public use. (2015
Code)
10-5-3: BLOCKS:
No block shall be longer than one thousand feet (1,000') nor less than three
hundred eighty feet (380') between street intersections and shall have
sufficient width to provide for two (2) tiers of lots, except as provided in
section
10-5-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-5-4: LOTS:
Double frontage lots are prohibited, except that where a showing is made and
unusual topography or other conditions make it impossible to meet this
requirement, and exception may be approved by the council. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-
1996)
10-5-5: STREETS:
   A.   Width: Width of right of way shall meet the minimum requirements shown
in the following table:
 
Type Of Street                                               Right Of Way
Alley                                                        20 feet
Arterial                                                     80 feet
Cul-de-sac (dead end street with turnaround)                 50 feet
Multi-family or commercial development and collector streets 60 feet
Residential street                                           50 feet
Turnaround for cul-de-sac                                    40 foot radius
 
   B.   Dead End Streets: Dead end streets shall not be permitted. However,
cul-de-sac streets may be substituted in place of a dead end street; provided
(in the opinion of the council), that in the future, the street will be
extended for the proper development of the city street pattern.
   C.   Cul-De-Sac Streets: A cul-de-sac, court or similar type street may be
permitted; provided, that the maximum length for a cul-de-sac shall be four
hundred feet (400') as measured from the entrance to center of turnaround, and
all cul-de-sacs shall be provided with a turnaround having a minimum radius of
not less than forty feet (40') at the curb line.
   D.   Loop Streets: The maximum length of a loop street shall be one thousand
feet (1,000') and a loop street over this length, though otherwise meeting the
definition of a loop street, shall be required to conform to the standards of a
minor street in its subdivision type; provided, however, that a loop street of
up to one thousand two hundred feet (1,200') in length containing frontage of
no more than twenty four (24) building lots may be permitted.
   E.   Design: Streets shall be designed and laid out in order to intersect as
nearly as possible at right angles and no street shall intersect any other
street at less than seventy degrees (70°).
   F.   Angles: Where any street deflects an angle of ten degrees (10°) or
more, a connecting curve having a minimum radius of three hundred feet (300')
for arterial and collector streets and one hundred fifty feet (150') for
residential streets may be required by the city council.
   G.   Pavement Base: The street pavement base and leveling coarse gravel
shall be constructed in accordance with the recommendations of the city
engineer. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-5-6: ALLEYS:
   A.   Location; Width: Alleys may be required at the rear of all business
lots and shall be at least twenty feet (20') in width. Alleys, when provided in
residential blocks, shall be not less than twenty feet (20') in width.
   B.   Intersection Of Alleys: At the intersection of two (2) alleys, the
corners of the abutting property shall be provided with a property line return
having a radius not less than twenty feet (20').
   C.   Dead End Unacceptable: Except under unusual circumstances, alleys shall
not terminate a dead end, and in no case shall a dead end alley be accepted
unless turnaround facilities are provided to the satisfaction of the council.
   D.   Pavement Base: The alley pavement base and leveling coarse gravel shall
be constructed in accordance with the recommendations of the city engineer.
(Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-5-7: EASEMENTS:
Easements for sewer, water, gas, electric, telephone, drainage, irrigation or
other public utilities shall be required. Easements for utility lines shall be
a minimum of fifteen feet (15') in width, and centered on rear or side lot
lines. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-5-8: SEWAGE SYSTEM:
   A.   In subdivisions within the city, method and extent of sewage disposal
shall meet the standards of and be approved by the city.
   B.   In subdivisions within one mile of the city, method and extent of
sewage disposal shall meet the standards of and be approved by the state of
Idaho department of public health.
   C.   In a subdivision within a reasonable distance to an existing sanitary
system, the subdivider may be required to make connection thereto. (Ord. 96-7,
11-11-1996)
10-5-9: WATER MAINS:
   A.   Water Lines And Fire Hydrants: Central water lines and fire hydrants
shall be provided in all subdivisions with the exception noted in subsection B
of this section.
   B.   Subdivisions Outside City Limits:
      1.   In subdivisions outside of the city limits where the city feels that
it would not be feasible to extend water mains, alternate provisions may be
made for domestic water supply and fire protection; provided, that such
provision shall meet the standards of the National Board Of Fire Underwriters,
Idaho state department of reclamation; and further provided, that such
alternate provision shall be made to the satisfaction of the city council.
      2.   In considering such alternate provision, the council may require an
increase in the minimum lot size and may impose any other requirement which it
deems necessary to protect the public health, safety or welfare. (Ord. 96-7,
11-11-1996)
10-5-10: LAND SURFACE DRAINS:
Such grading shall be done and such structures shall be provided by the
subdivider as are deemed essential by the city engineer to provide adequate
drainage. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-5-11: CURB AND GUTTER:
All subdivisions should be constructed with vertical type curbs and gutters in
accordance with city specifications. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-5-12: SIDEWALKS:
Sidewalks may be provided along both sides of the street and shall be five feet
(5') wide, except in residential streets and a four foot (4') width shall be
acceptable. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-5-13: DRIVEWAY CURB CUTS AND APPROACHES:
Driveway curb cuts and approaches shall be made in accordance with city
ordinances and specifications. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-5-14: IRRIGATION LINES AND WATER STOCKS:
   A.   Irrigation lines, structures and/or ditches shall be provided for all
lots within the subdivision. Irrigation lines shall be constructed of concrete
irrigation pipe and shall meet the requirements of ASTM designation C-11B-59.
All joints shall be mortared. Concrete irrigation pipe with rubber type gasket
joints may also be used.
   B.   All North Side Canal Company water stocks for the land included in the
subdivision within the city limits shall be turned over to the city as trustee
before any plat of land shall be approved by the city council. (Ord. 96-7, 11-
11-1996)
CHAPTER 6
FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
SECTION:
10-6-1: Engineering
10-6-2: Streets And Alleys
10-6-3: Sewers And Drains
10-6-4: Irrigation Lines
10-6-5: Curbs, Gutters And Sidewalks
10-6-6: Streetlights; Signs
10-6-7: Water
10-6-8: Repair Guarantee
10-6-1: ENGINEERING:
   A.   Inside City Limits: The subdivider shall be responsible for all
engineering design; this includes, but is not limited to, such items as storm
sewers, sanitary sewers, streets, curbs and gutters, sidewalks and water lines.
The city engineer shall review all designs and approve them when they conform
to city standards. The city engineer shall be responsible for the inspection of
all public utilities. An inspection fee, as set by resolution of the city
council, shall be paid at the time of inspection.
   B.   Outside City Limits: The subdivider shall be responsible for all
engineering work. The city engineer shall review the engineering work presented
by the subdivider. In cases where the subdivision is being considered for
annexation, the city engineer may inspect the field work done by the
subdivider. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-6-2: STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Inside City Limits: The subdivider shall be responsible for the
construction of the streets and alleys in new subdivisions. This construction
will consist of grading, graveling and paving to conform to the city standards
for paved streets.
   B.   Outside City Limits:
      1.   The subdivider shall be responsible for the construction of streets
and alleys. Where the subdivision is being considered for annexation, the
streets and alleys shall be improved at the expense of the subdivider in
accordance with the current policy and standards established by the city
council.
      2.   Streets to be accepted for maintenance by the city, in areas
considered for annexation, shall be improved at the expense of the subdivider
in accordance with the current policy and standards established by the city
council. The required improvements such as concrete sidewalks, concrete curb
and gutter, gravel base coarse and asphalt surfacing will be determined by the
city council at the time of annexation. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-6-3: SEWERS AND DRAINS:
   A.   Inside City Limits: Sewers and drains shall be constructed at the
expense of the subdivider and shall conform to city standards. The city
engineer shall inspect the construction. Prior to completion of street
construction, the subdivider shall, at his expense, stub in or run a line from
the sewer line installation in that street to the edge of the property to be
served, so as to avoid street damage resulting from such stub or connecting
line being installed after street construction.
   B.   Outside City Limits: When sewers and drains are constructed in
subdivisions outside the city limits, the subdivider shall be responsible for
the expense of construction. Sewers must conform to state standards. Where the
subdivision is being considered for annexation, the sewers and drains shall
comply with city standards. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-6-4: IRRIGATION LINES:
All irrigation lines and structures constructed in subdivisions inside and
outside the city limits shall be the responsibility of the subdivider, and the
subdivider shall be responsible for all expenses. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-6-5: CURBS, GUTTERS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Inside City Limits: When curbs, gutters and sidewalks are constructed,
it shall be at the expense of the subdivider and shall conform to city
standards. The city engineer shall inspect the construction.
   B.   Outside City Limits: When curbs, gutters and sidewalks are constructed
in subdivisions outside the city limits, the subdivider shall be responsible
for the expense of construction. Where the subdivision is being considered for
annexation, the curbs, gutters and sidewalks shall comply with city standards.
(Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-6-6: STREETLIGHTS; SIGNS:
   A.   Inside City Limits: Streetlights and street name signs shall be
installed at the expense of the subdivider. These items will be installed at
the time and place deemed advisable by the city.
   B.   Outside City Limits: Streetlights and street name signs shall be
installed at the expense of the subdivider. Where the subdivision is being
considered for annexation, the above items shall conform to city standards.
(Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-6-7: WATER:
   A.   Installation At Subdivider's Expense: All lines and installations for
furnishing domestic water and fire protection to subdivisions, whether inside
or outside the city limits and whether extensions to the city system or
otherwise, shall be at the expense of the subdivider.
   B.   Run Line From Main To Meter Box: Prior to completion of street
construction, the subdivider shall, at his own expense, stub in or run a line
from the domestic water service line or main to the water meter box
installation point so as to avoid street damage resulting from such stub or
connecting line being installed after street construction. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-
1996)
10-6-8: REPAIR GUARANTEE:
   A.   Agreement: Prior to approval of the final plat, the owner shall enter
into an agreement with the city, on a form to be prescribed by the city,
wherein the owner shall agree to reimburse the city for all required repairs to
an alley, easement, sewage system, water system, sidewalk, surface drainage,
curb, gutter, approach or irrigation line required by this chapter, to be
installed by the owner as a condition of final plat approval.
   B.   Time Period; Surety Requirement: The guarantee shall be for a period of
one year from the date of final plat approval, and shall be secured by a good
and sufficient performance bond, set aside letter from a responsible lending
institution, cashier's check, or other surety in an amount determined by the
city council. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
CHAPTER 7
IMPROVEMENTS, COMPLETION GUARANTEE
SECTION:
10-7-1: Guarantee Of Completion
10-7-2: Exception
10-7-3: Conditional Approval Of Final Plat
10-7-4: Inspection Of Public Improvements Under Construction
10-7-5: Penalty In Case Of Failure To Complete Construction
10-7-1: GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION:
In lieu of the actual installation of required public improvements before
filing of the final plat, the city council may permit the subdivider to provide
a financial guarantee of performance in one or a combination of the following
arrangements:
   A.   Surety Bond:
      1.   Accrual: The bond shall accrue to the county covering construction,
operation and maintenance of the specific public improvements;
      2.   Amount: The bond shall be in an amount equal to one hundred ten
percent (110%) of the total estimated cost for completing construction of the
specific public improvement, as estimated by the county engineer and approved
by the council;
      3.   Term Length: The term length in which the bond is in force shall be
for a period to be specified by the council for the specific public
improvements;
      4.   Bonding For Surety Company: The bond shall be with a surety company
authorized to do business in the state of Idaho, acceptable to the council; and
      5.   Escrow Agreement: The escrow agreement shall be drawn and furnished
by the council.
   B.   Cash Deposits, Certified Check, Negotiable Bond Or Irrevocable Bank
Letter Of Credit:
      1.   Treasurer, Escrow Agent Or Trust Company: A cash deposit, certified
check, negotiable bond, or an irrevocable bank letter of credit, of such surety
acceptable by the council, shall be deposited with an escrow agent or trust
company;
      2.   Dollar Value: The dollar value of the cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond, or an irrevocable bank letter of credit, shall be equal to one
hundred ten percent (110%) of the total estimated cost of construction of the
specific public improvement, as estimated by the county engineer and approved
by the council;
      3.   Escrow Time: Escrow time for the cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be for a period to
be specified by the council; and
      4.   Progressive Payment: In the case of cash deposits or certified
checks, an agreement between the council and the subdivider may provide the
progressive payment out of the cash deposit or reduction of the certified
check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit, to the extent of
the cost of the completed portion of the public improvements, in accordance
with a previously entered into agreement.
   C.   Other Forms Of Security: The city council may accept an alternate form
of security proposed by the subdivider as long as such form is found valid and
will cover one hundred ten percent (110%) of the estimated costs of
improvements. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-7-2: EXCEPTION:
Where the only significant public improvement is improved streets, the
subdivider shall not be required to supply any guarantee of performance as long
as he improves the street to the improvement standards set forth in section
10-5-5 of this title to each lot before it is sold. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-7-3: CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT:
With respect to financial guarantees, the approval of all final subdivision
plats shall be conditioned on the accomplishment of one of the following:
   A.   The construction of improvements required by this title shall have been
completed by the subdivider and approved by the council.
   B.   Surety acceptable to the council shall have been filed in the form of a
cash deposit, certified check, a negotiable bond, irrevocable bank letter of
credit or surety bond.
   C.   Streets are the only significant public improvement and there is an
assurance they will be improved as set forth in section
10-5-5 of this title to each lot before it is sold. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-7-4: INSPECTION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION:
Before approving a final plat and construction plans and specifications for
public improvements, an agreement between the subdivider and the council shall
be made to provide for checking or inspecting the construction and its
conformity to the submitted plans. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
10-7-5: PENALTY IN CASE OF FAILURE TO COMPLETE CONSTRUCTION:
In the event the subdivider shall, in any case, fail to complete such work
within the period of time as required by the conditions of the guarantee for
the completion of public improvements, the council or any other person with
proper standing may proceed to have such work completed. In order to accomplish
this, the council or other person shall pay for the cost and expense thereof by
appropriating the cash deposit, certified check, irrevocable bank letter of
credit, or negotiable bond which the subdivider may deposit in lieu of a surety
bond or may take such steps as may be necessary to require performance by the
bonding or surety company and as included in a written agreement between the
council and the subdivider; provided, that neither the council nor any person
shall be required to pay or suspend more than the amount of the bond and/or
other deposit. (Ord. 96-7, 11-11-1996)
