CITY CODE
of
FILER, IDAHO
1994
Code current through:
Ord. 645, passed 5-5-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Filer, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including Ordinance 645, passed May 5, 2025. Ordinances of the City adopted
after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that
they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City office in
order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been
amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE NO.    648   
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FILER, STATE OF IDAHO, ANNEXING
CERTAIN REAL PROPERTY DESCRIBED BELOW; PROVIDING THE ZONING CLASSIFICATION
THEREOF, AND ORDERING THE NECESSARY AMENDMENTS TO THE ZONING AND COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN MAP OF THE CITY OF FILER, IDAHO; PROVIDING FOR THE CITY CLERK TO FILE A
CERTIFIED COPY OF THIS ORDINANCE WITH THE IDAHO STATE TAX COMMISSION AND WITH
THE TWIN FALLS COUNTY ASSESSOR, AUDITOR, RECORDER AND TREASURER IN ACCORDANCE
WITH IDAHO CODE §§ 50-223 AND 66-215; AND PROVIDING FOR THIS ORDINANCE TO BE IN
FULL FORCE AND EFFECT FROM AND AFTER ITS PASSAGE, APPROVAL, AND PUBLICATION
ACCORDING TO LAW.
         
   WHEREAS, Pursuant to that certain Consent to Annexation dated September 15,
2025 (“Consent”), entered into by the City of Filer as governing entity and the
City of Filer as owner of the subject real property, the parties thereto
consented to the annexation of (+/-) 9.893 acres of real property lying
contiguous and/or adjacent to the City of Filer, more particularly described in
Exhibit “A” and depicted in Exhibit “B” attached hereto and incorporated herein
by this reference (“Parcel”), and established certain rights and obligations of
the parties with regard to the annexation of the Parcel; and
 
WHEREAS, the City Council for the City of Filer, Idaho, held a Public Hearing
as required by law on the 15th day of September, 2025, to consider the
annexation of Parcel, the zoning designations and any applicable amendments to
the 2022 City of Filer Idaho Comprehensive Plan and Map adopted by the City of
Filer Mayor and City Council on November 1, 2022, and the City of Filer Future
Land Use Map dated July 7, 2025, upon annexation of said parcels.
 
WHEREAS, the City of Filer Mayor and City Council have determined that the
annexation of the Parcel in accordance with the Consent constitutes an orderly
extension of its municipal boundaries; that such annexation is a consensual
Annexation in compliance with Idaho Code § 50-222(5); and is described in the
City of Filer Future Land Use Map dated July 7, 2025, as being in area for
future growth; and
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FILER, COUNTY OF
TWIN FALLS, STATE OF IDAHO, THAT THE PARCEL, INCLUDING ALL PUBLIC STREETS,
HIGHWAYS, ALLEYS AND PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY ADJACENT AND WITHIN THIS DESCRIPTION
ARE HEREBY ANNEXED INTO THE CITY OF FILER, IDAHO AS FOLLOWS:
 
   SECTION 1. The Parcel shall be zoned Residential Ag as depicted in Exhibit
“B” under the provisions of Title 9, Chapter 5, Article1 of the City Code of
Filer, Idaho, and the 2022 City of Filer Idaho Comprehensive Plan and Map
adopted by the City of Filer Mayor and City Council on November 1, 2022 and the
City of Filer Future Land Use Map dated July 7, 2025.
 
   SECTION 2. Water service is currently available at Highway 30 and Stevens
and sewer service is available at Lauren Lane. Future availability will be
depended upon the speed of development of the Parcel, other developments in the
City of Filer needing services, and the ability of the City of Filer to provide
water and/or sewer capacity at the requested time.
 
   SECTION 3. From and after the effective date of this ordinance publication,
the incorporated limits of the City of Filer shall extend to and include the
Parcel, and the Parcel shall be and is hereby subject to the provisions of all
bylaws, ordinances, rules and regulations of the City of Filer, Idaho.
 
   SECTION 4. The 2022 City of Filer Idaho Comprehensive Plan and Map adopted
by the City of Filer Mayor and City Council on November 1, 2022, is hereby
amended to reflect the newly incorporated Parcel and its zoning designation.
 
SECTION 5. The Clerk of the City of Filer, Idaho, shall, within ten (10) days
following the effective date of this ordinance, cause one (1) copy of the legal
description of the Parcel and city limit boundary map to be prepared as altered
by this annexation and filed with the Idaho State Tax Commission and the Twin
Falls County Assessor, Auditor, Recorder and Treasurer.
 
SECTION 6. If any section or portion of this ordinance is for any reason held
to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.
 
SECTION 7. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage, approval and publication according to law.
 
PASSED by the City Council of the City of Filer, County of Twin Falls, State of
Idaho, this 15th day of September, 2025.
 
Signed by the Mayor, this 15th day of September, 2025.
 
 
       
/s/Robert E. Templeman, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
 
/s/Emily Daubner, City Clerk
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT “A”
 
 
 
EXHIBIT “B”
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO.  456
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
   THE CITY CODE OF FILER, IDAHO
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Filer, Idaho, an
Idaho Municipal Corporation:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the City
Code of the City of Filer, Idaho prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.,
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the City, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the Official
Code and Law of the City as enacted by the Mayor and City Council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the Official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, three (3) copies of which
shall be maintained in the office of the City Clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said Official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the Official City Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This Ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance with
law, as printed and published in book form by order of the Mayor and City
Council.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the City Council, this City Code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official City Code of Filer. This City Code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the FILER CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the Council and shall be supplemented to incorporate
the most recent legislation of the City as provided in Section 1–1–3 of this
Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein shall be
understood to refer to the position of the same number, its appropriate chapter
and title heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well
as to the section itself, when reference is made to this City Code by title in
any legal documents. (1994 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in Section 1–2–1 of this Title. (1994 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the City Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this City Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the City Code. (1994 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The City Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk. Any
person having in his/her custody a copy of the City Code shall make every
effort to maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances passed.
He/She shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when
such are delivered to him/her or made available to him/her through the office
of the City Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and
other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the City and
shall be returned to the office of the City Clerk when directed so to do by
order of the City Council. (1994 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways and Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this City
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this City Code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
City; and all special ordinances. (1994 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the City Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this City Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1994 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the City
herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
City under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this City Code. (1994 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this City Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1994 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this City Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this City Code by words importing the singular number
only, or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females
as well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
City Code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been
changed in the content of this City Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Article",
"Section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant
to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1994 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meanings
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The City of Filer, County of Twin Falls, State of Idaho.
CODE: The Municipal Code of the City of Filer.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Filer".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
INFRACTION: A civil public offense, not constituting a crime, punishable by a
penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) and for which no
incarceration may be imposed 1 .
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense not defined as a felony or infraction under State law
2 .
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the City, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Filer".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The term "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this Code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he/she is unable to write, by his/her
proper mark. (1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1.I.C. §§18-111, 18-113A.
2 2.I.C. §§18-111, 13-113.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the City Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such section, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted. (1994 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Unless specifically provided elsewhere, any person convicted of a
violation of any section or provision of this code deemed a misdemeanor may be
fined in a sum not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for any offense
and may be confined in jail for a period of not more than six (6) months.
Either or both such fine and imprisonment may be imposed; and in addition
thereto, any person so convicted shall pay such costs as the court may assess.
(Ord. 566, 11-7-2006)
   B.   When the offense is designated as an infraction by any section or
provision of this code or by state law, it is punishable only by penalty not
exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) and no incarceration may be imposed.
   C.   Any city which is participating in a federally mandated program,
wherein penalties or enforcement remedies are required by the terms of
participation in the program, may enforce such requirements by ordinance, to
include a criminal or civil monetary penalty not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), or imprisonment for criminal offenses not to exceed six (6)
months, or to include both a fine and imprisonment for criminal offenses. (1994
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §50-302.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act
continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this code.
   B.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes
a breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (1994 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1994
Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Compensation Of Mayor And City Council Members
1-5-2: Mayor
1-5-3: Composition Of City Council; Election; Term; Vacancies
1-5-4: City Council Meetings
1-5-5: President Of The Council
1-5-6: City Council Duties
1-5-7: Ordinance Passage Procedures
1-5-8: Public Hearing Rules Of Procedure
1-5-1: COMPENSATION OF MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS:
Commencing with the month of January 2016, the salary of the mayor and city
council members shall be as follows:
 
Mayor                $650.00 per month
City council members 450.00 per month
 
(Ord. 606, 8-4-2015)
1-5-2: MAYOR:
   A.   Qualifications: Any person shall be eligible to hold the office of
mayor who is a qualified elector of the city at the time of his/her election
and remains a qualified elector during his/her term of office.
   B.   Term Of Office: The term of office of mayor shall be for a period of
four (4) years, except as otherwise specifically provided. He/she shall take
office at the time and in the manner provided for installation of council
members.
   C.   Vacancy In Office:
      1.   In case of a temporary vacancy in the office of mayor due to absence
or disability, the president of the city council shall exercise the office of
mayor during such disability or temporary absence, and until the mayor shall
return.
      2.   When a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor by reason of death,
resignation or permanent disability, the city council shall fill the vacancy
from within or without the city council as may be deemed in the best interests
of the city, which appointee shall serve until the next general city election,
at which election a mayor shall be elected for the full four (4) year term.
   D.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   General:
         a.   The mayor shall have and exercise such powers, prerogatives and
authority as is conferred by the laws of the state or as may be conferred upon
him/her by the city council and shall have the power to administer oaths and
shall sign all contracts and conveyances in the name of and on behalf of the
city.
         b.   The mayor shall be the chief administrative official of the city,
preside over the meetings of the city council and determine the order of
business subject to such rules as the city council may prescribe, have a vote
only when the council is equally divided, have the superintending control of
all the officers and affairs of the city, preserve order and take care that the
ordinances of the city and provisions of this section are complied with and
enforced.
      2.   Messages To Council: The mayor shall, from time to time, communicate
to the city council such information and recommend such measures as, in his/her
opinion, may tend to the improvement of the finances, the protection, the
health, the security, the ornament, the comfort and the general welfare and
prosperity of the city.
      3.   Accounts And Reports Of Officers: The mayor shall have the power,
when he/she deems it necessary, to require any officer of the city to exhibit
his/her accounts or other papers and to make written reports pertaining to his/
her office to the city council.
      4.   Sign Or Veto Ordinances: The mayor shall have power to veto or sign
any ordinance passed by the city council; provided, that any ordinance vetoed
by the mayor may be passed over his/her veto by a vote of one-half (1/2) plus
one of the members of the full city council, notwithstanding the veto, and
should the mayor neglect or refuse to sign any ordinance and return the same
with his/her objections, in writing, at the next regular meeting of the city
council, the same shall become law without his/her signature.
   E.   Jurisdiction: The mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested
in him/her by ordinance over all places within five (5) miles of the corporate
limits of the city for the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance
and regulation thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in
him/her by such ordinance, except taxation, within one mile of the corporate
limits of the city and over such properties as may be owned by the city without
the corporate limits. (1994 Code)
1-5-3: COMPOSITION OF CITY COUNCIL; ELECTION; TERM; VACANCIES:
   A.   The legislative authority of the city shall be vested in a council
consisting of four (4) members, qualified as provided by law 1 . The council
members of the city shall be elected in the municipal elections of the city for
a term of four (4) years at the municipal elections held on the first Tuesday
following the first Monday of November. The staggered method presently used
shall continue to be followed.
   B.   In the event an office of the city council shall become vacant, through
death, removal of residence or for any other cause, the mayor shall appoint,
with the approval of the council, a resident of the city to fill the unexpired
portion of the term until the next general election, at which time the
unexpired term shall be filled by regular election. (1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §50-702.
1-5-4: CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The city council shall hold regular meetings on the
first and third Tuesdays of each month. Such meetings shall be held in city
hall and shall commence at seven thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M. (Ord. 521, 4-3-
2001)
   B.   Special Meetings: The mayor or one-half (1/2) plus one of the
membership of the council may call special meetings, the object of which must
be submitted to the members, in writing, and the call, object and the
disposition thereof shall be entered upon the journal by the city clerk.
   C.   Meetings Open To The Public: All meetings of the city council shall be
open to the public; except, that executive sessions may be closed by a two-
thirds (2/3) vote of the city council recorded in the minutes of the meeting by
individual vote, after the presiding officer has identified the authorization
under Idaho Code section 67-2345. (1994 Code)
1-5-5: PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL:
   A.   At the first meeting of the year following a general city election, the
council shall, from its members, elect one council member to be styled
president of the council.
   B.   The president of the council shall have all powers of the mayor when
serving in that office due to absence of the mayor or vacancy in the office of
mayor. (1994 Code)
1-5-6: CITY COUNCIL DUTIES:
The following shall be deemed the duties of the city council:
   A.   Generally: The members of the city council, the legislative and
policymaking branch of the government of the city, shall devote so much of
their time to the duties of their offices as an efficient and faithful
discharge thereof may require. They shall perform all duties required of them
by law and as may be assigned to committees to which they may severally be
appointed by the mayor.
   B.   Care Of Funds: The city council shall make provision for the care and
safekeeping of all public funds of the city and for the deposit of the same.
   C.   Care Of Records: The city council shall make provisions for an adequate
record system and, by ordinance, establish a classification for the retention
of records in accordance with the provisions of title 50, Idaho Code 1 . (1994
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §50-907.
1-5-7: ORDINANCE PASSAGE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Presentation and Passage:
      1.   All ordinances of the City shall be typewritten or printed and
presented to the City Council at any regular or special meeting. Every such
ordinance shall be read on three (3) different days, two (2) readings of which
may be by title only and one reading of which shall be in full, unless one-half
(1/2) plus one of the members of the full Council shall dispense with the rule.
At each reading it shall be open to discussion and amendment or may be referred
to a committee unless by a majority vote, other disposition is made. All
ordinances which have been amended shall, after the second reading, be
engrossed by the City Clerk as amended. On final passage, the yeas and nays
shall be called and recorded and a concurrence of a majority of the Council
shall be required for passage.
      2.   When any such ordinance is passed, it shall be signed by the City
Clerk, and the date of its passage by the City Council shall be added thereto,
and it shall be presented to the Mayor, or in the case of his/her absence from
the City, to the President of the Council, for his/her approval. If he/she
approves the same, he/she shall attach his/her signature thereto.
   B.   Passage Over Veto:
      1.   Should the Mayor not approve the ordinance, he/she shall, before the
next regular meeting after such ordinance is presented to him/her for his/her
approval, return the ordinance to the Council with his/her objections, in
writing. When any ordinance is so returned by the Mayor, it shall be
reconsidered by the Council at the first regular meeting thereafter. If, on
such reconsideration, one-half (1/2) plus one of the members of the full
Council shall vote in the affirmative, the ordinance shall become a law
notwithstanding the Mayor's veto. The City Clerk, in such cases, shall annex a
certificate to the ordinance stating the same was vetoed by the Mayor and that,
on its reconsideration, it received the required majority of votes.
      2.   Should the Mayor refuse or neglect to sign such ordinance and fail
to return the same with his/her objections, in writing, at the next regular
meeting after the same has been presented to him/her, it shall become the law
without his/her signature. The City Clerk shall annex to such ordinance a
certificate to the effect that the Mayor has failed to sign or veto the same,
and it has therefore become a law without his/her signature.
   C.   Preservation of Ordinances: It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to
safely keep the original ordinances as engrossed, and after final passage, he/
she shall copy the same at length in a book to be known as "Ordinance Book of
the City of Filer", which book is to be provided by the Council for that
purpose and shall be kept as a permanent record of the City. (1994 Code)
1-5-8: PUBLIC HEARING RULES OF PROCEDURE:
The following rules are hereby established, shall be observed in the conduct of
any public hearing before the City Council and shall be known as the "Public
Hearing Rules of Procedure".
   A.   No person shall be permitted to testify or speak before the City
Council at a public hearing unless such person has signed his/her name and
written his/her residential address thereafter on sign-up sheets to be provided
by the City. This rule shall not apply to staff or technical witnesses directed
by the Mayor to give evidence or information to the City Council.
   B.   No person shall be permitted to speak before the City Council at a
public hearing until such person has been recognized by the Mayor or hearing
officer.
   C.   All public hearing proceedings shall be recorded electronically or
stenographically, and all persons speaking at such public hearings shall speak
before a microphone in such a manner as will assure that the recorded testimony
or remarks will be accurate and trustworthy.
   D.   At the commencement of the public hearing, the City Council may
establish a time limit to be observed by all speakers. The time limit shall be
established, depending on the number of speakers who sign up for each public
hearing and shall apply only to the speaker's comments.
   E.   The speaker shall not be interrupted by members of the City Council
until his/her time limit has been expended or until he/she has finished his/her
statement.
   F.   At the conclusion of a speaker's comments, each City Councilmember,
when recognized by the Mayor or hearing officer, shall be allowed to question
the speaker, and the speaker shall be limited to answers to the questions
asked. The question and answer period shall not be included in the speaker's
time limit, as established.
   G.   Any person not conforming to any of the above rules may be prohibited
from speaking during the public hearing. Should any person refuse to comply
with such prohibition, he/she may be removed from the room by order of the
Mayor or hearing officer.
The City Council may suspend or amend any one or more of these rules by vote of
one-half (1/2) plus one of the full City Council, and the Mayor shall have the
authority to interpret and apply the foregoing rules, subject to an appeal to
the City Council, whose decision shall be determined by a majority vote of the
full Councilmembers present. (1994 Code)
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Officers Appointed
1-6-2: Oath and Bond
1-6-3: Deliver Property to Successor
1-6-4: Salaries of Officers and Employees
1-6-5: Local Emergency Response Authority
1-6-1: OFFICERS APPOINTED:
There shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the consent of the City Council,
the following officers:
City Clerk
Deputy City Clerk
City Treasurer
City Attorney
Chief of Police
Fire Chief
City Engineer
Director of Public Works
Building Inspector
Electrical Inspector
and such further officers as may deemed expedient for the current operations of
Municipal affairs. These officers shall hold their respective offices during
the pleasure of the Mayor and City Council. (Ord. 8, 6-16-10; 1994 Code)
1-6-2: OATH AND BOND:
   A.   Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, said
officers shall take and subscribe the following oath:
"I, ___________________, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution
of the United States and the Constitution and the laws of the State of Idaho,
and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office of
_________________ of the City of Filer, to the best of my skill and ability, so
help me God."
   B.   Except as otherwise provided by law, each of said officers shall give a
bond to the City, with sureties to be approved by the Mayor and City Council,
in the penal sums hereinafter named, conditioned that they will well and
faithfully perform the duties of their respective offices and that they will,
whenever required by the Mayor and City Council, pay over all monies and
deliver up all property in their custody belonging to the City:
City Treasurer   $10,000.00
City Clerk   1,000.00
Chief of Police   500.00
Deputy City Clerk   1,000.00
All of said oaths and bond shall be filed with the City Clerk, except the oath
and bond of the City Clerk, which shall be filed with the City Treasurer. (Ord.
8, 6-16-10; 1994 Code)
1-6-3: DELIVER PROPERTY TO SUCCESSOR:
Every officer of the City shall, upon going out of office, deliver to his/her
successor all monies, books, papers, furniture and other things appertaining to
his/her office and shall, at all times when required, submit the books and
papers of his/her office to the inspection of the Mayor and City Council. (Ord.
8, 6-16-10)
1-6-4: SALARIES OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
The salaries of Municipal officers and employees shall be as set, from time to
time, by the Mayor and City Council. (1994 Code)
1-6-5: LOCAL EMERGENCY RESPONSE AUTHORITY:
The Filer Volunteer Fire Department is hereby designated by the Mayor and City
Council to be the "local emergency response authority" for hazardous substance
incidents that may occur within the City limits 1 . (Res. 520, 6-4-91)
 
Notes
1 1.I.C. §39-7105(2)(a).
ARTICLE A. CITY CLERK 1
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Duties
1-6A-2: Claims
 
Notes
1 1.See Section
  1-6-2 of this Title for bond.
1-6A-1: DUTIES:
The City Clerk shall:
   A.   Generally: In all cases where the duty is not expressly charged to any
other department or office, have supervision, control and responsibility of all
of the records of the Municipality. He/She shall serve as clerk of the
governing body and perform such other duties of a like nature as shall be
required by that body.
   B.   Records of the Governing Body: Be responsible for the recording,
filing, indexing and safekeeping of all proceedings of the governing body and
shall have published all proceedings, legal notices, ordinances and resolutions
that are required to be published by this Code or by State statute 1 .
   C.   Recording of Ordinances: Record in full, uniformly and permanently, all
ordinances and authenticate the same.
   D.   Maintain Election Records: Keep and maintain all election records and
have custody of all property used in connection with elections.
   E.   Notify of Term Expirations: Notify the appointing authority of the
impending expiration of the term of office of a member of any board or
commission at least thirty (30) days before the expiration of the term.
   F.   Custodian of Official Seal: Be the custodian of the Official Seal of
the Municipality 2 .
   G.   Collections to Treasurer: Within ten (10) days after the first day of
each month, turn over to the City Treasurer all funds collected by him/her
during the preceding month.
   H.   Issue and Keep Record of Licenses: In all cases where the duty is not
expressly charged to any other department or office, issue all licenses in
accordance with the provisions of this Code. A record of all licenses issued,
including the name of the person to whom issued, the amount of the license fee,
and the purpose of the license shall be kept by the City Clerk.
   I.   Record of Bonds: Keep a complete record of all outstanding bonds of the
Municipality and report such record regularly to the governing body. (1994
Code)
 
Notes
1 2.I.C. §50-901.
2 3.See Section 1–8–2 of this Title.
1-6A-2: CLAIMS:
All claims against the Municipality must be filed, in writing, with the City
Clerk. (1994 Code)
ARTICLE B. CITY TREASURER 1
SECTION:
1-6B-1: Duties
 
Notes
1 1.See Section
  1-6-2 of this Title for bond.
1-6B-1: DUTIES:
The City Treasurer shall:
   A.   Generally: In all cases where the duty is not expressly charged to any
other department or office, promote, secure and preserve the financial and
property interests of the Municipality.
   B.   Account of Monies: Keep in proper books a full and accurate account of
all the monies received and disbursed by him/her in behalf of the Municipality,
specifying the time of receipt and disbursement, from whom received and to whom
disbursed, on what account received and disbursed and how paid.
   C.   Custody of Monies: Receive and have custody of all monies paid to the
Municipality and shall disburse monies when so ordered by the governing body.
   D.   Collection of Monies and Fees: Demand and receive all monies and fees
owing to the Municipality whenever any person is indebted to the Municipality
in any manner, and the means of collection of such debt is not otherwise
provided for by law. When any claim shall not be collectible by other methods,
he/she shall report the same to the City Attorney for prosecution.
   E.   Reports:
      1.   Monthly Report: Make a detailed report to the governing body during
the first meeting of each month showing the business of his/her office during
the preceding month, showing the balance on hand to the credit of different
funds, the amounts received during the month and on what account, together with
such information as may be required by the governing body.
      2.   Quarterly Report: Cause to be published, for at least one insertion
in a newspaper of general circulation in the Municipality, a full statement of
the receipts and expenditures of the Municipality showing sources of revenue
and disposition of funds. This quarterly report shall be published on or before
January 31, April 30, July 31 and for the final quarter, thirty (30) days from
completion of the annual audit. (1994 Code)
ARTICLE C. CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-6C-1: Duties
1-6C-1: DUTIES:
The City Attorney shall:
   A.   Legal Advisor: Be the legal advisor of the Municipality and shall
render advice on all legal questions affecting the Municipality, whenever
requested to do so by any Municipal official. Upon request by the Mayor or by
the Council, he/she shall reduce any such opinion to writing.
   B.   Special Assessments and Condemnation Proceedings: To see to the
completion of all special assessment proceedings and condemnation proceedings.
   C.   Ordinance and Document Preparation: To draft or supervise the
phraseology of any contract, lease or other documents or instruments to which
the Municipality may be a party and upon request of the City Council, to draft
ordinances covering any subjects within the power of the Municipality.
   D.   Suits and Actions: Prosecute or defend all suits at law or equity to
which the Municipality may be a party or in which it may be interested or which
may be brought against or by any officer of the Municipality on behalf of the
Municipality or in the capacity of such person as an officer of the
Municipality. The City Attorney shall prosecute those violations of City
ordinances, State traffic infractions and State misdemeanors committed within
the Municipal limits.
   E.   Enforcement of Judgments: To see to the full enforcement of all
judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of the Municipality and all
similar interlocutory orders. (1994 Code)
ARTICLE D. CITY ENGINEER
SECTION:
1-6D-1: Qualifications
1-6D-2: Duties
1-6D-1: QUALIFICATIONS:
The person appointed by the City as City Engineer shall be licensed by the
State 1 . (1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1.I.C. §54-1201 et seq.
1-6D-2: DUTIES:
The City Engineer shall:
   A.   Generally: Make or cause to be made the necessary surveys, plats,
drawings and estimates, together with suitable specifications, for all public
works and improvements, when ordered to do so by the Mayor or the City Council.
He/She shall also make, or cause to be made, all necessary surveys of streets,
alleys and public grounds, the lines and corners of which he/she shall make in
some approved, permanent manner, and shall make a plat of all surveys. This
plat is to be filed in his/her office and recorded in a book kept for that
purpose, together with the field notes used in making such surveys.
   B.   Street Grades; Survey: Report grades for all streets, alleys and
sidewalks as may be required by the Mayor or Council, and report any changes
required or advisable in the grade of any street, sidewalk or alley. In
locating any street or public way, he/she shall make suitable surveys in order
to establish corners and lines and shall erect suitable, permanent monuments
from which such grades and surveys may be readily ascertained.
   C.   Plats: Preserve and file in a convenient plat and manner for reference
in his/her office all maps, plats, surveys, books, reports, papers and other
records pertaining to his/her office, all of which shall be delivered to his/
her successor in office.
   D.   Superintendent of Construction: Be the superintendent of construction
and repair of all public improvements as may be directed by the Mayor or City
Council.
   E.   Special Assessments: In all cases where private property is proposed to
be assessed for public improvements, he/she shall advise the City Council with
reference to the value of the respective lots, parts of lots or parcels of land
and to determine the amount which may be assessed against the owners thereof.
   F.   Inspections: See that all contracts for construction work on public
improvements are strictly fulfilled and complied with by the contractor. He/She
shall make, or cause to be made, suitable tests of materials used and shall
inspect, or cause to be inspected, all work as the same progresses, to the end
that the same shall be done strictly in accordance with the specifications and
approved practices. Whenever any person engaged in doing work for the City
shall violate any specifications or approved practices in the construction in
which he/she is engaged, the City Engineer shall immediately make full report
of such matter to the Mayor, together with his/her recommendations with
reference thereto. (1994 Code)
ARTICLE E. DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
SECTION:
1-6E-1: Duties
1-6E-1: DUTIES:
The Director of Public Works shall:
   A.   Streets and Alleys: Supervise the grading, surfacing repairs and
maintenance of all streets and alleys.
   B.   Sewer: Supervise the installation and maintenance of all sewer lines in
the City, except the installation of sewer projects which are accomplished by
contract.
   C.   Water: Supervise the installation and maintenance of all water mains
and water services, except the installation of water mains so accomplished by
contract.
   D.   Equipment: Have charge of and supervise the repair and up-keep of all
City equipment.
   E.   Employment and Supervision: Employ, with the consent of the Mayor and
Council, such help as needed to carry on the work of the City, such help to be
directly under his/her supervision.
   F.   Reports Required: Present to the City Council at its regular meeting
each month, a written report of the work accomplished the preceding month and
also, as far as can be foreseen, the work planned for the current month.
   G.   Other Duties: Be responsible for the accomplishment of such other work
of the City as the Mayor and City Council may, from time to time, assign him.
(1994 Code)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: City As Election Precinct
1-7-2: Polling Hours
1-7-1: CITY AS ELECTION PRECINCT:
The city is hereby made one election precinct for city election purposes, and
all territory within the city limits shall be and is hereby declared to be the
one and only election precinct or ward of the city. All municipal elections
shall be conducted as provided by the laws of the state 1 . (Ord. 437, 9-10-
1991; amd. 1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC title 34 and §50-401 et seq.
1-7-2: POLLING HOURS:
The polls shall be open on election day from twelve o'clock (12:00) noon until
eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. (Ord. 569, 9-4-2007)
CHAPTER 8
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Official Newspaper
1-8-2: Official Seal
1-8-1: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The "Times-News", a daily newspaper, is hereby named and declared to be the
official newspaper of the city for the publication of all ordinances,
resolutions, notices and papers of the city required by law to be published in
a newspaper. (Ord. 604, 4-7-2015)
1-8-2: OFFICIAL SEAL 1 :
   A.   A seal, the impression of which is as follows: in the center the word
"Seal" and around the outer edge the words "City of Filer, Idaho" shall be and
is hereby established and declared to be the seal of the city. Said seal shall
be circular in shape.
   B.   All attestations made to papers and issued under the authority of and
attested by the seal of the city prior to the effective date hereof, the
impression of which seal is as described herein, are declared to have been and
now to be the attestations of the seal of the city. (Ord. 2, 4-27-1910)
 
Notes
1 1.See subsection 1-6A-1F of this title for clerk as custodian of city seal.
TITLE 2
(RESERVED)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Statutory Authority; Purpose
3-1-2: Definitions
3-1-3: License Fee
3-1-4: Exemptions
3-1-5: License Required
3-1-6: Application For License
3-1-7: Investigation Of Applications; Recommendations
3-1-8: Appeal Procedure
3-1-9: Contents Of License
3-1-10: Display Of License; Transfer Of Licenses
3-1-11: Change In Location Or Owner Of Licensed Business
3-1-12: Application Fees
3-1-13: Fees, Penalties Constitute Debt To City
3-1-14: Violation; Penalty
3-1-15: Revocation
3-1-16: Operation Without License
3-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORITY; PURPOSE:
The licensing of all wholesale and retail occupations and businesses within the
city and the levying of a license fee, uniform to all classes imposed, pursuant
to the statutory authority vested in the city by Idaho Code section 50-307, is
hereby declared to be justified and necessary for the purpose of protecting and
providing services to the citizens of the city and the businesses and
occupations doing business therein, and to ensure future businesses locate in
an area zoned for that particular business. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter:
            All activities, occupations, callings, trades, pursuits, or professions located
BUSINESS OR or engaged in, within the city with the object of gain, profit, benefit or
OCCUPATION: advantage. Each business location shall be deemed a separate business unless it
            is a specific annex to the main location of the business.
            Any person employed at any business location within the city, and any person
EMPLOYEE:   furnishing or performing services within the city. It shall include all persons
            who are self-employed, and shall include part time employees.
            Commencing, conducting, or continuing in any business or occupation, the exercise
            of corporate and franchise powers, and the liquidating of a business, where the
            liquidators hold themselves out to the public as conducting such business when he
            does one act of:
ENGAGING IN a.   Selling any goods or performing any services.
BUSINESS:   b.   Soliciting business or offering or holding out goods or services for sale or
            hire.
            c.   Acquiring or using any vehicle or any premises in the city for business
            purposes.
            Delivery of any goods, either at wholesale or retail, unless licensed under
            another section of this code.
            All lands, structures, places, equipment, and appurtenances connected or used
PREMISES:   therewith in any business, and also any personal property, including any vehicle
            which is either affixed to or is otherwise used in connection with any such
            business conducted on said premises.
RETAILER:   Any person engaged in the sale of commodities to the consumer. (Ord. 628, 6-1-
            2021
 
3-1-3: LICENSE FEE:
There is hereby levied upon and shall be collected from every business or
occupation within the city a license fee for the privilege of engaging in
business in an amount to be determined by the application of the rates
hereinafter set forth. Such license fee shall be an annual fee of twenty-five
dollars ($25.00) for the application.
   A.   The license fee levied hereunder is not intended to repeal any other
license fee or license requirement provisions of this code or any ordinance of
the city.
   B.   All business license fees shall be due and payable on or before
February 1 of each year. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-1-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Persons qualifying as nonprofit businesses or occupations, including
charitable activities, within the meaning of section 503 of the United States
internal revenue code. Possession of a certificate of tax exempt status from
the internal revenue service shall be required to qualify for this exemption,
except that the mayor and council may waive the license fee for bona fide
charitable or civic groups within the city, including, but not necessarily
limited to, private schools, churches, fraternal organizations and lodges, with
respect to their educational, religious, or fraternal activities, but this
exemption shall not apply to any business activity for profit engaged in by
such organization.
   B.   An agency of the United States government, any state of the United
States, any political subdivision of the state of Idaho, including, but not
necessarily limited to, counties, school districts, irrigation or sewer
districts or fire districts.
   C.   Domestic servants, newsboys, blind persons, or casual labor not
included as temporary employees of a regularly conducted business.
   D.   Home occupations as defined in section
9-2-1 of this code. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-1-5: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in any business or activity in the city for which a
license fee is imposed by this chapter, without first having obtained and being
a holder of a valid and subsisting license to do so, to be known as a business
and occupation license, issued under the provisions of this chapter, and
without paying the license fee imposed by this chapter, which license fee shall
accompany the application for the license. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-1-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The application for a license shall be made to the city clerk on a form
provided by the city clerk. The application shall set forth the name of the
applicant, his residence, place of business, the nature of the business, and
the amount of the license fee prescribed by this chapter, and shall be
accompanied by a deposit of the license fee by the applicant. The applicant or
his agent shall personally sign every application. Every application shall be
accompanied by a statement from the fire department stating an inspection of
the premises of said business has been completed and all regulations complied
to. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-1-7: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATIONS; RECOMMENDATIONS:
The city clerk shall cause any applicant for a new business license or the
transfer of an existing business license to a new business premises to be
investigated for compliance with the zoning laws of the city.
The aforesaid investigation shall be conducted, as it is appropriate or
required by the zoning administrator or his designee. If the zoning
administrator and the city clerk are satisfied that the zoning requisite to the
issuance of a license has been met, the city clerk shall issue such license. If
the zoning administrator and the city clerk determine that the applicant is not
in compliance with the applicable zoning laws, the city clerk shall not issue
such license, and shall notify the applicant of such decision and cause the
license fee to be refunded. All required inspections shall be conducted within
ten (10) working days of the receipt of the license application. (Ord. 628, 6-
1-2021)
3-1-8: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
Any applicant aggrieved by any decision of the city clerk may appeal such
decision to the city council by filing a written notice of appeal with the city
clerk within ten (10) days of such decision by the city clerk. The city clerk
shall transmit said notice of appeal to the council, which shall schedule a
public hearing on said appeal, to be held at any regular meeting or special
meeting of the council, not later than thirty (30) days after the filing of
such notice of appeal with the city clerk. At such hearing, the applicant may
appear and speak on his own behalf, be represented by counsel, call witnesses
and cross examine any witnesses of the city. The council shall proceed to
determine said appeal, and, if it decides in favor of the applicant, it shall
pass a motion to that effect and the city clerk shall, on the next business day
thereafter, and upon receipt of the proper fee, issue such license. The council
may defer action upon said appeal for not longer than three (3) weeks from the
date of the public hearing. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-1-9: CONTENTS OF LICENSE:
Each license issued hereunder shall state upon its face the following:
   A.   The name of the licensee and any other name under which business is to
be conducted.
   B.   The name and address of each business so licensed.
   C.   The amount of license fee therefor.
   D.   The date of issuance and expiration thereof.
   E.   Such other information as the city clerk shall determine to be
necessary.
   F.   The property zoning designation. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-1-10: DISPLAY OF LICENSE; TRANSFER OF LICENSES:
Every licensee, under this chapter, shall display such license in a prominent
location upon the licensed premises and shall refrain from operating the
licensed business on such premises after expiration of his license. No licensee
shall allow any license to remain posted, displayed or used after the period
for which it was issued has expired, or when it has been suspended or revoked
or for any other reason become ineffective. No licensee shall loan, sell, give
or assign to any other person or allow any other person to use or display, or
to destroy, damage or remove, or to have in his possession any license which
has been issued to said licensee. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-1-11: CHANGE IN LOCATION OR OWNER OF LICENSED BUSINESS:
Any change of owner or owners or location shall automatically void an existing
license granted under this chapter and shall necessitate application and
issuance of a new license. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-1-12: APPLICATION FEES:
A twenty-five-dollar ($25.00) fee shall accompany each application for a
business license, except that businesses existing as of the date of the
enactment of this chapter shall be exempt from paying the twenty-five-dollar
($25.00) fee. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-1-13: FEES, PENALTIES CONSTITUTE DEBT TO CITY:
Any license fee, including penalties thereon, shall constitute a debt to the
city and may be collected by court proceedings in the same manner as any other
debt in like amount. No civil action or judgment shall bar or prevent a
criminal prosecution. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-1-14: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A person who violates any provision of this chapter or operates any business or
occupation for which a license is required by this chapter without having first
obtained a license as herein provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each
day that a violation of this chapter occurs shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-1-15: REVOCATION:
Any license issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by the city council
if the holder or any employee violates any zoning law of the city applicable to
the business for which the license was issued. Such revocation must be preceded
by notice in writing to the licensee from the clerk, informing the licensee
that the council has ordered the holding of a public hearing at a date and time
certain, not less than ten (10) days from the date of such notice, at which
hearing the licensee will be required to appear personally and show cause why
the license should not be revoked. At such hearing the licensee may be
represented by counsel, may testify personally, may call witnesses and may
cross examine any witnesses called by the city. Should the council determine
that such license should be revoked, it shall pass a motion to that effect, and
such license shall thereupon be revoked; provided, however, that no such motion
shall be deemed passed without the affirmative vote of one-half (1/2) plus one
of the members of the full council. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-1-16: OPERATION WITHOUT LICENSE:
The operating or conducting of any business or occupation for which a license
is required by this chapter without having a valid license as provided herein
is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. In addition to any other remedy
provided by this chapter, the city may bring an action in any court of
competent jurisdiction to obtain an order enjoining any person from operating
or conducting any business or occupation in violation of this chapter. (Ord.
628, 6-1-2021)
CHAPTER 2
BEER, WINE AND LIQUOR LICENSES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Purpose
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: License; Required
3-2-4: License; Application
3-2-5: License; Denial
3-2-6: Record Keeping
3-2-7: Place Of Business; Requirements
3-2-8: Inspection; Right Of Entry; Posting Of License
3-2-9: License; Term
3-2-10: License; Fees
3-2-11: License; Revocation
3-2-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police powers of the city for
the protection of the public health, peace and morals and all of its provisions
shall be liberally construed for the containment of that purpose. (Ord. 628, 6-
1-2021)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter:
 
          Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
BEER:     decoction of barley, malt and/or other ingredients in drinkable
          water.
          Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation mixed
          with drinkable water and other substances in solution, including, but
LIQUOR:   not limited to, brandy, rum, whiskey and gin. Also included in this
          definition is the product of distillation of any fermented liquor,
          rectified either once or more often, whatever may be the origin
          thereof, or synthetic ethyl alcohol.
PERSON:   Means and includes any individual, partnership, corporation,
          organization or association.
RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of beer to the
          consumer.
          Any alcohol beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
WINE:     sugar content of fruits (grapes, apples, etc.) or other agricultural
          products containing sugar (honey, milk, etc.). (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
 
3-2-3: LICENSE; REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any retailer to sell, trade, barter or dispose of beer, wine
or liquor within the corporate limits of the city, without first having
obtained a license therefor from the city council, as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-2-4: LICENSE; APPLICATION:
   A.   Every application for a license, transfer or renewal thereof, required
by the provisions of this chapter, shall be submitted in writing to the city
council for a decision. The city council shall have sixty (60) days to examine
the application before a decision is made on granting or denying the license,
or the transfer or renewal thereof.
   B.   The application shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name and place of residence of the applicant and length of his
residence within the state, and if the applicant is a corporation or
association, the date and place of its incorporation, the location of its
principal place of business in Idaho, and the names and places of residence of
its officers, directors or members of its governing board, and of the person
who manages or will manage the business of selling beer at retail;
      2.   Legal description of the premises where the business will be
conducted;
      3.   That the applicant is a citizen of the United States and has been a
bona fide resident of the state for at least thirty (30) days prior to the date
of application;
      4.   That the applicant is of good moral character and is not under the
age of twenty-one (21);
      5.   That within three (3) years immediately preceding the date of filing
the application, the applicant has not been convicted of the violation of any
law of the state of Idaho, or any other state, or of the United States
regulating, governing or prohibiting the sale, manufacture, transportation or
possession of alcoholic beverages or intoxicating liquor;
      6.   That within five (5) years immediately preceding the date of filing
of the application, the applicant has not been convicted of any felony or paid
any fine or completed any sentence of confinement therefor within said time.
(Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-2-5: LICENSE; DENIAL:
Whenever the city council denies an application, they shall specify in writing:
   A.   The statutes, ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
   B.   The reasons for the denial; and
   C.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-2-6: RECORD KEEPING:
   A.   In all cases where the city council is considering application for
licenses, transfers or renewals thereof, a transcribable, verbatim record of
the proceedings shall be made. If the application is denied, the transcribable,
verbatim record of the proceeding shall be kept for a period of not less than
six (6) months after a final decision on the matter. Upon written request, and
within the time period provided for retention of the record, any person may
have the record transcribed at his own expense.
   B.   The city council shall also provide for the keeping of the minutes of
the proceedings. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-2-7: PLACE OF BUSINESS; REQUIREMENTS:
Retailer’s licenses shall be granted only for a certain room or building
designated in the license, which room or building shall be well lighted and the
view thereof not obstructed by any curtain, blind or partition, and the place
of business shall not be changed or moved without the consent of the city
council in regular session. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-2-8: INSPECTION; RIGHT OF ENTRY; POSTING OF LICENSE:
Every person to whom a license shall be granted to sell, barter, trade or
dispose of beer, wine or liquor shall at all times conduct a quiet and orderly
place of business which shall be open to the inspection at all times of any
police officer or officer of the United States, and that the said persons, or
either of them, shall have the right at any and all times to make an
examination of the licensed premises to ascertain if the licensee of such
premises is conforming to the provisions of this chapter, the laws of the
state, or the laws of the United States applicable thereto, and to check the
alcoholic content of any beer, wine or liquor kept on the premises; all permits
or licenses shall be so posted during the full period for which the license is
issued, and the licenses shall not be sold, transferred or assigned without the
consent of the city council. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-2-9: LICENSE; TERM:
All licenses issued for the year 2021 shall terminate at twelve o’clock (12:00)
midnight December 31, 2021, and in subsequent years all licenses issued under
this chapter shall terminate at twelve o’clock (12:00) midnight on December 31
of each year. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-2-10: LICENSE; FEES:
   A.   The fee to be paid for any license issued under this chapter shall be
prorated as follows:
      1.   If the license is issued during the first quarter of the year, the
applicant shall pay the full annual fee for the license.
      2.   If the license is issued during the second quarter of the year, the
applicant shall pay three-fourths (3/4) of the annual fee for the license.
      3.   If the license is issued during the third quarter of the year, then
the applicant shall pay one-half (½) of the annual fee for the license.
      4.   If the license is issued during the fourth quarter of the year, the
applicant shall pay one-fourth (1/4) of the annual fee for the license.
   B.   The annual fee for each such license shall be established by resolution
of the city council. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-2-11: LICENSE; REVOCATION:
The right shall be and at all times remain vested in the city council of the
city to revoke or cancel the license of any person licensed under this chapter
for any violation of this chapter, and upon complaint filed with the city
council of the city shall notify the offender to appear before the city council
and be heard upon the complaint, and if at the hearing it appears to the city
council that cause exists for the cancellation or revocation of the license, it
shall be canceled or revoked. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
CHAPTER 3
BEER AND LIQUOR CONTROL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Open Containers Restricted
3-3-2: Dispensing Beer To Minors; Identification
3-3-3: Procuring Beer For Minors; Exception
3-3-4: Dispensing; Hours Restricted; Penalty
3-3-1: OPEN CONTAINERS RESTRICTED:
   A.   No person shall have in his possession or on his person while upon
public property or private property open to public use within the city limits,
including public parks, any bottle, can or other receptacle which is open, has
been opened, or the seal of which has been broken, and which contains any
alcoholic beverage.
   B.   No person shall drink or consume any alcoholic beverage upon public
property or private property open to public use within the city limits.
   C.   This section shall not apply to persons who are in business
establishments which are licensed for the retail sale and consumption of
alcohol beverages on the premises. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-3-2: DISPENSING BEER TO MINORS; IDENTIFICATION:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to sell, serve or dispense beer to or by
any person under twenty-one (21) years of age within the city limits of the
city.
   B.   Proof of age shall be a valid driver’s license, military identification
card or an identification card issued by the department of law enforcement,
state of Idaho. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-3-3: PROCURING BEER FOR MINORS; EXCEPTION:
It is unlawful for any person to procure beer for any person under twenty-one
(21) years of age or for any person under twenty-one (21) years of age to
purchase, attempt to purchase or otherwise procure, consume or possess beer.
(Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-3-4: DISPENSING; HOURS RESTRICTED; PENALTY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed to sell or dispense beer
or wine to be consumed on the premises to sell, offer for sale, or give away,
or permit to be sold, offered for sale, or given away beer or wine on any day
between the hours of one o’clock (1:00) A.M. and six o’clock (6:00) A.M. It
shall be unlawful for any person licensed to sell or dispense beer or wine not
to be consumed on the premises to sell, offer for sale, or give away, or permit
to be sold, offered for sale, or given away beer or wine on any day between the
hours of one o’clock (1:00) A.M. and six o’clock (6:00) A.M.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person licensed to sell at retail liquor by the
drink within the city to sell, offer for sale, or give away, or permit to be
sold, offered for sale, or given away, upon any licensed premises liquor, as
defined by law, during the following hours:
      1.   On any day between the hours of one o’clock (1:00) A.M. and ten
o’clock (10:00) A.M.;
      2.   On Memorial Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas from one o’clock (1:00)
A.M. to ten o’clock (10:00) A.M. of the following day;
   C.    A violation of any of the provisions of this section by any agent,
employee, servant or other person in any way acting in behalf of the licensee
shall be presumed to be a violation by the licensee.
   D.   The right shall be and at all times remain vested in the city council
to revoke or cancel the license of any person licensed under this chapter for
violation of this section, and upon complaint filed with the city clerk, the
clerk shall notify the offender in writing to appear before the city council
and be heard upon the complaint, and if at the hearing it appears to the
satisfaction of the board that cause exists for the cancellation or revocation
of the license, it may be canceled or revoked without further process of law.
   E.   This section shall be deemed an exercise of the police powers of the
city for the protection of the public health, welfare, peace and morals, and
all of its provisions shall be liberally construed for the attainment of that
purpose.
   F.   Any patron present on the licensed premises after the sale of alcoholic
beverages has stopped as provided in subsections A and B of this section, shall
have a reasonable time, not to exceed thirty (30) minutes, to consume any
beverages already served.
   G.   Any person who consumes, or intentionally permits the consumption of
any alcoholic beverage upon a licensed premise after the time provided for in
subsection F of this section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   H.   No person, with the exception of the license holder or any person
employed by the license holder and engaged in their regular duties, shall
remain on the licensed premises after the sale of alcoholic beverages has
stopped as provided in subsections A and B of this section for more than one
hour. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
CHAPTER 4
LARGE PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Intent
3-4-2: Definitions
3-4-3: License Required; Fee
3-4-4: Applicability Of License Provisions
3-4-5: Application For License
3-4-6: Number Of Persons Allowed
3-4-7: Requirements Of Licensee
3-4-8: Bond Requirements
3-4-9: Proof Of Compliance; Issuance Of License
3-4-10: Removal Of Structure And Appurtenances
3-4-11: Variances
3-4-1: INTENT:
   A.   It is the purpose of the City to regulate the assemblage of large
numbers of people, in excess of those normally needing the health, sanitary,
fire, police, transportation and utility services regularly provided in the
City in order that the health, safety and welfare of all persons in the City,
residents and visitors alike, may be protected.
   B.   It is the intent of the City that all sections and provisions of this
Chapter have an independent existence, and should any section or provision be
declared invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, it
is the intent of the City that any section or provision so declared shall be
severable from and shall not affect the validity of the remainder of the
Chapter. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms and phrases, as used in this Chapter, shall, unless context
dictates otherwise, have the meanings set forth in this Section:
 
ASSEMBLY: A company of persons gathered together at any location at any single
          time for any purpose.
PERSON:   Any individual natural human being, partnership, corporation, firm,
          company, association, society or group. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
 
3-4-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   No person shall permit, maintain, promote, conduct, advertise, act as
entrepreneur, undertake, organize, manage or sell or give tickets to an actual
or reasonably anticipated assembly of three hundred fifty (350) or more people,
whether on public or private property, unless a license to hold the assembly
has first been issued by the City Council, application for which must be at
least sixty (60) days in advance of the assembly. A license to hold an assembly
issued to one person shall permit any person to engage in any lawful activity
in connection with the holding of the licensed assembly.
   B.   A separate license shall be required for each location in which three
hundred fifty (350) or more people assemble or can reasonably be anticipated to
assemble.
   C.   The fee for each license shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
each day. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-4-4: APPLICABILITY OF LICENSE PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Any regularly established, permanent place of worship, stadium,
athletic field, arena, auditorium, coliseum, school or other similar
permanently established place of assembly for assemblies which do not exceed
more than five hundred (500) people, the maximum seating capacity;
   B.   Government-sponsored fairs held on regularly established fairgrounds;
nor
   C.   Assemblies required to be licensed by other ordinances and regulations
of the City, the County of Twin Falls or the State. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-4-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Application for a license to hold an actual or anticipated assembly of
three hundred fifty (350) or more persons shall be made, in writing, to the
City Council at least sixty (60) days in advance of such assembly.
   B.   The application shall contain a statement made upon oath or affirmation
that the statements contained therein are true and correct to the best
knowledge of the applicant and shall be signed and sworn to or affirmed by the
individual making application in the case of a corporation, by all partners in
the case of a partnership, by all officers of an association, society or group,
or if there are no officers, by all members of such association, society or
group.
   C.   The application shall include the bond required and the license fee.
   D.   The application shall contain and disclose:
      1.   The name, age, residence and mailing address of all persons required
to sign the application and, in the case of a corporation, a certified copy of
the articles of incorporation together with the name, age, residence and
mailing address of each person holding ten percent (10%) or more of the stock
of said corporation.
      2.   The address and legal description of all property upon which the
assembly is to be held, together with the name, residence and mailing address
of the record owner(s) of all such property.
      3.   Proof of ownership of all property upon which the assembly is to be
held or a statement made upon oath or affirmation by the record owner(s) of all
such property that the applicant has permission to use such property for an
assembly of three hundred fifty (350) persons or more.
      4.   The nature or purpose of the assembly.
      5.   The total number of days and/or hours during which the assembly is
to last.
      6.   The maximum number of persons which the applicant shall permit to
assemble at any time, not to exceed the maximum number which can reasonably
assemble at the location of the assembly in consideration of the nature of the
assembly, or the maximum number of persons allowed to sleep within the
boundaries of the location of the assembly by the zoning ordinances of the City
1  if the assembly is to continue overnight.
      7.   The maximum number of tickets to be sold, if any.
      8.   The plans of the applicant to limit the maximum number of persons
permitted to assemble.
      9.   The plans for supplying potable water, including the source, amount
available and location of outlets.
      10.   The plans for providing toilet and lavatory facilities, including
the source, number and location, type and the means of disposing of solid waste
deposited.
      11.   The plans for holding, collection and disposing of solid waste
material.
      12.   The plans to provide for medical facilities, including the location
and construction of a medical structure, the names and addresses and hours of
availability of physicians and nurses and provisions for emergency ambulance
service.
      13.   The plans, if any, to illuminate the location of the assembly,
including the source and amount of power and the location of lamps.
      14.   The plans for parking vehicles, including the size and location of
lots, points of highway access and interior roads, including routes between
highway access and parking lots.
      15.   The plans for telephone service, including the source, number and
location of telephones.
      16.   The plans for camping facilities, if any, including facilities
available and their location.
      17.   The plans for security, including the number of guards, their
names, addresses, credentials and hours of availability.
      18.   The plans for fire protection, including the number, type and
location of all protective devices, including alarms and extinguishers and the
number of emergency fire personnel available to operate the equipment.
      19.   The plans for food concessions and concessionaires who will be
allowed to operate on the ground, including the names and addresses of all
concessionaires and their license or permit numbers. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
 
Notes
1 1.   See Title 9 of this code.
3-4-6: NUMBER OF PERSONS ALLOWED:
   A.   Before a license is issued, the applicant shall first determine the
maximum number of people which will be assembled or admitted to the location of
the assembly; provided, that the maximum number shall not exceed the maximum
number which can reasonably assemble at the location of the assembly in
consideration of the nature of the assembly; and provided that, where the
assembly is to continue overnight, the maximum number shall not be more than is
allowed to sleep within the boundaries of the location of the assembly by the
zoning or health ordinances of the City.
   B.   A license shall permit the assembly of only the maximum number of
people stated in the license. The licensee shall not sell tickets to nor permit
to assemble at the licensed location more than the maximum permissible number
of people 1 . (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
 
Notes
1    1. See Titles 4 and 9 of this code, respectively.
3-4-7: REQUIREMENTS OF LICENSEE:
Before a license may issue, the applicant shall provide proof that he/she will
furnish at his/her own expense before the assembly commences:
   A.   Health Requirements:
      1.   Potable water, meeting all Federal and State requirements for purity
1 , sufficient to provide drinking water for the maximum number of people to be
assembled at the rate of at least one gallon per person per day and water for
bathing at the rate of at least ten (10) gallons per person per day.
      2.   Separate enclosed toilets for males and females, meeting all State
and local specifications 2 , conveniently located throughout the grounds,
sufficient to provide facilities for the maximum number of people to be
assembled at the rate of at least one toilet for every three hundred (1:300)
females and at least one toilet for every three hundred (1:300) males, an
efficient sanitary means of disposing of waste matter deposited therein, which
is in compliance with all State and local laws and regulations 3 , a lavatory
with running water under pressure and a continuous supply of soap and paper
towels shall be provided with each toilet.
      3.   A sanitary method of disposing of solid waste, in compliance with
State and local laws and regulations 4 , sufficient to dispose of the solid
waste production of the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of
at least two and one-half (21/2) pounds of solid waste per person per day,
together with a plan for holding and a plan for collecting all such waste at
least once each day of the assembly and sufficient trash cans with tight-
fitting lids and personnel to perform the task.
      4.   Physicians and nurses licensed to practice in the State sufficient
to provide the average medical care enjoyed by residents of Idaho for the
maximum number of people to be assembled, at the rate of at least one physician
for every two thousand (1:2,000) people and at least one nurse for every five
hundred (1:500) people, together with an enclosed covered structure where
treatment may be rendered, containing separately enclosed treatment rooms for
each physician and at least one emergency ambulance available for use at all
times.
The above health requirements heretofore set forth are to be minimum
requirements only. The plans for the health requirements shall be submitted to
the South Central Health District for approval at least thirty (30) days prior
to the proposed assembly.
   B.   Illumination: If the assembly is to continue during hours of darkness,
illumination sufficient to light the central area of the assembly, to include
the medical and health facilities, at the rate of at least five (5) foot-
candles but not to shine unreasonably beyond the boundaries of the enclosed
location of the assembly.
   C.   Parking Area: A free parking area inside of the assembly, grounds
sufficient to provide parking space for the maximum number of people to be
assembled at the rate of at least one parking space for every four (1:4)
persons. In the event that the site and access to it cannot handle the number
of people expected to attend the assembly, the Chief of Police can require the
promoter to provide parking at other sites with transportation between the
parking site and the site of the assembly to be provided by the promoter.
   D.   Telephone Service: Telephones connected to outside lines sufficient to
provide service for the maximum number of people to be assembled, at the rate
of at least one separate line and receiver for each two thousand (1:2,000)
persons and to be placed in accessible locations throughout the assembly area.
   E.   Camping Facilities: If the assembly is to continue overnight, camping
facilities shall be provided by the promotor at the site of the assembly and
said facilities shall be in compliance with all Federal and State requirements
sufficient to provide camping accommodations for the maximum number of people
to be assembled. In the event that temporary camping facilities are not
available at the site of the proposed assembly, the promoter shall provide
temporary camping facilities elsewhere which shall be approved by the Chief of
Police.
   F.   Security Guards: Security guards, either regularly employed, duly sworn
off-duty peace officers of the State, private guards licensed in the City or
other qualified individuals sufficient to provide adequate security for the
maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at least one security
guard for every fifty (1:50) people as a minimum shall be provided by the
promoter. A list of the security guards shall be presented to the Chief of
Police for approval at least thirty (30) days prior to the proposed assembly.
In the event the Chief of Police requires extra help to provide security for
the proposed assembly, the promoter shall deposit with the City Council a cash
bond in the amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) with a higher bond to
be required if the City Council determines it to be necessary 5 .
   G.   Fire Protection: Fire protection, including alarms, extinguishing
devices and fire lanes and escapes, sufficient to meet all Federal, State and
local standards 6  for the location of the assembly and sufficient emergency
personnel to efficiently operate the required equipment. The plan for fire
protection and emergency personnel shall be presented to the Chief of Police
and the Fire Chief for approval at least thirty (30) days prior to the proposed
assembly.
   H.   Traffic Control: Traffic control shall be approved by the Chief of
Police and the appropriate highway district at least thirty (30) days prior to
the proposed assembly. The promoter shall provide an emergency entrance and
exit to and from the site of the proposed assembly and said emergency entrance
and exit shall be kept open at all times for the use of emergency vehicles. The
promoter is responsible for providing traffic-control personnel who shall be
approved by the Chief of Police at least thirty (30) days prior to the proposed
assembly. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
 
Notes
1 2.   I.C. § 37-2102.
2 3.   I.C. § 54-2601 et seq.
3 4.   I.C. § 39-2601 et seq. and Title 7, Chapter 5 of this code.
4 5.   I.C. § 39-7401 et seq. and Title 4, Chapter 1 of this code.
5 1.   See also Section 3-3-8 of this chapter.
6    I.C. § 39-4109.
3-4-8: BOND REQUIREMENTS 1 :
   A.   A bond shall be filed with the City Clerk, either in cash or
underwritten by a surety company licensed to do business in Idaho, in the
minimum amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), which shall indemnify and
hold harmless the City or any of its agents, officers, servants and employees
from any liability or causes of action which might arise by reason of granting
this license and from any cost incurred in cleaning up any waste material
produced or left by the assembly at the site or surrounding areas.
   B.   A cash bond, in the amount of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00), shall
be deposited with the City Council to pay for hospital and emergency medical
treatment rendered to people attracted to the event which are not paid by the
people receiving such treatment.
   A performance bond shall be deposited with the City Council, in the amount
of fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00), to insure compliance with all terms
of this Chapter. In addition, a cash bond in the amount of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) shall be deposited with the City Council to pay for damage to
adjoining or non-adjoining properties within one thousand feet (1,000') of the
site of the proposed assembly. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
 
Notes
1 3.   See also subsection 3-3-7F of this chapter.
3-4-9: PROOF OF COMPLIANCE; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
The application for a license shall be processed and issued within ten (10)
days after proof of compliance with this Chapter has been submitted to the City
Council. Proof of compliance with this Chapter must be submitted to the City
Council at least fifteen (15) days prior to the beginning of the assembly.
(Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-4-10: REMOVAL OF STRUCTURE AND APPURTENANCES:
All structures, installations, excavations and construction shall be removed by
the licensee from the site of the assembly at the termination of the event. In
the event this is not accomplished within ten (10) days after the assembly, the
City Council is authorized to accomplish the removal and charge the cost of the
removal against the performance bond. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-4-11: VARIANCES:
Upon application to the City Council, variances may be granted to any or all of
the provisions of this Chapter if evidence satisfactory to the City Council is
submitted showing that the assembly does not constitute a hazard or risk to the
public’s health, safety or morals. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC DANCE HALLS
SECTION:
3-5-1: License Required
3-5-2: Monthly Licensing
3-5-3: License Fee
3-5-4: Inspection
3-5-5: General Operation
3-5-6: Exemptions
3-5-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to conduct or operate or
cause or permit to be conducted or operated, a public dance hall within the
corporate limits of the city, without first obtaining from the city council a
license therefor, signed by the mayor and city clerk. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-5-2: MONTHLY LICENSING:
The license mentioned in section of this chapter shall be a monthly license,
and must be obtained on the first day of each month. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-5-3: LICENSE FEE:
The license fee required by this chapter shall be established by the city.
(Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-5-4: INSPECTION:
The president or any of the council members of the city or any of the peace
officers of the city, shall have the right to inspect any such dance hall at
any time. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-5-5: GENERAL OPERATION:
Any public dance hall operated under the provisions of this chapter shall be
operated in an orderly, peaceful manner. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-5-6:  EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to, and there is specifically excepted from this
chapter, occasional dances given by private persons or benevolent or social
organizations, and shall only apply to public dance halls, whether conducted in
an outdoor pavilion or in an indoor hall where public dances are regularly
given for profit. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
CHAPTER 6
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: License Required
3-6-3: Applications
3-6-4: Investigation And Issuance; Contents Of License
3-6-5: Service Of Process
3-6-6: Bond
3-6-7: License Nontransferable
3-6-8: Expiration Of License
3-6-9: License Fees
3-6-10: Letting Of Private Property Restricted
3-6-11: Prohibited Acts
3-6-12: Right To Cancel Purchases
3-6-13: Appeal
3-6-14: Penalty
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter:
           Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling by foot, motor
           vehicle or any other type of conveyance, however propelled, drawn, pushed or
           moved, from place to place, from house to house or from street to street,
           carrying, conveying or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, food or farm
PEDDLER:   products or provisions, offering and exposing the same for sale or making sales
           and delivering articles to purchasers, or who, without traveling from place to
           place shall sell or offer the same for sale from a wagon, vehicle, railroad car,
           or any other type of conveyance. The word “peddler” shall include the words
           “hauler” and “hucksters”.
           Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling either by foot, motor
           vehicle or any other type of conveyance, from place to place, from house to house
           or from street to street, taking or attempting to take, in person, orders for sale
SOLICITOR  of goods, wares and merchandise, personal property of any nature whatsoever for
OR         future delivery, or for services to be furnished or performed in the future,
CANVASSER: whether he is collecting advance payments on such sales or not. Such definitions
           shall include any person who, for himself, or for another person hires, leases,
           uses or occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad boxcar, boat, hotel room,
           lodging house, apartment, shop or any other place within the city for the sole
           purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery.
           Any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, agent, consignee, or employee,
           whether a resident of the city or not, who engages in a temporary business of
           selling and delivering goods, wares and merchandise within the city and who, in
           furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any public or private
           place, building, motor vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar, public room in a hotel,
           lodging house, apartment, shop or any street or other place within the city for
           the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or
           at public auction.
           A “temporary business” is one which is expected to be in operation for six (6)
           months or less within the city. This definition shall not include nor be construed
           to include:
           A.   Public or private auction for the disposal by an established business of its
           assets or an individual for items of personal and household use.
           B.   Any person, partnership or corporation selling or dealing only with retail
           merchants within the city, and being exclusively wholesale sellers and dealers.
           C.   Any religious or charitable corporation or organization engaging in any one
           or more of the above activities for strictly nonprofit purposes.
TRANSIENT  D.   Any arts or crafts shows or fairs where the items for sale are exhibited by
MERCHANT,  the person producing the items; and, the exhibitor was invited by the sponsoring
ITINERANT  party; the names of participants are accumulated by the sponsoring party to be
MERCHANT   made available to the city council or clerk.
OR         E.   Any sales pursuant to court order.
ITINERANT  F.   The sale of farm or garden products by the persons producing such products.
VENDOR:    G.   The sale of a newspaper subscription in which the seller is a person engaged
           in both the delivery and sale of the newspaper.
           H.   Political groups seeking funds or memberships.
           I.   Sales of Christmas trees and wreaths.
           The person, partnership or corporation so engaged shall not be relieved from
           complying with the provisions of this chapter merely by reason of associating
           temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by
           conducting such transient business in connection with, as a part of or in the name
           of any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer.
           Any person, partnership or corporation wishing to engage in any one or more of the
           activities described above, and not specifically excluded from the definition of
           the itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor as set forth above, may petition the
           city council and upon good cause shown, the city council may exempt the person,
           partnership or corporation from application of this chapter.
           Notwithstanding the foregoing, any person or business intending to conduct
           business continuously for at least one year in the city, or having conducted
           business in the city continuously for the previous year, and can provide proof by
           way of a written lease, contract or other proof satisfactory to the city clerk,
           shall be exempt from the application of this chapter. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
 
3-6-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for a transient merchant, itinerant merchant, itinerant
vendor, peddler or solicitor, as defined in section _________ of this chapter,
to engage in such business within the city without first obtaining a license
therefor in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 628, 6-1-
2021)
3-6-3: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for licenses by solicitors and peddlers shall be made to the city
clerk, to his designee or to the chief of police, and shall be sworn in writing
and shall contain the following information:
   A.   Name of applicant;
   B.   Permanent address of applicant;
   C.   Temporary address of applicant, if any;
   D.   Idaho state sales tax license number and, if applicable, Idaho
corporation license number;
   E.   A brief description of the nature of the business to be conducted and
the goods to be sold, and if the goods are farm or orchard products, a
statement as to the point of origin for the product;
   F.   If the products are imported into the state from an area outside the
state, the person receiving the application may require a certificate that the
product is disease free, insect free, properly fumigated and will in no way
spread any disease, fungi, bacteria, insect or animal illnesses or diseases of
any kind;
   G.   A statement as to whether the applicant is self-employed or working for
an employer;
   H.   If the applicant is selling goods for another, a statement as to who
the owners of the goods are;
   I.   A two inch by two-inch (2" x 2") photograph showing the head and
shoulders in a clear and distinguishable manner of the applicant and the person
selling, delivering, conveying, carrying, transporting goods, wares,
merchandise, food or like merchandise of the applicant or offering to perform
services in the present or future for applicant;
   J.   A statement that in the event that the product causes any damage to any
resident of the city, the applicant acknowledges the jurisdiction of the Idaho
courts to resolve any disputes;
   K.   The length of time for which the license requested shall be needed;
   L.   A description of the vehicle to be used in the solicitation, peddling
or vending, together with the license number thereof;
   M.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant or applicant’s employer
has been convicted of any crime in violation of any consumer protection laws or
of any peddlers’ or solicitors’ ordinances. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-6-4: INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE; CONTENTS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Investigation and Issuance: Upon receipt of the application, the chief
of police shall cause such investigation of the applicant’s business
responsibility or moral character to be made. The chief of police may utilize
such departments of the city, county or state as deemed appropriate in the aid
of the investigation. When the chief of police requests a criminal history
record check by the criminal identification bureau of the department of law
enforcement, state of Idaho, the chief of police shall forward the applicant’s
fingerprints to the criminal identification bureau for a statewide criminal
history check. As a result of the investigation, if the applicant’s character
and business responsibility are found to be unsatisfactory, the application
shall be denied. If, as a result of the investigation, the character and
business reputation appear to be satisfactory, the city clerk shall so certify
in writing and a license shall be issued if all of the requirements of this
chapter have been met.
   B.   Record: The city clerk shall keep a full record in his/her office of
all licenses issued, and each such license shall contain the number of the
license, the date the same was issued, the nature of the business authorized to
be carried on, the amount of the license fee paid, the expiration date of the
license, and the place where such business may be carried on under said
license, the name or names of the person or persons authorized to carry on the
same. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-6-5: SERVICE OF PROCESS:
Before any license herein provided for shall be issued for engaging in the
business of an itinerant merchant, as herein defined, such applicant shall file
with the city clerk an instrument nominating and appointing the city clerk his
true and lawful agent with full power and authority to acknowledge service of
notice of process for and on behalf of said applicant in respect to any matters
connected with or arising out of the business transacted under said license,
which said instrument shall also contain recitals to the effect that said
applicant for said license consents and agrees that service of any notice or
process may be made upon said agent. Said instrument shall also contain
recitals to the effect that said applicant for said license consents and agrees
that service of any notice or process may be made upon said agent, and when so
made shall be taken and held to be as valid as if personally served upon the
person or persons applying for the license under this chapter, according to the
law of this or any other state, and waiving any claim or right of error by
reason of such acknowledgment of service or manner of service. Immediately upon
service or process upon the city clerk, as herein provided, the city clerk
shall send to the licensee at his last known address, by registered mail, a
copy of said process. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-6-6: BOND:
Before any license, as provided by this chapter shall be issued for engaging in
a transient or itinerant business as defined in this chapter in the city, such
applicant shall file with the city clerk a bond running to the city in the sum
of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) executed by the applicant, as principal,
and two (2) sureties upon which service of process may be made in the state of
Idaho; said bond to be approved by the city attorney, conditioned that the said
applicant shall comply fully with all the provisions of the ordinances of the
city and the statutes of the state of Idaho regulating and concerning the sale
of goods, wares and merchandise, and will pay all judgments rendered against
said applicant for any violation of said laws or statutes, or any of them
together with all judgments and costs that may be recovered against him by any
person or persons for damage growing out of any misrepresentation or deception
practiced on any person or persons transacting such business with such
applicant, whether said misrepresentations or deceptions were made or practiced
by the owners or by their servants, agents, or employees, either at the time of
making the sale or through any advertisement of any character whatsoever,
printed, or circulated with reference to the goods, wares and merchandise sold
or any part thereof. Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the city
to the use of the aggrieved person. Such bond must be approved by the city
attorney, both as to form and as to the responsibility of the sureties thereon.
(Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-6-7: LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
No license issued or granted by the city shall in any manner be assignable or
transferable or authorize any person other than the one therein named to do
business or authorize any other business than is therein mentioned to be done
or authorize the transaction of such business at any other place than is
specified in the license. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-6-8: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
All licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire ninety
(90) days after the date of issuance thereof unless a prior date is fixed
therein. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-6-9: LICENSE FEES:
A license will be issued for a specified period and in accordance with the fee
schedule hereinafter enacted, as the same may be changed from time to time by
the city council. Payment for the licenses shall be made upon filing of the
application with the proper authority and shall be made in lawful currency of
the United States.
The city shall collect license fees in the amounts set forth below:
Auctioneers holding regular auctions at
a specified location within the city    $100.00 per year
limits
Circuses and carnivals                  $200.00 per day
Itinerant merchants, peddlers, agents,  $25.00 per year plus
independent contractors, hawkers,       (fingerprinting costs) $45.00 per
hucksters, solicitors                   person
Selling from motor vehicles, pickups,   $25.00 per year
trailers, trucks or wagons
Sideshows or performances, whether      $25.00 per day
human, animal or nonhuman
Street Stand                            $25.00 per day
Transient auctioneers or auctioneers    $15.00 per day
holding nonrecurring sales
All other businesses not specified in   $100.00 per year
this code
 
By accepting a fee and issuing a license, the city does not assume any
liability for any actions or any conduct engaged in by the licensee. The city,
nor any of its employees, shall endorse any products or services sold by any
licensees and the city, employees of the city and any licensees shall not
represent to any person that the city has any interest in any business carried
on by the licensee. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-6-10: LETTING OF PRIVATE PROPERTY RESTRICTED:
No property owner, nor his agent or employee, shall sublet, lease, sublease or
otherwise permit his property, or property of which he is in charge, to be used
by an itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor, as herein defined, unless
specifically excluded from application of this chapter or unless the itinerant
vendor or itinerant merchant has obtained a license as provided herein. (Ord.
628, 6-1-2021)
3-6-11: PROHIBITED ACTS:
A licensee, or any person acting on behalf of a licensee, or any agent of a
licensee, shall not:
   A.   Shout, make an outcry, blow a horn, ring a bell or use any sound device
or musical instrument, including any loud speaking radio or sound amplifying
system, on any of the streets, alleys, parks, or other public places of the
city, or on any private premises within the city, where sound of sufficient
volume is emitted or produced therefrom, to be capable of being plainly heard
on the streets, avenues, alleys, parks or other public places for the purpose
of attracting attention to any goods, wares, or merchandise which such licensee
proposes to sell.
   B.   Have any mechanical devices in human or animal form or otherwise
designed to create lights, sound or motion to attract passersby.
   C.   Have any exclusive right to any location in the public streets, shall
not be permitted a stationary location and shall not be permitted to operate in
any congested area where licensee’s operations might impede or inconvenience
the public. For purposes of enforcement of this chapter, the judgment of any
police officer, exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to
whether or not an area is congested or the public is impeded or inconvenienced
by the presence of the licensee.
   D.   Sell or offer for sale goods, wares, or merchandise from vehicles on
any of the public streets of the city. Licensees shall not be allowed to double
park or in any way impede the normal flow of traffic or create a hazard or a
nuisance upon any public roadway.
   E.   Be allowed to solicit or peddle from sundown to nine o’clock (9:00)
A.M., or at any time when a sign has been clearly posted on a fence, driveway,
front, back or side yard, or doorway which clearly informs a licensee that
there shall be no solicitors or no peddlers, either using those words or in
words to that effect. Providing, however, that a licensee may call upon the
occupant of a residence at other times when he has expressed prior permission
from such occupant to do so.
   F.   Make any representation that he or she is soliciting or peddling for
any nonprofit organization or for charitable or religious purposes if he or she
in any way shall personally benefit by the funds or properties solicited.
   G.   Cast, throw, distribute, deposit, scatter, pass out, give away,
circulate or deliver any commercial or business handbills, dodgers, circulars,
or other advertising materials or devices to any residents or businesses, or
leave the same upon any porch, doorstep, entryway, vestibule or in any yard or
public hallway, or in any vacant lot or upon other private property in the
city, without first having obtained the expressed consent of the owner or
lessee, or without the written or expressed request of any adult resident or
occupant thereof.
   H.   Make any false statement or claims as to the quality, value, origin,
condition, durability, or purpose as to any product.
   I.   Make false representations as to any product which he is soliciting for
or peddling.
   J.   No licensee shall distribute, sell, or hand out as a sample any
consumable food product which have not been properly approved by the state
health district, the South Central health district, the federal trade
commission or any other state or federal agency which has jurisdiction as to
the quality or wholesomeness of any foodstuffs designed for human consumption.
(Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-6-12: RIGHT TO CANCEL PURCHASES:
Any person purchasing from any solicitor or peddler or salesman pursuant to any
home solicitation shall have three (3) business days from the day of sale to
cancel any sale or any security or any contract created during the consummation
of the sale. Any licensee, salesman, solicitor, or peddler shall have an
affirmative duty to inform any purchaser of that person’s right of
cancellation. In the event of cancellation, the purchaser must make the product
available to the seller at the purchaser’s residence in as good a condition as
the product was when it was received for a period of twenty (20) days after the
notice of cancellation. If the salesman does not retrieve the product within
twenty (20) days from the date of notice of cancellation, the purchaser may
retain or dispose of the products without any further obligation. If, however,
the purchaser fails to make the goods available to the seller during regular
business hours, or if the purchaser agrees to return the goods to the seller at
an agreed upon location and fails to do so, then the purchaser will remain
liable for performance of all of the obligations under the contract. To cancel
any transaction pursuant to this section, a purchaser must mail or deliver a
signed and dated copy of the cancellation notice to the seller at the seller’s
place of business, not later than twelve o’clock (12:00) midnight of the third
business day following the consummation of the sale. “Business days” are
defined as Monday through Friday from nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. to five o’clock
(5:00) P.M. Notice of cancellation shall not be required to carry the specific
words “cancel or cancellation”, but shall simply be worded in such a manner
that any reasonable person would be on notice that the transaction has been
absolutely and unequivocally canceled. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-6-13: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the city clerk in regard to the denial
of application for a license as provided for in this chapter or in connection
with the revocation of a license as herein provided, shall have the right to
appeal to the council of the city. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with
the council within fourteen (14) days after notice of the decision by the city
clerk has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written statement
setting forth the grounds for the appeal. The council shall set the time and
place for a hearing on such appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in this chapter for notice of
hearing on revocation. The order of this council on such appeal shall be final.
(Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-6-14: PENALTY:
Any person who shall do any act, or transact any business, exercise or engage
in or carry on, directly or indirectly as principal, agent or employee, within
the city limits of the city, any trade, business, occupation, vocation or
employment for which a license is required to be paid, without first obtaining
or procuring said license or any bonds required hereunder, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, may be fined an amount not to exceed
three hundred dollars ($300.00) or sentenced to a period not to exceed six (6)
months in jail or any combination thereof. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
CHAPTER 7
PAWNSHOPS, BROKERS AND SECONDHAND DEALERS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: License Required; Fees
3-7-3: Qualifications For License
3-7-4: Display And Inspection Of License
3-7-5: Records
3-7-6: Prohibited Dealings
3-7-7: Sales
3-7-8: Property Alleged To Be Stolen
3-7-9: Forfeitures
3-7-10: Reports To Police Department
3-7-11: Closing Hours
3-7-12: Stolen Property; Return To True Owner
3-7-13: Managerial Responsibility
3-7-14: Appeal Of City Clerk’s Decision
3-7-15: Violations And Penalty
3-7-16: Revocation Of License
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
            Every person, firm, association or corporation engaged in conducting, managing or
            carrying on the business of loaning or advancing money, check or draft for money,
            for himself or for another, upon deposit or purchase of personal property,
            personal security, pawns, pledges, bailment or other valuable thing, or who deals
            in purchasing articles of personal property or other valuable thing on condition
            of reselling or agreeing to resell such articles to the vendors or their assigns
PAWNBROKER: at a stipulated price, or who loans money secured by chattel mortgage or personal
            property, having possession of the property, or any portion or part thereof
            mortgaged or who advertises by use of pawnbroker’s sign, or by advertising
            “unredeemed pledges”, or by any other expression designating pawnbroker’s
            business, shall, for all intents and purposes under this chapter, be declared to
            be a pawnbroker within the meaning of this chapter: provided, however, that a
            dealer whose primary business involves the sale of new and used firearms and
            related items shall be excluded from the definition of Pawnbroker.
PAWNSHOP:   Any room, store or place in which any such business of “pawnbroker” as defined
            herein is engaged in, carried on or conducted.
            Any person, firm, association or corporation who buys, accepts as trade, or
            otherwise deals in secondhand tools, goods, wares, merchandise or other articles
            and things usually found in a secondhand store, other than recording media. The
            following are specifically excluded from the definition of secondhand dealer:
            A.   Dealers in new merchandise who do not pay in cash for used property, but
            allow their patrons an exchange value when making a sale of new goods of the same
SECONDHAND  type.
DEALER:     B.   Dealers in antique goods who do not purchase electronic equipment, tools,
            guns, coins or precious jewelry.
            C.   Any person, firm, association or corporation that accepts or receives, as
            donation only, and does not pay in cash for any property, clothing, furniture, or
            any other valuable thing.
            D.   Dealers whose primary business involves the sale of new and used firearms and
            related items.
SECONDHAND  Any room, store or place in which any such business of “secondhand dealer” as
STORE:      defined herein is engaged in, carried on or conducted. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
 
3-7-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage,
conduct, keep, manage or operate any pawnshop or secondhand store without
having first obtained a license therefor as provided for in this chapter and
which is in full force and effect.
   B.   Application: An application for such license shall be made in writing
to the city clerk in such form and manner as may be prescribed. An applicant
who was not licensed by this chapter for the year immediately preceding the
current application shall be required to be fingerprinted by the city’s police
department. Cost of taking and processing such fingerprints shall be borne by
the applicant.
   C.   Partnership, Corporation Or Association: When application for a license
is made by or on behalf of a partnership, corporation or association, such
application shall be made by the manager, officer, agent or other person who
will have the direct charge and management of such pawnshop or secondhand
store.
   D.   Investigation: Upon receipt of an application for a license, the police
department shall cause an investigation to be made of the applicant.
   E.   Issuance Of License, Provisional License: Upon completion of such
investigation, if the police department finds that the license applicant
complies with the required qualifications set forth in this chapter, the city
clerk shall issue a license. Licenses shall not be transferable either as to
person or place. A provisional license may be issued pending completion of the
required investigation.
   F.   License Fees:
      1.   Regular License: The city clerk shall collect before the issuance of
any license or renewal thereof an annual fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
If a license is granted pursuant to an application filed after June 30 of any
year, the license fee for the balance of such year shall be two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00).
      Each license shall remain in full force and effect until relinquished,
suspended, revoked or expired. Every licensee, on or before each January 31,
shall pay the city clerk five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each license held
by him/her as the annual fee for the succeeding calendar year.
      2.   Limited License: For those secondhand dealers who purchase not more
than ten (10) transactions of secondhand goods per month, the annual license
fee shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
   G.   Age Requirement: No license shall be issued to any person who is not
eighteen (18) years of age or older.
   H.   License Denial; Refund: If any license applicant is denied a license
for any reason, the required license fee shall be refunded to the applicant. No
license fee shall be refunded as result of any suspension, revocation or for
any license that is voluntarily surrendered by the holder of such license.
   I.   Location Requirements: No license shall be issued to any person for any
proposed location that does not comply with the planning and zoning regulations
and fire codes established by the city, county and the state.
   J.   Criminal History; State and Federal: To determine the suitability of
prospective applicants for pawnshop, pawnbroker and secondhand dealer licenses,
the police department shall require an applicant to provide information and
fingerprints necessary to obtain criminal history information from the Idaho
state police and the federal bureau of investigation. Pursuant to section 67-
3008, Idaho Code, and congressional enactment public law 92-544, the police
department shall submit a set of fingerprints obtained from the applicant and
the required fees to the Idaho state police, bureau of criminal identification,
for a criminal record check of state and national databases. The submission of
fingerprints and information required by this subsection shall be on forms
prescribed by the Idaho state police. The police department is authorized to
receive criminal history information from the Idaho state police and from the
federal bureau of investigation for the purpose of evaluating the fitness of
applicants for pawnshop, pawnbroker and secondhand dealer licenses. As required
by state and federal law, further dissemination or other use of the criminal
history information is prohibited. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-7-3: QUALIFICATIONS FOR LICENSE:
The city clerk shall issue a pawnbroker’s license if the applicant meets the
following minimum qualifications:
   A.   The applicant or other person principally in charge of the operation of
the business is over the age of eighteen (18) years.
   B.   The applicant or other person principally in charge of the operation of
the business has not had a city pawnbroker’s business license or similar permit
or license revoked or suspended by the city or any other state or local agency
within three (3) years prior to the date of the application.
   C.   The applicant or other person principally in charge of the operation of
the business has not been convicted within the preceding five (5) years of:
      1.   Any felony or crime that would be deemed a felony according to the
laws of the state.
      2.   Theft in any degree.
      3.   Obscene or lewd conduct.
   D.   The police department shall investigate the aforementioned
qualifications of applicants or other persons principally in charge of the
operation of the business for licenses pursuant to this chapter and shall
report to the city clerk its recommendations. The city clerk shall, if the
applicant complies with the licensing requirements, issue a license to the
applicant upon the payment of the proper fee. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-7-4: DISPLAY AND INSPECTION OF LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of every person to whom a pawnbroker’s license is issued
to prominently display such license in a conspicuous manner at all times in the
pawnshop or secondhand store to which said license relates.
Upon request of the city police officer designated by the police chief to make
inspections of pawnshops and secondhand stores, the licensee, or anyone acting
on his/her behalf, shall produce any records required to be kept, pursuant to
this chapter, and shall permit said officer to examine them and shall permit an
inspection of the licensee’s premises and all property kept or stored therein.
Any inspection performed pursuant to this rule shall occur during the
licensee’s regular and usual business hours. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-7-5: RECORDS:
   A.   Every pawnbroker or secondhand dealer, except dealers of secondhand
clothing, shall keep a record of every article pledged, consigned, or traded
with him/her, sold to him/her, or received by him/her.
   B.   This record shall be open to the inspection of any city police officer
at any time during the hours of business. Such record shall be completed on a
form specified by the city.
   C.   Upon the purchase, pledge or receipt of any property or article said
record shall be completed. The original record shall be delivered on a weekly
basis to the police department or at any time upon request by the police
department. One copy of said record shall be retained by said pawnbroker or
secondhand dealer for a period of twelve (12) months from the date said form is
completed.
   One copy of said record shall be provided to the seller, pledger, trader or
consignor. No entry on such record shall be altered, erased, obliterated, or
defaced, and all property described in the record shall be open to the
inspection of any city police officer during business hours. Original records
shall be free of any staples, tape or other items that may deface, obliterate,
or damage said record.
   D.   Each record of purchase, pledge, trade, consign or receipt of property
or articles shall contain an accurate description of the property or article
and the person from whom it was received. Said record shall also contain the
following information:
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of the pawnshop or secondhand
store.
      2.   Last name, first name and middle initial, complete residence
address, phone number, date of birth, height, weight, sex, hair color and eye
color of the seller, pledger, or any person from whom any property or article
was received.
      3.   The social security number or driver’s license number and the state
of issue, or official state of Idaho identification, or official United States
military identification, or passport, with photograph and signature block of
the seller, pledger, trader, consignor.
      4.   The date of the transaction; the amount of loan, purchase, pledge,
trade or consign; the interest amount and terms of any loan or pledge.
      5.   A complete description of the property or article purchased,
pledged, traded or consigned, to include brand name or make, model, serial
number, model number, owner applied number or other engravings, vehicle
identification number, type and color. (No record shall contain more than 6
article or property entries.)
      6.   Signature lines or space for the execution by pawnbroker, secondhand
dealer and the seller, pledger, trader or consignor, or any person from whom
property was received.
      7.   A space shall be provided and shall bear a legible ink, chemical, or
other acceptable impression of the right or left thumbprint of the seller,
pledger, trader, consignor, or any person from whom property was received.
   E.   Every record shall be completed and signed by the pawnbroker,
secondhand dealer or employee and the seller, pledger, trader, or consignor at
the time of execution. The pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall compare the
signature upon the required identification with that upon the record. The
signature by the seller, pledger, trader, or consignor shall be a certification
that the described property or article has not been obtained by illegal means
and is free and clear of any encumbrances.
   F.   This section shall apply to all secondhand merchandise, pledges,
articles or property for trade or resale, but shall not apply to articles of
new merchandise purchased directly from the manufacturers, wholesale dealers or
distributors having established places of business or of any purchase in the
open market or secured from any persons doing business and having an
established place of business in the city. Such goods, however, shall be
accompanied by a bill of sale or other evidence of legitimate purchase and must
be shown to any city police officer upon request.
   G.   Each record issued shall be numbered consecutively, and if stubs are
used in connection with such records, such stubs shall be numbered
consecutively to conform to the tickets.
   H.   Any pawnbroker or secondhand dealer receiving in pledges or otherwise
any article, shall affix to said article a tag, and upon such tag shall be
written a number in legible characters. Such number shall correspond to the
number in the record required to be kept by him/her. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-7-6: PROHIBITED DEALINGS:
No pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall:
   A.   Buy, receive or accept on deposit any article, property or other
valuable thing from any person less than eighteen (18) years of age, except
with the written consent of the parent or guardian of the minor child as to
each particular transaction and in that event, the parent or guardian must
execute the record required and furnish proof of identification as any pledger,
or seller of any article with such being recorded upon the aforesaid record.
   B.   Allow any employee less than eighteen (18) years of age to receive or
accept any property, article or other valuable thing for purchase, pledge,
trade, or consign; allow any employee less than eighteen (18) years of age to
make any loan or sell any merchandise that has been pledged, traded or
consigned.
   C.   Employ or retain any person who does not satisfy the qualifications set
forth in this chapter.
   D.   Purchase, receive, or accept any article, property or other valuable
thing, manufactured or produced with a serial number or identification number,
with said serial number or identification number removed, altered or rendered
unreadable. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-7-7: SALES:
No personal article, property or other valuable thing, pledged to, purchased
by, received in trade by or deposited with any pawnbroker or secondhand dealer
at his place of business shall be sold from such place of business for a period
of at least thirty (30) days after being so acquired; provided, this section
shall not apply to guns regulated by ATF, or to new merchandise purchased from
manufacturers or wholesale dealers having established places of business or any
purchase in the open market or secured from any person doing business and
having an established place of business in the city. Such goods, however, shall
be accompanied by a bill of sale or other evidence of legitimate purchase and
must be shown to any city police officer upon request. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-7-8: PROPERTY ALLEGED TO BE STOLEN:
   A.   Whenever the chief of police or any city police officer shall notify
any pawnbroker or secondhand dealer in writing that certain property is alleged
to be stolen, such property shall not be sold or permitted to be redeemed or
otherwise released for a period of thirty (30) days from the date of such
notice, but such notice may be renewed for an additional thirty (30) day period
or periods.
   B.   Written notice of hold shall bear the date, accurate description of
held property, requesting agency case number, name of business where questioned
item is held, amount owed to pawnbroker or secondhand dealer, name of person
the property was received from and the requesting officer’s name and agency. A
duplicate copy of this information shall be left with the pawnbroker or
secondhand dealer at the time an item is placed on hold. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-7-9: FORFEITURES:
It shall be the duty of every “pawnbroker” as herein defined to allow any
person accepting a loan or advance of money, upon pledge or deposit, a period
of thirty (30) days in which to pay before the same becomes forfeitable. (Ord.
628, 6-1-2021)
3-7-10: REPORTS TO POLICE DEPARTMENT:
The police department may, at its discretion, require a written monthly report
of said business and during the business hours of every day may require a
personal examination of the books or records of such pawnbroker, showing the
articles or other property purchased, pledged, traded, consigned, or otherwise
received. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-7-11: CLOSING HOURS:
Every “pawnbroker” or “secondhand dealer” as herein defined, shall close his/
her place of business at ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. each and every night, except
on Saturday, when said business may remain open until twelve o’clock (12:00)
midnight. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-7-12: STOLEN PROPERTY; RETURN TO TRUE OWNER:
   A.   Any property, article or other valuable thing purchased by, pledged to,
traded with, consigned or sold to any pawnbroker or secondhand dealer which is
subsequently determined by a law enforcement agency to have been stolen or
otherwise unlawfully obtained shall be transferred to the custody of such
agency upon the agency’s request, or shall be returned by the pawnbroker to the
true owner. The true owner shall not be liable to the pawnbroker or secondhand
dealer with respect to an article deemed stolen.
   B.   Upon the return of stolen property to the true owner by pawnbroker,
secondhand dealer or law enforcement agency, the pawnbroker, secondhand dealer
or law enforcement agency shall complete such documentation as may be necessary
or required to effect the transfer of the property including such documents
pertaining to the title, or registration of vehicles or firearms as may be
required by local, state or federal authorities. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-7-13: MANAGERIAL RESPONSIBILITY:
Where a license has been issued to any partnership, corporation or association
to conduct a pawnshop or secondhand store, any person having charge, management
or control of said pawnshop or secondhand store who knows, or reasonably should
have known of violations of this chapter, shall be liable to prosecution for
any violation of this chapter. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-7-14: APPEAL OF CITY CLERK’S DECISION:
If the applicant or licensee is aggrieved by the decision of the city clerk,
the aggrieved party may appeal such decision to the city council within ten
(10) days of notice of the decision of the city clerk. The applicant or
licensee must, in writing, appeal to the city council and set forth the reasons
therefor why the applicant should not be denied a license. The city council
shall set a time and place for a hearing within a reasonable period of time
subsequent to applicant’s written notice of appeal. Notice of such hearing
shall be personally served upon the applicant or licensee, or mailed postage
prepaid to the applicant or licensee at his/her last known address, at least
seven (7) days prior to the date set for the hearing. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-7-15: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use a false name, a fictitious
address, or any address other than the true address, or to furnish any false,
untrue or misleading information or statement relating to the information
required.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, pledge, pawn, or trade any
goods, chattels or effects, or any personal property, leased or let to him by
any instrument in writing under a contract of purchase not yet fulfilled.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker, secondhand dealer, or any
other person to violate any provision of this chapter.
   D.   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in a sum
not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) or imprisoned in the county jail
for not more than six (6) months or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord.
628, 6-1-2021)
3-7-16: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The city council may suspend or revoke any license issued under this chapter
for violation of any of the provisions of this code or ordinance of the city or
laws of the state. Prior to suspension or revocation by the city council, the
city clerk or city council shall notify the applicant in writing, setting forth
specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be personally served upon the licensee, or mailed,
postage prepaid, to the licensee at his last known address, at least seven (7)
days prior to the date set for the hearing. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
CHAPTER 8
DAY CARE FACILITIES
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definitions
3-8-2: Purpose
3-8-3: Application, Inspection, Fee, Issuance Of Licenses
3-8-4: Uniform Building Code Standards
3-8-5: Fire Safety Standards
3-8-6: Revocation Of License
3-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
given herein:
 
CHILD:    Any person less than twelve (12) years of age.
          Care and supervision provided for compensation during part of a twenty-four
DAY CARE: (24) hour day, for a child or children not related by blood or marriage to
          the person or persons providing the care, in a place other than the child’s
          or children’s own home.
DAY-CARE  A place or facility providing day care for compensation for more than six (6)
FACILITY: children. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
 
3-8-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to protect the safety of children cared for in
day-care facilities while, at the same time, relieving day-care facilities from
certain potentially prohibitive requirements of the Uniform Building Code 1
which are not related to life-safety issues. This Chapter is not intended to
replace the State Day Care License Law contained in Idaho Code section 39-1101,
et seq., but is intended to supplement that law and to exempt certain day-care
facilities from certain provisions of the Uniform Building Code that are not
related to life-safety issues. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-8-3: APPLICATION, INSPECTION, FEE, ISSUANCE OF LICENSES:
   A.   Application for License: Applications for licenses issued hereunder
shall be made upon forms prepared and made available by the City Clerk.
   B.   Inspections: Upon receipt of a completed application, the Fire Chief
shall inspect the facility for compliance with the requirements of this Chapter
and the City Clerk shall issue such license upon establishing compliance and
upon payment of a fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
   C.   Continued Compliance: Day-care facilities shall, at all times, maintain
compliance with the requirements identified in this Chapter and shall consent
to reinspection at any time during any license period.
   D.   Renewal: The license shall be valid for one year and shall be posted in
a conspicuous place at the main entrance to the day-care facility.
   E.   Appeal of Denial of License: If an applicant is denied a license under
this Chapter, the applicant may appeal the decision to the City Council by
filing an appeal, in writing, with the City, setting forth the basis for the
appeal. The City Council, upon receipt of the written notice of appeal, shall
set a time and place for a hearing on the appeal, which notice shall be served
personally on the applicant or mailed, postage prepaid, to the applicant at the
last known address, at least three (3) days prior to the hearing. (Ord. 628, 6-
1-2021)
3-8-4: UNIFORM BUILDING CODE STANDARDS:
   A.   New Construction: New construction for use as a day-care facility shall
comply with all requirements of the Uniform Building Code adopted by the City 1
.
   B.   Existing Approved Day-Care Facilities: All day-care facilities in
existence at the effective date herein with prior approved fire inspections
issued by the City, shall comply with all requirements of the Uniform Building
Code as adopted by the City, with the following exceptions:
      1.   Uniform Building Code Table No. 5-A, Group E-3 description is
amended for the purposes of this subsection B to read as follows:
         “3 - Any building used for day-care purposes for more than 24
children.”
      2.   Uniform Building Code section 511 is amended for the purposes of
this subsection B to read as follows:
         “Section 511. Access to Water Closets. Each water closet stool shall
be located in a clear space not less than 30 inches in width and have a clear
space in front of the water closet stool of not less than 24 inches.”
   C.   All Other Day-Care Facilities: Day-care facilities which are not new
construction or which were not in existence at the effective date hereof, with
prior approved fire inspections issued by the City, shall comply with all
requirements of the Uniform Building Code as adopted by the City, with the
following exceptions:
      1.   Same as B1 above.
      2.   Same as B2 above.
      3.   Table No. 33-A, Item 18 of the Uniform Building Code is amended for
the purposes of this subsection to read as follows:
         18.   Nurseries for children 7 50      No
         (Day care)
(Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
 
Notes
1    See Section
  8-1-1  of this code.
3-8-5: FIRE SAFETY STANDARDS:
In addition to the fire safety standards set forth in Idaho Code section 39-
1109 and regulation 55 promulgated by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to Idaho
Code section 39-1111, the following additional items will be inspected and
shall be complied with by day-care facilities:
   A.   If there is a private garage attached to the facility, the common wall
between the garage and the facility shall be protected by at least one hour,
fire-resistive materials on the garage side, and any door within the same wall
shall be self- closing, tight-fitting, solid wood core and a minimum of one and
three-eighths inches (13/8") in thickness or equivalent. For day-care use in
conjunction with other occupancy classifications, consult the Uniform Building
Code for specific occupancy separation.
   B.   Oil and gas unvented room heaters are not permitted. All fuel-burning
appliances are to be vented.
   C.   Chimneys and heating equipment are to be in good condition and
installed properly.
   D.   If a stove or combustion heater is installed, it shall be so located
that it will not block escape in case it malfunctions.
   E.   Flammable liquids storage is prohibited except for quantities not
exceeding ten (10) gallons for maintenance purposes and operation of equipment
if stored in a private garage or other approved locations in approved
containers.
   F.   All electrical appliances, fixtures, panel boxes, receptacle outlets,
switches and wiring shall be in good condition. All electrical violations shall
be reported to the Electrical Inspector.
   G.   Extension cords are permitted only with short-term use and shall not be
used as a substitute for permanent wiring.
   H.   The facility shall be free of an excess of readily-combustible
materials such as oily rags, wastepaper, boxes, rubbish or other waste
materials.
   I.   The landing on required exits shall not be more than four and one-half
inches (41/2") lower than the threshold of the doorway.
   J.   The occupant load of the facility shall be posted along with a
statement that day-care is prohibited on any upper floor beyond the first floor
or on a story below the level of exit discharge (basement) unless there is an
exit directly to the outside. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-8-6: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The City Council may revoke any day-care license issued under this Chapter for
any violation of any of the provisions of this Code or Chapter or laws of the
State 1 . Prior to revocation, the licensee shall be notified, in writing,
setting forth the grounds for the revocation and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be personally served on the licensee or mailed
postage prepaid to the licensee at his/her address at least three (3) days
prior to the date set for hearing. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
 
Notes
1    
CHAPTER 9
SOUND TRUCKS
SECTION:
3-9-1: Definitions
3-9-2: Registration Required
3-9-3: Registration And Identification
3-9-4: Regulations For Use
3-9-5: License Required; Fee; Application; Issuance
3-9-6: Appeal Of City Clerk’s Decision
3-9-7: Revocation Of License
3-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
           Any machine or device for the amplification of the human voice, music or any
SOUND-     other sound. “Sound-amplifying equipment”, as used herein, shall not be
AMPLIFYING construed as including standard automobile radios when used and heard only by
EQUIPMENT: occupants of the vehicle in which installed or warning devices on authorized
           emergency vehicles or horns or other warning devices on other vehicles used
           only for traffic safety purpose.
SOUND      Any motor vehicle, or other vehicle having mounted therein, thereon or
TRUCK:     attached thereto, any sound-amplifying equipment. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
 
3-9-2: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
No person shall use, or cause to be used, a sound truck with its sound-
amplifying equipment in operation in the City before filing a registration
statement with the City Clerk, in writing, in duplicate, which shall state the
following:
   A.   Name and home address of the applicant;
   B.   Address of place of business of applicant;
   C.   License number and motor number of the sound truck to be used by
applicant;
   D.   Name and address of person who owns the sound truck;
   E.   Name and address of person having direct charge of sound truck;
   F.   Names and addresses of all persons who will use or operate the sound
truck;
   G.   The purpose for which the sound truck will be used;
   H.   A general statement as to the section or sections of the City in which
the sound truck will be used;
   I.   The proposed hours of operation of the sound truck;
   J.   The number of days of proposed operation of the sound truck;
   K.   A general description of the sound-amplifying equipment to be used in
or on the sound truck. State the following:
   L.   The wattage to be used.
   M.   The volume in decibels of the sound which will be produced.
   N.   The approximate maximum distance for which sound will be thrown from
the sound truck. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-9-3: REGISTRATION AND IDENTIFICATION:
The City Clerk shall return to each applicant under Section _______ hereof, one
copy of the registration statement duly certified by the City Clerk as a
correct copy of the application. The certified copy of the application shall be
in the possession of any persons operating the sound truck at all times while
the sound truck’s sound-amplifying equipment is in operation, and the copy
shall be promptly displayed and shown to any police officer of the City upon
request. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-9-4: REGULATIONS FOR USE:
Use of sound trucks in the City with sound-amplifying equipment in operation
shall be subject to the following regulations:
   A.   The only sounds permitted are music or human speech.
   B.   Operations are permitted for four (4) hours each day. The permitted
four (4) hours of operation shall be between the hours of eleven o’clock (11:
00) A.M. and nine o’clock (9:00) P.M.
   C.   Sound-amplifying equipment shall not be operated unless the sound truck
upon which such equipment is mounted is operated at a speed of at least ten
(10) miles per hour, except when said truck is stopped or impeded by traffic.
   D.   Sound shall not be issued within one hundred (100) yards of hospitals,
schools, churches or courthouses.
   E.   No sound truck with its amplifying device in operation shall be
operated in the City except in the business and industrial districts as defined
by the Zoning Ordinance 1 .
   F.   The human speech and music amplified shall not be profane, lewd,
indecent or slanderous.
   G.   The volume of sound shall be controlled so that it will not be audible
for a distance in excess of one hundred feet (100') from the sound truck and so
that said volume is not unreasonably loud, raucous, jarring, disturbing or a
nuisance to persons within the area of audibility. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
 
Notes
1    See Title 9 of this code.
3-9-5: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE; APPLICATION; ISSUANCE:
   A.   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any sound truck in the
City for advertising purposes with sound-amplifying equipment in operation
unless a license has been obtained from the City Clerk. The fee for the license
shall be five dollars ($5.00) per month or five dollars ($5.00) for a fraction
of a month or twenty dollars ($20.00) per year if more than one month.
   B.   Persons applying for such license shall file with the City Clerk an
application, in writing, setting forth in the application the information
required in the registration statement pursuant to Section
3-6-2 of this Chapter.
   C.   If the City Clerk determines that the applicant complies with the
requirements of this Section, the application for the license shall be
approved. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-9-6: APPEAL OF CITY CLERK’S DECISION:
If the applicant is aggrieved by the decision of the City Clerk, the applicant
may appeal such decision to the City Council within seven (7) days of notice of
the decision of the City Clerk. The applicant must, in writing, appeal to the
City Council and set forth the reasons therefor why the applicant should not be
denied a license. The City Council shall set the time and place for a hearing a
reasonable period of time subsequent to applicant’s written notice of appeal.
Notice of such hearing shall be personally served upon the applicant or mailed,
postage prepaid, to the applicant at his/her last known address at least three
(3) days prior to the date of the hearing. The order of the City Council shall
be final. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-9-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The City Council may revoke any license issued under this Chapter for violation
of any of the provisions of this Code or ordinance of the City or laws of the
State. Prior to revocation by the City Council, the City Clerk or City Council
shall notify the applicant, in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds
of the complaint and the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be
personally served upon the licensee or mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee
at his/her last known address at least three (3) days prior to the date set for
the hearing. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
CHAPTER 10
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-10-1: Definitions
3-10-2: Licenses Required; Exemptions
3-10-3: Applications For License
3-10-3-1: Massage Establishment License
3-10-3-2: Massagist License
3-10-3-3: Change Of Application Particulars
3-10-4: License Application Procedures
3-10-5: License Fees
3-10-6: Qualifications
3-10-7: Appointment Book And Notice Of Massage At Other Locations
3-10-8: Compliance With Codes And Regulations
3-10-9: Operating And Sanitary Requirements
3-10-10 Inspections
3-10-11 Prohibited Acts
3-10-12 Revocation Of License
3-10-13 Nuisance; Abatement
3-10-14 Penalties
3-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. The word “shall” is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
 
               The person making application for a license or the renewal of a license to
APPLICANT:     either: a) maintain and operate a “massage establishment” as herein defined, or
               b) engage in the practice of “massage” as herein defined.
LICENSE        The city clerk/treasurer.
OFFICER:
               A person having a city license in full force and effect issued hereunder to
LICENSEE:      either: a) maintain and operate a “massage establishment” as herein defined, or
               b) engage in the practice of “massage” as herein defined.
               Any method of manual manipulation of, pressure on or friction against or
               rubbing, stroking, kneading, slapping, tapping, pounding, vibrating or
               stimulating the external parts of the human body with or without the aid of any
               mechanical or electrical apparatus, instrument or appliance or with or without
MASSAGE:       such supplementary aids as oil rubs, salt glows, hot or cold packs, rubbing
               alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powders, creams, lotions, ointments or
               other similar preparations commonly used in the practice of massage and/or by
               the use of Turkish, Finnish, Russian, Swedish, vapor, electric, salt, mineral,
               magnetic, hydro or other kind or character of baths.
MASSAGE        Any place or establishment where any person engages in or carries on or permits
ESTABLISHMENT: to be engaged in or carried on any of the activities mentioned in “massage” as
               herein defined.
MASSAGIST,     Any person who, for any consideration whatsoever, engages in the practice of
MASSEUR OR     “massage” as herein defined.
MASSEUSE:
PERSON:        Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or any
               organization of any kind. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
 
3-10-2: LICENSES REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Licenses:
      1.   Massage: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the
practice of, or attempt to practice, massage for a fee or for a gratuity,
without first having obtained a valid license therefor as provided in this
chapter and which license is in full force and effect.
      2.   Massage Establishments: It shall be unlawful for any person to
engage in, operate, conduct or carry on, or maintain in or upon, or to permit
to be engaged in, operated, conducted or carried on, or maintained in or upon,
any premises in the city the operation of a “massage establishment” as herein
defined without first having obtained a license as provided for in this chapter
and which is in full force and effect.
   B.   Exemptions: This chapter shall not apply to:
      1.   Persons authorized by the laws of the state of Idaho to practice
medicine, surgery, osteopathy, chiropody, chiropractic, naturopathy, podiatry
or persons holding a drugless practitioner’s certificate under the laws of the
state of Idaho;
      2.   Nurses registered or licensed pursuant to the laws of the state of
Idaho, or to orderlies, attendants or nurses’ aides in hospitals under the
direction of a licensed physician; and
      3.   Barbers and cosmetologists duly licensed under the laws of the state
of Idaho. The exemptions hereby granted shall apply and extend to the person or
persons so exempt so long as and to the extent necessary for the activities
performed in the course of the bona fide practice of the business or profession
of the person exempted. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-10-3: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSE:
3-10-3-1: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE:
Application for a license to operate a massage establishment shall be made to
the license officer in such form and manner as prescribed by the city council
accompanied by the annual fee hereinafter prescribed, but the application shall
contain at least the following:
   A.   Nature of Massage: The exact nature of the massage to be administered.
   B.   Location: The location and mailing address of the proposed
establishment.
   C.   Name and Address: The name and residence address of:
      1.   The applicant.
      2.   If applicant is a corporation, of each of the officers, directors
and managers of said corporation and of each stockholder owning more than ten
percent (10%) of the stock of the corporation, and the address of the
corporation itself, if different from the address of the proposed massage
establishment.
      3.   If applicant is a partnership, of each of the partners including
limited partners, and the address of the partnership itself, if different from
the address of the proposed massage establishment.
      4.   Of each massagist who is or will be employed in said establishment.
   D.   Proof of Age: Written proof that the applicant is over the age of
eighteen (18) years.
   E.   Description: Individual or partnership applicant’s weight, height,
color of eyes and hair, and sex.
   F.   Photographs and Fingerprints:
      1.   One portrait photograph of the applicant taken within thirty (30)
days of the date of application, at least two inches by two inches (2" x 2") in
size, and a complete set of applicant’s fingerprints which shall be taken by
the chief of police or his agent.
      2.   If the applicant is a corporation, one portrait photograph taken
within thirty (30) days of the date of application at least two inches by two
inches (2" x 2") in size of all officers and managing agents of said
corporation, and a complete set of the same officers’ and agents’ fingerprints
which shall be taken by the chief of police or his agent.
      3.   If the applicant is a partnership, one portrait photograph taken
within thirty (30) days of the application at least two inches by two inches
(2" x 2") in size of each partner, including a limited partner in said
partnership, and a complete set of each partner’s or limited partner’s
fingerprints which shall be taken by the chief of police or his agent.
   G.   Previous Employment: The business, occupation or employment of the
applicant for the three (3) years immediately preceding the date of the
application, including the name, dates of, location and nature of same.
   H.   History: The history of the applicant in the operation of a massage
establishment or similar business or occupation, including, but not limited to,
whether or not such person, in previously operating in this or another city
within or without the state, has had a massage or similar license or
application therefor denied, revoked or suspended, and the reason therefor,
within three (3) years immediately preceding the date of application, and the
business activity or occupation subsequent to such action of suspension or
revocation.
   I.   Previous Offenses: Whether the applicant (including the officers,
directors and managers of a corporation, and partners and managers of a
partnership), within three (3) years prior to making application, has been
convicted of, paid any fine, been placed on probation, received a deferred
sentence, received a withheld judgment, suffered the forfeiture of a bond for
failure to appear or completed any sentence of confinement for any felony or
misdemeanor, the latter including the offenses of driving while under the
influence of intoxicating beverages and liquors and reckless driving, but shall
not include those offenses otherwise regulating the operation and licensing of
vehicles and fish and game laws.
   J.   City Authorization: Authorization for the chief of police or his agent,
to seek information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the
statements set forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant
for the permit. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-10-3-2: MASSAGIST LICENSE:
Application for a masseur or masseuse license shall be made to the license
officer in such form and manner as prescribed by the council accompanied by the
annual fee hereinafter prescribed, but the application shall include the
following:
   A.   Name and residence address and two (2) previous addresses immediately
prior to the present address of applicant.
   B.   Social security number.
   C.   Written proof that the applicant is at least eighteen (18) years of
age.
   D.   Weight, height, color of hair and eyes, and sex.
   E.   Two (2) front face portrait photographs taken within thirty (30) days
of the date of application and at least two inches by two inches (2" x 2") in
size.
   F.   The business, occupation or employment of the applicant for five (5)
years immediately preceding the date of application.
   G.   The massage or similar business license history of the applicant, and
whether the applicant has had such license or application therefor denied,
revoked or suspended within three (3) years immediately preceding the date of
application and the reason therefor, and the business activities or occupations
subsequent to such actions of denial, suspension or revocation.
   H.   Whether the applicant within three (3) years immediately prior to the
date of application has been convicted of, paid any fine, been placed on
probation, received a deferred sentence, received a withheld judgment, suffered
the forfeiture of a bond for failure to appear or completed any sentence for
confinement for any felony or misdemeanor, the latter including the offenses of
driving while under the influence of intoxicating beverages and reckless
driving, but shall not include those offenses otherwise regulating the
operation and licensing of vehicles and fish and game laws.
   I.   A complete set of fingerprints taken and to be retained on file by the
police chief or his authorized representatives.
   J.   A statement in writing from a licensed physician in the state that he
has examined the applicant and believes the applicant to be free from all
communicable diseases.
   K.   Authorization for the chief of police or his agent to seek information
and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set forth in the
application and the qualifications of the applicant for the permit. (Ord. 628,
6-1-2021)
3-10-3-3: CHANGE OF APPLICATION PARTICULARS:
   A.   Every massage establishment licensee shall report immediately to the
license officer any and all changes of ownership or management of the massage
establishment including, but not limited to, changes of manager or other person
principally in charge, stockholders holding more than ten percent (10%) of the
stock of the corporation, officers, directors and any and all changes of name,
style or designation under which the business is to be conducted; any and all
changes of business address or telephone numbers where the business is to be
conducted; any and all changes or transfers of massagists employed in the
business whether by new or renewed employment, discharge or termination or
otherwise.
   B.   Every massagist shall report immediately to the license officer any and
all changes of employment, whether by new or renewed employment, discharge or
termination or otherwise, giving the name and address of the former employer,
if any, and the name and address of the new employer, if any. (Ord. 628, 6-1-
2021)
3-10-4: LICENSE APPLICATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Investigations: Upon receipt of an application for a license, the
license officer shall cause an investigation to be made and shall refer all
applications to the chief of police, building inspector and South Central
District health department for their recommendations. The applicant for either
a massage establishment license or massagist license shall submit to an
interview for such further information, identification and physical examination
as deemed necessary by any officer of the city, and shall afford the license
officer and any other department or member thereof of the city reasonable
opportunity to inspect the facilities for which the license is granted.
   B.   Submit Applications to City Council:
      1.   Upon receiving the written recommendations of all departments, the
license officer shall submit all applications to the city council for approval.
      2.   The city council shall examine all applications filed under section
___________ of this chapter, make or cause to be made such further
investigations of the application and applicant it shall deem necessary, and
require the appearance of the applicant before the city council at the time and
place fixed by it for purposes of either: a) approving or denying an
application, or b) revoking or suspending a license.
      3.   The city council shall require the license officer to file in his
office, for public inspection, and shall further require him to serve upon the
applicant by certified mail within two (2) days after approval or denial of an
application, a written statement of the city council’s findings of fact and its
decision approving or denying an application. If the city council denies an
application for a license, the applicant may file, within seven (7) days from
the date of denial, a written request for a public hearing together with
exceptions to the grounds upon which the city council based its denial of the
application. Upon the filing of such request, the city council shall fix a time
and place of the hearing within fifteen (15) days after the request is filed
and shall notify the applicant thereof. At the hearing, the applicant may
present evidence in support of his application. Any interested person may be
allowed to participate in the hearing to present evidence concerning the
application. Within five (5) days after the conclusion of the hearing, the city
council shall render a decision stating the grounds upon which the decision is
based. The report shall be filed in the city clerk/treasurer’s office for
public inspection and copies shall be served by certified mail upon the
applicant.
   C.   Issue License: Subject to the approval of the city council, the license
officer shall issue annual licenses to a massage establishment or a license to
each massagist, as the case may be. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-10-5: LICENSE FEES:
License fees charged for administration and enforcement of this chapter shall
be an annual fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-10-6: QUALIFICATIONS:
The city council shall refuse to issue a license to a massage establishment or
a massagist if it finds that:
   A.   The correct permit fee has not been tendered to the city and, in the
case of a check or bank draft, honored with payment upon presentation.
   B.   The operation if permitted, as proposed by the applicant, would not
comply with all applicable laws including, but not limited to, the city’s
building, zoning and health regulations.
   C.   The applicant, manager or other person principally in charge of the
operation of the business, or the stockholders holding more than ten percent
(10%) of the stock of the corporation and any officers, directors and any
employees of a corporation, or the members of a partnership, have been, within
three (3) years prior to making application, convicted of, paid any fine, been
placed on probation, received a deferred sentence, received a withheld
judgment, suffered the forfeiture of a bond for failure to appear or completed
any sentence of confinement for any felony or misdemeanor, the latter including
the offenses of driving while under the influence of intoxicating beverages and
liquors and reckless driving, but shall not include those offenses otherwise
regulating the operation and licensing of vehicles and fish and game laws.
   D.   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of fact in the application or in any document required to be
submitted in support thereof.
   E.   The applicant has had a massage business, massagist or other similar
permit or license denied, revoked or suspended for any of the above causes by
the city or any other state or local agency within three (3) years prior to the
date of the application.
   F.   The applicant, if an individual or if a corporation, any of the
officers and directors, or if a partnership, any member of the partner ship and
the manager or other person principally in charge of the operation of the
business, is not over the age of eighteen (18) years.
   All persons licensed hereunder must continue throughout the license period
to have all of the qualifications as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 628, 6-1-
2021)
3-10-7: APPOINTMENT BOOK AND NOTICE OF MASSAGE AT OTHER LOCATIONS:
   A.   Every person who operates a massage establishment or practices or
provides a massage shall at all times keep an appointment book in which the
name of each and every patron shall be entered, together with the time, date
and place of service and the service provided. Such appointment book shall be
available at all times for inspection by the police chief or his authorized
representatives.
   B.   Every person who practices or provides any massage service at any
location other than the principal place of business of a massage establishment,
including, but not limited to, any motel or hotel, must first give notice of
his or her presence on the premises at that location to the owner, manager or
person in charge of that location, and fully identify himself or herself, the
massage establishment operator, and the patron upon whom the person intends to
practice or provide a massage before rendering any service. This provision
shall be deemed complied with where the location is a motel or hotel by giving
such notice and identification to the person in charge of the registration desk
of such motel or hotel. A record of such appointment shall also be kept in the
appointment book hereinabove specified. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-10-8: COMPLIANCE WITH CODES AND REGULATIONS:
Every massage establishment and massagist shall:
   A.   Conform to all applicable codes and ordinances of the city including,
but not excluding by enumeration, sanitation, building, housing, electrical,
fire prevention, mechanical and gas; and
   B.   Observe all standards, rules and regulations pertaining to health and
safety prescribed by the state of Idaho, the South Central District health
department and city of Filer. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-10-9: OPERATING AND SANITARY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Every portion of a massage establishment, including appliances and
apparatus, shall be kept clean and operated in a sanitary condition and in
accordance with the rules and regulations of the South Central District health
department.
   B.   All licensees and employees shall be clean and wear clean outer
garments. All massage establishments shall be provided with clean, laundered
sheets and towels in sufficient quantity and shall be laundered after each use
thereof and stored in an approved sanitary manner.
   C.   Wet and dry heat rooms, shower compartments and toilet rooms shall be
thoroughly cleaned each day the business is in operation. Bathtubs and all
baths shall be thoroughly cleaned after each use.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person:
      1.   To use upon one patron a towel that has been used upon another
person, unless the towel has been relaundered;
      2.   Not to provide each table with a clean and laundered towel or sheet,
or clean paper towel or sheet for each patron; and
      3.   To practice or continue to practice massage while such person has an
infectious, contagious or communicable disease. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-10-10: INSPECTIONS:
The police department, the building inspector and the South Central District
health department shall at any time during the business hours, and at least
twice a year, make an inspection of each massage establishment for the purposes
of determining that the provisions of this chapter are complied with. It shall
be unlawful for any licensee to fail to allow such inspection officer access to
the premises or to hinder such officer in any manner. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-10-11: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person:
   A.   To publish or distribute, or cause to be published or distributed, any
advertising matter or business identification card that states or depicts any
portion of the human body that would reasonably suggest to prospective patrons
that any service is available other than a “massage” as defined in section
_________ of this chapter.
   B.   To permit any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to come or
remain on the premises of any massage establishment as a massagist, employee or
patron.
   C.   To sell, give, dispense, provide or keep, or cause or permit to be
sold, given, dispensed, provided or kept, any alcoholic beverage or liquor on
the premises of any massage establishment.
   D.   To employ any person as a massagist unless such person has obtained and
has in effect a license issued pursuant to this chapter.
   E.   In a massage establishment, to place his or her hand or hands upon, to
touch with any part of his or her body, to fondle in any manner, or to massage,
a sexual or genital part of any person.
   F.   In a massage establishment, to expose his or her sexual or genital
parts, or any portion thereof, to any other person.
   G.   Owning, renting, leasing, operating or managing a massage
establishment, knowingly to cause, allow or permit in or about such massage
establishment any agent, lessee, employee or any other person under his control
or supervision to perform such acts prohibited in subsections E and F of this
section. As used herein, sexual or genital parts shall include the genitals,
pubic areas, anus or perineum of any person and the breasts of a female. (Ord.
628, 6-1-2021)
3-10-12: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by
the city council after notice of hearing whenever it shall be shown, or
whenever the city council has knowledge or information, that a licensee: 1) has
violated any of the provisions of this chapter, or 2) has committed a fraud or
false statement in the application for a license.
   B.   Notice of the hearing of revocation shall be given in writing setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee at his
last known address at least five (5) days prior to the date set for hearing.
   C.   The chief of police shall be notified forthwith by the city council of
the suspension or revocation of any license issued under this chapter. (Ord.
628, 6-1-2021)
3-10-13: NUISANCE; ABATEMENT:
Any violation of this chapter which continues for longer than one day shall be
deemed to be a public nuisance and may be abated in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-10-14: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished with a
three-hundred-dollar ($300.00) fine and/or six (6) months in jail. Each day
such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 628, 6-1-
2021)
CHAPTER 11
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-11-1: Purpose
3-11-2: Definitions
3-11-3: License Required
3-11-4: Issuance Of License
3-11-5: Fees
3-11-6: Inspection
3-11-7: Expiration Of License
3-11-8: Suspension
3-11-9: Revocation
3-11-10: Hearing; License Denial, Suspension, Revocation; Appeal
3-11-11: Transfer Of License
3-11-12: Location Of Sexually Oriented Businesses
3-11-13: Viewing Room Regulations
3-11-14: Escort Agencies Regulations
3-11-15: Public Nudity Regulations
3-11-16: Prohibition Against Children In A Sexually Oriented Business
3-11-17: Hours Of Operation
3-11-18: Exemptions
3-11-19: Injunction
3-11-20: License Application
3-11-1: PURPOSE:
In the development and adoption of this chapter, it is recognized that there
are some adult business uses which, due to their very nature, have serious,
objectionable, operational characteristics, particularly when located in close
proximity to residential neighborhoods, thereby having a deleterious impact
upon property values and the quality of life in such surrounding areas. It has
been acknowledged by communities across the nation that state and local
governmental entities have a special concern in regulating the operation of
such businesses under their jurisdiction to ensure that these adverse secondary
effects will not contribute to the blighting or downgrading of adjacent
neighborhoods nor endanger the well-being of the youth in their communities.
The special regulations deemed necessary to control the undesirable
externalities arising from these enterprises are set forth below. The primary
purpose of these controls and regulations is to preserve the integrity and
character of residential neighborhoods, to deter the spread of urban blight and
to protect minors from the objectionable, operational characteristics of these
adult uses by restricting their close proximity to churches, parks, schools,
restaurants, movie theaters and residential areas.
This chapter is not intended and should not be construed to create a
contemporary community standard nor to allow the sale, loan, distribution,
dissemination, presentation or exhibition of material or live conduct which is
obscene or which is in violation of any other law, nor to permit the creation
or maintenance of any moral nuisance. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
                An establishment having as a preponderance of its stock in trade or its dollar
                volume in trade, books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
ADULT           photographs, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, tapes, records or
BOOKSTORE:      other forms of visual or audio representations which are distinguished or
                characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
                specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
                A nightclub, bar, theater, restaurant or similar establishment which frequently
                features live performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers, go-go dancers,
                exotic dancers, strippers, or similar entertainers, where such performances are
                distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
ADULT CABARET:  by exposure of specified anatomical areas and/or which regularly feature films,
                motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which
                are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or
                description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
                observation by patrons.
                An open lot or part thereof, with appurtenant facilities, devoted primarily to
                the presentation of motion pictures, films, theatrical productions and other
ADULT DRIVE-IN  forms of visual productions, for any form of consideration, to persons in motor
THEATER:        vehicles or on outdoor seats in which a preponderance of the total presentation
                time is devoted to the showing of materials distinguished or characterized by an
                emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
                activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons.
ADULT           An adult bookstore, adult motion picture theater, adult mini-motion picture
ENTERTAINMENT   theater, adult motion picture arcade, adult cabaret, adult drive-in theater,
BUSINESS:       adult live entertainment arcade or adult service establishment.
                Any building or structure which contains or is used for commercial entertainment
ADULT LIVE      where the patron directly or indirectly is charged a fee to view from an enclosed
ENTERTAINMENT   or screened area or both a series of live dance routines, strip performances or
ARCADE:         other gyrational choreography, which performances are distinguished or
                characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or by exposure of
                specified anatomical areas.
                An enclosed building with a capacity of more than five (5) but less than fifty
                (50) persons, used for presenting films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides
ADULT MINI-     or similar photographic reproductions in which a preponderance of the total
MOTION PICTURE  presentation time is devoted to the showing of materials which are distinguished
THEATER:        or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or related to
                specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by
                patrons therein.
                A hotel, motel or similar establishment offering public accommodations for any
                form of consideration which provides patrons, upon request, with closed circuit
ADULT MOTEL:    television transmissions, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other
                photographic reproductions which are distinguished or characterized by an
                emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
                specified anatomical areas.
                Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein coin or slug
                operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or
ADULT MOTION    motion picture machines, projectors or other image producing devices are
PICTURE ARCADE: maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer persons per machine at any one
                time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an
                emphasis on depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified
                anatomical areas.
                An enclosed building with a capacity of fifty (50) or more persons used for
ADULT MOTION    presenting films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or similar photographic
PICTURE         reproductions in which a preponderance of the total presentation time is devoted
THEATER:        to showing of materials which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
                on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
                specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
ADULT SERVICE   Any building, premises, or structure or other facility, or any part thereof,
ESTABLISHMENT:  under common ownership or control which provides a preponderance of services
                involving specified sexual activities or display of specified anatomical areas.
                An increase in the size of the building, structure or premises in which the adult
ENLARGEMENT:    entertainment business is conducted by either construction or use of an adjacent
                building or any portion thereof whether located on the same or an adjacent lot or
                parcel of land.
                Shall mean and include any of the following:
                A.   The opening or commencement of any such business as a new business;
ESTABLISHING AN B.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not an adult
ADULT           entertainment business, to any of the adult entertainment businesses defined
ENTERTAINMENT   herein;
BUSINESS:       C.   The addition of any of the adult entertainment businesses defined herein to
                any other existing adult entertainment business; or
                D.   The relocation of any such business.
                The rebuilding or restoration of any nonconforming adult use which was damaged or
                partially destroyed by an exercise of the power of eminent domain, or by fire,
RECONSTRUCTION: flood, wind, explosion or other calamity or act of God if the damage or
                destruction exceeds two-thirds (2/3) of the value of the structure or the
                facilities affected.
RESIDENTIAL
ZONING          R-A, R-1, and A zoning districts, or any subdistricts or overlays thereof.
DISTRICT:
RESUMPTION:     The reuse or reoccupation of a nonconforming adult use which has been
                discontinued for a period of six (6) or more consecutive months.
                As used in the definition of “adult service establishment” herein, shall mean and
                include any combination of two (2) or more of the following activities:
                A.   The sale or display of books, magazines, periodicals or other printed
                matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, tapes,
                records or other forms of visual or audio representations which are characterized
                by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities
                or specified anatomical areas;
SERVICES        B.   The presentation of films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or
INVOLVING       similar photographic reproductions which are distinguished or characterized by an
SPECIFIED       emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
SEXUAL          specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons;
ACTIVITIES OR   C.   The operation of coin or slug operated or electronically, electrically or
DISPLAY OF      mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines. projectors or other
SPECIFIED       image producing devices to show images to five (5) or fewer persons per machine
ANATOMICAL      at any one time and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
AREAS:          characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing specified sexual
                activities or specified anatomical areas;
                D.   Live performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers, go-go dancers,
                exotic dancers, strippers, or similar entertainers, where such performances are
                distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
                specified anatomical areas;
                E.   The operation of a massage school, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic,
                bathhouse, escort service, body painting studio or nude modeling studio.
                Shall mean and include any of the following:
SPECIFIED       A.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
ANATOMICAL      buttocks, anus or female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the
AREAS:          areolae; or
                B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and
                opaquely covered.
                Shall mean and include any of the following:
                A.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
                B.   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy;
                C.   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions, buttocks
                or female breasts;
SPECIFIED       D.   Flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship;
SEXUAL          E.   Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating or the infliction of
ACTIVITIES:     pain;
                F.   Erotic touching, fondling or other such contact with an animal by a human
                being; or
                G.   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal irrigation as part
                of or in connection with any of the activities set forth in subsections A through
                F of this definition.
STRUCTURAL      Any change which would prolong the life of the supporting members of a building
ALTERATION:     or structure such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders, except such
                changes as are ordered. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
 
3-11-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful:
      1.   For any person to operate a sexually oriented business without a
valid sexually oriented business license issued by the city pursuant to this
chapter.
      2.   For any person who operates a sexually oriented business to employ a
person to work for the sexually oriented business who is not licensed as a
sexually oriented business employee by the city pursuant to this chapter.
      3.   For any person to obtain employment with a sexually oriented
business without having secured a sexually oriented business employee license
pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
city. All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter.
   C.   An applicant for a sexually oriented business license or a sexually
oriented business employee license shall file with the chief of police a
completed application made on a form prescribed and provided by the city clerk.
An application shall be considered complete if it includes the information
required in this section. The applicant shall be qualified according to the
provisions of this chapter. The application shall be notarized. The application
shall include the information called for in subsections C1 through C7 of this
section as follows:
      1.   The full true name and any other names used in the preceding five
(5) years.
      2.   Current business address.
      3.   A set of fingerprints suitable for conducting necessary background
checks pursuant to this chapter and the applicant’s social security number to
be used for the same purpose.
      4.   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the
name, business location, legal description, business mailing address and phone
number of the proposed sexually oriented business.
      5.   Written proof of age, in the form of either: a) a copy of a birth
certificate and current photo, b) current driver’s license with picture, or c)
other picture identification document issued by a governmental agency.
      6.   The issuing jurisdiction and the effective dates of any license or
permit held by the applicant relating to a sexually oriented business, whether
any such license or permit has been denied, revoked or suspended and, if so,
the reason or reasons therefor.
      7.   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the
name and address of the statutory agent or other agent authorized to receive
service of process. The information provided pursuant to subsections C1 through
C6 of this section and this subsection C7 shall be supplemented in writing by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the enforcement officer within ten
(10) working days of a change of circumstances which would render the
information originally submitted false or incomplete.
   D.   The application for a sexually oriented business license shall be
accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared but shall be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6").
   E.   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, he shall sign the application for a license as applicant. If a
person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, such as a corporation, each officer, director, general partner or
other person who will participate directly in decisions relating to management
of the business shall sign the application for a license as applicant. Each
applicant must be qualified under section ____________ of this chapter and each
applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is granted.
   F.   A person who possesses a valid business license is not exempt from the
requirement of obtaining any required sexually oriented business license. A
person who operates a sexually oriented business and possesses a business
license shall comply with the requirements and provisions of this chapter,
where applicable.
   G.   The information provided by an applicant in connection with the
application for a license under this chapter shall be maintained by the chief
of police on a confidential basis, and may be disclosed only: 1) to other
governmental agencies in connection with a law enforcement or public safety
function, or 2) as may otherwise be required by law or court order. (Ord. 628,
6-1-2021)
3-11-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Upon the filing of a completed application for a sexually oriented
business license or a sexually oriented business employee license, the chief of
police shall issue a temporary license to the applicant, which temporary
license shall expire upon the final decision of the chief of police to deny or
grant the license. Within twenty (20) days after the receipt of a completed
application, the chief of police shall either issue a license or issue a
written notice of intent to deny a license to the applicant. The enforcement
officer shall approve the issuance of a license unless one or more of the
following is found to be true:
      1.   An applicant is less than eighteen (18) years of age.
      2.   An applicant is delinquent in the payment to the city of taxes,
fees, fines, or penalties assessed against or imposed upon the applicant in
relation to a sexually oriented business.
      3.   An applicant has failed to provide information as required by
section _______ of this chapter for issuance of the license.
      4.   A business entity for which the applicant had, at the time of an
offense leading to a criminal conviction described herein, a management
responsibility or a controlling interest, has been convicted of a “specified
criminal activity” as defined in this chapter. The fact that a conviction is
being appealed shall have no effect.
      5.   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid.
      6.   An applicant has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form.
      7.   The proposed sexually oriented business is located in a zoning
district other than a district in which sexually oriented businesses are
allowed to operate under the city of Filer’s zoning ordinance or is not in
compliance with the location restrictions established for sexually oriented
businesses in the appropriate zoning district(s).
   B.   An applicant ineligible for a license due to subsection A4 of this
section may qualify for a sexually oriented business license only when the time
period required by the applicable subsection has elapsed.
   C.   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the person
or persons to whom it is granted, the number of the license issued to that
applicant, the expiration date, and, if the license is for a sexually oriented
business, the address of the sexually oriented business. A sexually oriented
business employee license shall contain a photograph of the licensee. The
sexually oriented business license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or
near the entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it may be easily
read at any time. A sexually oriented business employee shall keep the
employee’s license on his or her person or on the premises where the licensee
is then working or performing and shall produce such license for inspection
upon request by a law enforcement officer or other authorized city official.
(Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-11-5: FEES:
   A.   The nonrefundable initial license fee and annual renewal fee for a
sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented business employee
license shall be set by the city council at an amount determined to be
sufficient to pay the cost of administering this program, subject to subsection
B of this section.
   B.   In no event shall the fees exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
for the initial license and one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125.00) for the
renewal fee for a sexually oriented business license. In no event shall the
fees exceed seventy-five dollars ($75.00) for the initial license and fifty
dollars ($50.00) for the renewal fee for a sexually oriented business employee
license. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-11-6: INSPECTION:
   A.   An applicant, operator or licensee shall permit law enforcement
officers, and any other federal, state, county or city agency in the
performance of any function connected with the enforcement of this chapter,
normally and regularly conducted by such agencies, to inspect those portions of
the premises of a sexually oriented business where patrons or customers are
permitted to occupy for the purpose of ensuring compliance with this chapter,
at any time the business is occupied or open for business.
   B.   The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an adult motel
which are currently being rented by a customer for use as a permanent or
temporary habitation. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-11-7: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in section __________ of this
chapter. Application for renewal shall be made at least thirty (30) days before
the expiration date, and when made less than thirty (30) days before the
expiration date, the expiration of the license will not be affected.
   B.   When the city denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not be
issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the city finds that the basis for denial of the renewal license has
been corrected or abated, the applicant shall be granted a license if at least
ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date denial became final. (Ord. 628, 6-
1-2021)
3-11-8: SUSPENSION:
The city shall issue a written intent to suspend a license for a period not to
exceed thirty (30) days if it determines that a licensee or an employee of a
licensee has:
   A.   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
   B.   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-11-9: REVOCATION:
   A.   The chief of police shall issue a written statement of intent to revoke
a license if a cause of suspension in section ________ of this chapter occurs
and the license has been suspended within the preceding twelve (12) months.
   B.   The chief of police shall issue a written statement of intent to revoke
a license if the chief determines that:
      1.   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      2.   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
      3.   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      4.   A licensee knowingly operated the sexually oriented business during
a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      5.   A licensee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual intercourse,
sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or other sex act to occur in or on the
licensed premises. This subsection B5 will not apply to an adult motel, unless
the licensee knowingly allowed sexual activities to occur either: a) in
exchange for money, or b) in a public place or within public view.
   C.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the revocation of the license.
   D.   When, after the notice and hearing procedure described in section
_______ of this chapter, the chief of police revokes a license, the revocation
shall continue for one year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually
oriented business license for one year from the date revocation becomes
effective, provided that, if the conditions of subsection __________ of this
chapter are met, a provisional license will be granted pursuant to that
section. If, subsequent to revocation, the chief of police finds that the basis
for the revocation found in subsections B1 and B4 of this section has been
corrected or abated, the applicant shall be granted a license if at least
ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date the revocation became effective.
(Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-11-10: HEARING; LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION; APPEAL:
   A.   If the chief of police determines that facts exist for denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license under this chapter, the chief of police
shall notify the applicant or licensee (respondent) in writing of the intent to
deny, suspend or revoke the license, including the grounds therefor, by
personal delivery, or by certified mail. The notification shall be directed to
the most current business address on file with the chief of police. Within five
(5) working days of receipt of such notice, the respondent may provide to the
mayor and city council in writing a response that shall include a statement of
reasons why the license or permit should not be denied, suspended, or revoked.
Within three (3) days of the receipt of respondent’s written response, the
mayor shall notify respondent in writing of the hearing date on respondent’s
denial, suspension, or revocation proceeding. Within ten (10) working days of
the receipt of respondent’s written response, the mayor and city council shall
conduct a hearing at which respondent shall have the opportunity to be
represented by counsel and present evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf.
If a response is not received by the mayor and city council in the time stated
or, if after the hearing the city council finds that grounds as specified in
this chapter exist for denial, suspension, or revocation, then such denial,
suspension, or revocation shall become final five (5) days after the mayor
sends, by certified mail, written notice that the license has been denied,
suspended, or revoked. Such notice shall include a statement advising the
applicant or licensee of the right to appeal such decision to a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   If the city council finds that no grounds exist for denial, suspension, or
revocation of a license, then within five (5) days after the hearing, the mayor
shall withdraw the intent to deny, suspend, or revoke the license and shall so
notify the respondent in writing by certified mail of such action and shall
contemporaneously therewith issue the license.
   When a decision to deny, suspend or revoke a license becomes final, the
applicant or licensee (aggrieved party) whose application for a license has
been denied or whose license has been suspended or revoked shall have the right
to appeal such action to a court of competent jurisdiction. Upon the filing of
any court action to appeal, challenge, restrain or otherwise enjoin the city’s
enforcement of the denial, suspension, or revocation, the city shall
immediately issue the aggrieved party a provisional license. The provisional
license shall allow the aggrieved party to continue operation of the sexually
oriented business or to continue employment as a sexually oriented business
employee and will expire upon the court’s entry of a judgment on the aggrieved
party’s action to appeal, challenge, restrain or otherwise enjoin the city’s
enforcement. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-11-11: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A licensee shall not transfer his/her license to another, nor shall a licensee
operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license at any
place other than the address designated in the application. (Ord. 628, 6-1-
2021)
3-11-12: LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
   A.   A person commits a misdemeanor if that person operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business in any zoning district other than
commercial general, as defined and described in the zoning code.
   B.   A person commits an offense if the person operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business within five hundred feet (500') of:
      1.   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building which is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities;
      2.   A public or private educational facility including, but not limited
to, child daycare facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens,
elementary schools, private schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools,
middle schools, high schools, vocational schools, secondary schools,
continuation schools, special education schools, junior colleges, and
universities; school includes the school grounds, but does not include
facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as a
school;
      3.   A boundary of a residential district as defined in the city of Filer
zoning code;
      4.   A public park or recreational area which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, wilderness areas, or other similar
public land within the city which is under the control, operation, or
management of the city park and recreation authorities;
      5.   The property line of a lot devoted to a residential use as defined
in the zoning code; or
      6.   A licensed premise, licensed pursuant to the alcoholic beverage
control regulations of the state. No business licensed to sell alcohol shall be
permitted to operate a sexually oriented business on the licensed premises
designated for the sale of alcohol.
   C.   A person commits a misdemeanor if that person causes or permits the
operation, establishment, substantial enlargement, or transfer of ownership or
control of a sexually oriented business within five hundred feet (500') of
another sexually oriented business.
   D.   A person commits a misdemeanor if that person causes or permits the
operation, establishment, or maintenance of more than one sexually oriented
business in the same building, structure, or portion thereof, or the increase
of floor area of any sexually oriented business in any building, structure, or
portion thereof containing another sexually oriented business.
   E.   For the purpose of subsection B of this section, measurement shall be
made in a straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or
objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure used as the part
of the premises where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest
property line of the premises of a use listed in subsection B of this section.
Presence of a city, county or other political subdivision boundary shall be
irrelevant for purposes of calculating and applying the distance requirements
of this section.
   F.   For purposes of subsection C of this section, the distance between any
two (2) sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line,
without regard to the intervening structures or objects or political
boundaries, from the closest exterior wall of the structure in which each
business is located.
   G.   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating on May 30, 2021, that
is in violation of subsections A through F of this section shall be deemed a
nonconforming use. The nonconforming use will be permitted to continue unless
terminated for any reason or voluntarily discontinued for a period of thirty
(30) days or more. Such nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged,
extended, or altered except that the use may be changed to a conforming use. If
two (2) or more sexually oriented businesses are within five hundred feet
(500') of one another and otherwise in a permissible location, the sexually
oriented business which was first established and continually operating at a
particular location is the conforming use and the later established business
(es) is/are nonconforming.
   H.   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of the sexually oriented business license, of a use listed in
subsection B of this section within five hundred feet (500') of the sexually
oriented business. This provision applies only to the renewal of a valid
license, and does not apply when an application is made for a license after the
applicant’s previous license has expired or been revoked. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-11-13: VIEWING ROOM REGULATIONS:
   A.   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space, a
film, videocassette, live entertainment, or other video reproduction which
depicts specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply
with the following requirements:
      1.   Upon application for a sexually oriented license, the application
shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan thereof
specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations and the location of
all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the premises in
which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not exceed thirty-
two (32) square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall
not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to
some designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or
with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of
all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches (±6"). The city may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications
if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies
that the configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was
prepared.
      2.   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      3.   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the city.
      4.   It is the duty of the licensee of the premises to ensure that at
least one licensed employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station
at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      5.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two (2) or more manager’s stations designated, then the interior
of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted
access for any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations. The view
required in this subsection A5 must be by direct line of sight from the
manager’s station.
      6.   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the view area
specified in subsection A5 of this section remains unobstructed by any doors,
curtains, partitions, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials and,
at all times, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the
premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted in the application filed pursuant to subsection A1 of this section.
      7.   No viewing booth may be occupied by more than one person at any
time.
      8.   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five (5.0) foot-candles as measured
at the floor level.
      9.   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the illumination
described above is maintained at all times that any patron is present in the
premises.
      10.   No licensee shall allow openings of any kind to exist between
viewing booths.
      11.   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths.
      12.   The licensee shall, during each business day, regularly inspect the
walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings or holes exist.
      13.   The licensee shall cause all floor coverings in viewing booths to
be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.
      14.   The licensee shall cause all wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in
viewing booths to be constructed of, or permanently covered by, nonporous,
easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood, composition board or other porous
material shall be used within forty-eight inches (48") of the floor.
   B.   A person having a duty under subsections A1 through A14 of this section
commits a misdemeanor if he knowingly fails to fulfill that duty. (Ord. 628, 6-
1-2021)
3-11-14: ESCORT AGENCIES REGULATIONS:
   A.   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years.
   B.   A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years. (Ord.
628, 6-1-2021)
3-11-15: PUBLIC NUDITY REGULATIONS:
   A.   It shall be a misdemeanor for a person who knowingly and intentionally,
in a sexually oriented business, appears in a state of nudity or engages in
specified sexual activities.
   B.   It shall be a misdemeanor for a person who knowingly or intentionally
in a sexually oriented business appears in a seminude condition unless the
person is an employee who, while seminude, shall be at least six feet (6') from
any patron or customer and on a stage at least two feet (2') from the floor.
   C.   It shall be a misdemeanor for an employee, while seminude in a sexually
oriented business, to receive directly any pay or gratuity from any patron or
customer or for any patron or customer to pay or give any gratuity directly to
any employee, while said employee is seminude in a sexually oriented business.
   D.   It shall be a misdemeanor for an employee, while seminude, to knowingly
and intentionally touch a customer or the clothing of a customer. (Ord. 628, 6-
1-2021)
3-11-16: PROHIBITION AGAINST CHILDREN IN A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS:
A person commits a misdemeanor if the person knowingly allows a person under
the age of eighteen (18) years on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-11-17: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of one o’clock (1:00) A.M. and eight o’clock (8:00)
A.M. on weekdays and Saturdays, and one o’clock (1:00) A.M. and twelve o’clock
(12:00) noon on Sundays. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-11-18: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   It is a defense to prosecution under section of this chapter that a
person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      1.   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state of Idaho; a college,
junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
      2.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      3.   In a structure:
         a.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing; and
         b.   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
in the class; and
         c.   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-11-19: INJUNCTION:
A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without a valid license or in violation of section ____________ of this chapter
is subject to a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for criminal
violations. Such violations shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up
to three hundred dollars ($300.00) and/or six (6) months’ incarceration. Each
day a sexually oriented business so operates is a separate offense or
violation. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
3-11-20: LICENSE APPLICATION:
   A.   All owners of sexually oriented businesses existing on the date of
publication hereof and their employees shall have thirty (30) days from the
date of publication hereof to file their licensing applications with the
planning and development services department of the city of Filer. Owners and
employees of sexually oriented businesses in existence on the date of
publication hereof shall, upon application, be issued temporary licenses and
permitted to continue operation of and employment by said sexually oriented
businesses while their license applications are pending final decision by the
chief of police in accordance with section __________ of this chapter.
   B.   All owners and employees of new sexually oriented businesses that are
not in existence on the date of publication hereof shall not conduct business
without a license issued by the enforcement officer. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
CHAPTER 12
YARD SALES
SECTION:
3-12-1: Definition
3-12-2: Restrictions
3-12-3: Penalty
3-12-1: DEFINITION:
 
YARD  An on-premises sale of new or used household or related good from a residence of
SALE: lot upon which a residence may be constructed. The terms “garage sale” or
      “rummage sale” are synonymous with “yard sale”. (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
 
3-12-2: RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to conduct a yard sale
at any address, residence, residential lot, or lot upon which a residence may
be constructed:
   A.   At which a yard sale has been conducted by any person more than twelve
(12) days within any calendar year;
   B.   At which a yard sale has been conducted by any person for more than six
(6) days within the previous thirty (30) days.
   C.   For longer than three (3) consecutive days; or
   D.   Between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. and six o’clock (6:00)
A.M.
   At the conclusion of each sale, all evidence of the yard sale, to include
signage, advertisement and goods, must be removed from the view of the public
streets within forty-eight (48) hours. Prior to holding a yard sale, the person
holding the yard sale shall apply for a permit from the City Clerk for a fee of
ten dollars ($10.00). Said application shall identify days the yard sale is to
be held, along with such additional information as may be required by the City.
(Ord. 642, 2017; amd. Ord. 628, 6-1-2021).
3-12-3: PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful to conduct a yard sale in violation of this chapter. Any
such violation shall be an infraction. Any person violating the provisions of
this chapter, upon conviction, shall pay an infraction penalty of one hundred
dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 628, 6-1-2021)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
4-1-1: Purpose And Application
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Sanitary Service Required
4-1-4: Preparation Of Garbage And Rubbish
4-1-5: Garbage And Rubbish Containers
4-1-6: Sanitation Service Rates
4-1-7: Burning Restrictions
4-1-8: Penalties
4-1-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICATION:
This chapter is declared to be passed in order to promote the general health,
welfare and safety of the residents of the city and is enacted for promotion
and the protection of the public health and safety and to prevent nuisances,
the spread of disease and fire hazards. It is the purpose of these provisions
to aid residents in keeping the city clean, safe and sanitary and free from
petty annoyances, nuisances and health and safety hazards. This chapter applies
to all residential, business and institutional garbage and rubbish disposal in
the city, except such persons as are allowed to be exempt herefrom by the city
council and have specific written permission of the city council to use other
garbage or rubbish disposal services. (Ord. 435, 12-3-1991)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms and phrases, as used in this chapter, shall, unless context
dictates otherwise, have the meanings set out in this section:
GARBAGE: All animal and vegetable refuse from kitchens and other places where
food is prepared, all offal from fish, meat and vegetable markets and all
organic substances unfit for food and subject to decay.
ITEMS EXCLUDED FROM CITY COLLECTIONS: Discarded household furniture, dirt or
earth debris from construction or lawn renovation, rocks, concrete, stones,
automobile bodies, parts, assemblies, tires, batteries, dead animals, manure,
offal or waste materials from animals, hazardous materials as defined by the
laws of the United States and the state of Idaho 1  and material containing
asbestos, paints, paint thinner, turpentine, insecticides, herbicides,
pesticides and all other chemicals. Building materials, such as concrete,
mortar, plaster, scrap lumber and wood shavings must be collected and disposed
of by the building contractor or owner or occupant of the premises.
PERSON: A normal person, his/her heirs, personal representatives and assigns
and shall also include a firm, corporation, trust or partnership, its or their
successors or assigns. Singular includes plural; male includes female.
RUBBISH: All waste and refuse, such as newspapers, magazines, wrapping and all
other paper products, packing cases and discarded clothing, metals, tin cans,
bottles, broken glass, ashes, lawn and tree trimmings and cuttings and weeds
and leaves from residential property.
SHALL AND MAY: "Shall" means mandatory; "may" means permissive. (Ord. 435, 12-
3-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§39-4403, 39-7103.
4-1-3: SANITARY SERVICE REQUIRED:
No person shall deposit garbage or rubbish on or below the surface of the
ground in a manner otherwise than herein prescribed. No person shall deposit or
place or bury any garbage or rubbish in or upon a public street, alley, other
public area or upon the premises of another person, whether or not the garbage
or rubbish is in a prescribed container. No garbage, dirt or rubbish of any
kind shall be thrown, swept or pushed into the street in front of any place of
business or residence, and the proprietor of the business and the owner or
occupant of the premises shall be responsible for the disposal of all such
garbage or rubbish. All garbage and rubbish shall be placed in containers and
at locations prescribed in this chapter. (Ord. 435, 12-3-1991)
4-1-4: PREPARATION OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH:
All garbage and rubbish shall be placed in containers, except as herein
otherwise provided. All garbage shall be drained of excess water and either
wrapped in paper or placed in containers lined with paper. Plastic bags may be
used but must be placed in proper containers with lids as prescribed elsewhere
in this chapter. Tree trunks, large limbs and similar heavy objects shall be
cut or knocked down to sizes not exceeding six feet (6') in length and seventy
five (75) pounds in weight. Brush and tree trimmings shall be cut into lengths
for easy handling and placed in piles and so covered as to prevent the same
from blowing and being scattered about. (Ord. 435, 12-3-1991)
4-1-5: GARBAGE AND RUBBISH CONTAINERS:
   A.   Garbage Containers: As defined in this chapter, "garbage" shall be
placed in one or more leakproof and watertight metal or plastic containers with
tightfitting metal or plastic covers to be kept securely in place at all times.
Each container shall be provided with handles or a bale and shall be no larger
than thirty two (32) gallons or weigh more than seventy five (75) pounds when
filled. The owners or occupants of the premises shall provide the number of
containers adequate to store all garbage and rubbish accumulated between
scheduled pick ups.
   B.   Rubbish Containers: As defined in this chapter, "rubbish" shall be
placed in a sturdy and suitable container, the weight of which shall not exceed
seventy five (75) pounds when filled, and each container shall be so designated
as to permit quick and efficient pick up. (Ord. 435, 12-3-1991)
4-1-6: SANITATION SERVICE RATES:
Sanitation service rates shall be established by resolution of the City
Council. The monthly sanitation rates shall be paid for each residence and each
business or commercial building in the City unless determined to be exempt as
provided in section
4-1-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 613, 8-15-2017)
4-1-7: BURNING RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit any open burning within
the City if such burning is not in conformance with a permit issued by the
City, except that permits shall not be required for open fires used for the
preparation of food, campfires and fires for recreational purposes, under
control of a responsible person.
Permits may be issued if the proposed burning is in compliance with the Idaho
Department of Health and Welfare regulations for air pollution, the Uniform
Fire Code and will not endanger life, health or property. No permits will be
issued for burning garbage or rubbish. A fee may be charged for the issuance of
an open burning permit, said fee to be based upon the estimated costs of
administration of the permits. (Ord. 530, 10-1-2002)
4-1-8: PENALTIES:
It shall be unlawful and punishable as herein provided for any person to
violate this chapter or to permit or maintain such violation or to refuse to
obey any provision hereof or to fail or refuse to comply with any such
provision or regulation herein provided. Upon conviction hereof, such person
shall be fined not less than the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed thirty
(30) days or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that such violation
shall be committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense
hereunder. (Ord. 435, 12-3-1991)
CHAPTER 2
VEHICLES, WEEDS AND RUBBISH
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Vehicles, Equipment Prohibited on Property
4-2-3: Impounding Property
4-2-4: Weeds, Grass and Rubbish Removal
4-2-5: Spraying for Pests
4-2-6: Violations
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The words contained in this Chapter are defined as follows:
HOUSEHOLD GOODS AND EQUIPMENT: All articles usually referred to as household
goods and articles used in housekeeping including, but not limited to, chairs,
tables, davenports, beds, refrigerators, stoves, washers, dryers, furnaces,
appliances, grease, oil, paint and their containers.
MACHINERY: All articles of industrial, farm or domestic machinery or equipment,
any and all metal or wooden machinery, motors, equipment, tools or property.
MISCELLANEOUS PROPERTY: All other property including, but not limited to, old
rope, iron, brass, copper, tin, lead, rubber, rags, baggage, bottles, scrap,
toys, bicycles or boats.
MOTOR VEHICLES: Any vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power designed to travel on the ground by wheels, treads, runners or slides and
to transport persons or property or pull machinery including, but not limited
to, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, tractors, buggies or wagons.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation or partnership.
RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, metal
cans, yard clippings, dead trees, tree limbs, wood, glass, bedding, crockery,
abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as cans or containers
and similar materials. However, rubbish shall not include wood and other
materials that are stored and used for fuel. (Ord. 447, 1-5-93)
4-2-2: VEHICLES, EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED ON PROPERTY:
   A.   No person shall place, allow, discard, maintain, park or store any
dismantled, abandoned, nonoperating, junked, damaged or destroyed household
goods or equipment, motor vehicles, machinery or miscellaneous property as
herein defined upon any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public property
within the City.
   B.   No person, whether the owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise of
any private property or premises shall place, allow, discard, maintain, park,
store or permit to be placed, allowed, discarded, maintained, parked or stored
upon said property or premises for a period of time exceeding thirty (30) days
any dismantled, abandoned, nonoperating, junked, damaged or destroyed household
goods and equipment, motor vehicles without current registration, machinery or
miscellaneous property as herein defined; provided, however, that the
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to any property or premises where
said household goods and equipment, motor vehicles, machinery or miscellaneous
property is housed within an enclosed building or a sight-obscuring fence.
(Ord. 447, 1-5-93)
4-2-3: IMPOUNDING PROPERTY:
   A.   Any property or goods upon public property within the City in violation
hereof may be impounded and sold at public or private auction. Any property or
goods upon private property within the City in violation hereof may be
impounded, removed and sold when an owner or occupant of said property cannot
be located. The cost of removal of said equipment shall be included in any fine
imposed for violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Should any owner, tenant or occupant of private property within the
city fail to discard, maintain, park or store any dismantled, abandoned,
nonoperating, junked, damaged or destroyed household goods or equipment, motor
vehicles, machinery or miscellaneous property as herein required, and when such
owner, tenant or occupant cannot be located, the city may then have its proper
officers or employees remove the household goods or equipment, motor vehicles,
machinery or miscellaneous property and assess the cost of such removal against
such property and the same shall be a lien thereon; such assessment to be
certified to the county assessor or other proper county officer having charge
of making up of the assessment rolls and such assessment to be placed on the
assessment rolls and collected in the same manner as other municipal taxes are
collected. (Ord. 447, 1-5-1993)
4-2-4: WEEDS, GRASS AND RUBBISH REMOVAL:
   A.   Every owner, tenant or occupant of private property within the city
shall cut and remove the weeds and grass and clean and remove rubbish as often
as necessary to keep the property neat and to prevent weeds from seeding on
said private property to the center of any street or alley along or in front of
such property, including the parking within and the curbing abutting such
property.
   B.   Should any owner, tenant or occupant of private property within the
city fail or neglect to cut or remove the weeds, grass and rubbish as herein
required, the city may then have its proper officers or employees cut and
remove the weeds, grass and rubbish and assess the cost of such cutting and
removal against such property and the same shall be a lien thereon; such
assessment to be certified to the county assessor or other proper county
officer having charge of making up of the assessment rolls and such assessment
to be placed on the assessment rolls and collected in the same manner as other
municipal taxes are collected. (Ord. 447, 1-5-1993)
4-2-5: SPRAYING FOR PESTS:
   A.   Every owner, tenant or occupant of private property within the city
shall eradicate by spraying or treating any disease or pests, eggs or larvae or
any pest injurious to trees, plants and shrubs or vines upon and from such
property, including the planting strip abutting such property, by and not later
than April 25 of each and every year and shall spray such plants and trees
under the direction and supervision of the superintendent of streets.
   B.   Should any owner, tenant or occupant of private property within the
city fail or neglect to eradicate by spraying or treating any diseases or
pests, eggs or larvae of pests injurious to trees, plants and vines as herein
required, then the city may have its proper officers and employees spray or
treat said trees, plants, shrubs and vines diseased or infected with pests,
eggs or larvae of pests and assess the cost of such spraying or treating
against said private property and the same shall be a lien thereon; such
assessment to be certified by the city clerk to the county assessor or to the
proper county officer having charge of the making up of the assessment rolls
and collected in the same manner as other municipal taxes are collected. (Ord.
447, 1-5-1993)
4-2-6: VIOLATIONS:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 600, 8-5-2014)
CHAPTER 3
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Purpose And Intent
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Compliance Required
4-3-4: Permit Required
4-3-5: Violations And Penalties
4-3-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety and the
general welfare of the residents of the city and to foster the safe sale and
use of fireworks within the city. (Ord. 559, 6-20-2006)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, words, terms, and phrases, and their derivations
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in Idaho Code title 39, chapter 26, or
as otherwise appropriate to their context. (Ord. 559, 6-20-2006)
4-3-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer for sale, sell, possess,
store, discharge or use fireworks as defined in Idaho Code title 39, chapter
26, except in compliance with the requirements of this chapter and requirements
of Idaho Code title 39, chapter 26, or its successor.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, possess or use any of the
following dangerous fireworks at any time within the city:
      1.   Firecrackers, cannon crackers, giant crackers, salutes, silver tube
salutes, cherry bombs, mines, ground bombardment, grasshoppers and other
explosive articles of similar nature;
      2.   Skyrockets and bottle rockets, including all similar devices
employing any combustible or explosive material and which rise in the air
during discharge;
      3.   Roman candles, including all devices which discharge balls of fire
into the air;
      4.   All articles for pyrotechnic display such as aerial shells, salutes,
flash shells, sky battles, parachute shells, mines, daygo bombs and similar
devices;
      5.   All torpedoes which explode by means of friction, or which contain
arsenic, and all other similar fireworks devices including cracker balls;
      6.   Fire balloons or balloons of any type which have burning material of
any kind attached thereto.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to use, or in any way prepare to use, any
fireworks described in this chapter or Idaho Code within the boundaries of any
public park within the city, or public park under the control of the city, if
outside the city, or on any publicly owned property of the city or school
district. "Public property" shall include, but not be limited to, parks,
playgrounds, trails, public rights of way and streets, curbs and sidewalks,
parking lots, alleys and the grounds of public buildings and schools. (Ord.
559, 6-20-2006)
4-3-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No person, without having a valid fireworks permit issued pursuant to
the provisions of this code, shall import, export, possess for purpose of sale,
offer for sale, or sell any fireworks for any use or purpose including
agricultural purposes or wildlife control, make a public display of fireworks
within the city or transport fireworks in violation of state or federal law.
Sales and use of fireworks shall not contravene the provisions of Idaho Code
with respect to the permitted time and type of fireworks to be used.
   B.   Applicants desiring to sell nonaerial common fireworks as defined in
state law for the time period allowed by state law must first obtain an
administrative permit from the city and approval by the Filer fire department
as authorized by state law and the uniform fire code. Applications shall be
submitted with a twenty five dollar ($25.00) application fee, and proof of
liability insurance and products liability insurance in the minimum amount of
five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00). Evidence of the possession of any
such required permit must be demonstrated by the stand owner or operator on
request by officials of the city or the Filer fire department.
   C.   Both nonaerial common fireworks sales and fireworks displays shall
comply with the terms of issued permits and with provisions of this code and
state law. Failure to so comply shall constitute a violation of this code.
(Ord. 559, 6-20-2006)
4-3-5: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be a violation of the law to fail to comply with any provision
of this chapter, that is, to do that which is described as unlawful or to
violate the requirements established by this chapter or to fail to comply with
any unlawful order of the planning and building director, any police officer or
the fire marshal.
   B.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and may be punished by a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment of not more than six (6) months in
jail or by both a fine and imprisonment. The city may undertake civil legal
action in a court of competent jurisdiction to seek to enjoin conduct which
violates the provisions of this chapter and/or to recover the reasonable costs
of actions deemed necessary to bring about compliance herewith. (Ord. 559, 6-
20-2006)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-1-1: Animals At Large Prohibited
5-1-2: Nuisance Animals
5-1-1: ANIMALS AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or suffer to be permitted any
birds or animals, owned by him/her or under his/her custody or control, to run
at large or to trespass within the corporate limits of the city on either
public or private property within the city. (Ord. 181, 1-6-1948; amd. 1994
Code)
5-1-2: NUISANCE ANIMALS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the terms below have the
following meanings:
    PASTURE: An area of land where animals feed on grass.
   PERMITTED LIVESTOCK: Subject to the restrictions of this section, persons
may keep and harbor only the following livestock within the limits of the city
of Filer: horses, cows, lambs, sheep, donkeys, mules, female chickens, rabbits,
goats and calves.
   RESTRICTED AREA: That portion of the city of Filer which is bounded on the
west by the city limits, on the south by Highway 30, on the east by that
portion of Fair Avenue which touches the city limits and on the north by the
Union Pacific Railroad Company tracks.
   B.   Nuisance Prohibited: Anyone who keeps and harbors livestock of any kind
and description within the limits of the city of Filer except as hereinafter
allowed shall be in violation of this section punishable as provided for herein
and such activity shall constitute a nuisance.
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   A person may keep up to the following number of female chickens or
rabbits at any premises within the limits of the city of Filer:
         a.   Two (2) female chickens; or
         b.   Two (2) rabbits.
      2.   Upon obtaining neighbor consent, pursuant to the requirements of
subsection D of this section, a person may keep up to the following number of
female chickens or rabbits at any premises within the limits of the city of
Filer:
         a.   Ten (10) female chickens; or
         b.   Ten (10) rabbits.
      3.   Persons may keep and harbor the following permitted livestock within
the limits of the city of Filer only if they are kept and harbored outside of
the restricted area for each one-half (1/2) acre of pasture:
         a.   One horse; or
         b.   One cow; or
         c.   One mule; or
         d.   One donkey; or
         e.   Three (3) calves; or
         f.   Five (5) sheep;
         g.   Five (5) lambs; or
         h.   Five (5) goats.
      4.   Upon obtaining neighbor consent pursuant to the requirements of
subsection D of this section and only if the premises on which the permitted
livestock are to be kept and harbored contains no less than one and one-half
(11/2) acres, persons may keep and harbor the following permitted livestock
within the limits of the city of Filer and inside the restricted area for each
one-half (1/2) acre of pasture:
         a.   One horse; or
         b.   One cow; or
         c.   Three (3) calves; or
         d.   Five (5) sheep;
         e.   Five (5) lambs; or
         f.   Five (5) goats.
      5.   Horses may be kept within the limits of the city of Filer where
horses were kept and pastured on June 4, 1991, and have been kept and pastured
each year thereafter.
   D.   Neighbor Consent: In the event it is required by this section that a
person first obtain neighbor consent prior to keeping or harboring permitted
livestock within the limits of the city of Filer, a person must:
      1.   Circulate a petition among those households located within one
hundred feet (100') of the applicant's property stating the number and type(s)
of permitted livestock the applicant wishes to keep and giving the location of
the property on which the applicant wishes to keep and harbor the permitted
livestock.
      2.   Receive the approval of seventy five percent (75%) of the households
located within one hundred feet (100') of his property.
Evidence of the required petition and requisite approval shall be presented to
the city of Filer prior to the issuance of a livestock permit as required by
subsection E of this section.
   E.   Permits: Subject to the requirements of this section, a person may keep
and harbor permitted livestock within the limits of the city of Filer upon
first obtaining a permit from the city clerk. The city of Filer, prior to the
issuance of a livestock permit, may inspect the places and premises where any
of the permitted livestock are to be kept or harbored and, if a violation of
this section is found to exist, the city of Filer shall deny issuance of the
livestock permit to the applicant.
The applicant for a livestock permit to keep or harbor permitted livestock in
the city of Filer shall pay to the city clerk upon granting of such livestock
permit a fee of ten dollars ($10.00) per permitted livestock for each year or
part of a year preceding the following March 1. The livestock permit will then
be renewable on March 1 of each following year for ten dollars ($10.00) per
permitted livestock, per year.
Any livestock permit granted under this section shall be subject to revocation
by the city council. If any person violates any provision of this section, then
written notice specifying the violation and fixing a date for hearing before
the city council shall be given the violator at least seven (7) days prior to
the hearing date, and after the hearing is held the city council may revoke any
livestock permit granted under this section for any violation of the provisions
of this section. Upon revocation of a livestock permit it is unlawful for the
holder of such revoked livestock permit to keep or harbor any such livestock
within the limits of the city of Filer.
   F.   Premises Requirements: All premises where livestock are kept and
harbored must be maintained in a sanitary condition so as not to become
unsightly, create a nuisance or public health hazard from odor and flies.
Livestock shall not be kept or harbored in a manner which is destructive to
neighboring properties.
   G.   Enforcement: No service of notice to observe the provisions of this
section shall be necessary.
   H.   Violation: A violation of this section is an infraction, punishable by
a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus court costs. Each day of
violation shall be considered a separate violation. (Ord. 605, 6-2-2015)
CHAPTER 2
DOGS
SECTION:
5-2-1: License Requirements
5-2-2: Kennel Licenses
5-2-3: License Tags; Collar; Ear Tattoo
5-2-4: Destruction Of Dogs; Fee (Rep. by Ord. 583, 11-16-2010)
5-2-5: Dogs At Large
5-2-6: Prohibited Conditions
5-2-7: Vicious And Dangerous Dogs
5-2-8: Impoundment And Redemption Procedures
5-2-9: Enforcement
5-2-10: Penalty
5-2-11: Destruction Of Vicious Animals
5-2-1: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: Any person who owns or keeps any dog within the City
limits without having first obtained an appropriate license therefor shall be
guilty of an infraction. The provisions of this section, however, shall not
apply to any owner of any dog under three (3) months of age. (Ord. 566, 11-7-
2006)
   B.   License Fees: The City Clerk is authorized to issue a license and tag
to any person applying therefor upon the payment of the following fees:
 
For each dog                                                 $ 5.00
For a kennel license for each resident with more than 3 dogs 25.00
 
   C.   License Term: All licenses must be dated from the first of the calendar
year in which they were granted, with the actual issuance date noted on the
license. The tag shall have stamped thereon the year for which such tag is
issued and a number that will correspond with the number on the license. Such
license fees shall be due and payable on January 1 of each and every year.
(Ord. 388, 6-2-1981; amd. Ord. 417, 4-7-1987)
   D.   Exceptions: Any dog born subsequent to the due date of the license fee
shall be licensed by the payment of the appropriate license fee within three
(3) months after its birth, and any dog brought into the City subsequent to the
license fee due date shall be licensed by the payment of the appropriate
license fee immediately after being brought into the City.
   E.   License Nontransferable: All licenses and tags issued under this
chapter shall be nontransferable.
   F.   Lost Tag; Fee For Duplicate: A duplicate or replacement tag shall be
issued by the City Clerk upon payment of one dollar ($1.00) for each tag so
issued to replace the original tag which was lost or destroyed. (Ord. 388, 6-2-
1981)
5-2-2: KENNEL LICENSES:
   A.   Definition: A "dog kennel" is a premises where more than three (3) dogs
are kept, raised, housed, boarded or such activity is engaged in for the
business of breeding.
   B.   License Required: It is unlawful for any resident to keep, maintain,
harbor or possess upon any one premises more than three (3) dogs without
obtaining a kennel license. The fee for a kennel license is as set out in
subsection 5-2-1B of this chapter.
   C.   Maintaining Kennel In Nuisance Condition: Whenever any kennel is kept
or maintained in such a manner as to be offensive on account of noise or odors
or otherwise, any person may make a complaint, under oath, to the City Council.
Upon the filing of such complaint, the City Council shall immediately fix a
date for hearing said complaint and shall immediately notify the owner or
keeper of such kennel to appear before the City Council to show cause why the
kennel license should not be revoked. Such hearing shall not be less than five
(5) days nor more than thirty (30) days from the date of filing such complaint,
and the notice shall be served not less than three (3) days before such
hearing. (Ord. 388, 6-2-1981)
5-2-3: LICENSE TAGS; COLLAR; EAR TATTOO:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided herein, every owner shall be required to
provide each dog with either a collar or harness to which the license tag must
be affixed and shall see that the collar and the tag are constantly worn. Show
dogs during showing are exempted from wearing the collar and tag.
   B.   No person shall remove or cause to be removed the collar or tag from
any licensed dog without the consent of the owner, keeper or harborer thereof.
   C.   Each and every owner has the option, at his/her own expense, of causing
one of his/her dog's ears to be permanently tattooed and having the tattoo
number recorded with the City Clerk. In such event, the owner's dog is not
required to wear a tag if the tattoo is clearly visible. (Ord. 388, 6-2-1981)
5-2-4: DESTRUCTION OF DOGS; FEE:
(Rep. by Ord. 583, 11-16-2010)
5-2-5: DOGS AT LARGE:
It is unlawful for any owner, possessor or person who keeps any dog to permit
the same to be, remain or run at large off or away from the premises of the
owner, possessor or keeper thereof unless:
   A.   Upon the private premises of another with the prior consent of the
person in possession of such premises; or
   B.   Such dog is controlled by a leash, not to exceed ten feet (10') in
length, which shall be securely fastened to a collar or harness worn by the
dog. No dog is to enter, without prior permission, upon the private property of
another, nor is any dog permitted to cause damage to any public property; or
   C.   Such dog is confined in a motor vehicle. (Ord. 388, 6-2-1981; amd. 1994
Code)
5-2-6: PROHIBITED CONDITIONS 1 :
   A.   Barking, Yelping Dogs: Any person who owns or keeps any dog within the
City limits which, by loud, continued or frequent barking, howling or yelping,
is an annoyance or disturbance to a reasonable person shall be guilty of an
infraction.
   B.   Improper Care: Any person who owns or keeps and maintains any dogs
within the City limits in such a manner as to be offensive to other persons on
account of noise or odors or otherwise shall be guilty of an infraction.
   C.   Unsanitary Premises: Every person who keeps, maintains or harbors a dog
shall maintain his/her premises, including, but not limited to, dog pens or
runs, in a clean and sanitary condition so that they are not offensive, a
harborage for vermin, malodorous or a health hazard. (Ord. 615, 4-12-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 7-1-1I of this Code.
5-2-7: VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS:
   A.   Definition: A "vicious dog" is any dog whose behavior or actions fall
within one or more of the following:
      1.   Any dog which, when unprovoked, attacks or bites another person or
other domestic animal upon the streets, sidewalks, any public grounds or
places, or private property not owned or possessed by the owner of the dog; or
      2.   Any dog with a prior documented history, in any jurisdiction, of
unprovoked attack or biting of persons or other domestic animals; or
      3.   Any dog owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
fighting or attacking people or any dog trained for fighting or attacking of
persons.
Except that:
      1.   No dog may be declared vicious if an injury or damage is sustained
by a person who, at the time that such injury or damage was sustained: a) was
committing a willful trespass or other crime or tort upon the premises occupied
by the owner of the dog, whether or not the dog's owner is present at the time
of the unlawful trespass or other crime; or b) was teasing, tormenting, abusing
or assaulting the dog; or c) was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
      2.   No dog may be declared vicious if the dog was protecting or
defending a person within the immediate vicinity of the dog from an unjustified
attack or assault.
      3.   No dog owned, maintained, or kept for work as a law enforcement dog,
either currently or retired, may be declared vicious if the action that would
be so defined by this definition, took place while the dog was acting within
its capacity for law enforcement purposes.
   B.   At Large Prohibited: No person owning or having custody or control of
any dog known by such person to be vicious or dangerous shall permit it to run
loose on or within the premises of such person, or otherwise, in such manner as
to endanger the life or limb of any person lawfully entering such premises.
   C.   Keeping Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to own, have custody
of or control of any dog or any other animal which is vicious or dangerous.
(Ord. 615, 4-12-2018)
5-2-8: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Dogs Impounded:
      1.   Any dog found running at large contrary to the provisions of this
chapter may be apprehended by any City employee and, subject to the provisions
of section
5-2-11 of this chapter, shall be impounded or delivered to its owner; provided,
however, that if any vicious dog so found at large cannot be safely taken up
and impounded, such dog may be slain forthwith.
      2.   Any dog that has bitten a person or is suspected of having rabies
shall be seized and impounded for a period of ten (10) days. An appropriate
public health officer shall be notified, and the animal shall be disposed of
only under his/her direction.
   B.   Records Kept: A complete registry shall be kept of every dog impounded,
entering the breed, color and sex of such dog, whether licensed and the time
and place of taking. If licensed, the name and address of the owner and the
number of the license tag and/or tattoo shall be entered.
   C.   Notification Of Owner, Reclamation Requirements; Fee:
      1.   Any dog impounded pursuant to this section shall be held in
impoundment for a maximum period of seventy two (72) hours from the date of
initial impoundment during which time reasonable effort shall be made to notify
the owner, keeper or possessor of such impounded dog, subject to the provisions
of section
5-2-11 of this chapter. All impounded dogs shall be redeemed by the owner,
keeper or possessor thereof within twenty four (24) hours of notification of
impoundment. Any dog not redeemed within said twenty four (24) hour period or
held for seventy two (72) hours shall become the property of the City.
      2.   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim such dog upon the
procural of a license, if lacking, and the payment of all costs and charges
incurred by the City for impounding and maintaining such dog and by signing an
affidavit of ownership of said dog, to include breed, sex, color, height and
weight, plus other information as shall be required by the Chief of Police.
      3.   For such occurrence of impounding a dog running at large, the owner
thereof shall pay to the City a sum of ten dollars ($10.00) for the first
occurrence as an impound fee, and the impound fee shall double for each
subsequent impoundment.
   D.   Disposition Of Unclaimed Dogs: All dogs impounded shall be kept until
the time period required for giving notice, as provided for in subsection C of
this section, has expired. The owner or representative of the owner of any dog
which may be taken up and impounded under the provisions of this chapter may
recover possession of such dog upon payment of fees and costs provided for in
subsection C of this section. If possession of any dog is not recovered as set
forth herein, the dog may be disposed of by delivery to any person who will pay
the license fee and costs herein provided, or the dog may be destroyed in a
humane manner.
   E.   Releasing Impounded Animals: It is unlawful for any person, except
those responsible for the enforcement of this chapter, to release any dog
without the consent of the owner or to release his/her own or any other dog
from the pound or from any place where a dog may be held for observation as set
forth in this chapter.
   F.   Interference With Police: Any person who molests, interrupts, hinders
or prevents the Chief of Police or any public officer in the discharge of his/
her duty, prescribed in this chapter, or violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 615, 4-12-2018)
5-2-9: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   In the enforcement of any provision of this chapter, any police officer
or other public officer is authorized to enter the premises of any person to
take possession of licensed or unlicensed, fierce, dangerous or vicious dogs
when in fresh pursuit of any such dog at the time the dog goes onto private
property.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person keeping or harboring a dog for which a
license is required by this chapter to fail or refuse to exhibit the license or
tag upon demand by a police officer or other designated City official. (Ord.
388, 6-2-1981)
5-2-10: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, any person violating the provisions
of this chapter, upon conviction, shall pay an infraction penalty of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) plus court costs. The court may also order, upon
conviction or plea of guilty of the defendant for the crime of dog at large or
vicious dog, the surrender of the dog to the animal control office or police
officer immediately for disposal, or the court may order that the violator post
a bond or certificate of insurance in the amount of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00). (Ord. 566, 11-7-2006)
5-2-11: DESTRUCTION OF VICIOUS ANIMALS:
In any case where a person has been charged or cited with the offense of owning
or having custody of a vicious or dangerous dog or other animal pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, the City Attorney may file a motion requesting
destruction of the animal prior to a final adjudication of the criminal
charges. The animal shall remain confined at the animal shelter pending a final
decision on the motion. The court may order the destruction of the animal upon
making a finding that the animal is "vicious", as defined in this chapter, and
that it poses a danger to the public if allowed to be released from
confinement. (Ord. 615, 4-12-2018)
CHAPTER 3
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Window Peeking
5-3-2: Open Containers Of Alcohol
5-3-3: Unlawful Discharge Of Guns
5-3-1: WINDOW PEEKING:
No person shall go near any chamber, house, tent, apartment or place of abode
not his/her own to gaze, peep or stare into such place of abode while occupied
by any person in the nighttime within the city. Any violation of this section
shall constitute a misdemeanor. (Ord. 421, 8-4-1987; amd. 1994 Code)
5-3-2: OPEN CONTAINERS OF ALCOHOL:
No person shall have in his/her possession upon any public property, including,
but not limited to, streets, sidewalks and parks, any container which is open
or which has been opened, and which contains any alcoholic beverage. The
transportation of an alcoholic beverage in a vehicle outside of the passenger
compartment shall not be a violation of this section. (Ord. 468, 5-2-1995)
5-3-3: UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF GUNS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or discharge any gun, pistol,
rifle, shotgun, cannon or firearm of any description within the city limits,
except as otherwise stated by applicable law adopted by the state of Idaho as
amended from time to time. This prohibition shall not apply to law enforcement
officers acting within the course and scope of their employment.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the city council may grant
permits to persons or businesses permitting the discharge of firearms within
the city limits, subject to any specific conditions that the council may
require. (Ord. 612, 1-17-2017)
CHAPTER 4
TRUANCY, RUNAWAYS, CURFEW AND PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Truancy
5-4-3: Runaways; Incorrigibility
5-4-4: Curfew
5-4-5: Parental Responsibility
5-4-6: Enforcement Procedures
5-4-7: Penalties; Treatment
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular, and words in the singular number include
the plural. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
(Ord. 453, 1-4-1994)
EMANCIPATED: Any person either eighteen (18) years of age or older, or if under
the age of eighteen (18), any person who is married or has been married; or any
person who is in active military service; or any person who is both self-
supporting and neither resides with nor is subject to parental control.
EMERGENCY: Includes any unforeseen health, accident or crime- related exigency
calling for immediate action.
INCORRIGIBLE: Any juvenile who is uncontrollable.
JUVENILE: Any person less than the age of eighteen (18) and who has not been
duly emancipated.
PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a juvenile: a) as a natural or
adoptive parent; b) as a legal guardian; c) as a person who stands in loco
parentis; or d) as a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of
court.
REMAIN: To stay behind, to tarry and to stay unnecessarily upon the streets,
including the congregating of groups (or of interacting minors) totalling four
(4) or more persons in which any juvenile involved would not be using the
streets for ordinary or serious purposes such as mere passage or going home.
RUNAWAY: A juvenile under the age of eighteen (18) who has physically removed
himself from the supervision and control of his parents with the intent to
remain beyond the control of his parents.
STREET: A way or place, of whatsoever nature, open to the use of the public as
a matter of right for purposes of vehicular travel. The term "street" includes
the legal right of way, including, but not limited to, the cartway or traffic
lanes, sidewalks whether paved or unpaved, and any grass plots or other grounds
found within the legal right of way of a street. The term "street" applies
irrespective of what it be called or formally named, whether alley, avenue,
court, road or otherwise. The term "street" shall also include shopping
centers, parking lots, parks, playgrounds, public buildings, and similar areas
that are open to the public.
TIME OF NIGHT: As referred to herein, is based upon the prevailing standard of
time, whether Mountain Standard Time or Mountain Daylight-Saving Time,
generally observed at that hour by the public in the City, prima facie the time
when observed in the Emergency Dispatch Center.
TRUANCY: As defined in the school regulations.
YEARS OF AGE: Continues from one birthday, such as the sixteenth to (but not
including the day of) the next, such as the seventeenth birthday. (Ord. 498, 4-
7-1998)
5-4-2: TRUANCY:
   A.   Goals: The City areas recognize the importance of school attendance.
Children must be taught in order to live in an ordered society.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: Any person between the ages of seven (7) years and
sixteen (16) years of age, living in the City who is deemed truant from school
or class, under the attendance regulations of the school, without the consent
of the student's parent/guardian or school officials is guilty of a status
offense.
   C.   Responsibility For Instruction: The parent or guardian of any child
resident in this State who has attained the age of seven (7) years at the time
of the commencement of school in his/her district, but not the age of sixteen
(16) years, shall cause the child to be instructed in subjects commonly and
usually taught in the public schools for the State. Unless the child is
otherwise comparably instructed, the parent or guardian shall cause the child
to attend a public, private, or parochial school during a period in each year
equal to that in which the public schools are in session; there to conform to
the attendance policies and regulations established by the board of trustees,
or other governing body, operating the school attended, or the attendance
requirements of the parents in home schools.
   D.   Exceptions: Any exceptions to the requirement as codified by any school
district or as contained in Idaho Code, title 33, chapter 2 are hereby
recognized and given full force and effect. (Ord. 498, 4-7-1998)
5-4-3: RUNAWAYS; INCORRIGIBILITY:
   A.   Goals: The City Council recognizes the importance of the family as
crucial to a child's development.
   B.   Specifics: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of
eighteen (18), living or found in the City, to attempt to run away or to run
away from his parents, guardian or other legal custodian, or to be or remain a
person who has run away from his parents, guardian or other legal custodian, or
who commits or has committed any act or acts which render him incorrigible or
places him beyond the control of his parents, guardian, or other legal
custodian. (Ord. 498, 4-7-1998)
5-4-4: CURFEW:
   A.   Age And Hour Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any person under
the age of eighteen (18) years to be or remain in or upon the streets within
the City, at night, during the period beginning at eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
and ending at five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Sunday through Saturday.
   B.   Exceptions: In the following exceptional cases, a minor on a City
street during the nocturnal hours shall not, however, be considered in
violation of these curfew provisions:
      1.   When accompanied by a parent or guardian of said juvenile.
      2.   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of said minor.
      3.   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech,
and the right of assembly. The juvenile shall evidence the bona fides of such
exercise by first delivering to the person designated by the Police Chief to
receive such information, at City Hall, a written communication, signed by the
juvenile and countersigned, if practicable, by a parent of the juvenile with
their home address and telephone number, specifying when, where and in what
manner the juvenile will be on the streets at night (during hours when this
Section is otherwise applicable to said minor) in the exercise of a First
Amendment right specified in such communication.
      4.   When the juvenile is on the sidewalk of a place where said juvenile
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next door neighbor not communicating an
objection to law enforcement.
      5.   When returning home, by a direct route from (and within one hour or
reasonable travel time after the termination of) any legitimate activity
consented to by the parent, school or community sponsored activity, or any
activity of a religious or other voluntary association such as night classes,
library study, dances, proms, church socials, religious midnight masses or
other late night religious services, political activities including City
Council meetings, athletic events, concerts and cultural or contemporary music
events.
      6.   When the juvenile carries a certified letter of employment,
renewable each calendar month when the current facts so warrant, dated, or
reissued not more than forty five (45) days previously, and briefly identifying
the juvenile, the addresses of his home and of his place of employment, and his
hours of employment.
      7.   When the juvenile is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle.
This contemplates normal travel. It is the intention of this provision to
clearly exempt bona fide interstate movements along major routes through Twin
Falls County and interstate travel beginning or ending in the City.
      8.   In the event of an emergency.
      9.   Each of the foregoing exceptions, and their several limitations such
as provisions for notification, are severable, as hereinafter provided, and
hereby reemphasized. These exceptions will be considered by the Council as
warranted by future experience illuminated by the views of student government
associations, school personnel, citizens, associations, parents, officers, and
persons in authority concerned positively with juveniles as well as with
juvenile delinquency. (Ord. 498, 4-7-1998)
5-4-5: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Parental Control: It shall be unlawful for a parent having legal
custody of a juvenile knowingly to permit or by inefficient control to allow
the juvenile to violate any of the provisions of this Chapter under
circumstances not constituting an exception to this Chapter. The term
"knowingly" includes knowledge which a parent should reasonably be expected to
have concerning the activities, conduct or whereabouts of a juvenile in that
parent's legal custody. It is intended to continue to keep neglectful or
careless parents up to a reasonable community standard of parental
responsibility through an objective test. It shall, therefore, be no defense
that a parent was indifferent to the activities. (Ord. 498, 4-7-1998)
5-4-6: ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Contacting Parents: If a police officer reasonably believes that a
juvenile is in violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter, the officer
shall notify the juvenile that he/she is in violation of this Chapter, and
shall require the juvenile to provide his/her name, address and telephone
number and how to contact his or her parent or guardian.
   B.   Determining Age Of Juvenile: In determining the age of the juvenile,
and in the absence of convincing evidence such as a birth certificate, a police
officer on the street shall, in the first instance, use his/her best judgment
in determining age.
   C.   Questioning Of Juvenile/Parents: The normal procedure shall then be to
take the juvenile to City Hall where a parent or guardian shall immediately be
notified to come for the juvenile. The juvenile and/or parents or guardian
shall then be questioned. This is intended to permit ascertainment, under
constitutional safeguards, of relevant facts, and to centralize responsibility
in the person designated there and then on duty for accurate, effective, fair,
impartial and uniform enforcement, and recording, thus making available
experienced personnel and access to information and records.
   D.   Release Into Custody Of Parent Or Guardian: When a parent or guardian
immediately called, has come to take charge of the juvenile, and the
appropriate information has been recorded, the juvenile shall be released to
the custody of such parent. If the parent cannot be located or fails to take
charge of the juvenile, then the juvenile shall temporarily be entrusted to an
adult relative, neighbor, or other person who will on behalf of a parent or
guardian assume the responsibility of caring for the juvenile pending the
availability or arrival of a parent or guardian.
   E.   Written Acknowledgment Of Status Offense: Upon release of the juvenile
to his/her parent, the juvenile and parent shall sign a written acknowledgement
of the City's curfew, runaway, incorrigible, and truancy regulations which
notice shall be presumptive evidence of knowledge of this Chapter.
   F.   Status Offenders: Status offenders shall not be placed in any jail
facility, but instead may be placed in juvenile shelter care facilities, except
in the case of runaways, when there is specific detention request from a
foreign jurisdiction to hold the child pending transportation arrangements.
(Ord. 498, 4-7-1998)
5-4-7: PENALTIES; TREATMENT:
   A.   Status Offense: Any juvenile who violates any provision of this Chapter
shall be guilty of a status offense punishable by the provision according to
State code of the Juvenile Corrections Act of 1994.
   B.   Violations By Parents Or Guardian: Any parent or guardian who shall
violate any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
may be punished by jail time of up to six (6) months, and a fine of five
hundred dollars ($500.00). Said parent or guardian may also be required to
attend class instructions on parenting provided through the Twin Falls County
Juvenile Probation Office. The purpose of the instruction is to provide the
parents with more ideas and support in raising their children.
   C.   Diversion: Upon a first offense of any of the provisions of this
Chapter by the juvenile or parent, the prosecuting attorney may request a
preliminary inquiry from the Department of Juvenile Probation for screening and
assessment according to the Department of Juvenile Probation's designated and
authorized procedures.
   D.   Repeat Offender: Any child who has been adjudicated for commission of
two (2) status offenses within twelve (12) months may be charged, petitioned,
and adjudicated as a habitual status offender for the third status offense
committed within that twelve (12) month period. (Ord. 498, 4-7-1998)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: General Traffic Regulations
6-1-2: Speed Limits
6-1-3: Vehicle Equipment
6-1-4: Bicycles
6-1-5: Pedestrians
6-1-6: Vehicles On Sidewalk
6-1-1: GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
The rules of the road for vehicles traveling within the city are as specified
in the following sections, and it shall be unlawful for any person to place,
permit to stand, haul, drive, propel, convey or otherwise move any vehicle
contrary to or in violation of the following rules:
   A.   Standing Vehicles: All stationary vehicles, idle or discharging freight
or passengers, must stand as near the curb as practicable and face in the same
direction as they are permitted to move along the street.
   B.   Vehicles To Keep To The Right:
      1.   All vehicles in motion must move upon and along the right side of
the street.
      2.   Vehicles moving in opposite directions must pass each other by
keeping to the right.
   C.   Turning Movements:
      1.   Vehicles, when turning to the right into another street, must turn
the corner as near to the curb as possible.
      2.   Vehicles, when turning to the left into another street, shall turn
around and beyond the center of the intersection of the two (2) streets.
      3.   No vehicle shall be turned around upon any street unless said
vehicle shall first proceed to the next cross street and shall then make the
turn to the left after reaching the center of said cross street.
   D.   Following Vehicles: A motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard to the speed of
such vehicle and to the traffic upon the street.
   E.   Obey Traffic Signals And Markers: All drivers of motor vehicles within
the city must observe and obey all traffic signs and indicators and directions
given by police officers or markers. (Ord. 325, 8-6-1974)
6-1-2: SPEED LIMITS:
Any person driving a vehicle upon a highway shall drive the same at a careful
and prudent speed not greater than is reasonable and proper, having due regard
to the traffic, surface and width of the highway and of any other conditions
then existing. No person shall drive any vehicle upon a highway at such speed
as to endanger the life, limb or property of any person. Subject to the above
provisions, it shall be prima facie lawful for the driver of a vehicle to drive
the same at a speed not exceeding the following, but in any case, when the
speed hereafter designated would be unsafe, it would be lawful:
   A.   General Speed Limit: Twenty five (25) miles per hour in residential and
other areas, as defined by the city zoning regulations 1 , except as otherwise
provided herein.
   B.   Intersections: Fifteen (15) miles per hour when approaching within
fifty feet (50') of and in traversing an intersection when the driver's view is
obstructed. A driver's view shall be deemed obstructed when, at any time during
the last fifty feet (50') of his/her approach to such intersection, he/she does
not have a clear and uninterrupted view of such intersection and of the traffic
upon all the highways entering such intersection for a distance of two hundred
feet (200') from such intersection. (Ord. 349, 5-4-1976; amd. 1994 Code)
   C.   Schools: Twenty five (25) miles per hour on Highway 30, and twenty (20)
miles per hour in other school zones, as posted. (Ord. 583, 11-16-2010)
   D.   Specific Speed Limits:
 
Front Street, from Stevens Avenue to Yakima Avenue 15 mph
Ramsey Drive and Davis Street                      15 mph
7th Street, from Fair Avenue to Yakima Avenue      15 mph
Business districts                                 25 mph
Residence districts                                25 mph
 
(Ord. 349, 5-4-1976; amd. 1994 Code)
   E.   Alleys: Fifteen (15) miles per hour in all alleys. (Ord. 465, 11-1-
1994)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
6-1-3: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Mufflers: A motor vehicle shall not be driven on a street unless such
vehicle be equipped with a muffler in good working order and in constant
operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, annoying smoke and the escape
of excessive gas. A muffler cutout shall not be used on any motor vehicle on a
street.
   B.   Tires: A motor vehicle shall not be driven on any paved street when
such vehicle has tires so constructed or in such condition as to injure the
pavement; provided, that nothing herein contained shall be deemed to prohibit
the use of antiskid chains on rubber tires attached to the wheels of motor
vehicles. (Ord. 325, 8-6-1974; amd. 1994 Code)
6-1-4: BICYCLES:
   A.   Riding On Bicycles: It shall be unlawful for more than one person to
ride upon a bicycle within the city, unless the bicycle is designed or modified
to carry more than one person.
   B.   Equipment Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a
bicycle within the city at night without a light or a reflector on the rear and
a light on the front. If a reflector is used, it must be of a size of two
inches (2") in diameter or larger.
   C.   Riding Areas Restricted: No person shall ride a bicycle on the sidewalk
adjoining Main Street between Adell Avenue and Park Avenue.
   D.   Bicycles On Sidewalks:
      1.   A person operating a bicycle upon and along a sidewalk, or across a
highway upon and along a crosswalk, shall yield the right of way to any
pedestrian, and shall give audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian or another bicyclist.
      2.   A person shall not operate a bicycle along and upon a sidewalk or
across a highway upon and along a crosswalk, where the use of a bicycle is
prohibited by official traffic control devices.
      3.   A person operating a vehicle by human power upon and along a
sidewalk, or across a highway upon and along a crosswalk, shall have all the
rights and duties applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances.
   E.   Penalties: First offense: Verbal warning. Second offense: Twenty five
dollar ($25.00) fine and counseling on bicycle safety. Third and subsequent
offenses: Thirty five dollar ($35.00) fine. (Ord. 502, 1-5-1999)
6-1-5: PEDESTRIANS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to walk across:
Stevens Street between its intersection with Highway 30 and its intersection
with Main Street in the city,
Highway 30 between its intersection with Fair Avenue and its intersection with
Stevens Street,
except at a marked crosswalk or at a street intersection, between the hours of
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. during the months of
September, October, November, December, January, February, March, April and
May.
   B.   The city shall have authority to select, construct, designate and mark
lawful crosswalks at such place which it may deem appropriate. (Ord. 343, 12-2-
1975; amd. 1994 Code)
6-1-6: VEHICLES ON SIDEWALK:
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway. A twenty five foot (25') wide driveway is
hereby established for mail delivery in front of mailboxes placed behind the
sidewalk. No vehicle shall be parked within any sidewalk area except as
provided herein. (Ord. 545, 10-19-2004)
CHAPTER 2
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
SECTION:
6-2-1: Standing Or Parking Close To Curb
6-2-2: Angle Parking (Rep. by Ord. 480, 5-7-1996)
6-2-3: Obedience To Angle Parking Signs, Markings (Rep. by Ord. 480, 5-7-1996)
6-2-4: Lights On Parked Vehicles
6-2-5: Parking Not To Obstruct Traffic
6-2-6: Parking In Alleys
6-2-7: Parking Trucks, Trailers, Unused And Inoperative Vehicles
6-2-8: Parking Trailers Outside Trailer Courts
6-2-9: Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
6-2-10: Stopping And Parking Adjacent To Schools
6-2-11: Parking Prohibited On Narrow Streets
6-2-12: Standing Or Parking On One-Way Streets
6-2-13: Stopping, Standing Or Parking Near Hazardous Or Congested Places
6-2-14: Parking Restrictions
6-2-15: Stopping For Loading Or Unloading
6-2-16: Parking And Loading Areas For Handicapped Persons; Handicapped Licensed
Vehicles
6-2-17: Stopping, Standing Or Parking On Public Park Rights Of Way Prohibited
6-2-18: Parking On Certain Streets Prohibited
6-2-19: Parking Regulations, Signs And Curb Markings
6-2-20: Enforcement And Fines
6-2-21: Overtime Parking
6-2-1: STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB:
No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with
the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and
with the right hand wheels of the vehicle within eighteen inches (18") of the
curb or edge of the roadway except as otherwise provided in this chapter. (1994
Code)
6-2-2: ANGLE PARKING:
(Rep. by Ord. 480, 5-7-1996)
6-2-3: OBEDIENCE TO ANGLE PARKING SIGNS, MARKINGS:
(Rep. by Ord. 480, 5-7-1996)
6-2-4: LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES:
Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked at nighttime upon any street within a
business or residence district, no lights need be displayed upon such parked
vehicle. Any lighted headlamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed. (1994 Code)
6-2-5: PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC:
No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, in such a manner or under such
conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the width of their
traffic lane of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic. (Ord. 480,
5-7-1996)
6-2-6: PARKING IN ALLEYS:
No person shall park a vehicle in any alley within the business zone of the
city except for the specific purpose of loading or unloading merchandise. In
other than the business zone, no person shall park a vehicle within an alley in
such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet
(10') in the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such position
as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property. No person shall
leave a vehicle unattended in any alley in the business district. (1994 Code)
6-2-7: PARKING TRUCKS, TRAILERS, UNUSED AND INOPERATIVE VEHICLES:
No person shall park a motor truck of more than one-half (1/2) ton capacity or
automobile with trailer attached except with the right hand side parallel with
the curb, and in moving such motor truck or automobile with trailer attached
away from the curb, it shall be moved forward, and no such motor truck or
automobile with trailer attached shall be parked within four feet (4') of
another vehicle. No person shall park a motor vehicle of one and one-half (11/
2) tons' capacity or more, nor shall any person park a motor vehicle which has
an overall length of more than twenty two feet (22'), nor shall any person park
a trailer of more than one-half (1/2) ton capacity upon any street or alley
located within a residential district within the city, except while engaged in
the actual loading or unloading of passengers or property. (1994 Code)
6-2-8: PARKING TRAILERS OUTSIDE TRAILER COURTS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    TRAILER: Any vehicle or structure so designed and constructed as to permit
occupancy thereof as sleeping quarters for one or more persons or the conduct
of any business or profession, occupation or trade or use as a selling or
advertising device and so designed that it is or may be mounted on wheels and
used as a conveyance on highways or city streets, propelled or drawn by its own
or other motive power, except for any device used exclusively upon stationary
rails or tracks and except for modular homes which shall be distinguished from
"trailers" as follows: if the home is constructed with a metal frame and
wheels, it shall be considered and treated under the terms of this section as a
"trailer"; if the home is constructed with a timber frame and with no attached
wheels, then it shall be considered as a modular home and not as a "trailer".
   TRAILER COURT: Any place regularly and permanently used for the purpose of
parking trailers; provided, however, that no location shall qualify as a
trailer court within the meaning of this section unless it is maintained for
use by the general public as a business and unless such location is equipped
with sewer connections and power and water facilities.
   B.   Parking Restrictions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any trailer on any
street, alley or highway or other public place or on any tract of land owned by
any person, occupied or unoccupied, within the city limits, except as
hereinafter provided.
      2.   Emergency or temporary stopping or parking is permitted on any
street, alley or highway for no longer than forty eight (48) hours, subject to
any other and further prohibitions, regulations or limitations imposed by the
traffic and parking regulations or ordinances of the city 1 .
      3.   Off street parking will be permitted, subject to the following
regulations and restrictions:
         a.   Proximity: The trailer must be no closer than six feet (6') from
any dwelling on adjoining lots.
         b.   Accessory: The trailer may be parked in an accessory garage
building or an accessory car or trailer port.
         c.   Prohibited Uses: No trailer shall be parked to provide living
quarters, nor shall the trailer be hooked up to or connected with any sewer
lines or water lines. No trailer shall be parked or stored to provide for any
accessory business uses.
         d.   Additional Prohibited Uses: No trailer shall be parked, located
or stored for rental purposes or other financial gain.
         e.   Limitations: There shall be no more than one trailer parked,
stored or located on any one residential lot at any one time without a permit
from the city, and no trailer shall be parked, stored or located on any vacant
lot. No trailer shall be parked, stored or located closer than six feet (6')
from any dwelling on the same lot.
         f.   Permits:
            (1)   The city council may authorize the issuance of a permit to
allow the parking of an additional trailer on a residential lot. A resident
wishing to park an additional trailer on a residential lot may make application
to the city and include a map of the property with the proposed location of the
parked trailer. The applicant must notify all persons owning property within
three hundred feet (300') of the subject property in writing at least ten (10)
days prior to the hearing before the city council on the application. Any
permit issued will be for a term of one calendar year only and may be renewed
annually by following the same procedure as set forth above.
            (2)   The city clerk may authorize the issuance of a permit to
allow the use of a trailer as a living quarters, hooked up to utilities, for a
period not to exceed five (5) days upon the showing, by the applicant:
   (A) The applicant will be residing in the trailer;
   (B) The applicant, and every other person that will reside in the trailer,
has not applied for a similar permit within the past three (3) months;
   (C) The applicant has not been cited for a violation under this section in
the past year;
   (D) The trailer will be parked on a residential lot and the applicant agrees
to comply with all other provisions of this section; and
   (E) A fee of ten dollars ($10.00) is paid to the city clerk.
   C.   Exemptions And Exclusions: Police trailers, fire department trailers
and trailers used for other public or emergency purposes are excluded from the
provisions of this section. The restrictive provisions of this section shall
not apply to parking of trailers within trailer courts, as defined herein or to
trailer sales lots used for the sale of new or used trailers, or to pickup
campers. Provided, however, that it shall be unlawful to leave a pickup camper
which has been removed from the pickup on any city street for any period of
time. (Ord. 611, 1-17-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-2-9 of this chapter and subsection 7-2-4C of this code.
6-2-9: PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED:
No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway or public right of way for the
principal purpose of:
   A.   Displaying such vehicle for sale.
   B.   Greasing, changing oil or repairing such vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency. (Ord. 475, 11-7-1995)
6-2-10: STOPPING AND PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS:
The city is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating no stopping or parking
upon that side of any street adjacent to school property when such stopping or
parking would, in its opinion, interfere with traffic or create a hazardous
situation. When official signs are erected indicating no stopping or parking
upon that side of the street adjacent to any school property, no person shall
stop or park a vehicle in any such designated place. (1994 Code)
6-2-11: PARKING PROHIBITED ON NARROW STREETS:
The city is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating no parking upon any
street when, in its judgment, the width of the roadway does not allow for the
safe flow of traffic 1 . When official signs prohibiting parking are erected
upon narrow streets, as herein authorized, no person shall park a vehicle upon
any such street in violation of such sign. (1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-2-5 of this chapter for allowable width.
6-2-12: STANDING OR PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS:
The city is authorized to erect signs upon the left hand side of any one-way
street to prohibit the standing or parking of vehicles, and when such signs are
in place, no person shall stand or park a vehicle upon such left hand side in
violation of any such sign. (1994 Code)
6-2-13: STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES:
The city is authorized to determine and designate by proper signs places not
exceeding one hundred feet (100') in length in which stopping, standing or
parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous condition or would
cause unusual delay to traffic. When official signs are erected at hazardous or
congested places, as herein authorized, no person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle in any such designated place. (1994 Code)
6-2-14: PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
No vehicle shall park within twenty feet (20') of any fire hydrant in the city.
(Ord. 325, 8-6-1974)
6-2-15: STOPPING FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING:
The city is authorized to determine the location of passenger and freight curb
loading zones and shall place and maintain appropriate signs indicating the
same and stating the hours during which the provisions of this section are
applicable. The city shall not designate or sign any curb loading zone upon
special request of any person unless such person makes application for a permit
for such zone and pays the actual cost of erecting zoning signs or markers.
(1994 Code)
6-2-16: PARKING AND LOADING AREAS FOR HANDICAPPED PERSONS; HANDICAPPED LICENSED
VEHICLES:
   A.   Local parking areas for vehicles licensed to transport handicapped
persons shall be available in the city and designated "Parking For Handicapped
Licensed Vehicles Only".
      1.   Permits for parking in spaces designated "Parking For Handicapped
Licensed Vehicles Only" shall be issued to handicapped persons upon application
and proof of the necessity of the permit. Handicapped person shall be defined
as set forth in Idaho Code section 49-117(7)(b). A vehicle transporting a
handicapped person who has been issued a permit under this section and which
displays a valid permit on the dashboard in front of the steering wheel may
park in spaces designated "Parking For Handicapped Licensed Vehicles". The use
of a permit in violation of this section shall result in revocation of said
permit.
      2.   No vehicles shall remain parked in an area designated for
handicapped licensed vehicles unless properly licensed or properly displaying a
valid handicapped parking permit.
   B.   Loading zones for handicapped persons shall be available in the city
and designated "Loading Zone For Handicapped Persons Only".
      1.   No person shall use an area designated for the loading and unloading
of handicapped persons unless loading or unloading a handicapped person. (1994
Code)
6-2-17: STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING ON PUBLIC PARK RIGHTS OF WAY PROHIBITED 1
:
No person shall stop, stand or park a motor vehicle on any public park right of
way or area intended for park patron use only, and any such public park right
of way or parking area is hereby reserved exclusively for park patrons. If any
vehicle is found stopped, standing or parked in any manner in violation of this
section, and the identity of the operator cannot be determined, the owner,
person, corporation or named lessee in whose name said vehicle is registered
shall be held prima facie responsible for said violation. (1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 1 of this code for park regulations.
6-2-18: PARKING ON CERTAIN STREETS PROHIBITED:
Parking shall be prohibited on the following streets or parts of streets within
the city:
Seventh Street, from Fair Avenue to Yakima. (1994 Code)
6-2-19: PARKING REGULATIONS, SIGNS AND CURB MARKINGS:
   A.   The city is authorized to erect signs regulating parking and
establishing areas for no parking at any time, loading zones, limited time
parking and handicapped parking.
   B.   The city may use curb markings as substituting or supplemental to
standard signs. Where signs are not used, the intended meaning should be
stenciled on the curb. The colors shall be as follows:
      1.   No parking any time: Red curbing with black stenciled letters, if
any.
      2.   Loading zone: Yellow curbing with black stenciled letters, if any.
      3.   Limited time parking: Green curbing with white stenciled letters, if
any.
      4.   Handicapped parking: Blue curbing with white stenciled letters, if
any.
   C.   When official signs and/or curb markings regulating parking are used as
authorized in this section, no person shall park a vehicle upon a street in
violation of such sign or marking. If any vehicle is found stopped, standing or
parked in violation of this section, and the identity of the operator cannot be
determined, the owner, person, corporation or named lessee in whose name said
vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for said violation.
(1994 Code)
6-2-20: ENFORCEMENT AND FINES:
A violation of this section is an infraction, punishable by a fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00), plus court costs. Each day of violation shall be
considered a separate violation. (Ord. 645, 5-5-2025)
6-2-21: OVERTIME PARKING:
   A.   No person shall park a vehicle, trailer, boat, tractor, motorcycle,
mobile home, camper, motor home, bus or similar type vehicle on any street
right of way for a continuous period of time longer than seventy two (72)
hours. The time limit may begin over only upon removal of the vehicle, trailer,
boat, tractor, motorcycle, mobile home, camper, motor home, bus or similar type
vehicle from the block, or five hundred feet (500') from the location in which
it was previously parked, whichever is farther, or to private property for a
minimum of forty eight (48) hours. This section does not repeal or expand any
other restrictions provided for in this code, including this chapter, and in
the event any other provision found within this code may be interpreted in
conflict with this provision, the more restrictive provision shall apply.
   B.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an infraction and shall be subject to a fine pursuant to section
6-2-20 of this chapter.
   C.   The police department shall have the authority to impound any vehicle,
trailer, boat, tractor, motorcycle, mobile home, camper, motor home, bus or
similar type vehicle found in violation of this section provided, however, that
the police department gives written notice of its intention to do so to the
purported owner at least twenty four (24) hours prior to the time of removal
and impound. The cost of removal shall be included in any such fine imposed.
   D.   Each day of violation under this section shall be deemed a separate
offense and punishable as the same.
   E.   This section shall not apply to police, fire department or other
vehicles used for public or emergency purposes. (Ord. 611, 1-17-2017)
CHAPTER 3
TRUCK REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Parking Of Trucks
6-3-2: Truck Routes
6-3-3: Engine Compression Brakes
6-3-1: PARKING OF TRUCKS:
   A.   From and after September 11, 1979, no trucks with three (3) axles or
larger shall be parked on the city streets between the hours of six o'clock (6:
00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. unless such trucks are parked immediately
adjacent to a commercial enterprise.
   B.   The prohibition established by this section may not be evaded or
avoided by the unhooking of the tractor from the trailer of truck-trailer or
tractor-trailer combinations which would be in violation of this section when
attached. The parking of any part of such combinations within the restricted
area shall constitute a violation of this section.
   C.   Vehicles with overall length as hereinafter described shall be included
within the prohibition set out in this section:
      1.   A single vehicle exceeding a length of forty feet (40'), extreme
overall dimension, inclusive of front and rear bumper.
      2.   Vehicles equipped with a semitrailer exceeding a length of sixty
five feet (65') overall dimensions; provided, that if the coupling device
connecting the truck-tractor to the semitrailer is located to the rear of the
tire tread of the truck-tractor's rear most axle, such combination of truck-
tractor and stinger steered semitrailer shall not have an overall combination
length, inclusive of front and rear bumpers, exceeding seventy five feet (75').
      3.   No combination of vehicles coupled together shall consist of more
than three (3) vehicles, and when so combined, shall not exceed a total length
of seventy five feet (75').
   D.   Recreation vehicles and moving and storage vans are excluded from the
provisions of this section. (Ord. 377, 9-11-1979; amd. 1994 Code)
6-3-2: TRUCK ROUTES:
   A.   The following routes are hereby designated for use by all vehicles or
combinations of vehicles which weigh in excess of twenty thousand (20,000)
pounds or which are in excess of forty feet (40') in overall length and having
more than ten (10) wheels, and no other city streets shall be used by such
vehicles:
Fair and Stevens Streets, in their entirety, within the city limits.
Main, Midway and Front Streets from Fair Avenue to Stevens Street.
North Street from Stevens Street to Idaho Street.
Yakima, Idaho, Union and Adell from Main Street to North Street.
   B.   Exceptions to the regulations prescribed in this section, justified by
unusual circumstances, may be granted upon a request by the mayor or the chief
of police of the city. (Res. 505, 2-5-1985; amd. Ord. 413, 2-4-1986; 1994 Code)
6-3-3: ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKES:
No person shall operate any vehicle while said vehicle or vehicle operator is
utilizing an engine compression brake without an exhaust muffler sufficient to
prevent the creation of excessively loud noises by said vehicle, except when
the use of such engine compression brake is necessary in an emergency. This
section is not intended to prohibit the passage of vehicles equipped with
engine compression brakes, but rather to limit the use of such equipment to
emergencies. A violation of this section shall be a traffic infraction. (Ord.
538, 2-3-2004)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
MUNICIPAL PARK REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Park Rules and Regulations
7-1-1: PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The following rules are hereby effective within the limits of the Filer City
Park in the City:
   A.   Maintenance of Property:
      1.   No person shall disfigure or remove any property belonging to the
park.
      2.   No person shall fail to cooperate in maintaining restrooms and
washrooms in a neat and sanitary manner.
      3.   No person shall place any waste, refuse or foreign matter in the
pool or on the park premises. All waste and refuse must be placed in proper
receptacles where they are provided; where receptacles are not so provided, all
rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible
for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere. (Ord. 323, 5-7-74)
   B.   Hours of Operation: Hours of operation of the park and pool shall be as
posted. No unauthorized person shall be in the park or pool area except during
the hours posted. (1994 Code)
   C.   Decency Maintained:
      1.   No person shall use the restrooms and washrooms designated for the
opposite sex if over the age of five (5) years.
      2.   No person shall dress or undress in any vehicle, toilet or other
place, except in the dressing rooms provided for that purpose.
   D.   Picnic Areas, Fires: All persons shall picnic in areas designated for
such purposes only. Each person using the area for picnics shall leave the area
in a clean manner and shall extinguish any fire and dispose of all trash before
leaving the premises. Fires may be built only in specified receptacles.
   E.   Swimming and Bathing: All swimming and bathing shall be in the pool
only.
   F.   Pool Area:
      1.   No food or beverages shall be allowed in the pool area.
      2.   No smoking shall be permitted in the pool area.
   G.   Vehicles 1 :
      1.   No person shall drive over the limit of five (5) miles per hour
inside the park.
      2.   No trailers shall be parked within the park area.
      3.   No motorcycles or bicycles shall be permitted outside of designated
areas within the park. (Ord. 323, 5-7-74)
   H.   Alcoholic Beverages: No alcoholic beverages shall be permitted in
possession upon the park premises or consumed thereon. No beverages in glass
containers shall be brought to or consumed in the Filer City Park. (Ord. 323,
5-7-74; amd. Ord. 396, 7-8-83; 1994 Code)
   I.   Animals: No dogs, cats or livestock of any kind shall be permitted on
the park grounds. (Ord. 323, 5-7-74)
   J.   Noise Levels: No person shall conduct any activity of any kind within
the City Park, including the playing of music, which produces a sound level
which exceeds ninety two (92) decibels on the A scale of a general radio
company number 1551-B sound level meter, or equivalent, stationed at a distance
of not less than twenty feet (20') from the activity producing the sound. (Ord.
353, 9-7-76)
 
Notes
1 1.See also Section
  6-2-17 of this Code.
CHAPTER 2
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Curb Lines
7-2-2: Sidewalk Construction And Repair
7-2-3: Obstructing Public Ways
7-2-4: Snow And Ice Removal
7-2-5: Vegetation Encroachment
7-2-1: CURB LINES:
Every street and avenue in the city shall be so divided as to provide for
sidewalk spaces, as near equal in width, as may be, on either side of the
roadway. The line separating the roadway from the sidewalk space shall be known
as the curb line and shall be parallel with the centerline of the street or
avenue.
The curb line for the following named avenues in the city are established as
follows:
Adell Avenue, Idaho Avenue, Union Avenue and Park Avenue: The curb line shall
be fifteen feet (15') from the front or lateral lot line.
Stevens Avenue and Fair Avenue: The curb line shall be twelve feet (12') from
the front or lateral lot line.
Yakima Avenue: The curb line shall be seventeen and one-half feet (171/2') from
the front or lateral lot line. (Ord. 54, 8-18-1921)
7-2-2: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR 1 :
The owners of the property abutting city streets shall hereafter be responsible
for the construction, rebuilding, repair and maintenance of all sidewalks,
curbs and driveway approaches in the city, and the city, its mayor, council,
officers and employees shall not be liable for injuries and damages resulting
from a failure of the owners of property to construct, rebuild, maintain or
repair any sidewalks, curbs and driveway approaches. (Ord. 409, 1-7-1986)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §50-316.
7-2-3: OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS 1 :
No person shall throw, deposit or place upon any street, alley or easement used
by the public for public travel in the city any rubbish, carton, box, barrel or
other container, trash, merchandise, animal or animal body or any other
material or thing which obstructs the full use for public travel by vehicles
and pedestrians of any street, alley or public easement, nor shall any person
park or abandon any vehicle on any street, alley or easement used by the public
for public travel in any manner not provided for in the traffic ordinances of
the city 2 . (Ord. 342, 12-2-1975; amd. 1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. IC §50-317.
2 1.See title 4, chapter 2 of this code for abandoned, wrecked vehicles; see
  title 6 of this code for traffic regulations.
7-2-4: SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL 1 :
   A.   Duty To Remove: Each owner or occupant of property with a sidewalk
along the property line shall remove snow and ice from the sidewalks promptly
each day.
   B.   General Rules And Regulations For Removal: The following regulations
shall apply to all persons who plow, shovel or otherwise move snow and ice on
the public streets and ways within the city:
      1.   No snow or ice may be placed within twenty five feet (25') of a fire
hydrant on the street side of the fire hydrant.
      2.   No snow or ice may be placed in such a way as to obstruct any
traffic regulatory sign.
      3.   Any snow or ice shoveled from a roof into any street, alley or
sidewalk shall be removed at the owner's expense.
      4.   If any snow or ice is piled so as to require the city to remove it
to enable the city to maintain the public streets, alleys or other ways, except
in the central business district, the property owner shall be responsible for
the cost of such removal.
      5.   Snow removed from sidewalks in the central business district may be
placed in the street for pick up by city crews; provided, however, said snow is
pushed or thrown far enough out into the street so as to keep the gutter clear
and not interfere with vehicles or parking; and further provided that the snow
is moved before seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M.
   C.   Vehicle Parking: No person shall park any motor vehicle overnight upon
the portion of any streets within the central business district of the city
upon which snow or ice is regularly removed by the city, at any time during the
months of November, December, January, February and March of each year;
provided, however, that this "no parking" ban shall not apply to the central
business district of the city except during the hours of two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. of each day during these months. Any motor
vehicle so parked on a regularly plowed portion of any street of the central
business district during such hours as parking is prohibited herein may be
moved by the city, and the owner thereof shall pay to the city clerk for the
costs incurred, plus storage fees in an amount of three dollars ($3.00) per
day, after the third day of storage. (Ord. 408, 1-7-1986; amd. 1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. IC §50-317.
7-2-5: VEGETATION ENCROACHMENT:
Every owner, tenant, or occupant of the premises abutting or adjoining any
public right of way shall be required to trim or remove any trees, shrubbery,
or plant growth which encroaches over any sidewalk, beyond any curb line, or
over the edge of the pavement in such a manner as to violate the following
provisions:
   A.   No trees, shrubbery or plant growth of any kind shall encroach over any
sidewalk below a height of seven feet (7') above the sidewalk.
   B.   No trees, shrubbery or plant growth of any kind shall encroach beyond
the curb line or edge of pavement into any street or alley below a height of
thirteen feet (13') above the street or alley surface. (Ord. 600, 8-5-2014)
CHAPTER 3
UTILITY RATES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Water System
7-3-1-1: Water System Rates And Charges
7-3-1-2: Delinquent Water Accounts
7-3-2: Sewer System
7-3-2-1: Sewer User Rates And Charges
7-3-2-2: Billing Procedures
7-3-3: Real Property Owner Responsible For Utility Charges
7-3-1: WATER SYSTEM:
7-3-1-1: WATER SYSTEM RATES AND CHARGES:
Water system rates and charges shall be established by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. 525, 12-4-2001)
7-3-1-2: DELINQUENT WATER ACCOUNTS:
   A.   In the event that any user has left the city without paying the user
charges due in full and, thereafter, returns to the city and requests water
service, such service shall not be connected and supplied unless and until the
old outstanding user charges have been paid in full, in addition to the charges
normally made for new service. (Ord. 450, 9-7-1993; amd. 1994 Code)
   B.   If city water service bills are not paid before the sixteenth of the
month, the same shall become delinquent. Water users shall be notified, in
writing, of delinquency, and if the bill is not paid in full within fifteen
(15) days after date of delinquency, the water user's privilege to water
service from the city shall cease and terminate unless the water user requests
a pretermination hearing. Should the water user not request a pretermination
hearing or if an adverse decision is made against the water user after the
pretermination hearing, the city may request the water user to pay the
delinquent water bill attributable to the water user's record of service by the
city, plus a one hundred dollar ($100.00) security deposit (if not previously
paid), a twenty dollar ($20.00) turn on charge and a five dollar ($5.00) fee
for service of the notice of termination, as a condition precedent to receiving
water service again from the city. (Ord. 533, 4-1-2003)
   C.   The city, in its delinquency notice to all water users, shall inform
the water user, in writing, of the right to a pretermination hearing. Such
hearing shall be held in accordance with the procedures described in this
section. The city shall not discontinue water service to any water user prior
to a hearing, after timely notice and an opportunity to be heard and to the
water user's personal appearance at the hearing. If a pretermination hearing is
requested by any water user, the city council shall hold a pretermination
hearing within thirty (30) days. The city council shall make an audible
magnetic record of the pretermination hearing and render its decision, in
writing, giving the reasons for its decision. In the event the decision is
adverse to the water user, the city council will inform the water user of his/
her right to appeal the decision pursuant to the Idaho administrative procedure
act 1 .
   D.   The city shall not discontinue water service to any water user because
of any delinquent water bill that is attributable to the prior water use of
another water user. The city shall not deny water service to any water user for
any reason without informing the water user of the right to a hearing before
the city council on the issue of whether the city should withhold or deny water
service. In case of a decision to deny water service, the city shall not be
required to provide water service pending an appellate hearing. However, a
hearing upon request of a water user denied water service shall be held as
expeditiously as possible in accordance with the procedures for pretermination
hearings set forth in subsection C of this section. (Ord. 450, 9-7-1993; amd.
1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §67-5201 et seq.
7-3-2: SEWER SYSTEM:
7-3-2-1: SEWER USER RATES AND CHARGES:
Sewer user rates and charges shall be established by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. 525, 12-4-2001)
7-3-2-2: BILLING PROCEDURES:
   A.   The city clerk shall bill each sewer user at the same time each such
user is billed for domestic water consumption, and such charge shall be
included on such water bill and shall show the amount due for sewer service for
the preceding month. If any person neglects to pay his/her sewer charge within
the time limited for the payment of water bills or shall fail or refuse to pay
such sewer charge, the city shall cause the water supply to such person by the
city to be turned off from the premises of such delinquency and before the
water shall be again turned on, all delinquent sewage charges must be paid in
full, in addition to the charges of the expense of turning the water off and
on.
   B.   Dispute as to the amount of a bill shall not justify the user in
refusing to pay the bill when due. In case of dispute, the user shall give
written notice to the city clerk at the time of payment that the bill is
disputed, stating the amount and reasons for the dispute. The city will
forthwith investigate such complaint and afford the user a hearing before the
mayor and city council, and if, following such investigation and hearing, the
city shall determine that the user's objections are well founded, the city
shall refund the amount of the overpayment or credit it upon the next monthly
bill of the consumer.
   C.   All charges or fees as provided for by this section, not paid within
thirty (30) days of the date when due, shall become delinquent and shall be,
and the same are hereby imposed as, a lien upon and against the property or
premises against which charge or fee is levied and assessed, and the city clerk
shall, at the time of certifying the city taxes, certify such delinquencies,
together with all penalties, to the tax collector of the county, and when so
certified, the same shall be a lien upon the property and collectible as other
charges. The lien herein provided for shall be an additional remedy available
to the city over and above any and all other remedies herein provided for the
enforcement of the fees and charges outlined in this section. (Ord. 395, 9-6-
1983; amd. 1994 Code)
7-3-3: REAL PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR UTILITY CHARGES:
Effective July 1, 2004, only the real property owner of property served by city
services may subscribe to city utility services, including water, sewer and
sanitation. The property owner shall be considered the "water user" and "sewer
user", as used in this code. (Ord. 542, 6-1-2004)
CHAPTER 4
WATER SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Purpose
7-4-2: Stealing Water; Tampering With Connecting Pipes, Valves And/Or Meters
7-4-3: Enforcement
7-4-4: Water Sprinkling Restrictions
7-4-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to prevent and prohibit any person from
tampering with that portion of the city water system which controls and
regulates the hookups and/or connections of individual homes and businesses to
the city water system. (Ord. 350, 7-6-1976)
7-4-2: STEALING WATER; TAMPERING WITH CONNECTING PIPES, VALVES AND/OR METERS:
Whoever shall, without permission or authority of the city, make connections,
or cause connections to be made, by pipe or by any other device, with the water
pipes and/or water system of the city with the purpose of obtaining or
diverting water from the city water system, or whoever shall, without
permission or authority from the city, tamper with any connecting device,
valve, pipe or meter erected or set up for the purpose of turning on and off
the water supply or registering or regulating the amount of water supplied to
any customer of the city water system, within the city, with the purpose of
obtaining or diverting any portion of the city water supply, or whoever shall,
without permission or authority of the city, connect or cause to be connected
by pipe or by any other device, any such connecting device, valve, pipe or
meter, or whoever, without permission or authority of the city, changes or
diverts the water leading to or from any such connecting devices or pipes or by
any device or appliance or means whatsoever tampers with such connecting
devices in such manner that said connecting device does not measure or regulate
the full amount of water supplied to each customer shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 350, 7-6-1976; amd. 1994 Code)
7-4-3: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Accessories Liable As Principals: Any person aiding, abetting or
counseling the acts, or any of them, mentioned in section
7-4-2 of this chapter, shall, upon the conviction thereof, be equally guilty
with the principal and subject to the same penalties.
   B.   Evidence Of Guilt: In all prosecutions hereunder, proof that any of the
acts herein forbidden were done on or about the premises owned or occupied by a
defendant charged with the commission of such offense, or that he/she received
the benefit of any such water supply on account of the commission of such acts,
shall be prima facie evidence of the guilt of such defendant. (Ord. 350, 7-6-
1976)
7-4-4: WATER SPRINKLING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Alternate Day Schedule:
      1.   When using the city of Filer potable water source, lawn irrigation
is restricted to the following schedule:
         a.   Even numbered addresses: Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday.
         b.   Odd numbered addresses: Wednesday, Friday, Sunday.
      2.   When deemed appropriate based on evaluation of projected supply and
demand of the city's potable water sources, the city council may move to
additional restrictions for use of the city's potable water supply as follows:
         a.   Even numbered addresses: Tuesday, Saturday.
         b.   Odd numbered addresses: Wednesday, Sunday.
When using the city of Filer potable water source, watering will only be
allowed on appropriate irrigation days before eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. or
after six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
   B.   Warning And Fine: Any subscriber found to be in violation of the
alternate day sprinkling schedule will be served with a written warning for the
first violation. Thereafter, any subscriber found to be in violation of the
alternate day sprinkling schedule will be assessed a fine in the amount of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each violation. The subscriber will be served
with a written notice of the violation and fine, which will be assessed on the
next city water billing.
   C.   Appeal Procedures: Any subscriber assessed a fine may appeal the fine
by filing an appeal with the city clerk. The appeal must be filed within ten
(10) days of receipt of the written notice of fine and the hearing to show
cause why the fine should not be imposed. Said appeal shall be scheduled at the
next regular city council meeting following receipt of the appeal.
   D.   Exceptions: Water customers may use water essential to protect the
general public health, safety or welfare. Irrigation systems may be operated at
any time for maintenance purposes (not to exceed 10 minutes per station).
Customers may apply for relief from the watering schedule for purposes of
establishing a new lawn not to exceed three (3) months.
   E.   Alternate Water Management Plans: A water customer may request relief
from applicable restrictions by filing an alternative water management plan
with the city council. The city will provide customers with the ability to
design water management alternatives that give customers flexibility in meeting
the restrictions while achieving maximum conservation goals. The city must give
approval to the plan and may require periodic reporting and posted notice of an
alternate water management plan. (Ord. 586, 7-5-2011)
CHAPTER 5
SEWER USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Use of Public Sewers Required
7-5-3: Private Sewage Disposal
7-5-4: Building Sewers and Connections
7-5-5: Use of the Public Sewers
7-5-6: Industrial Cost Recovery
7-5-7: Penalties
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The meanings of terms used in this Chapter shall be as follows unless the
context specifically indicates otherwise:
BOD (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedures in five (5) days at twenty degrees (20o) centigrade, expressed in
milligrams per liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
COMMERCIAL USER: Any place of business, manufacturing facility or other
enterprise not primarily used as a residence, connected to the City sewage
collection system and which does not meet the definition of an industrial user.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes form the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food and
from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL USER: Any user connected to the City sewage collection system which
meets or exceeds one or more of the following criteria:
   A.   A flow rate of 0.015 million gallons per day during any one day or a
flow that will average over one million (1,000,000) gallons per day for a
monthly period.
   B.   A BOD discharge rate exceeding fifty (50) pounds in any one day.
   C.   A TSS discharge rate exceeding fifty (50) pounds in any one day.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct from
sanitary sewage.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by a public authority.
RESIDENTIAL USER: Any single or multiple dwelling unit connected to the City
sewage collection system.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of
sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SHALL/MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration more than fifteen (15) minutes and more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flow expected during normal
operation.
STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN: A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and
drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
SUPERINTENDENT: The City, or its authorized deputy, agent or representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 395, 9-6-83)
7-5-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
City or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste or other material detrimental
to health and safety or prohibited by subsections 7–5–5A through E of this
Chapter.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the City
or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
the subsequent provisions of this Chapter.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City
and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the City
is hereby required, at his/her expense, to install suitable toilet facilities
therein and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter, within ninety (90) days after
the date of official notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is
within three hundred feet (300') of the property line.
   E.   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the Municipal sewage works.
   F.   The City shall not be liable for damage to any sewer user by reason of
a stoppage or other interruption of his/her water supply or sewer disposal
service caused by scarcity of water, accidents to the sewage works,
alterations, additions or repairs to the sewer system or from other unavoidable
causes beyond the control of the City or those which could be avoided had
appropriate check valve apparatus been installed by the sewer users.
   G.   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon
all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
   H.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this Chapter, except
Section 7–5–5, shall be served by the City with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided for
in this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall become liable
to the City for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the City by reason of
such violation. (Ord. 395, 9-6-83; 1994 Code)
7-5-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of subsection 7–5–2D of this Chapter, the building sewer shall be
connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of
this Section.
   B.   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the City, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary. A permit and
inspection fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be paid to the City at the
time the application is filed.
   C.   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He/She shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction, and in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within forty
eight (48) hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   D.   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of Public Health
of the State. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
   E.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in subsection 7–5–2D of this
Chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this Chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with clean bank run gravel or
dirt.
The City may, upon majority vote of the City Council, allow a private sewage
disposal facility to remain in use after a showing has been made to the
satisfaction of the City Council that the existing system is equivalent to the
public wastewater treatment system.
   F.   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the City.
   G.   No statement contained in this Section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the proper health
official. (Ord. 395, 9-6-83; 1994 Code)
7-5-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit.
   B.   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   C.   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another or an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building, and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   D.   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test, to meet all requirements of this
Chapter.
   E.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
Building and Plumbing Codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the
City 1 . In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   F.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   G.   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or building drain which, in turn, is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   H.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the City 2  or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
   I.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his/her representative.
   J.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the City.
   K.   It shall be unlawful to install or alter any sanitary sewer or plumbing
within the City or to tap onto or connect to any sanitary sewer line, whether
lateral, main or interceptor, without having first obtained from the City a
permit therefor.
An application for a connection to the City sewer system shall be made at the
office of the Superintendent, and no connection shall be made to any sewer main
without a valid permit therefor having been issued by the Superintendent.
It shall be unlawful for any person to uncover, make any connection with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit to perform said work from the
Superintendent.
   L.   Permission given to connect sewers and drains shall be upon the express
condition that the Superintendent may, for good cause, revoke the same, and the
person making such connection or his/her successor in interest shall have no
right to claim any damage in consequences of such permission being revoked.
(Ord. 395, 9-6-83)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 8, Chapter 1 of this Code.
2 1.See Title 8, Chapter 1 of this Code.
7-5-5: USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   B.   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   C.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive solid or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases of sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including but not limited
to cyanides in excess of two (2) mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works, such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and
paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage
grinders.
   D.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any substances,
materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely, in the opinion of the
Superintendent, that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment
process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or can
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. In
forming his/her opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as to quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees (150o) Fahrenheit (65o Celsius).
      2.   Any water or waste containing fats, gas, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100) mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between thirty two and one
hundred fifty degrees (32o - 150o) Fahrenheit (0o - 65o Celsius).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the State, Federal or other
public agencies or jurisdiction of such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations.
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      9.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      10.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   E.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged
to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in subsection D of this Section and which in the
judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment or receiving waters or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
Section 7–3–2 of this Title.
If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   F.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes,
sand or other harmful ingredients; except, that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      1.   In all cases where a building is used as a hotel, boarding house,
restaurant, service station, garage, etc., the owner or occupant shall provide
a properly constructed grease trap through which all wastes of a greasy nature
shall be drained. The Superintendent shall have authority, and he/she is hereby
authorized and directed to compel any person to provide and use a grease trap
as aforesaid whenever, in his/her judgment, the same is necessary.
      2.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or other necessary removal
facilities shall be installed on the premises when, in the opinion of the
Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, high concentrations of blood, fruit,
vegetable or grain liquors, milk wastes or any flammable wastes, sand and other
harmful ingredients. All interceptors or removal facilities shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be so located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Where installed, all
grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be maintained by the owner or occupant,
at his/her expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
   G.   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any water or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his/her expense.
   H.   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced
by a building sewer carrying industrial waste shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilities observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent.
The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his/her expense and shall be
maintained by him/her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   I.   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this Chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property.
   J.   No statement contained in this Section shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the City and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the City for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern. (Ord. 395, 9-6-83)
7-5-6: INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY:
   A.   All industrial users shall be required to pay that portion of the
Federal assistance grant under PL 92-500 allocable to the treatment of waste
from such users.
   B.   The system for industrial cost recovery shall be implemented and
maintained according to the following requirements:
      1.   Each year during the industrial cost recovery period, each
industrial user of the treatment works shall pay its share of the total Federal
grant amount divided by the recovery period.
      2.   The industrial cost recovery period shall be equal to thirty (30)
years or the useful life of the treatment works, whichever is less.
      3.   Payments shall be made by industrial users no less often than
annually. The first payment by an industrial user shall be made not later than
one year after such user begins use of the treatment works.
      4.   An industrial user's share shall be based on all factors which
significantly influence the cost of the treatment works, such as strength,
volume and flow rate characteristics. As a minimum, an industry's share shall
be based on its flow versus treatment works capacity, except in unusual cases.
      5.   An industrial user's share shall be adjusted when there is a
substantial change in the strength, volume or flow rate characteristics of the
user's wastes or if there is an expansion or upgrading of the treatment works.
      6.   An industrial user's share shall not include any portion of the
Federal grant amount allocable to unused or unreserved capacity.
      7.   An industrial user's share shall include any firm commitment to the
City (sanitary district or county) of increased use by such user.
      8.   An industrial user's share shall not include an interest component.
   C.   This requirement applies only to those features of wastewater treatment
and transportation facilities which have been constructed with Federal
assistance administered by the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency under PL
92-500. (Ord. 395, 9-6-83)
7-5-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this Chapter shall be
served by the City with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violations.
   B.   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in subsection A hereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall, in
addition to any criminal penalties, become liable to the City for any expense,
loss or damage occasioned the City by reason of such violation. (Ord. 395, 9-6-
83; 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 6
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Purpose and Scope
7-6-2: Definitions
7-6-3: Protection of City Water Supply; Nuisance Declared
7-6-4: Connection and Discontinuance of Service
7-6-5: Devices Required
7-6-6: Type of Protective Device
7-6-7: Place of Installation
7-6-8: Installation
7-6-9: Testing
7-6-10: Inspections
7-6-11: Sprinkler Permits; Inspection Fee
7-6-12: Enforcement
7-6-13: Installation Permits
7-6-14: Additional Remedies
7-6-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   The purpose of this Chapter is to protect the public health of water
consumers by the control of actual and potential cross-connections.
   B.   Rules and regulations of the State Department of Health and Welfare
pertaining to public water supplies have specific provisions to control cross-
connections in public water systems. For the purpose of protecting the health
of consumers receiving water from the City, it is considered that the
requirements established by the State Department of Health and Welfare in
Idaho, Regulations for Public Drinking Water Systems, November 1977, sections
1-8306.01 through 1-8306.08 should be adopted by the City.
   C.   This Chapter is adopted for the benefit of public health to water users
receiving their water supply from the City by protecting the public water
system of the City from actual or potential contamination. (Ord. 385, 7-1-80)
7-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following are established as definitions for the purpose of this Chapter:
BACKFLOW: The flow, other than the intended direction of flow, of any foreign
liquids, gases or substances into the City's public water supply distribution
system.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device to counteract back pressure or to prevent
back siphonage.
CROSS-CONNECTION: Any physical arrangement whereby a public water supply is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water supply system, sewer,
drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture or other device which
contains or may contain contaminated water, sewage or other waste or liquid of
unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of imparting contamination to
the public water supply system of this City as a result of backflow.
All definitions contained in the Idaho Regulation for Public Drinking Water
(November 1977), as the same may hereafter be revised or amended, shall be
considered as definitions within the meaning of this Chapter. (Ord. 385, 7-1-
80)
7-6-3: PROTECTION OF CITY WATER SUPPLY; NUISANCE DECLARED:
No water service connection from the City's water system to any premises shall
be installed or maintained unless the City's water supply is protected, as
determined to be necessary, by backflow prevention devices as required by rules
and regulations of the State Department of Health and Welfare and by this
Chapter. The installation or maintenance of a cross-connection which will
endanger the water quality of this City's water supply system is prohibited.
Any such cross-connection now existing or hereafter installed is hereby
declared a nuisance and shall be abated. The control and/or elimination of
cross-connection within the distribution system of the City shall be in
accordance with the State Department of Health and Welfare, Division of
Environment Rules and Regulations as well as the Rules and Regulations of the
City. The City Council may establish requirements of cross-connection control
within the City more stringent than said State regulations if it determines
that conditions so dictate. (Ord. 385, 7-1-80)
7-6-4: CONNECTION AND DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
Service to any property, landowner or water users receiving its water supply
from the City's water supply system shall be contingent upon compliance with
all requirements of the rules and regulations of the State Department of Health
and Welfare and of this Chapter pertaining to cross-connections. Service shall
be discontinued to any premises, water user or property owner for failure to
comply with such regulations of the State Department of Health and Welfare and
of this Chapter pertaining to cross-connections, and any discontinued service
will not be re-established until the Superintendent has approved compliance by
that particular premises or water user or landowner with such requirements of
the rules and regulations of the State Department of Health and Welfare and of
this Chapter pertaining to cross-connections. (Ord. 385, 7-1-80; 1994 Code)
7-6-5: DEVICES REQUIRED:
Backflow prevention devices shall be installed where, in the judgment of the
Superintendent, the nature and extent of activities or the materials stored on
the premises would present an immediate and dangerous hazard to health and/or
be deleterious to the quality of the water should a cross-connection occur,
even though such cross-connection does not exist at the time. Backflow
prevention devices shall be installed under circumstances, including but not
limited to the following:
   A.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply unless the quality of the
auxiliary supply is in compliance with State Drinking Water Regulations 1  and
is acceptable to the City Council.
   B.   Premises having internal cross-connections that are not correctable or
intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impracticable to ascertain
whether or not cross-connections exist.
   C.   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure that cross-connections do not exist.
   D.   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established.
   E.   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply or where a cross-connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters.
   F.   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled in
such a way that if back siphonage should occur, a serious health hazard might
result.
   G.   The following types of facilities will fall into one of the above
categories where a backflow prevention device is required to protect the public
water supply. A backflow prevention device shall be installed at these
facilities unless the City Council determines that no hazard exists:
Chemical plants using a water process
Food or beverage processing plants
Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics
Laboratories
Metal plating industries
Petroleum processing or storage plants
Piers and docks
Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors
Sewage treatment plants
Others specified by the City Council
   H.   Other premises, as specified by the City Council, where backflow
prevention devices are required to protect the public water supply. (Ord. 385,
7-1-80; 1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1.I.C. §37-2102.
7-6-6: TYPE OF PROTECTIVE DEVICE:
The type of protective device required shall depend on the degree of hazard
which exists:
   A.   An air-gap separation or a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed where the public water supply may be
contaminated with sewage, industrial waste of a toxic nature or other
contaminant which could cause a health or system hazard.
   B.   In the case of a substance which may be objectionable but not hazardous
to health, a double check valve assembly, air-gap separation or a reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed. (Ord. 385, 7-
1-80)
7-6-7: PLACE OF INSTALLATION:
Backflow prevention devices required by this Chapter shall be installed at the
meter, at the property line of the premises when meters are not used or at a
location designated by the City. The device shall be located so as to be
readily accessible for maintenance and testing and furthermore, where no part
of the device will be submerged. (Ord. 385, 7-1-80)
7-6-8: INSTALLATION:
Backflow prevention devices required by this Chapter shall be installed under
the supervision of, and with the approval of, the City. (Ord. 385, 7-1-80)
7-6-9: TESTING:
Any protective device required by this Chapter shall be a model approved by the
City. A double check valve assembly or a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device will be approved if it has successfully passed performance
tests of the American Waterworks Association (A.W.W.A.) or other testing
laboratories satisfactory to the City. These devices shall be furnished and
installed by, and at the expense of the water user. (Ord. 385, 7-1-80)
7-6-10: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Generally: Backflow prevention devices installed pursuant to this
Chapter, except atmospheric vacuum breakers, shall be inspected and tested
annually, or more often if necessary. Inspections, tests and maintenance shall
be at the customer's expense. Whenever the devices are found to be defective,
they shall be repaired, overhauled or replaced at the customer's expense.
Inspections, tests, repairs and records thereof shall be accomplished under the
City's supervision by certified testers.
   B.   Cross-Connection Inspections:
      1.   No water shall be delivered to any structure hereafter built within
the City or within areas served by City water until the same have been
inspected by the City for possible cross-connections and been approved as being
free of same.
      2.   Inspection shall be made periodically by the City of all buildings,
structures or improvements of any nature now receiving water through the City
system for the purpose of ascertaining whether cross-connections exist. (Ord.
385, 7-1-80)
7-6-11: SPRINKLER PERMITS; INSPECTION FEE:
No underground sprinkling device will be installed without a permit issued by
the City and without adequate backflow prevention devices at the point from
which the water for irrigation is taken from the public water supply.
Application for the permit must be accompanied by a thirty dollar ($30.00)
inspection fee. (Ord. 385, 7-1-80; 1994 Code)
7-6-12: ENFORCEMENT:
For the purposes of carrying out this Chapter, the City Council or its
authorized agents shall be authorized to inspect all premises receiving water
service from the water supply system of the City, as the City Council
determines to be necessary in order to exercise effective cross-connection
control. (Ord. 385, 7-1-80)
7-6-13: INSTALLATION PERMITS:
If cross-connection control devices are found to be necessary, the owner of
property served must apply to the City for a specific installation device.
(Ord. 385, 7-1-80)
7-6-14: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
In the event an improper cross-connection is not corrected within the time
limit set by the City, or in the event the City is refused access to any
property for the purpose of determining whether or not cross-connections exist,
delivery of water to the property shall cease until the deficiency is corrected
to the City's satisfaction. In addition, the City may effect the necessary
repairs or modifications at the property owner's expense and refuse delivery of
water to the property until the cost thereof shall have been paid. (Ord. 385,
7-1-80)
CHAPTER 7
TREES
SECTION:
7-7-1: Establishment And Title
7-7-2: Purpose
7-7-3: Definitions
7-7-4: Organization Of Tree Commission
7-7-5: Powers, Duties And Responsibilities
7-7-6: Destruction Of Trees, Shrubs Or Plants
7-7-7: Topping And Flush Cutting Prohibited
7-7-8: Duties Of Adjacent Property Owners
7-7-9: Diseased Private Trees
7-7-10: Cottonwoods, Willows And Poplars
7-7-11: Enforcement
7-7-1: ESTABLISHMENT AND TITLE:
There is hereby created the TREE ORDINANCE. (Ord. 505, 9-7-1999)
7-7-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to establish policies, regulations and standards
necessary to ensure that the City will continue to realize the benefits of the
community forest. The provisions of this Chapter are enacted to help coordinate
maintenance of public trees; emphasize use of good tree care practices, guide
proper tree selection, and promote tree diversity; promote education for all
citizens on proper tree care practices; provide guidance to the Tree
Commission. (Ord. 505, 9-7-1999)
7-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
ARBORICULTURAL: Having to do with the accepted practices of good tree care.
FLUSH CUT: Cutting within the branch bark collar or ridge of a branch when
pruning.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company,
association or private organization or entity of any character.
PRIVATE TREE: Any tree not on public property.
PROPERTY OWNER: The record owner or contract purchaser of any parcel of land.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Real property owned by the City of Filer either in fee simple
absolute, or impliedly or expressly dedicated to the public for present or
future use, for purposes of vehicular or pedestrian traffic, or for public
easements.
PUBLIC TREE: Any tree on public property.
STREET TREE: Trees on public right of way between the private property line and
the curb adjacent to a City street, or public right of way in medians of
streets, avenues, or ways within the City of Filer.
TOPPING: The act of lopping, rounding over or leaving long branch stubs when
pruning, or not pruning to an auxiliary branch.
TREE: A woody perennial plant with one main stem or trunk. (Ord. 505, 9-7-1999)
7-7-4: ORGANIZATION OF TREE COMMISSION:
The Tree Commission shall be composed of five (5) members appointed by the
Mayor and approved by the Council. All members shall serve a three (3) year
term. (Ord. 505, 9-7-1999)
7-7-5: POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The Tree Commission shall perform the following duties:
   A.   The Commission shall determine rules of conduct and bylaws for the
Commission, subject to Council approval. The Commission shall elect officers
and establish procedures for conduct of documented business as may come before
the Commission. The Commission, in its discretion, may also appoint nonvoting
members to give advice.
   B.   The Commission shall draft and recommend necessary amendments to this
Chapter. The Commission shall also draft and recommend an Arboricultural
Specifications Manual and Community Forestry Plan to the Council. Should the
Manual and Plan be accepted and codified by the Council, the Commission shall
draft and recommend necessary amendments to those documents. Both the Manual
and the Plan shall be reviewed every five (5) years after the effective date of
the documents.
   C.   The Commission may assist with policies concerning selection, planting,
maintenance, and removal of trees, shrubs, and other plants in the City. The
Commission will promote public education of good arboricultural practices.
   D.   The Commission shall recommend to the Council the Community Forestry
Plan and an implementation strategy, for the establishment of educational and
informational programs, and for the development of policies and procedures
regarding the City's duties.
   E.   The Commission may recommend criteria for the licensing of contractors
for the removal and maintenance of public trees within the City. The Commission
shall maintain and publish a list of certified arborists.
   F.   The Commission shall keep the Council apprised of its activities. (Ord.
505, 9-7-1999)
7-7-6: DESTRUCTION OF TREES, SHRUBS OR PLANTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, destroy, disfigure, neglect,
abuse, poison, maim or mutilate any tree, plant or shrubbery, or the root of
any tree, plant or shrub growing or maintained in or upon any public parks or
grounds within the City. (Ord. 505, 9-7-1999)
7-7-7: TOPPING AND FLUSH CUTTING PROHIBITED:
It shall be a violation of this Chapter to top any public tree or to flush cut
any branch on public trees except for an emergency situation. (Ord. 505, 9-7-
1999)
7-7-8: DUTIES OF ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNERS:
Owners of property adjacent to a street tree shall provide adequate maintenance
for that tree. Adequate maintenance shall include sufficient water, mulching
young trees, and protection from compaction or injury by vehicles or other
causes. (Ord. 505, 9-7-1999)
7-7-9: DISEASED PRIVATE TREES:
Upon the discovery of a serious epidemic, disease or pest in any private tree,
the City or Tree Commission shall serve notice upon the owner of the tree that
the owner eradicate, remove or otherwise control such condition within the time
provided. (Ord. 505, 9-7-1999)
7-7-10: COTTONWOODS, WILLOWS AND POPLARS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to plant, transplant or set out any Cottonwood,
Willow or Poplar tree on any street, alley, avenue, sidewalk or other public
place or within fifty feet (50') of any sidewalk, paved street, alley or avenue
or on any private property within seventy five feet (75') of any main or
lateral sewer of the sewer system.
   B.   When the roots of any Cottonwood, Willow or Poplar tree planted on
private property or on public property by the adjoining property owner have
obstructed or are about to obstruct or damage any sewer line, curb, gutter,
sidewalk or street, it shall be the duty of the owner of said private property
to remove the encroachment within ten (10) days from the service of the notice.
(Ord. 505, 9-7-1999)
7-7-11: ENFORCEMENT:
Any person violating any provisions of this Chapter shall be punishable by a
fine equal to or less than the monetary value of the tree as assessed by a
certified arborist or tree appraiser using the guidelines established by the
International Society of Arboriculture and the degree of damage to the tree.
(Ord. 505, 9-7-1999)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Adoption Of Codes
8-1-2: Definitions
8-1-3: Amendments To Adopted Codes
8-1-4: Flood Control
8-1-5: Project Site Maintenance And Sanitation
8-1-1: ADOPTION OF CODES:
The approved editions of the following nationally recognized codes, as adopted
by the State of Idaho or the Idaho Building Code Board, are adopted as the
official Building Codes of the City of Filer:
   A.   International Building Code.
   B.   International Residential Code, excluding parts IV, VII, and VIII.
   C.   International Energy Conservation Code.
   D.   International Mechanical Code.
   E.   International Fuel Gas Code.
   F.   Idaho manufactured home installation standard.
The adopted versions of the foregoing codes shall be deemed superseded by
successive versions of such codes as they are adopted or approved by the Idaho
Building Code Board effective on the date any such codes are made effective by
the Idaho Building Code Board. Agricultural buildings are exempt from the
Building Codes adopted herein but shall remain subject to placement
requirements established by zoning regulations. (Ord. 620, 10-16-2018)
8-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
AGRICULTURAL BUILDING: A structure designed and constructed to house farm
implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock or other horticultural products.
This structure shall not be a place of human habitation or a place of
employment, nor shall it be used by the public. (Ord. 620, 10-16-2018)
8-1-3: AMENDMENTS TO ADOPTED CODES:
The following amendments shall be applicable to the codes adopted:
The City of Filer hereby recognizes the code amendments made by the Idaho
Building Code Board and the Idaho Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning
Board and all rules promulgated by the board to provide equivalency with the
provisions of the Americans With Disabilities Act accessibility guidelines and
the Federal Fair Housing Act accessibility guidelines. (Ord. 620, 10-16-2018)
8-1-4: FLOOD CONTROL:
   A.   The City building official shall review all building permit
applications for new construction or substantial improvements to determine
whether proposed construction will meet the flood- resistant construction
requirements of the adopted codes. (Ord. 620, 10-16-2018)
8-1-5: PROJECT SITE MAINTENANCE AND SANITATION:
Throughout all phases of construction, including suspension of work, and until
the final acceptance, the property owner and/or the property owner's
representative shall keep construction rubbish and debris from blowing onto
adjacent properties. Construction rubbish and debris shall be confined to the
construction site in a covered dumpster of sufficient size. A portable restroom
facility shall be maintained on each construction site from the time
construction is begun until issuance of an occupancy permit. Failure of the
property owner and/or the property owner's representative to comply with this
section may result in an order to suspend work until the condition is
corrected. (Ord. 558, 4-4-2006)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
8-2-1: Electrical Code Adopted; Conflicts
8-2-1: ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED; CONFLICTS:
   A.   Adoption By Reference: The national electrical code, the most current
edition, published by the International Conference of Building Officials, is
hereby adopted as and for the electrical code for the city, with like force and
effect as if recited at length herein. The most current edition of the national
electrical code published by the National Fire Protection Association, as now
or hereinafter amended, is adopted as the official electrical code of the city,
together with all subsequent editions of said code.
   B.   Conflicts: All provisions of the national electrical code, the most
current edition, in conflict with any ordinances or parts of ordinances of the
city are hereby repealed, and this code shall preempt over any provisions of
the national electrical code in conflict therewith. (Ord. 399, 1-3-1984; amd.
1994 Code)
CHAPTER 3
MANUFACTURED HOUSING STANDARDS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: Development Standards
8-3-3: Accessory Structures
8-3-4: Verification Of Compliance Prior To Moving Structure
8-3-5: Building Permit Fees
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this Chapter, the following mean:
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure built since June 15, 1976, that bears the seal
of HUD, indicating it has met the Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards
of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD
Standards) and is used as a permanent dwelling and meets the criteria
established in Section
8-3-2 of this Chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOUSING: Single-family dwellings within the residential types of
zoning districts 1 , provided such structures meet the development standards of
manufactured homes on individual lots set forth in Section
8-3-2 of this Chapter. (Ord. 405, 12-3-85; 1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9 of this Code for zoning regulations.
8-3-2: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Development standards for a manufactured home on an individual lot are as
follows:
   A.   1. Shall be multi-sectional and shall be at least twenty feet (20')
wide, with a minimum floor area of eight hundred (800) square feet, or
      2.   Shall be a minimum of fourteen feet (14') wide with a minimum floor
area of seven hundred fifty (750) square feet.
   B.   Shall have a baked enamel metallic, wood shake, asphalt or fiberglass
shingle roof with a minimum slope of sixteen percent (16%) (2:12) and a minimum
six inch (6") eave, or gutter and eave attached to the entire perimeter of the
roof.
   C.   Shall have HUD approved vinyl, aluminum, steel, simulated wood or wood
siding.
   D.   Shall have a permanent foundation.
   E.   Shall be permanently affixed, with the running gear and towing hitch
removed and set upon a foundation base having an anchoring system that is
totally concealed under the structure.
   F.   Shall obtain a building permit from the City to insure that the
manufactured home is assembled on-site, to standards regulating the anchoring
of the structure to its foundation and other building requirements.
   G.   Shall comply with all other applicable requirements of the zoning
district in which the manufactured home is located (such as lot size and
setback requirements). (Ord. 405, 12-3-85; 1994 Code)
8-3-3: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
Development standards for an accessory structure to a manufactured home on an
individual lot are as follows: attached accessory structure, as permitted in
the zoning district for which the manufactured home is to be located, shall be
similar in material and integrated into the design of the structure. Accessory
structures must meet the applicable Uniform Building Code Standards 1  or HUD
Standards. (Ord. 405, 12-3-85)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  8-1-1 of this Title.
8-3-4: VERIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE PRIOR TO MOVING STRUCTURE:
The applicant shall sign the application and provide any additional information
necessary to verify such structure does meet the standards of Section
8-3-2 of this Chapter prior to moving the structure to the building site. The
City Building Inspector, following issuance of a building permit and upon
inspection of the site for the attachment of the structure to a foundation
base, shall verify in writing that all standards of Section
8-3-2 of this Chapter have been met, as certified in the signed application
form, and certify that the structure as installed upon the lot has been fully
completed in accordance with the applicable standards and ordinances before
occupancy shall be allowed by the City by anyone. (Ord. 405, 12-3-85)
8-3-5: BUILDING PERMIT FEES:
Building permit fees for manufactured homes shall be sixty percent (60%) of the
fees provided for in the Uniform Building Code. (Ord. 476, 11-7-95)
TITLE 9
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Short Title
9-1-2: Interpretation
9-1-3: Scope
9-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Title shall be known and may be cited as THE ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE CITY
OF FILER. (Ord. 379, 9-11-79)
9-1-2: INTERPRETATION:
In its interpretation and application, the provisions of this Title shall be
held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public
health, safety and welfare. To protect the public, among other purposes, such
provisions are intended to provide for adequate light, pure air, safety from
fire and other danger, undue concentration of populations and ample parking
facilities. (Ord. 379, 9-11-79)
9-1-3: SCOPE:
It is not intended by this Title to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way
impair or interfere with existing provisions of other laws or ordinances,
except those specifically repealed by this Title, or with private restrictions
placed upon property by covenant, deed or other private agreement or with
restrictive covenants running with the land to which the City is a party. Where
this Title imposes a greater restriction upon land, buildings or structures
than is imposed or required by such existing provisions of law, ordinance,
contract or deed, the provisions of this Title shall control. (Ord. 379, 9-11-
79)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definitions
9-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
ACCESSORY USE OR BUILDING: A subordinate use or building customarily incident
to and located on the same lot with the main use or building.
ALLEY: Any public space or thoroughfare twenty five feet (25') wide providing
access at the back or side of a property.
ALTERATION: As applied to a building or structure, is a change or rearrangement
in the structural parts or in the exit, facilities or enlargement, whether by
extending on a side or by increasing in height or in the moving from one
location position to another.
APARTMENT HOUSE: A multi-family dwelling for three (3) or more families, living
independently of each other and doing their cooking upon the premises.
AREA, BUILDING: The aggregate of the maximum horizontal cross section area of
the main building on a lot, excluding cornices, eaves, gutters or chimneys
projecting not more than two feet (2'), steps, one story open porches, bay
windows not extending through more than one story and not projecting more than
four feet (4'), balconies and terraces.
BUILDING: A structure designed, built or occupied as a shelter or roofed
enclosure for persons, animals or property, including tents, lunch wagons,
dining cars, camp cars, trailers and other roofed structures on wheels or other
supports used for residential, business, mercantile, storage, commercial,
industrial, institutional, assembly, education or recreational purposes. For
the purposes of this definition, "roof" shall include an awning or other
similar covering, whether or not permanent in nature.
BUILDING LINE: The line between which and the street line or lot line no
building or other structure or portion thereof, except as provided in this
Code, may be erected above the grade level. The building line is considered a
vertical surface intersecting the ground on such line.
BUILDING LINE, SETBACK: See definition of setback building line.
COLLOCATION: The use of a single support system on the ground by more than one
carrier or several support systems on an existing building or structure by more
than one carrier.
COURT: An unoccupied open space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building which is bounded on two (2) or more sides by the walls of such
building.
COURT, INNER: A court enclosed on all sides by exterior walls of a building or
by exterior walls and lot lines on which walls are allowable.
COURT, OPEN: A court enclosed on all sides by exterior walls of the building or
by exterior walls and lot lines on which walls are allowable, with one side or
end open to a street, driveway, alley or yard.
DWELLING: A single family dwelling, a two family dwelling, or a multi-family
dwelling as defined in this section.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: Any building that contains three (3) or four (4)
dwelling units used, intended, or designed to be built, used, rented, leased,
let or hired out to be occupied, or that are occupied for living purposes.
DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY: Any building that contains one dwelling unit used,
intended, or designed to be built, used, rented, leased, let or hired out to be
occupied, or that are occupied for living purposes.
DWELLING, TWO FAMILY: Any building that contains two (2) dwelling units used,
intended, or designed to be built, used, rented, leased, let or hired out to be
occupied, or that are occupied for living purposes.
DWELLING UNIT: A single unit providing complete independent living facilities
for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation.
DWELLING, ZERO LOT LINE: Any building that contains one dwelling unit used,
intended, or designed to be built, used, rented, leased, let or hired out to be
occupied, or that are occupied for living purposes which abuts one side lot
line and on the same side lot line shares a common wall with a second zero lot
line dwelling which abuts the same side lot line.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES: The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utilities or Municipal departments or commissions of underground or
overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or distribution systems,
collection, communication, supply or disposal systems, including poles, wires,
mains, drains, sewer, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call
boxes, traffic signals, hydrants and other similar equipment and accessories in
connection therewith but not including buildings reasonably necessary for the
furnishing of adequate service by such public utilities or Municipal
departments or commissions or for the public health or safety or general
welfare.
FACADE MOUNTED: Directly attached or affixed to the elevation of a building,
tank, or other structure.
FAMILY: A single individual, doing his/her own cooking and living upon the
premises as a separate housekeeping unit or a collective body of persons doing
their own cooking and living a domestic relationship based upon birth, marriage
or other domestic bond as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding
house, lodging house, club, fraternity or hotel.
FLOOR AREA, GROSS: For the purpose of determining the ratio of the floor area
of a building to the area of the lot, the "gross floor area" shall be the sum
of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of the building excluding
areas used for accessory garage purposes and such basement and cellar areas as
are devoted exclusively to uses accessory to the operation of the building. All
horizontal dimensions shall be taken from the exterior faces of walls,
including walls or other enclosures or enclosed porches.
FREESTANDING TOWER: A tower not physically attached to a building or structure.
A tower is attached to the ground by a foundation.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A building or part thereof other than a garage for the storage
of motor vehicles and in which service station activities may be carried on.
HOME OCCUPATION: A service, excluding daycare, offered by the resident of a
household unit or the sale of items handcrafted on the premises by the resident
of a household unit providing the service, sale of handcrafting is performed
only by the resident therein and providing the area used in performing the home
occupation does not exceed four hundred (400) square feet in area and providing
there is no exterior indication of the home occupation. Services which generate
no traffic to the premises or which use no vehicles which would not normally be
found incidental to a residential use shall be exempt from this definition.
HOTEL: A building containing rooms intended or designed to be used or which are
used, rented or hired out to be occupied or which are occupied for sleeping
purposes by guests and where only a general kitchen and dining room are
provided within the building or in an accessory building.
JUNK: Any worn out, cast off or discarded article or material which is ready
for destruction or has been collected or stored for salvage or conversion to
some use. Any article or material which, unaltered or unchanged and without
further reconditioning can be used for its original purpose as readily as when
new, shall not be considered junk.
JUNKYARD: The use of more than one thousand (1,000) square feet of the area of
any lot, whether inside or outside a building, or the use of any portion of
that half of any lot that joins any street for the storage, keeping or
abandonment of junk.
LATTICE TOWER: A support structure that consists of a network of crossed metal
braces, forming a tower that is usually triangular or square in cross section.
Towers not exceeding four feet (4') in any cross section shall not be
considered lattice towers.
LOADING SPACE: An off-street space or berth on the same lot with a building or
contiguous to a group of buildings for the temporary parking of a commercial
vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials and which abuts
upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by one building and
the accessory buildings or uses customarily incident to it, including such open
spaces as are required by this title.
LOT CORNER: A lot at the point of intersection of and abutting on two (2) or
more intersecting streets, the angle of intersection being not more than one
hundred thirty five degrees (135°). It is the land occupied or to be occupied
by the corner building and its accessory buildings.
LOT, REVERSED CORNER: A corner lot, the rear of which abuts upon the side of
another lot, whether across an alley or not.
MASTER DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A plan showing a carrier's expected network of
wireless communication facilities within the City and its Area of Impact.
NONCONFORMING USE: A building, structure or use of land legally existing at the
date of establishment and which does not now conform to the regulations of the
district in which it is located.
PARKING LOT AREA: An area, including access or maneuvering area, ramps or
columns, exclusively as a temporary (not exceeding 24 hours) storage space for
motor vehicles.
PARKING SPACE: An area of not less than two hundred (200) square feet, net,
exclusive of access or maneuvering areas, or ramps, columns, etc., to be used
exclusively as a temporary (not exceeding 24 hours) storage space for one
private motor vehicle. Truck loading and unloading space shall not be included
in such area.
ROOMING HOUSE: Any dwelling in which more than three (3) persons, either
individually or as families, are housed or lodged for hire, with or without
meals. A boarding house or furnished rooms house shall be deemed a "rooming
house".
SETBACK BUILDING LINE: A building line back of the street line.
STREET: A public thoroughfare more than twenty five feet (25') in width which
has been dedicated or deeded to the public for public use and which affords
principal means of access to abutting property.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or attached to something having location on the ground, including signs
and billboards but not including fences or walls used as fences.
USE: The purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed or intended
or for which either land or a building is or may be occupied or maintained.
UTILITY POLE: A telephone, power, light, cable television, or flagpole. Light
poles shall include street, stadium and security light poles.
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY: An unstaffed facility that transmits and/or
receives electromagnetic signals, including antennas, microwave dishes,
parabolic antennas, directional antennas and other types of equipment for the
transmission or reception of such signals, towers or similar structures
supporting the equipment, equipment buildings, shelters, cabinets, and other
facilities.
YARD: An open space other than a court, on a lot, unoccupied and unobstructed
from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this title.
YARD, FRONT: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building,
extending the full width of the lot and situated between the street line and
the front line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot.
YARD, REAR: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the building between
the rear line of the building and the rear line of the lot and extending the
full width of the lot.
YARD, SIDE: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the building
situated between the building and the side line of the lot and extending from
the front yard to the rear yard. Any lot line not a rear line or a front line
shall be deemed a side lot line. (Ord. 618, 10-17-2018)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Use Districts Established
9-3-1: USE DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purposes of this Title, the City is hereby divided into five (5) use
districts which shall be known, in the order of restrictiveness, as:
   A   Agricultural District
   R-A   Residential Agricultural District
   R-1   Residential Single Household District
   C-1   General Business District
   M-1   Industrial District
All property in the City previously zoned R-1-D, R-2, and R-L shall hereafter
be designated R-1.
All property in the City previously zoned C-G shall hereafter be designated C-
1. (Ord. 379, 9-11-79; 1994 Code)
The boundaries of the use districts of the City are hereby established as shown
on a map entitled the Filer City and Area of Impact Zoning Area on file in the
office of the City Clerk. (Ord. 393, 4-6-82; 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 4
A AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-4-1: Purpose
9-4-2: Use Regulations
9-4-3: Property Development Standards
9-4-1: PURPOSE:
This District is intended to retain the economic base that identifies Twin
Falls County by preserving the good productive lands for agricultural purposes
by identifying farm lands lying in those incorporated portions of the County
not likely to undergo intensive urban development. (Ord. 379,9-11-79; 1994
Code)
9-4-2: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      1.   The growing of soil crops, including all farming, livestock and
poultry raising activities.
      2.   Home occupations, suburban, rural or external.
      3.   Water reservoirs and facilities.
      4.   Public utility buildings and structures.
      5.   Railroad tracks, spurs, switches and facilities.
      6.   Cemeteries.
      7.   Churches and religious facilities. (Ord. 379, 9-11-79; 1994 Code)
   B.   Special Uses: A special use may be granted for a permanent use that is
not in conflict with the Comprehensive Plan and that is not permitted outright
because it may conflict with other uses in the District unless special
provisions are taken. Special use permits may be granted for the following
uses:
      1.   Dude ranches.
      2.   Stables, private or riding.
      3.   Commercial feed lots or stock yards (more than 5 head per acre or
total of 50).
   C.   Prohibited Uses: Uses not specified above are prohibited unless
administrative determination is made that the use is similar enough to a use
listed above that distinction between them is of little consequence.
      1.   No new dairies or expansion of existing dairies will be allowed
within a one mile radius of the City boundary lines.
      2.   No new large cattle feeding operations or expansion of existing
feedlots will be allowed within one mile radius of the City boundary lines.
(1994 Code)
9-4-3: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Lot Area: Twenty (20) acres or over.
   B.   Lot Occupancy:
      1.   Single-family dwelling units and farm labor units, as related to the
agricultural use of the land.
      2.   Agricultural buildings, defined as a building or structure located
on agricultural property and used to shelter farm implements, hay, grain,
poultry, livestock or other farm produce in which there is no human habitation
and which is not used by the public.
      3.   Temporary structures used for the sale of farm products raised on
the premises, including signs advertising the sale of such products. Such
structures shall be located a minimum distance of twenty feet (20') back of the
road right-of-way line and provide not less than five (5) off-street parking
spaces adjacent thereto.
   C.   Yards:
      1.   A minimum setback of forty feet (40') from the front property line
shall be provided for all buildings.
      2.   A minimum side yard of seven feet (7') from the side property line
shall be provided for all buildings.
      3.   A minimum side yard of twenty five feet (25') from the side property
line shall be provided for all buildings on a corner acreage. (Ord. 370, 9-11-
79; 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 5
R-A RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-5-1: Purpose
9-5-2: Use Regulations
9-5-3: Property Development Standards
9-5-1: PURPOSE:
The R-A residential agricultural zone is intended to provide areas for low
density residential development and continuation of farm uses where compatible
with each other. It is appropriate to be applied to areas which have, by nature
of uses and land division activity, already begun a conversion from rural to
urban use primarily in the outer portions of the rural-urban fringe areas where
public facilities and services will be necessary before intensive urbanization
should occur and in rural land with marginal suitability for agricultural
production. (Ord. 379, 9-11-1979)
9-5-2: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
Cemeteries.
Churches and religious facilities.
Home occupations, suburban, rural or external.
Noncommercial public parks and recreation grounds and buildings.
One- and two-family dwellings.
The growing of soil crops, including all farming, livestock and poultry raising
activities.
Water reservoirs and facilities. (Ord. 370, 9-11-1979; amd. 1994 Code)
   B.   Special Uses: A special use may be granted for a permanent use that is
not in conflict with the comprehensive plan and that is not permitted outright
because it may conflict with other uses in the district unless special
provisions are taken. Special use permits may be granted for the following
uses:
Bed and breakfasts.
Mobile home parks.
Private commercial recreation areas, including country clubs, racket clubs,
health clubs and golf courses.
Private schools and educational buildings having a curriculum similar to that
of public schools and colleges.
Subdivisions or developments containing five (5) acres or over.
Subdivisions or developments containing lots less than one acre, but not less
than one-half (1/2) acre, in size with an adjacent golf course, park, pasture,
soccer field, or other open space, providing open space for base density
requirements and the development is in compliance with the requirements and
policies as approved by the South Central public health district. The open
space used for base density requirements shall contain a deed restriction to
ensure a total of one acre minimum per building lot for subsurface sewage
disposal.
Townhouse units with separate ownership with an adjacent golf course with a
zero lot line setback common to the units, provided the opposite side lot line
is a minimum of ten feet (10') and the unit is constructed with appropriate
firewalls as required by the international fire code. (Ord. 370, 9-11-1979;
amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 555, 12-6-2005; Ord. 587, 9-6-2011)
   C.   Prohibited Uses: Uses not specified above are prohibited unless
administrative determination is made that the use is similar enough to a use
listed above that distinction between them is of little consequence. (Ord. 370,
9-11-1979; amd. 1994 Code)
9-5-3: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Lot Area:
      1.   One acre or more, except as otherwise permitted by special use
permit.
      2.   It is desirable that in this district the principal designated uses
involving structures be serviced from public water and sewer facilities, or
state health department approved private tertiary sewage treatment facilities.
However, since such public facilities might not be reasonably available or
feasible throughout the district, then the minimum lot requirements may be
larger than one acre and shall be controlled by the specific requirements of
the South Central health department.
   B.   Lot Occupancy:
      1.   One- and two-family dwelling units and farm labor units as related
to the agricultural use of the land.
      2.   "Agricultural buildings", defined as a building or structure located
on agricultural property and used to shelter farm implements, hay, grain,
poultry, livestock or other farm produce in which there is no human habitation
and which is not used by the public.
      3.   Temporary structures used for the sale of farm products raised on
the premises, including signs advertising the sale of such products. Such
structures shall be located a minimum distance of twenty feet (20') back of the
road right of way line and provide not less than five (5) off street parking
spaces adjacent thereto.
   C.   Yards:
      1.   A minimum setback of forty feet (40') from the front property line
shall be provided for all buildings.
      2.   A minimum side yard of seven feet (7') from the side property line
shall be provided for all buildings, except as otherwise permitted by special
use permit.
      3.   A minimum side yard of twenty five feet (25') from the side property
line shall be provided for all buildings on a corner acreage.
      4.   A minimum rear yard setback of thirty feet (30') shall be provided
for all buildings. (Ord. 379, 9-11-1979; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 587, 9-6-2011;
Ord. 643, 4-15-2024)
CHAPTER 6
R-1 RESIDENTIAL SINGLE HOUSEHOLD DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-6-1: Purpose
9-6-2: Use Regulations
9-6-3: Lot Requirements
9-6-4: Property Development Standards
9-6-1: PURPOSE:
This district is intended to promote and preserve residential development and
to provide a low density residential environment to allow the present and
future residents to live and play in an area with ample space for personal
privacy, private open space and free from encroachment by commercial and
industrial activities. The principal land use is single family dwellings and
uses incidental or accessory thereto. Centralized water and sewer facilities
are required for lots under one acre. (Ord. 618, 10-17-2018)
9-6-2: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Uses: Buildings, structures or premises shall be used and
buildings and structures shall hereafter be erected, altered or enlarged only
for the following uses:
Open space, public parks and playgrounds without crowd attracting facilities.
Residential:
Accessory buildings, personal swimming pools and other accessory uses.
Detached single family dwellings.
Under and above ground transmission lines.
   B.   Special Uses: A special use may be granted for a permanent use that is
not in conflict with the comprehensive plan and that is not permitted outright
because it may conflict with other uses in the district unless special
provisions are taken. Special use permits may be granted for the following
uses:
Bed and breakfasts.
Botanical gardens and arboretums.
Bus pick up shelters.
Daycare facilities.
Golf courses.
Historic sites, monuments.
Home occupations.
Mobile home parks.
   Multi-family dwellings.
Private outdoor ice and roller skating.
Private outdoor tennis courts.
Public and nonprofit private academic and vocational schools.
Public parks with crowd attracting facilities.
Public swimming pools.
Religious facilities.
Two family dwellings.
Utility owned buildings and structures (less than 25 square feet in area and
less than 3 feet above natural ground are permitted uses).
Zero lot line dwellings on lots fronting on arterial or collector streets,
subject to the restrictions contained in section
9-18-1 of this title.
   C.   Prohibited Uses: Uses not specified above are prohibited. (Ord. 618,
10-17-2018)
9-6-3: LOT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Number Of Dwellings Per Lot: Each dwelling shall be located on a
separate lot and each such lot and the buildings or structures thereon shall
conform to the minimum dimensional standards contained in subsection D of this
section.
   B.   Percentage Of Lot To Be Occupied: No dwelling, including its accessory
buildings, shall occupy more than thirty five percent (35%) of a lot nor more
than forty five percent (45%) of a corner or triangular lot.
   C.   Minimum Size Of Lots: No subdivision plat in the area included in the
R-1 District shall hereafter be approved by the City unless all lots shown
thereon have a minimum size of eight thousand (8,000) square feet, or six
thousand (6,000) square feet per zero lot line dwelling.
   D.   Yards:
      1.   No building (not including uncovered porches or steps) shall be
constructed nearer than twenty five feet (25') from the front lot line.
      2.   No dwelling shall be constructed nearer than twenty feet (20') from
the rear lot line. No accessory building shall be constructed nearer than
fifteen feet (15') from the rear lot line provided, however, that accessory
buildings may be constructed three feet (3') from rear lot lines adjoining
alleys if there is no direct vehicular access to the building from the alley,
and within five feet (5') of rear lot lines without alleys. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no building may be constructed on any underground utility easement.
      3.   No dwelling or accessory building shall be constructed nearer than
seven feet (7') from the side lot line on one side of the building and ten feet
(10') from the side lot line on the other side of the building; except, that
accessory buildings located more than twenty feet (20') to the rear extremity
of the main building may abut the side lot line on one side of the building and
except for zero lot line dwelling subject to the restrictions contained in
section
9-18-1 of this title. On corner lots, no dwelling or accessory building shall
be constructed nearer than twenty five feet (25') from the side lot line
adjoining either street. (Ord. 618, 10-17-2018)
9-6-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Each residential dwelling may have one nameplate sign mounted or
freestanding and shall not exceed two (2) square feet and not be higher than
seven feet (7'). Each residential dwelling shall display its assigned number.
   B.   Landscaping shall be permitted on the property line but shall not
exceed three feet (3') in height within twenty five feet (25') of the curb line
or the future curb line. Notwithstanding the foregoing, trees shall be
permitted within ten feet (10') of the curb line or future curb line, provided
that no tree limb or growth extending from said limb shall be maintained or
allowed to exist nearer than eight feet (8') from the surface of the ground.
(1994 Code)
CHAPTER 7
C-1 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-7-1: Purpose
9-7-2: Use Regulations
9-7-3: Property Development Standards
9-7-1: PURPOSE:
This district is intended to provide for commercial activities of various sizes
from large retail stores to small specialty shops with residential
opportunities for persons wishing to work and live in a unified environment.
(1994 Code)
9-7-2: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Uses: Buildings, structures or premises shall be used and
buildings and structures shall hereafter be erected, altered or enlarged only
for the following uses:
Automobile open parking lot or garage.
Communication and utilities facilities:
Radio and television stations without transmission and receiving towers.
Telegraph centers and stations.
Telephone exchange stations.
Underground and aboveground transmission lines.
Cultural facilities:
Aquariums.
Botanical gardens and arboretums.
Historic sites and monuments.
Libraries, museums and art galleries.
Planetaria.
Home occupations.
Open space.
Public assembly:
Amusement parks.
Auditoriums.
Exhibition halls.
Theaters.
Public parks and playgrounds.
Residential:
Household buildings with a minimum of five (5) units.
Household units existing at the time this title is adopted.
Household units in upper floors of commercial buildings.
Rooming halls, residence halls, residential hotels and motels.
Single-family residential within existing commercial buildings so long as the
residents operate a business within the building.
Transient lodging.
Retail trade uses as follows:
Apparel and accessories.
Automobile parts store.
Bakery.
Banks and lending institutions.
Bookstore.
Building materials, hardware.
Catering.
Craft shop conducted in conjunction with retail business which may include
ceramics, mosaic, fabrics, jewelry, leather goods, silk screening, dress
designing, sculpturing and wood carving.
Eating places.
Farm and garden supplies.
Florist.
Food, drugs, etc.
Gasoline service stations and car washes.
General merchandise.
Gunsmithing.
Hobby and toy store.
Home furnishings and equipment.
Ice cream store.
Import store.
Music store.
Pawnshop.
Pet shop.
Sporting goods.
Services:
Advertising.
Apparel repair and alteration.
Appliance repair.
Beauty and barber.
Building care contracting.
Business associations.
Civic, social and fraternal organizations.
Construction trade offices.
Consumer, credit, collection.
Daycare facilities.
Doctors, dentist.
Duplicating stenographic.
Employment.
Finance and investment.
Fire station.
Funeral.
Governmental facilities.
Insurance and related.
Labor union organizations.
Laundering and dry cleaning.
Laundromats.
Medical, clinics and related services.
News syndicate.
Nursing homes and rest homes.
Photographic.
Plumbing shop.
Police station and jail.
Post office.
Professional.
Professional organizations.
Public, private or commercial academic and vocational schools.
Publishing and printing businesses.
Real estate and related.
Religious facilities.
Shelter homes.
Taxidermy studio.
Welfare and charitable services.
Sporting facilities:
Athletic areas.
Golf courses and country clubs.
Golf driving ranges.
Ice and roller skating.
Indoor recreational facility.
Miniature golf.
Swimming pools (commercial and public).
Tennis courts.
Taxicab office.
Transportation:
Bus pick up shelter.
Facilities for tickets and arrangements. (1994 Code; amd. Ord. 507, 9-7-1999)
   B.   Special Uses: A special use may be granted for a permanent use that is
not in conflict with the comprehensive plan and that is not permitted outright
because it may conflict with other uses in the district unless special
provisions are taken. Special use permits may be granted for the following
uses:
Automobile and truck sales.
Communication and utilities facilities:
Radio and television stations with transmission and receiving towers.
Manufacturing of handcrafted furniture.
Public assembly:
Concessions.
Retail trade:
Alcoholic beverages when consumed on premises where sold.
Drive-in establishments.
Services:
Auction establishments.
Automobile and truck repair.
Bottling plants.
Equipment rentals.
Frozen food storage with locker rental and custom meat cutting.
Governmental protective agencies.
Sale of secondhand and salvage goods.
Storage rentals.
Woodworking and sheet metal.
Small animal hospital.
Sporting vehicles.
Transportation:
Freight transfer points.
Trucking facilities.
Utility owned building and structures (less than 25 square feet in area and
less than 3 feet aboveground are permitted uses).
Veterinarian.
Wholesale distribution and warehousing.
   C.   Prohibited Uses: Uses not specified above are prohibited unless
administrative determination is made that the use is similar enough to a use
listed above that distinction between them is of little consequence. (1994
Code)
9-7-3: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards shall apply to all land and
buildings in the C-1 district:
   A.   Lot Area:
      1.   Commercial Uses: The lot area shall be sufficient size to provide
for the building, off street parking, garbage and rubbish containers and
landscaping.
      2.   Residential Uses: Residential uses less than five (5) units and not
attached to a commercial use shall provide the minimum lot area of the R-
1 district.
   B.   Lot Occupancy:
      1.   Commercial Uses: No requirement.
      2.   Residential Uses: Residential uses less than five (5) units and not
attached to a commercial use shall provide the minimum lot occupancy
requirements of the R-1 district.
   C.   Building Height: No building shall exceed fifty feet (50') in height.
   D.   Yards:
      1.   Commercial Uses: No setbacks are required.
      2.   Residential Uses: Residential uses less than five (5) units and not
attached to a commercial use shall conform to the yard standards of the R-
1 district.
      3.   Landscaping: Landscaping is not required in the C-1 district but
when used shall conform with the R-1 district, subsection 9-6-4B of this title.
(Ord. 539, 3-2-2004)
   E.   Sidewalks On Highway 30: Whenever a building or structure is
constructed, placed or erected, or when there is a change of use of a building
or structure requiring a new occupancy permit in the C-1 zoning district on
Highway 30, the construction of curb, gutter and sidewalk on Highway 30 shall
be a condition of any building or occupancy permit and shall be completed prior
to final inspection and occupancy of the building. Construction of these
improvements shall comply with ITD and city standards. (Ord. 597, 10-1-2013)
CHAPTER 8
M-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-8-1: Purpose
9-8-2: Use Regulations
9-8-3: Property Development Standards
9-8-1: PURPOSE:
This District is intended to provide industrial users ample room in the City to
develop and expand without encroachment by noncompatible uses. (1994 Code)
9-8-2: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Uses: Buildings, structures or premises shall be used and
buildings and structures shall hereinafter be erected, altered or enlarged only
for the following uses:
      1.   Residential:
         a.   Household units existing at the time this Title is adopted.
      2.   General business:
         a.   All uses allowed in C-1 District.
      3.   Industrial:
         a.   Blacksmithing shop.
         b.   Bottling plant.
         c.   Coal and fuel yard.
         d.   Farm produce storage, including cleaning, washing, sorting,
packaging and processing.
         e.   Flour milling.
         f.   Gunstock manufacturing.
         g.   Ice manufacturing, storage and sales.
         h.   Large implements and heavy equipment.
         i.   Contractor equipment.
         j.   Machine shop.
         k.   Metal, wood fabrication plant.
         l.   Metalizing shop.
         m.   Milk products manufacturing.
         n.   Paint shop.
         o.   Planing mill.
         p.   Railroad
         q.   Sheet metal shop.
         r.   Tool and hardware manufacturing.
         s.   Trailer manufacturing.
         t.   Welding shop.
         u.   Wholesale storage.
         v.   Septic pumping service. (Ord. 379, 9-11-79; 1994 Code)
   B.   Special Uses: A special use may be granted for a permanent use that is
not in conflict with the Comprehensive Plan and that is not permitted outright
because it may conflict with other uses in the district unless special
provisions are taken. Special use permits may be granted for the following
uses:
Auction sales.
Auto wrecking.
Bulk plants.
Junk, rags, paper, metal and hide storage and sorting, collecting and/or
baling, when conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building.
Plastics fabrication.
Poultry and rabbit slaughter, processing and sales.
Storage yard.
Towing service and impound yard.
   C.   Prohibited Uses: Uses not specified above are prohibited unless
administrative determination is made that the use is similar enough to a use
listed above that distinction between them is of little consequence. (1994
Code)
9-8-3: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards shall apply to all land and
buildings in the M-1 district:
   A.   Lot Area:
      1.   Industrial Uses: The lot area shall be sufficient size to provide
for the building, off street parking and garbage and rubbish containers.
      2.   Commercial Uses: C-1 district, subsection 9-7-3A1 of this title.
   B.   Lot Occupancy:
      1.   Industrial Uses: No requirement.
      2.   Commercial Uses: No requirement.
   C.   Yards:
      1.   Industrial Uses: No setbacks are required.
      2.   Commercial Uses: No setbacks are required.
      3.   Landscaping: Landscaping is not required in the M-1 district but
when used shall conform with the R-1 district, subsection 9-6-4B of this title.
(Ord. 539, 3-2-2004)
CHAPTER 9
SPECIAL USE AND VARIANCE
SECTION:
9-9-1: Special Use Defined
9-9-2: Authority To Grant Special Use
9-9-3: Application For Special Use
9-9-4: Standards Applicable To Special Uses
9-9-5: Restrictions On Granting Special Use
9-9-6: Public Hearing On Special Use
9-9-7: Action By Governing Board On Special Use
9-9-8: Variance Defined
9-9-9: Authority To Grant Variance
9-9-10: Application For Variance
9-9-11: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
9-9-12: Public Hearing On Variance
9-9-13: Action On The Variance By Governing Board
9-9-14: Wireless Communications Facilities
9-9-1: SPECIAL USE DEFINED:
A "special use" is a use otherwise prohibited by the terms of this title in a
given zone, but which may be allowed with conditions under specific provisions
of this title and when not in conflict with a comprehensive plan. (1994 Code)
9-9-2: AUTHORITY TO GRANT SPECIAL USE:
The governing board may authorize in specific cases special uses, subject,
however, to the minimum conditions and requirements of the zoning district in
which they are located and subject to additional conditions and requirements
necessary to protect the best interest of affected persons and the city as a
whole. (Ord. 509, 3-7-2000)
9-9-3: APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL USE:
An application for special use permit shall be filed with the city by at least
one owner or lessee of property for which such special use is proposed or for
which an expansion of more than twenty five percent (25%) over the original
square footage approved through the special use permit process or a total
increase in square footage over ten thousand (10,000) square feet, whichever is
less, or relocation of an existing special use is proposed. At a minimum, the
application shall contain the following information:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
   B.   Legal description of property.
   C.   Descriptions of existing use.
   D.   Zoning district.
   E.   Description of proposed special use.
   F.   A plan of the proposed site for the special use showing the location of
all buildings, parking and loading areas, traffic access and traffic
circulation, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service areas, utilities,
signs, yards and such other information as the commission may require to
determine if the proposed special use meets the intent and requirements of this
title.
   G.   A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining property; the
effect of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes and vibration on adjoining
property; a discussion of the general compatibility with adjacent and other
properties in the district; and the relationship of the proposed use to a
comprehensive plan. (1994 Code)
9-9-4: STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO SPECIAL USES:
The governing board shall review the particular facts and circumstances of each
proposed special use in terms of the following standards and shall find
adequate evidence showing that such use at the proposed location: (Ord. 509, 3-
7-2000)
   A.   Will, in fact, constitute a special use as established by zoning
requirements for the zone involved.
   B.   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general objectives
or with any specific objective of a comprehensive plan and/or zoning
regulations.
   C.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be harmonious
and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended character of the
general vicinity and that such use will not change the essential character of
the same area.
   D.   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring
uses.
   E.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures,
refuse disposal, water and sewer and schools; or that the persons responsible
for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide adequately
any such services.
   F.   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community.
   G.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment and
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any person, property or to
the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare or odors.
   H.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares.
   I.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural, scenic
or historic feature of major importance. (1994 Code)
9-9-5: RESTRICTIONS ON GRANTING SPECIAL USE:
In granting any special use, the governing board may prescribe appropriate
conditions, bonds and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violations of
such conditions, bonds or safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which
the special use is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title. (Ord.
509, 3-7-2000)
9-9-6: PUBLIC HEARING ON SPECIAL USE:
Upon receipt of the application for a special use, the governing board shall
hold a public hearing, publish notice in the newspaper and give written notice
to the applicant and all persons owning property within three hundred feet
(300') of the subject property. (Ord. 509, 3-7-2000)
9-9-7: ACTION BY GOVERNING BOARD ON SPECIAL USE:
   A.   Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing, the governing board
shall either approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the application as
presented. If the application is approved or approved with modifications, the
governing board shall direct the city to issue a special use permit listing the
specific conditions specified by the governing board for approval. (Ord. 509,
3-7-2000)
   B.   Upon granting of a special use permit, conditions may be attached to a
special use permit including, but not limited to, those:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on other developments.
      2.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development.
      3.   Controlling the duration of development.
      4.   Assuring that development is maintained properly.
      5.   Designating the exact location and nature of development.
      6.   Requiring the provision for on-site or off-site public facilities or
services.
      7.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in this title. (1994 Code)
9-9-8: VARIANCE DEFINED:
Variance is a modification of the requirements of this title as to lot size,
lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear yard, setbacks, parking
space, height of buildings or other title provisions affecting the size or
shape of a structure or the placement of the structure upon lots, or the size
of lots and public ways. (1994 Code)
9-9-9: AUTHORITY TO GRANT VARIANCE:
The governing board may authorize in specific cases such variance from the
terms of this title as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing
to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this title
would result in unnecessary hardship. No nonconforming use of neighboring
lands, structures or buildings in the same district, and no permitted or
nonconforming use of lands, structures or buildings in other districts shall be
considered grounds for issuance of a variance. Variances shall not be granted
on the grounds of convenience or profit, but only where strict application of
the provisions of this title would result in unnecessary hardship or the loss
of a building or site that is on a national, state or local register of
historic places or sites. (Ord. 509, 3-7-2000)
9-9-10: APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE:
A variance from the terms of this title shall not be granted unless and until a
written application for a variance is submitted containing: (Ord. 509, 3-7-
2000)
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
   B.   Legal description of property.
   C.   Description of nature of variance requested.
   D.   A narrative statement and documentation demonstrating that the building
or site is on a national, state or local register of historic places or sites
or that the requested variance conforms to all the following standards:
      1.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar
to the land, structure or building involved and which are not applicable to
other lands, structures or buildings in the same district.
      2.   That a literal interpretation of the provisions of this title would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this title.
      3.   That special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant.
      4.   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this title to other lands,
structures or buildings in the same district. (1994 Code)
   E.   A variance shall not be granted unless the governing board makes
specific findings of fact based directly on the particular evidence presented
to it which support conclusions that the above mentioned standards and
conditions have been met by the applicant. (Ord. 509, 3-7-2000)
9-9-11: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
Under no circumstances shall the governing board grant an appeal or variance to
allow a use not permissible under the terms of this title in the district
involved, or any use expressly or by implications prohibited by the terms of
this title in said district. In granting any appeal or variance, the governing
board may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with
this title. Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of
the terms under which the appeal or variance is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of this title. (Ord. 509, 3-7-2000)
9-9-12: PUBLIC HEARING ON VARIANCE:
   A.   Prior to granting a variance permit, at least one public hearing in
which interested persons shall have the opportunity to be heard shall be held.
At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time and place
and a summary of the proposal shall be published in the official newspaper or
paper of general circulation within the jurisdiction of the city. Notice may
also be made available to other newspapers, radio and television stations
serving the jurisdiction for use as a public service announcement. Written
notice shall also be provided to property owners and residents adjoining and
within the parcel under consideration. (Ord. 509, 3-7-2000)
   B.   When notice is required to two hundred (200) or more property owners or
residents, in lieu of the mailing notification, three (3) notices in the
newspaper or paper of general circulation is sufficient; provided, the third
notice appears ten (10) days prior to the public hearing. (1994 Code)
9-9-13: ACTION ON THE VARIANCE BY GOVERNING BOARD:
Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing the governing board shall
either approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the request for appeal of
variance. (Ord. 509, 3-7-2000)
9-9-14: WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
   A.   Regulations:
      1.   Use: The placement, use or modification of any wireless
communication facility is subject to the provisions of this section.
         a.   Residential zones: Freestanding towers are prohibited. Wireless
communication facilities attached to utility poles or facades attached to
nonresidential buildings are permitted subject to the provisions of this
section.
         b.   Nonresidential zones: Wireless communication facilities are
permitted subject to the provisions of this section.
      2.   Preferred Locations And Facility Types:
         a.   Site Selection Criteria: A master development plan is to be
created, prior to any wireless communication facility permit request, based
upon engineering constraints and desired areas of service. Wireless
communication facilities shall be located on a master development plan in the
following priority order:
            (1)   Collocation on an existing tower, structure or building. The
applicant shall have the burden of proving that there are no feasible existing
structures upon which to locate as described in this section.
            (2)   Publicly owned property.
            (3)   Other nonresidential buildings or vacant nonresidentially
zoned land.
         b.   Facility Type Preferred:
            (1)   Roof mounted.
            (2)   Facade mounted.
            (3)   Utility pole mounted.
            (4)   Freestanding.
      3.   Collocation: Collocation is considered to be a visually unobtrusive
installation method because the equipment is attached to an existing structure.
Collocation of a wireless communication facility shall require only approval of
the administrator. No new tower shall be permitted unless the applicant
demonstrates that no existing tower or structure can accommodate the
applicant's proposed wireless communication facility. Evidence submitted to
demonstrate the unavailability of other towers or structures shall address all
of the following:
         a.   An RF engineering analysis of all utility poles, regardless of
height, and of all towers or structures thirty five feet (35') in height or
higher, within a one thousand three hundred twenty foot (1,320') radius of the
proposed wireless communication facility site.
         b.   The fees, costs or contractual provisions required by the owner
in order to share an existing tower or structure or to adapt an existing tower
or structure for collocation are unreasonable. Costs exceeding new tower
development are presumed to be unreasonable.
      4.   Prohibitions: The following are prohibited or restricted:
         a.   Interference with city and public safety communication systems
and/or area television or radio broadcast is prohibited.
         b.   Freestanding towers within residentially zoned areas are
prohibited.
         c.   Except as may be used in a lattice tower, diagonal bracing is
permitted only to anchor the antenna to an existing building to which the
antenna is attached.
   B.   Application Procedure: The administrator shall be the granting
authority for wireless communication facility collocating on existing
structures or utility poles. All other wireless communication facilities shall
require a special use permit. An application for a special use permit for a
wireless communication facility shall contain the information set forth below,
in addition to the standard application information required for all special
use permits:
      1.   A site plan including location, type and height of the proposed
wireless communication facility with setbacks, property lines, adjacent land
uses, structures and zoning.
      2.   Elevation drawings or before and after photographs/drawings
simulating and specifying the location and height of the antennas, support
structures, equipment enclosures and other accessory uses.
      3.   The master development plan showing the location of all existing and
proposed wireless communication facility sites of the applicant within the city
and its area of impact, including the service area of each wireless
communication facility.
      4.   Evidence demonstrating the unavailability of collocation, as set
forth above.
      5.   A signed and notarized statement by the applicant agreeing to
accommodate collocation of additional antennas on the tower and that the
applicant agrees to enter into leases with other providers allowing use of the
tower at a monthly lease rate not to exceed the fair market value for such
tower leases at the time of request for such a lease. Applicant agrees to
provide documentation verifying the fair market rents for tower leases upon
request of the administrator in the event any provider requesting collocation
claims that such rates are unreasonable as provided for in subsection A3b of
this section.
      6.   A lease agreement with the landholder that allows other providers to
locate equipment on the subject property, and provides that if the provider
fails to remove the wireless communication facility and equipment within ninety
(90) days of its discontinued use, the responsibility for removal shall belong
to the landholder.
   C.   Standards:
      1.   Roof Mounted:
         a.   Height: Roof mounted wireless communication facilities may extend
above the highest portion of the roof, including parapet walls, by a distance
equal to its distance to the nearest exterior wall.
         b.   Setback: Roof mounted wireless communication facilities shall be
set back from the edge of the building the height of the antenna and support
system.
         c.   Lighting: Lighting of antennas or support structures shall be
prohibited except as required by the FAA.
      2.   Facade Mounted:
         a.   Height: Facade mounted wireless communication facilities may not
exceed five feet (5') above the facade to which it is attached.
         b.   Setback: Maximum projection of eighteen inches (18"), but may not
encroach into the public right of way.
         c.   Attachment: The antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical
equipment must be the same color as the supporting structure so as to make the
antenna and related equipment as unobtrusive as possible.
      3.   Utility Pole Mounted:
         a.   Height: Maximum height of one hundred thirty three percent (133%)
of the height of the original utility pole.
         b.   Lighting: Lighting of antennas or support structures shall be
prohibited except as required by the FAA.
         c.   Attachment: The antenna shall be either fully concealed within
the utility pole or face mounted (not to exceed 18 inches from the face of the
pole). Standoffs and amps platforms are prohibited.
         d.   Pole Replacement: Existing utility poles may be replaced with a
new utility pole of the same height, dimensions and appearance as the existing
utility pole.
         e.   Equipment Enclosures: Aboveground equipment enclosures on utility
poles in the right of way shall not exceed twelve (12) cubic feet in volume and
shall be constructed so as to minimize their visual impact. Aboveground
equipment enclosures off the right of way shall meet building line setbacks in
the underlying district, and shall be finished to blend in with the surrounding
area. If a security fence is installed, landscaping and screening shall be
installed to visually screen the aboveground equipment enclosure. Landscaping
and screening shall consist of a combination of trees, foliage and shrubs of
dense spacing in the form of either a screening wall or fence surrounded by a
five foot (5') wide landscape planter, or a ten foot (10') wide landscape
planter. All landscaping shall be watered, fertilized and maintained as
necessary. All dead plantings shall be replaced within thirty (30) days.
         f.   Relocation Of Utilities: In the event the utilities located on a
utility pole are relocated underground, the wireless communication facility
shall be relocated to another location pursuant to the requirements of this
section.
      4.   Freestanding:
         a.   Height: Freestanding towers shall not exceed one hundred sixty
five feet (165') in height as measured from the ground.
         b.   Setback: Setbacks shall be measured from the base of the tower to
the property line of the parcel on which it is located. Towers shall be set
back from all residential and residentially zoned property one hundred twenty
five percent (125%) of the tower height as measured from ground level.
         c.   Color: Freestanding towers shall be left in a galvanized
appearance or painted a neutral earth tone color or otherwise camouflaged or
disguised so as to make the tower as unobtrusive as possible.
         d.   Attachment: The antenna shall be either fully concealed within
the tower or face mounted and the applicant must provide evidence to the
satisfaction of the administrator to show that the tower is structurally sound
to support such antenna or other equipment to be attached to the tower, which
evidence shall include, but not be limited to, written certification by an
appropriately licensed engineer certifying that the tower is structurally sound
to support such antenna or other equipment to be attached to the tower.
         e.   Landscaping: Landscaping and screening shall be installed to
visually screen the support structure and aboveground equipment enclosures.
Landscaping and screening shall consist of a combination of trees, foliage and
shrubs of dense spacing in the form of either a screening wall or fence
surrounded by a five foot (5') wide landscape planter, or a ten foot (10') wide
landscape planter. All landscaping shall be watered, fertilized and maintained
as necessary. All dead plantings shall be replaced within thirty (30) days.
         f.   Lighting: Lighting of antennas or support structures shall be
prohibited except as required by the FAA.
   D.   Abandonment: Upon abandonment or discontinuation of use, the carrier
shall physically remove the wireless communication facility within ninety (90)
days of the date of abandonment or discontinuation of use, and restore the site
to its original condition. (Ord. 610, 11-15-2016)
CHAPTER 10
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
9-10-1: Parking and Loading Spaces
9-10-2: Off-Street Parking Required
9-10-3: Collective Provisions
9-10-4: Off-Street Truck Loading Spaces
9-10-1: PARKING AND LOADING SPACES:
The intent of this Chapter is to encourage the parking of vehicles off the
public streets and highways so as to improve safety, reduce congestion and
facilitate street maintenance and traffic circulation. (Ord. 379, 9-11-79)
9-10-2: OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIRED:
In all zones, there shall be constructed at the time of the erection of any
building or at the time any main building is enlarged or increased in capacity,
minimum off-street parking space of nine feet by twenty feet (9' x 20') with
adequate provision for ingress and egress from the street to each parking space
by standard size automobiles as follows:
             MINIMUM NUMBER OF      MINIMUM NUMBER OF
TYPE OF USE  STREET PARKING SPACES  OFF-STREET PARKING
             FOR EMPLOYEES/PATRONS  SPACES FOR CUSTOMERS
                           MINIMUM NUMBER OF          MINIMUM NUMBER OF
TYPE OF USE                STREET PARKING SPACES      OFF-STREET PARKING
                           FOR EMPLOYEES/PATRONS      SPACES FOR CUSTOMERS
Barber shops              1 for each employee       2 for each chair
Beauty shops              1 for each employee       2 for each chair
                           1 space for each 4 seats or each 80" of benches,
Churches                  plus 1 space for each church official resident on
                           the premises, plus spaces equal in number to 50% of
                           the number of employees
Collection offices        1 for each employee       2 spaces
Day care facilities       2 for each adult           
                           employee
Drive-ins                 1 for each employee       12 spaces
Dwellings                 2 spaces for each          
                           dwelling unit
Gift and flower shops     1 for each employee of    1 for each 125 sq. ft.
                           sales area
Grocery stores,                                       3 sq. ft. of parking lot
drugstores, bakers and    1 for each 2 employees    area for each sq. ft. of
similar retail                                        building
establishment s
                           2 spaces more than that
Home occupations          required for each          
                           dwelling unit,
                                                      Not less than the number
                                                      of spaces equaling 60% of
Hotels                                             the number of rooms to be
                                                      occupied by tenants or
                                                      guests
                           A minimum of 1 off-
Industrial                street parking space for   
                           each 2 employees
Lodge halls, club
houses, institutions for  Not less than 20% of the   
philanthropic and          total membership
eleemosynary purposes
                           1 space for each 4 seats or each 80" of benches in
Mortuaries                the chapel or auditorium, plus 1 space for each
                           resident on the premises, plus 1 space for each 2
                           employees not resident on the premises
Motels and tourist        1 space for each unit      
courts
Plant nurseries where      1 space for each
goods are sold on the     employee                  2 spaces
premises
                           1 space for each           2 spaces for each
Professional offices      employee                  professional person
                                                      located in the building
Public parks              1 space for every         4 rated occupants
Public swimming pools     5 spaces for each rated    
                           occupant
                           1 space for each           2 spaces for each
Real Estate offices       employee                  professional person
                                                      located in the building
                           1 space for each           1 space for each 4 seats
Restaurants               employee                  or 30" of seating
                                                      capacity
Schools                   2 spaces for each          
                           classroom
 
Off-street parking space for uses not mentioned shall be determined by the
Planning and Zoning Commission under authority delegated to it as set forth in
this Title. (Ord. 379, 9-11-79; 1994 Code)
9-10-3: COLLECTIVE PROVISIONS:
Parking space for two (2) or more buildings, as required in this Title, may be
combined into one lot and may be located on a lot adjacent to the building,
provided the number of parking spaces is at least equal to the number required
when computed separately. (Ord. 379, 9-11-79)
9-10-4: OFF-STREET TRUCK LOADING SPACES:
Off-street loading and unloading space shall be provided on the same lot for
every building used for manufacturing, storage, warehousing, goods display,
department store, grocery, hotel, hospital, mortuary, laundry, dry cleaning or
other use similarly involving the receipt or distribution of vehicle or
material or merchandise. Such space, unless otherwise adequately provided,
shall include a minimum ten foot by twenty five foot (10' x 25') loading space
with a minimum fourteen feet (14') height clearance for every twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet of floor space in the building, or fraction thereof. (Ord.
379, 9-11-79)
CHAPTER 11
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
9-11-1: Nonconforming Uses
9-11-2: Expansion Of Nonconforming Uses
9-11-1: NONCONFORMING USES:
The lawful use of any building, structure or land existing at the effective
date hereof may be continued, although such use does not conform with the
provisions of this title, provided the following conditions are met:
   A.   Unsafe Structure: Nothing in this title shall prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition of any portion of a building or structure
declared unsafe by a proper authority.
   B.   Alterations: A nonconforming building or structure may be altered,
improved or reconstructed; provided, such work is not, to any extent,
exceeding, in aggregate cost, one hundred percent (100%) of the assessed value
of the building or structure in any five (5) year period unless the building or
structure is changed to a conforming use.
   C.   Extension: A nonconforming use shall not be extended, but the extension
of a lawful use to any portion of a nonconforming building or structure which
existed prior to the enactment of this title shall not be deemed the extension
of such nonconforming use.
   D.   Changes: No nonconforming building, structure or use shall be changed
to another nonconforming use.
   E.   Restoration: Nothing in this title shall prevent the reconstruction,
repairing, rebuilding and continued use of any nonconforming building or
structure damaged by fire, collapse, explosion or acts of God subsequent to the
effective date hereof, wherein the expense of such work does not exceed one
hundred percent (100%) of the replacement value of the building or structure at
the time such damage occurred.
   F.   Wear And Tear: Nothing in this title shall prevent the reconstruction,
repairing or rebuilding of a nonconforming building, structure or part thereof
existing at the effective date hereof, rendered necessary by wear and tear,
deterioration and depreciation.
   G.   Abandonment: A nonconforming use of a building or premises which has
been abandoned shall not thereafter be returned to such nonconforming use. A
nonconforming use shall be considered abandoned:
      1.   When the intent of the owner to discontinue the use is apparent; or
      2.   When the characteristic equipment and the furnishings of the
nonconforming use have been removed from the premises and have not been
replaced by similar equipment within six (6) months unless other facts show
intention to resume the nonconforming use; or
      3.   When it has been replaced by a conforming use; or
      4.   When it has been lawfully changed to another use.
   H.   Displacement: No nonconforming use shall be extended to displace a
nonconforming use.
   I.   Unlawful Use Not Authorized: Nothing in this title shall be interpreted
as authorization for or approval of the continuance of the use of a structure
or premises in violation of zoning regulations in effect at the effective date
hereof.
   J.   District Change: Whenever the boundaries of a district shall be changed
so as to transfer an area from one district to another district of a different
classification, the foregoing provisions shall also apply to any nonconforming
uses existing therein. (Ord. 379, 9-11-1979)
9-11-2: EXPANSION OF NONCONFORMING USES:
The governing board may authorize the issuance of a special use permit to
expand a nonconforming building or a conforming building housing a
nonconforming use upon submission of an application and after a public hearing.
(Ord. 509, 3-7-2000)
CHAPTER 12
PROCEDURES FOR THE CONDUCT OF HEARINGS
SECTION:
9-12-1: Procedures For The Conduct Of Hearings
9-12-1: PROCEDURES FOR THE CONDUCT OF HEARINGS:
The following rules hereby established, shall be observed in the conduct of any
public hearing before the governing board hereinafter referred to as the
hearing body. The following rules shall be known as the "Filer Rules of
Procedure". (Ord. 509, 3-7-2000)
   A.   No person shall be permitted to testify or speak before the hearing
body at a public hearing, unless such person has signed his name and written
his residential address thereafter on sign-up sheets to be provided by the
city. This rule shall not apply to staff or technical witnesses directed by the
presiding officer to give evidence or information to the hearing body.
   B.   No person shall be permitted to speak before the hearing body at a
public hearing until such person has been recognized by the presiding officer.
   C.   All public hearing proceedings shall be recorded electronically or
stenographically and all persons speaking at such public hearings shall speak
before a microphone in such a manner as will assure that the recorded testimony
or remarks will be accurate and trustworthy.
   D.   Any exhibit introduced by any person shall be retained by the hearing
body and made a part of the record therein.
   E.   The hearing body may establish a time limit to be observed by all
speakers. The time limit may be established, depending upon the number of
speakers who sign up for each public hearing and shall apply only to the
speaker's comments.
   F.   The speaker shall not be interrupted by members of the hearing body
until his time limit has been expended or until he has finished his statement.
   G.   At the conclusion of a speaker's comments, each member, when recognized
by the presiding officer, may be allowed to question the speaker and the
speaker shall be limited to answers to the questions asked. The question and
answer period shall not be included in the speaker's time limit, as
established.
   H.   Any person not conforming to any of the above rules may be prohibited
from speaking before the public hearing. Should any person refuse to comply
with such prohibition, he may be removed from the room by order of the
presiding officer.
   I.   The approval or denial of any application requiring a public hearing
provided for in this title shall be based upon standards and criteria which
shall be set forth in the comprehensive plan, zoning ordinance or other
appropriate ordinance or regulation of the city.
   J.   The approval or denial of any application requiring a public hearing
provided for in this title shall be in writing in the form of findings of fact
and conclusions of law that explain the criteria and standards considered
relevant, state the facts relied upon and explain the justification for the
decision based on the criteria, standards and facts set forth. The
comprehensive plan, the zoning ordinance, the zoning map and all prior acts of
the hearing body shall be considered and are a part of the record of any public
hearing.
   K.   A transcribable verbatim record of the public hearing shall be made and
kept for a period of not less than six (6) months after a final decision on the
matter. Upon written request and within the time period provided for the
retention of the record, any person may have the record transcribed at his
expense. (1994 Code; amd. Ord. 509, 3-7-2000)
CHAPTER 13
AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
9-13-1: Filer Area Of City Impact Boundary
9-13-2: Standards
9-13-3: Governing Plan, Policies, And Ordinances
9-13-4: Administration Of The Filer Area Of City Impact
9-13-5: Enforcement Within The Filer Area Of City Impact
9-13-6: Annexation
9-13-7: Renegotiation Of This Chapter
9-13-1: FILER AREA OF CITY IMPACT BOUNDARY:
The agreed upon area of city impact for the city of Filer is established and
set forth herein and described as: the current adopted Filer Zoning/Area of
City Impact map, adopted per Filer Ordinance No. 638, dated November 1, 2022
and the Filer Comprehensive map, adopted per Filer Resolution No. 646, dated
November 1, 2022 or as herein after modified by the City of Filer and Twin
Falls County ("Area of City Impact"). (Ord. 642, 2-5-2024)
9-13-2: STANDARDS:
The following standards shall apply whenever an agency, planning and/or zoning
commission, hearing examiner, or governing body of the city of Filer or Twin
Falls County considers a zone change, comprehensive plan change or request of
any real property, planned unit development, vacations, rezones, special use
permits, variances, and other such land use permit applications within the
Filer Area of City Impact which is subject to this ordinance:
   A.   The city of Filer Comprehensive Plan;
   B.   The zoning and subdivision regulations set forth in Title 9 and 10 of
the Filer City Code;
   C.   Except as set forth above, all other applicable standards set forth in
this code; and
   D.   Except as set forth above, all other standards for any subdistricts or
overlay districts applicable within the Area of City Impact. (Ord. 642, 2-5-
2024)
9-13-3: GOVERNING PLAN, POLICIES, AND ORDINANCES:
   A.   Governing Plan: The City of Filer Comprehensive Plan, Comprehensive
Plan Land Use Map, Zoning Districts Map, Area of Impact Map, and Titles 9 and
10 of the Filer City Code shall comprise the governing plan and ordinance for
the Filer Area of City Impact except as provided in subsection B below.
   B.   Within the Area of City Impact, any parcel of land used solely for
agricultural uses and in excess of twenty (20) acres may continue said use
until a change of use occurs. (Ord. 642, 2-5-2024)
9-13-4: ADMINISTRATION OF THE FILER AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
   A.   Administration:
      1.   The Board of Commissioners of Twin Falls County hereby appoints and
authorizes the Twin Falls County Community Development Services Director, its
agents and employees, to enforce and administer the provisions of Titles 9 and
10 of the Filer City Code and to charge and collect fees for such
administrative duties as adopted by reference herein for the Area of City
Impact.
      2.   The Twin Falls County Community Development Services Director
accepts the appointment and authorization.
   B.   Commission:
      1.   The Board of Commissioners of Twin Falls County hereby appoints the
Twin Falls County Planning and Zoning Commission to administer Titles 9 and 10
of the Filer City Code in the Area of City Impact.
      2.   All applications for subdivision of any real property, planned unit
development, vacations, rezones, special use permits, variances, and other such
land use permit applications shall be submitted to the Twin Falls County
Community Development Services Director to process prior to submittal to the
Twin Falls County Planning and Zoning Commission. All applications for
subdivision of any real property, planned unit development, vacations, and
rezones, shall be submitted to the Twin Falls County Planning and Zoning
Commission for their consideration. The Board of County Commissioners of Twin
Falls County may approve, deny, or remand an application that has been appealed
to them. Twin Falls County shall provide the city of Filer with notice and an
opportunity to provide comments on these applications no less than thirty (30)
days prior to any Public Hearing before the Twin Falls County Planning and
Zoning Commission or the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 642, 2-5-2024)
9-13-5: ENFORCEMENT WITHIN THE FILER AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
   A.   Twin Falls County shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of the city of Filer ordinances listed in subsections 9-13-2A
through D of this chapter within the Area of City Impact and shall collect and
receive all permit fees for inspections performed to recapture direct costs of
inspections, administration, legal publications, any development fees or other
costs arising from fulfilling the terms of each ordinance or regulation.
   B.   Building Code Enforcement Program: The Board of Commissioners of Twin
Falls County hereby appoints and authorizes the Twin Falls County Community
Development Services Director to contract, subject to Board approval, with a
public or private entity to administer the County building code enforcement
program within the Filer Area of City Impact pursuant to Idaho Code §39-4116.
(Ord. 642, 2-5-2024)
9-13-6: ANNEXATION:
   A.   Annexation by the City of Filer shall be compliant with Idaho Code
§§67-6509, 67-6526 and 50-222. Upon annexation, the provisions of this article,
which is the agreement between the city of Filer and Twin Falls County, shall
no longer apply to the annexed area.
   B.   The City of Filer shall send notice of all annexations, de-annexations,
amendments, changes and updates to Title 9 of the Filer City Code and the
Comprehensive Plan along with maps to the Twin Falls County Community
Development Services office.
   C.   All applications and requests to Twin Falls County for subdivision of
any real property, planned unit development, vacations, rezones, special use
permits, variances, and other such land use permit applications and public
notices within the Filer Area of City Impact shall be provided to the city of
Filer with notice and an opportunity to provide comment on these applications
no less than thirty (30) days prior to any Public Hearing before the Twin Falls
County Planning and Zoning Commission or the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 642, 2-5-2024)
9-13-7: RENEGOTIATION OF THIS CHAPTER:
   A.   Renegotiation: The Area of City Impact may be reviewed and renegotiated
at any time upon written request of either party hereto. In any event, pursuant
to Idaho Code §67-6526(e), the city and the county shall review the agreement
every ten (10) years.
   B.   While renegotiation is occurring, all provisions of this chapter shall
remain in effect until this chapter is amended or a substitute ordinance is
adopted by the city of Filer and Twin Falls County, in accordance with the
notice and hearing procedures provided in title 67, chapter 65 of Idaho Code,
or until declaratory judgment from the District Court is final pursuant to
Idaho Code §67-6526(b). Provided, however, that this chapter or stipulated
portions thereof shall be of no further force and effect if both jurisdictions
so agree by mutually adopted ordinance.
   C.   Repeal Of Conflicting Provisions: All ordinances and code sections or
parts thereof in conflict with this subsection are hereby repealed. (Ord. 642,
2-5-2024)
CHAPTER 14
FENCES, HEDGES AND WALLS
SECTION:
9-14-1: Fence Restrictions
9-14-2: Applicability of Provisions
9-14-3: Variances
9-14-4: Violation; Penalty
9-14-1: FENCE RESTRICTIONS 1 :
   A.   It shall be unlawful to construct in any yard adjacent to a street, and
within twenty feet (20') from the property line adjacent to such street, any
fences, walls and hedges with a height above thirty six inches (36"). Fences,
walls and hedges located in a yard area other than above described may be up to
seven feet (7') in height.
   B.   All fences along the public right of way will be measured from and
along the sidewalks or, if no sidewalk exists, from and along the curb or
shoulder or the road. All other fences will be measured from and along the
finished grade of the property along the fence.
   C.   Fences shall not be constructed of or contain any material which will
do bodily harm, such as barbed wire, electric wire, broken glass, spikes and
any other hazardous or dangerous material. (Ord. 358, 5-3-77)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsections 9-15-6H8, H9 and H10.
9-14-2: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
This Chapter shall not apply to fences, walls or hedges in mobile home parks,
as set forth in Chapter 15 of this Title. (Ord. 358, 5-3-77)
9-14-3: VARIANCES:
Upon written application by any individual whose property is affected by this
Chapter, he/she may apply to the City Council for a variance in the height of
fences, walls or hedges. The City Council shall grant a variance to any person
when the height of the fence, wall or hedge will not cause visual obstruction
to motorists on the streets. (Ord. 358, 5-3-77)
9-14-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
After discovery of any violation of this Chapter by the officers and/or
employees of the City, the City Clerk shall notify the owner or occupant of the
property of the violation of this Chapter and give said person ten (10) days in
which to correct the violation. If the violation is not corrected, the City
shall authorize their employees to bring the fence, wall or hedge in question
into compliance. The costs and expenses shall then be assessed against the
property, with the owner of the property being responsible therefor. (Ord. 358,
5-3-77)
CHAPTER 15
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
9-15-1: Definitions
9-15-2: Mobile Home Park Permit Requirements
9-15-3: Mobile Home Park License Requirements
9-15-4: Inspection Of Mobile Home Parks
9-15-5: Notices, Hearings And Orders
9-15-6: Environmental, Open Space And Access Requirements
9-15-7: Temporary Use For Residential Purposes
9-15-8: Temporary Use; Hardship
9-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME OR DEPENDENT TRAILER COACH: A mobile home or trailer
coach which does not have a toilet and a bathtub or shower.
DRIVEWAY: A minor private way used by vehicles and pedestrians on a mobile home
lot or used for common access to a small group of lots or facilities.
INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME OR INDEPENDENT TRAILER COACH: A mobile home or trailer
coach that has a toilet and a bathtub or shower.
LICENSE: A written license issued by the City Council permitting mobile home
parks to operate.
MOBILE HOME: A manufactured, transportable, single-family dwelling unit
suitable for year-round occupancy and containing water supply, waste disposal
and electrical conveniences and so designed that it is or may be mounted on
wheels and used as a conveyance on highways or City streets.
MOBILE HOME LOT: A plot of ground within a mobile home park designated for the
accommodation of one single trailer coach or mobile home and for the exclusive
use of its occupants.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any plot of ground upon which two (2) or more trailer
coaches, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located and is owned
by an individual, a firm, trust, partnership, public or private association or
corporation.
MOBILE HOME STAND PAD: That part of an individual lot which has been reserved
for the placement of one mobile home unit.
PARK MANAGEMENT: The person or persons who owns or has charge, care or control
of the mobile home park or trailer court.
PARK STREET: A private way which affords principal means of access to
individual mobile home lots or auxiliary buildings.
PERMIT: A written permit issued by the City Council to construct, alter or
extend a mobile home park.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, trust, partnership, public or private association
or corporation.
SERVICE BUILDING: A building housing toilet facilities for men and women, with
slop-water closet and laundry facilities, with separate bath or shower
accommodations and such other facilities as may be required under this Chapter.
SEWER CONNECTION: The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and
appurtenances from the drain outlet of the mobile home to the inlet of the
corresponding sewer riser pipe of the sewerage system serving the mobile home
park.
SEWER RISER PIPE: That portion of the sewer lateral which extends vertically to
the ground elevation and terminates at each mobile home lot.
WATER CONNECTION: The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and
appurtenances from the water riser pipe to the water inlet pipe of the
distribution system within the mobile home.
WATER RISER PIPE: That portion of the water supply system serving the mobile
home park which extends vertically to the ground elevation and terminates at a
designated point at each mobile home lot. (Ord. 288, 3-2-1971; amd. 1994 Code)
9-15-2: MOBILE HOME PARK PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
alter or extend any mobile home park within the limits of the city unless he/
she holds a valid permit issued by the governing board in the name of such
person for the specific mobile home park for the specific construction,
alteration or extension proposed. (Ord. 509, 3-7-2000)
   B.   Approval Of Adjacent Property Owners:
      1.   Mobile home parks may be allowed in the city if a showing is made to
the satisfaction of the city council that such action will be compatible to the
overall development of the area where the mobile home park is proposed to be
constructed and will be in accordance with the general purposes of the zoning
ordinances of the city, and providing that before a permit is issued by the
city council, there shall be on file in the office of the city clerk the
written consent of the owners of seventy five percent (75%) of the area of all
the property within the boundary line of an area determined by the intersection
of lines drawn three hundred feet (300') at right angles out from and parallel
to all sides of the tract whereupon such mobile home park is to be erected or
occupied.
Where dedicated street rights of way are encountered, they shall be included in
establishing the three hundred foot (300') boundary line around the tract, but
further, they shall not be included in any area calculation.
For a property that is partially within the boundary and partially outside the
boundary, only that area within the prescribed three hundred foot (300')
boundary is to be included in the percentage of area analysis.
The method as outlined herein, for establishing the three hundred foot (300')
boundary lines applies for all the tracts of land, whether they be rectangular,
curvilinear and irregular, and furthermore, the exterior boundary line may be
rectangular, curvilinear and irregular and will not necessarily be in
conformity with any surrounding lot, block and/or property lines.
      2.   In any area of the city, regardless of the zoning designation, each
boundary of any mobile home park as defined in this chapter, must be at least
two hundred feet (200') from the foundation of any permanent residential
building located outside the mobile home park unless the mobile home park is
separated from such permanent residential building by a natural or artificial
barrier that meets the approval of the city council or unless seventy five
percent (75%) or more of the property owners of the residential buildings in
the area within the said two hundred feet (200') from such mobile home park
gave consent thereto by a formal petition filed with the city council.
   C.   Contents Of Applications: All applications for permits shall contain
the following:
      1.   Name and address of applicant.
      2.   Location and legal description of the mobile home park.
      3.   Complete engineering plans and specifications of the proposed park,
showing, but not limited to, the following:
         a.   The area and dimensions of the tract of land.
         b.   The number, location and size of all mobile home lots.
         c.   The location and width of roadways and walkways or must conform
to requirements of the state code 1 .
         d.   The location of water and sewer lines and riser pipes.
         e.   Plans and specifications of the water supply and refuse and
disposal facilities.
         f.   Plans and specifications of all buildings constructed or to be
constructed within the mobile home park.
         g.   The location and details of lighting and electrical systems.
         h.   All plans and specifications to indicate distances, depths,
setbacks, separations.
         i.   Double frontage lots backing on streets shall be prohibited from
using exterior roadway as entrance or exit purposes.
         j.   All lot dimensions are to be shown on all lot lines.
         k.   Radii at curbs at street intersections at lot corners should be
rounded as per state code requirements 2 .
         l.   Exterior boundaries of plat drawings must be tied to at least two
(2) county or city monuments as per state code requirements 3 .
         m.   All lots are to be numbered by progressive numbers in each block
separately as per state code requirements. (Ord. 288, 3-2-1971; amd. 1994 Code)
   D.   Issuance Of Permit: When upon review of the application, the governing
board is satisfied that the proposed plan meets with requirements of this
chapter, a permit shall be issued. (Ord. 509, 3-7-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §39-4109.
2 2. I.C. §39-4109.
3 3. I.C. §39-4109.
9-15-3: MOBILE HOME PARK LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any
mobile home park within the limits of the city unless he/she holds a valid
license issued annually by the city council in the name of such person for the
specific mobile home park. All applications for licenses shall be made to the
city council which shall issue a license upon compliance by the applicant with
the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Notice Of Change Of Ownership; Transfer Fee: Every person holding a
license shall give notice, in writing, to the city council within twenty four
(24) hours after having sold, transferred, given away or otherwise disposed of
interest in or control of any mobile home park. Such notice shall include the
name and address of the person succeeding to the ownership or control of such
mobile home park. Upon application, in writing, for transfer of the license and
deposit of a fee of ten dollars ($10.00), the license shall be transferred if
the mobile home park is in compliance with all applicable provisions of this
chapter.
   C.   Contents Of License Application; Fee:
      1.   Application for original licenses shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant, accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the
application and by the deposit of a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) and
shall contain: the name and address of the applicant; the location and legal
description of the mobile home park and a site plan of the mobile home park
showing all mobile home lots, structures, roads, walkways and other service
facilities.
      2.   Applications for renewals of licenses shall be made, in writing,
before December 1 of the year preceding, by the holders of the licenses, shall
be accompanied by the deposit of a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) and
shall contain any change in the information submitted since the original
license was issued or the latest renewal granted.
   D.   Notice Of License Violations, Revocation: Whenever, upon inspection of
any mobile home park, the city council finds that conditions or practices exist
which are in violation of any provisions of this chapter, the city council
shall give notice, in writing, in accordance with section
9-15-5 of this chapter to the person to whom the license was issued that unless
such conditions or practices are corrected within a reasonable period of time
specified in the notice by the city council, the license shall be suspended. At
the end of such period, the City Council shall reinspect such mobile home park,
and if such conditions or practices have not been corrected, it shall suspend
the license and give notice, in writing, of such suspension to the person to
whom the license is issued. Upon receipt of notice of such suspension, such
person shall cease operation of such mobile home park except as provided in
Section
9-15-5 of this Title. (Ord. 288, 3-2-71; 1994 Code)
9-15-4: INSPECTION OF MOBILE HOME PARKS:
   A.   The City Council and its agents are hereby authorized and directed to
make such inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance
with this Chapter.
   B.   The City Council and its agents shall have the power to enter at
reasonable times upon any private or public property for the purpose of
inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this
Chapter.
   C.   The City Council and its agents shall have the power to inspect the
register containing a record of all residents of the mobile home park.
   D.   It shall be the duty of the park management to give the City Council
and it agents free access to all lots at reasonable times for the purpose of
inspection.
   E.   It shall be the duty of every occupant of a mobile home park to give
the owner thereof or his/her agent or employee access to any part of such
mobile home park at reasonable times for the purpose of making such repairs or
alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with this Chapter. (Ord. 288,
3-2-71; 1994 Code)
9-15-5: NOTICES, HEARINGS AND ORDERS:
   A.   Whenever The City Council determines that there are reasonable grounds
to believe that there has been a violation of any of the provisions of this
Chapter, the City Council shall give notice of such alleged violation to the
person to whom the permit or license was issued as hereinafter provided. Such
notice shall:
      1.   Be put in writing.
      2.   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance.
      3.   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires.
      4.   Be served upon the owner or his/her agent as the case may require.
Provided, that such notice or order shall be deemed to have been properly
served upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been sent by registered
mail to his/her last known address or when a copy thereof has been posted in a
conspicuous place in or about the dwelling affected by the notice or when he/
she has been served with such notice by any method authorized or required by
the laws of this State.
      5.   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this Chapter and with regulations adopted
pursuant hereto.
   B.   Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection
with the enforcement of any provision of this Chapter may request and shall be
granted a hearing on the matter before the City Council. Provided, that such
person shall file in the office of the City Clerk a written petition requesting
such hearing and setting forth a brief statement of the grounds therefor within
ten (10) days after the date the notice was served. The filing of the request
for a hearing shall operate as a stay of the notice and the suspension except
in the case of an order issued under subsection E of this Section. Upon receipt
of such petition, the City Council shall set a time and place for such hearing
and shall give the petitioner written notice thereof. At such hearing, the
petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be heard and to show why such
notice should be modified or withdrawn. The hearing shall be commenced not
later than ten (10) days after the day on which the petition was filed.
Provided, that upon application of the petitioner, the City Council may
postpone the date of the hearing for a reasonable time beyond such ten (10) day
period when, in his/her judgment, the petitioner has submitted good and
sufficient reasons for such postponement.
   C.   After such hearing, the City Council shall sustain, modify or withdraw
the notice, depending upon its findings as to compliance or noncompliance with
the provisions of this Chapter and of regulations adopted pursuant hereto. If
the City Council should sustain or modify such notice, it shall be deemed to be
an order. Any notice served pursuant to subsection A4 of this Section shall
automatically become an order if a written petition for a hearing shall not
have been filed in the office of the City Council within ten (10) days after
such notice is served. After a hearing in the case of any notice suspending any
permit required by this Chapter or by any regulation adopted pursuant hereto,
when such notice shall have been sustained by the City Council, the permit
shall be deemed revoked. Any such permit which shall have been suspended by a
notice shall be deemed to be automatically revoked if a petition for hearing
shall not have been filed in the office of the City Council within ten (10)
days after such notice was served.
   D.   The proceedings at such a hearing, including the findings and decision
of the City Council, and together with a copy of every notice and order related
thereto, shall be entered as a matter of public record in the office of the
City Council, but the transcript of the proceedings need not be transcribed
unless judicial review of the decision is sought as provided by this Section.
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the City Council may seek relief
therefrom in any court of competent jurisdiction, as provided by the laws of
this State.
   E.   Whenever the City Council finds that an emergency exists which requires
immediate action to protect the public health, it may, without notice or
hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such an emergency and
requiring that such action be taken as it may deem necessary to meet the
emergency, including the suspension of the permit or license. Notwithstanding
any other provisions of this Chapter, such order shall be effective
immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed shall comply
therewith immediately but, upon petition to the City Council, shall be afforded
a hearing as soon as possible. The provisions of subsections C and D of this
Section shall be applicable to such hearing and the order issued thereafter.
(Ord. 288, 3-2-71; 1994 Code)
9-15-6: ENVIRONMENTAL, OPEN SPACE AND ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Requirements: Condition of soil, ground water level, drainage
and topography shall not create hazards to the property or the health or safety
of the occupants. The site shall not be exposed to objectionable smoke, noise,
odors or other adverse influences, and no portion subject to unpredictable and/
or sudden flooding, subsidence or erosion shall be used for any purpose which
would expose persons or property to hazards.
   B.   Soil and Ground Cover Requirements: Exposed ground surfaces in all
parts of every mobile home park shall be paved or covered with stone screening
or other solid material or protected with a vegetative growth that is capable
of preventing soil erosion and of eliminating objectionable dust.
   C.   Site Drainage Requirements: Site drainage requirements shall be
constructed according to a plan approved by the City Engineer.
   D.   Park Areas for Nonresident Users:
      1. No part of any park shall be used for nonresidential purposes, except
such uses that are required for the direct servicing and well-being of park
residents and for the management and maintenance of the park.
      2. Nothing contained in this Section shall be deemed as prohibiting the
sale of a mobile home located on a mobile home stand and connected to the
pertinent utilities.
   E.   Required Separation Between Mobile Homes:
      1. Mobile homes shall be separated from each other and from other
buildings and structures by at least fifteen feet (15'); provided, that mobile
homes placed end-to-end may have a clearance of ten feet (10') where opposing
rear walls are staggered.
      2. An accessory structure, such as an awning, cabana, storage cabinet,
carport, windbreak and porch, which has a floor area exceeding twenty five (25)
square feet and has an opaque top or roof shall, for purposes of all separation
requirements, be considered to be part of the mobile home.
   F.   Required Recreation Areas:
      1. In all parks accommodating or designed to accommodate fifteen (15) or
more mobile homes, there shall be one or more recreation areas which shall be
easily accessible to all park residents.
      2. The size of such recreation areas shall be based upon a minimum of one
hundred (100) square feet for each lot. No outdoor recreation area shall
contain less than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet.
      3. Recreation areas shall be so located as to be free of traffic hazards
and should, where the topography permits, be centrally located.
   G.   Required Setbacks, Buffer Strips and Screening:
      1. All mobile homes shall be located at least twenty five feet (25') from
any park property boundary line abutting upon a public street or highway and at
least twenty five feet (25') from other park property boundary lines.
      2. There shall be a minimum distance of fifteen feet (15') between the
mobile home stand and abutting park street.
      3. All mobile home parks shall be provided with screening, such as fences
or natural growth, along the property boundary line separating the park and
such adjacent nonresidential uses.
   H.   Park Street System and Car Parking:
      1. General Requirements: All mobile home parks shall be provided with
safe and convenient vehicular access from abutting public streets or roads to
each mobile home lot. Such access shall be provided by streets, driveways or
other means in conformance to City codes.
      2. Park Entrance: Entrances to mobile home parks shall be designed to
minimize congestion and hazards and allow free movement of traffic on adjacent
streets. No parking shall be permitted on the park entrance street for a
distance of one hundred feet (100') from its point of beginning unless the park
entrance is at least thirty four feet (34') wide (curb face to curb face).
      3. Internal Streets: Surfaced roadways shall be of adequate width to
accommodate anticipated traffic and, in any case, shall meet the following
minimum requirements:
         a. All streets, except minor streets - 40 feet (curb face to curb
face).
         b. Minor streets - 36 feet (curb face to curb face).
         c. Street right-of-way width is to be measured from property line to
property line. The minimum right of way of streets so measured shall be:
For local or minor streets   60 feet
For collector or secondary streets   60 feet
         d. Dead-end streets shall be limited in length to four hundred feet
(400') and shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround having an
outside roadway diameter of at least eighty feet (80'), curb face to curb face,
and a street property line diameter of at least ninety feet (90').
         e. Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles, and no street shall intersect any other street at less than
eighty degrees (80o).
      4. Mobile Home Parking:
         a. It shall be illegal to park a mobile home less than fifteen feet
(15') from any street or highway right of way or so that any part of such
mobile home will obstruct any roadway or walkway.
         b. It shall be illegal to allow any mobile home to remain in a mobile
home park unless a mobile home space is available.
         c. Each mobile home space shall contain a minimum of: single unit -
two thousand four hundred (2,400) square feet; double unit - three thousand six
hundred (3,600) square feet, shall be at least thirty feet (30') in width and
shall be at least eighty feet (80') in length, or large enough to accommodate
the size mobile home so placed that no part of the mobile home will extend
within the limits set forth in this Chapter. Each mobile home shall be placed
as to provide the necessary clearance as provided in this Chapter.
         d. Each mobile home space in any mobile home park shall be provided
with an asphalt or concrete paved area of at least one hundred eighty (180)
square feet at the entranceway into the mobile home itself.
         e. No mobile home shall be placed on any lot in such a manner as to
encroach beyond the setback provisions of this Chapter.
      5. Car Parking: Off-street parking areas or on-street parking lanes shall
be provided for the use of park occupants and guests.
         a. Off-street parking shall be provided at the rate of two (2) car
spaces for each mobile home lot.
         b. Off-street parking shall be located within a distance of two
hundred feet (200') from the mobile home to be served unless other vehicular
access is provided.
      6. Required Illumination of Park Street Systems: All parks shall be
furnished with lighting units so spaced and equipped with luminaries placed at
such mounting heights as will provide the following average maintained levels
of illumination for the safe movement of pedestrians and vehicles at night:
         a. All parts of the park street systems: One and one-half (11/2) foot-
candles, with a minimum of one foot-candle.
         b. Potentially hazardous locations, such as major street intersections
and steps or stepped ramps: individual illuminated, with a minimum of one and
one-half 11/2) foot- candles.
      7. Street Construction and Design Standards: Shall conform to the
following minimum standards:
         a. Pavements: All streets shall be provided with a smooth, hard and
dense surface which shall be durable and well drained under normal use and
weather conditions. Pavement edges shall be protected to prevent raveling of
the wearing surface and shifting of the pavement base. Street surfaces shall be
maintained free of cracks, holes and other hazards.
         b. Grades: Shall conform with minimum standards of State Code 1
. Grades of all streets shall be sufficient to insure adequate surface drainage
but shall not be more than minimum street grade of one-fourth percent (0.25%)
with a maximum grade being seven percent (7%) for secondary and major streets
and ten percent (10%) for local or minor streets. Where the observance of these
standards is impossible, the City Engineer shall review the situation before an
exception may be granted.
         c. Intersections: Within one hundred feet (100') of an intersection,
streets shall be at approximately right angles, a distance of at least one
hundred fifty feet (150') shall be maintained between center lines of offset
intersecting streets, intersections of more than two (2) streets at one point
shall be avoided.
      8. Fence Location, Height and Density 2
: In any yard adjacent to a street and within ten feet (10') from the property
line adjacent to such street, fences, walls and hedges may be up to forty eight
inches (48") in height, when that portion of the fence above twenty four inches
(24") is at least seventy five percent (75%) open when measured at ninety
degrees (90
o
) to the fence. Fences located in a yard area, other than above described, may
be up to seven feet (7') in height.
      9. Measurements of Height of Fences: All fences along a public right of
way will be measured from and along the sidewalk or, if no sidewalk exists,
from and along the curb. All other fences will be measured from and along the
finished grade of the property along the fence.
      10. Fence Materials: Fences shall not be constructed of or contain any
material which will do bodily harm, such as barbed wire, electric wires, broken
glass, spikes and any other hazardous or dangerous material.
   I.   Walks:
      1. General Requirements: All parks shall be provided with safe,
convenient, all-season pedestrian access of adequate width for intended use,
durable and convenient to maintain, between individual mobile homes, the park
streets and all community facilities provided for park residents. Sudden
changes in alignment and gradients shall be avoided.
      2. Common Walk System: A common walk system shall be provided and
maintained between locations where pedestrian traffic is concentrated. Such
common walks shall have a minimum width of five feet (5') and shall be
constructed of concrete.
      3. Individual Walks: All mobile home stands shall be connected to common
walks, to paved streets or to paved driveways or parking spaces connecting to a
paved street. Such individual walks shall have a minimum width of three feet
(3').
   J.   Mobile Home Stands: The area of the mobile home stand shall be improved
to provide adequate support for the placement and tie-down of the mobile home,
thereby securing the superstructure against uplift, sliding, rotation and
overturning.
      1. The mobile home stand shall not heave, shift or settle unevenly under
the weight of the mobile home due to frost action, inadequate drainage,
vibration or other forces acting on the structure.
      2. The mobile home stand shall be provided with anchors and tie-downs,
such as cat-in-place concrete, "dead men", eyelets imbedded in concrete
foundations or runways, screw augers, arrowhead anchors or other devices
securing the stability of the mobile home.
      3. Anchors and tie-downs shall be placed at least at each corner of the
mobile home stand, and each shall be able to sustain a minimum tensile strength
of two thousand eight hundred (2,800) pounds. (Ord. 288, 3-2-1971; 1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §39-4109.
2 2. See also Chapter 14 of this Title.
9-15-7: TEMPORARY USE FOR RESIDENTIAL PURPOSES:
Trailers may be used for residential purposes on a temporary basis upon
application to and approval by the City Council. Said approval may be granted
for a specific time period not to exceed one hundred eighty (180) days and only
after an emergency such as fire, flood or tornado where the permanent residence
located on the property has been rendered uninhabitable. (Ord. 448, 7-15-1993)
9-15-8: TEMPORARY USE, HARDSHIP:
A special use permit may be granted to allow the temporary placement of a
mobile home if necessary for the care of the elderly, physically or mentally
disabled, or for medical care. Said mobile home must comply with Building Code
and Health Department requirements. The special use permit will terminate and
the mobile home removed upon termination of the hardship condition. (Ord. 488,
9-9-1997)
CHAPTER 16
SIGNS
SECTION:
9-16-1: Purpose
9-16-2: Sign Regulations
9-16-1: PURPOSE:
The intent of the standards set forth in this chapter are as follows:
   A.   To encourage the design of signs that attract and invite rather than
demand the public's attention, and to curb the proliferation of signs.
   B.   To encourage the use of signs that enhance the visual environment of
the city.
   C.   To promote the enhancement of business and residential properties and
neighborhoods by fostering the erection of signs complementary to the buildings
and uses to which they relate and which are harmonious with their surroundings.
   D.   To protect the public interest and safety. (Ord. 511, 7-6-2000)
9-16-2: SIGN REGULATIONS:
   A.   No sign shall be allowed unless it conforms to the structural
requirements of the building code and the provisions contained herein.
   B.   Traffic-control signs conforming to the Manual of Uniform Traffic
Control Devices which are installed or approved by the city shall not be
required to conform to these regulations.
   C.   A property may have a maximum total signage of two hundred (200) square
feet.
   D.   All signs, except permitted off-premises signs, shall pertain only to
the use or products located on the same property as the sign. Provided,
however, that any sign authorized in this chapter is allowed to contain
noncommercial copy in lieu of any other copy.
   E.   The light from an allowed illuminated sign shall be arranged, directed
and such intensity that it does not create a hazard, nuisance or other adverse
effect on adjacent property, motor vehicles or approved traffic-control
devices.
   F.   No sign shall be animated, flashing or rotating. Message centers and
signs depicting time and/or temperature shall not be considered as animated but
shall not flash or rotate.
   G.   No sign shall project beyond the property line or on any public right
of way. No sign shall project closer than two feet (2') to a vertical line
projected from the face of a curb, or if no curb exists, the face of the future
curb as determined by the city. No sign foundations shall encroach into public
right of way.
   H.   No sign located within eight feet (8') of the curb or future curb line
shall have a sign face located between a point three and one-half feet (31/2')
and a point eight feet (8') above the top of the existing or future curb as
determined by the city. (Ord. 511, 7-6-2000)
CHAPTER 17
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
9-17-1: Purpose
9-17-2: Definitions
9-17-3: Establishment
9-17-4: Wellhead Protection Overlay Zone A
9-17-5: Wellhead Protection Overlay Zone B
9-17-6: Wellhead Protection Overlay Zone C
9-17-7: Wellhead Protection Overlay Zone D
9-17-8: Nonconforming Uses
9-17-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to contamination
of the public water supply, and to formalize ground water protection/pollution
abatement and control procedures. Specific goals are to protect human life and
health, to ensure that the public is provided with a sustainable, safe potable
water supply, to minimize expenditure of public money for pollution remediation
projects, to minimize regulations on land, and to minimize business
interruptions. (Ord. 527, 8-6-2002)
9-17-2: DEFINITIONS:
HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY: A hazardous waste treatment, storage, or
disposal facility which receives hazardous material as described in part 40,
chapter 260.1, CFR.
HAZARDOUS WASTE OR MATERIAL: Any waste or material which, because of its
quantity, concentration, physical, chemical or infectious characteristics, may:
   A.   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
   B.   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or to
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed; or
   C.   Any material or substance designated as a hazardous or toxic substance
defined by part 40, chapter 261.3 of the CFR, or any material or substance
designated as a hazardous or toxic substance by the state of Idaho, DEQ.
INJECTION: The subsurface emplacement of fluids.
LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT OPERATION: As defined in the county ordinance.
PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM: A system that provides the public with piped water for
human consumption.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A solid waste disposal operation where the wastes are spread
on land in thin layers, compacted to the smallest practical volume, and covered
with cover material once each day of operation in order to safeguard against
environmental pollution, nuisances, and health hazards.
STORM WATER RUNOFF: Water discharged as a result of rain, snow, or other
precipitation.
UNDERGROUND INJECTION WELL: Any excavation or artificial opening into the
ground which meets the following three (3) criteria: It is a bored, drilled or
dug hole, or is a driven mine shaft or a driven well point; and, it is deeper
than its largest straight line surface dimension; and, it is used for or
intended to be used for injection.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONE: A zoning designation on the zoning map that
modifies the basic underlying designation in some specific manner. The map will
define specific area zones centering around wells supplying drinking water to
the public water system.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONE A: A minimum fixed radius extending no less
than fifty feet (50') radially from the wellhead supplying potable water to the
public water supplies.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONE B: A three (3) year "time of travel" (TOT)
zone.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONE C: A six (6) year "time of travel" (TOT) zone.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONE D: A ten (10) year "time of travel" (TOT)
zone. (Ord. 527, 8-6-2002)
9-17-3: ESTABLISHMENT:
There is hereby established a wellhead protection overlay zone identified and
described as all the area shown on the Filer city and area of impact zoning
map. It is further established that these areas be composed of four (4)
subzones: "wellhead protection overlay zone A", "wellhead protection overlay
zone B", "wellhead protection overlay zone C", and "wellhead protection overlay
zone D", as they are defined herein. (Ord. 527, 8-6-2002)
9-17-4: WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONE A:
Uses permitted within wellhead protection overlay zone A shall be limited to
necessary public water supply wellhead equipment including the following:
wellhead facility buildings, water storage tanks, disinfection equipment,
disinfection chemical storage and approved landscaping. All other uses shall be
prohibited. (Ord. 527, 8-6-2002)
9-17-5: WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONE B:
The following uses or conditions shall be and are hereby prohibited within
wellhead protection overlay zone B:
All manufacturing or industrial businesses involving the collection, handling,
manufacture, use, storage, transfer or disposal of any hazardous solid or
liquid material or waste having potential impact on ground water.
Disposal of waste oil, oil filters, tires and all other petroleum products.
Existing septic tanks or drain fields shall not be closer than one hundred feet
(100') of a wellhead and new installation of septic tanks or drain fields shall
not be closer than two hundred feet (200') away from the wellhead.
Existing sewer lines shall not be closer than one hundred feet (100') of a
wellhead or of new sanitary systems and sewer lines shall not be closer than
one hundred fifty feet (150') of a wellhead.
Hazardous waste disposal facilities.
Injection wells unless they are closed systems.
Junk or salvage yards.
Livestock confinement operations.
Sanitary landfills. (Ord. 527, 8-6-2002)
9-17-6: WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONE C:
The following uses or conditions shall be and are hereby prohibited within
wellhead protection overlay zone C:
Hazardous waste facilities.
Injection wells, except for deep well injection (below 18 feet in depth)
geothermal heat, heat pump return, and cooling water return, and except for
shallow well injection for storm runoff, aquifer recharge, aquifer remediation
and septic systems.
Land use activities posing a hazard or threat to existing ground water quality.
Sanitary landfills. (Ord. 527, 8-6-2002)
9-17-7: WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONE D:
The following uses or conditions shall be and are hereby prohibited within
wellhead protection overlay zone D:
Injection wells, except for deep well injection (below 18 feet in depth)
geothermal heat, heat pump return, and cooling water return, and except for
shallow well injection for storm runoff, aquifer recharge, aquifer remediation
and septic systems.
Land use activities posing a hazard or threat to existing ground water quality.
(Ord. 527, 8-6-2002)
9-17-8: NONCONFORMING USES:
Any legal use existing at the time of the adoption of this chapter and listed
as a prohibited use herein, shall become a legal nonconforming use and may not
be expanded or improved except as otherwise provided in this title. (Ord. 527,
8-6-2002)
CHAPTER 18
PLANNED ZERO LOT LINE SUBDIVISION
SECTION:
9-18-1: Planned Zero Lot Line Dwelling Development Standards
9-18-1: PLANNED ZERO LOT LINE DWELLING DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Zero lot line dwellings shall be subject to requirements set forth in this
chapter and also subject to all provisions contained herein.
   A.   Site Development Plan: Anyone proposing a zero lot line dwelling shall
provide the City Council with the following:
      1.   Plat Map with building envelopes and setback to show location of
each zero lot line dwelling.
      2.   Common wall agreement that is acceptable to the City Council.
   B.   Requirements:
      1.   Lot Area: R1 - the minimum lot area shall be six thousand (6,000)
square feet for a one dwelling unit.
      2.   Side Yard: No building is allowed within ten feet (10') of the side
opposite the zero lot line.
      3.   Front Yard: Same as in chapter 6 of this title as specified in each
zone.
      4.   Rear Yard: Same as in chapter 6 of this title as specified in each
zone.
      5.   Zero Side Yard: The zero side yard cannot be adjacent to a public or
private right-of-way.
      6.   Windows: No window shall be placed on the zero lot line.
      7.   Setback: No accessory building shall be placed in the ten foot (10')
side yard area as required above.
      8.   Lot Coverage: No dwelling including its accessory buildings shall
occupy more than sixty percent (60%) of the lot.
   C.   Conversion Of Existing Two-Family Dwellings To Zero Lot Line Dwellings:
An existing two-family dwelling may be converted to a zero lot line dwelling on
the following terms and conditions:
      1.   Each resulting zero lot line dwelling being granted special use
permits, if a special use permit is required by this title.
      2.   The applicant(s) must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City
Council that the zero lot line dwellings comply with the requirements of the
currently adopted International Building Code. (Ord. 618, 10-17-2018)
CHAPTER 19
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
9-19-1: Improvements Required
9-19-2: Building Requirements For Commercial Buildings
9-19-3: Landscaping
9-19-4: Screening
9-19-5: Parking Areas
9-19-6: Streets
9-19-7: Sanitation Facilities
9-19-8: Water And Sewer
9-19-9: Drainage And Stormwater Management
9-19-10: Pressurized Irrigation
9-19-1: IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
The improvements herein shall be required whenever a building or structure is
constructed, placed, erected or enlarged or when there is a change of use of a
building, structure or parcel of land. Unless otherwise provided, all required
improvements shall be a condition of any building permit and they shall be
completed prior to final inspection and occupancy of the building. If cost of
improvements required by sections
9-19-3 through
9-19-7 of this chapter exceeds twenty five percent (25%) of the cost of the
proposed private improvements, an agreement may be negotiated to allow the
required improvements to be staged over a period of time not to exceed three
(3) years. Whenever a building is constructed, placed, erected or enlarged and
that building is in an isolated or undeveloped area, public improvements may be
deferred by the council in cases where a deferral would otherwise be
unavailable. Any improvements required by sections
9-19-3 through
9-19-7 of this chapter are not required for minor modifications or additions to
existing buildings or structures when the modifications and improvements do not
constitute more than a twenty-five-percent (25%) increase over the square
footage of the existing buildings or a total increase in square footage over
ten thousand (10,000) square feet, whichever is less, within any twelve (12)
month period from date of completion or other expansion.
If a single building of a premises containing multiple buildings is expanded
over twenty five percent (25%) of that building's square footage but less than
a total of twenty five percent (25%) of the combined square footage of all
buildings, the improvements required by sections
9-19-3 through
9-19-7 of this chapter shall be provided for the building being expanded only.
If the expansion is greater than ten thousand (10,000) square feet or greater
than twenty five percent (25%) of the combined footage of all buildings, the
improvements required by sections
9-19-3 through
9-19-7 of this chapter shall be provided for the entire premises. (Ord. 635,
10-4-2022)
9-19-2: BUILDING REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS:
   A.   Exterior Appearance of Buildings and Structures:
      1.   Primary exterior materials shall conform to the requirements found
in this chapter.
      2.   Secondary materials used on the facade of a building are those that
comprise less than ten percent (10%) of an elevation area. Permitted secondary
materials are all primary materials, aluminum or other metal, cedar or similar
quality decorative wood, stucco, EIFS, or other materials as approved by the
planning and zoning administrator or his/her designee.
      3.   All buildings with a footprint of less than ten thousand (10,000)
square feet shall incorporate a pitched, gabled, mansard, hipped, or otherwise
sloped roof. All sloped roofs shall have a three (3) in twelve inch (12")
minimum slope. Wood shingles are prohibited.
      4.   All buildings with a footprint of ten thousand (10,000) square feet
and greater shall incorporate sloped roof elements including, but not limited
to, pitched roofs on towers or arcades, sloped awnings, or sloped parapets. The
sloped elements shall be provided along a minimum of sixty percent (60%) of
each wall's length. All sloped roof elements shall have a three (3) in twelve
inch (12") minimum slope. Wood shingles are prohibited.
      5.   In the C-1 AND M-1 zoning districts, an articulated parapet wall or
cornice may be used in place of the sloped roof as required in subsections A3
and A4 of this section.
      6.   All buildings shall be designed to incorporate a form of
architectural articulation every thirty feet (30'), both horizontally along
each wall's length and vertically along each wall's height. Acceptable
articulation may include the following:
         a.   Canopies, awnings, or porticos;
         b.   Recesses/projections;
         c.   Arcades;
         d.   Arches;
         e.   Windows will follow the IBC section 2406.3 which will require
safety/tempered glazing for most windows within eighteen inches (18") of the
floor;
         f.   Architectural details (such as tile work and moldings) integrated
into the building facade;
         g.   Articulated ground floor levels or base;
         h.   Articulated cornice line;
         i.   Integrated planters or wing walls that incorporate landscape and
sitting areas;
         j.   Offsets, reveals or projecting rib used to express architectural
or structural bays;
         k.   Accent materials (minimum 15 percent of exterior facade);
         l.   Varied roof heights; or
         m.   Other architectural features approved by the director of
planning, or his/her designee.
      7.   All buildings shall be architecturally finished on all three (3)
sides with the same materials, detailing, and features. The wall which faces
the opposite (rear) of a public right of way of a building may be
architecturally finished to match the remainder of the building in color only.
      8.   Windows shall have a maximum exterior visible reflectivity of twenty
percent (20%), unless otherwise approved by the planning and zoning
administrator or his/her designee. The intent of this provision is to prevent
the safety hazard of light reflecting from the windows onto adjacent roadways.
      9.   All retail/commercial buildings with facades greater than two
hundred feet (200') in length shall incorporate wall plane projections or
recesses that are at least six feet (6') deep. Projections/recesses must be at
least twenty five percent (25%) of the length of the facade. No uninterrupted
length of facade may exceed one hundred feet (100') in length. This requirement
does not apply to buildings developed and occupied entirely for office uses.
      10.   All buildings within a common development, as shown on a concept
plan or preliminary site plan, shall have similar architectural styles,
materials, and colors.
         a.   Conceptual facade plans and sample boards shall be submitted with
the preliminary site plan application for all nonresidential uses. The purpose
of the conceptual facade plan is to ensure consistency and compatibility for
all buildings within a single development. Facade plans will be used only to
ensure minimum standards are met.
         b.   A final facade plan and sample boards shall be submitted with the
final site plan application for all nonresidential uses. Facade plans will be
used only to ensure minimum standards are met.
      11.   All primary exterior materials shall be of natural texture and
earth toned colors.
      12.   Corporate identities that conflict with the building design
criteria shall be reviewed on a case by case basis and approved by the planning
and zoning administrator or his/her designee.
Exposed conduit, ladders, utility boxes, and drain spouts shall be painted to
match the color of the building or an accent color. Natural metal finishes
(patina) are an acceptable alternative to paint.
   B.   Exterior Construction Of Main Buildings:
      1.   The exterior facades of a main building or structure, excluding
glass windows and doors, in the C-1 and M-1 zoning districts shall be
constructed of one hundred percent (100%) masonry, unless otherwise specified
in this title. Cementitious fiberboard is considered masonry, but may only
constitute fifty percent (50%) of stories other than the first story.
Cementitious fiberboard may also be used for architectural features, including
window box outs, bay windows, roof dormers, garage door headers, columns,
chimneys not part of an exterior wall, or other architectural features approved
by the plan reviewer. Wood roof shingles are prohibited.
      2.   Metal buildings are permitted in the R-1 zoning district upon review
by the planning and zoning commission and approval by the city council subject
to:
         a.   The maximum height of metal buildings is thirty-five feet (35');
         b.   The lot on which the building is constructed must have frontage
only on streets with fifty feet (50') of right of way or greater;
         c.   The lot containing a metal building shall be three hundred feet
(300') from all zoning districts except light industrial;
         d.   The wall of the building facing the street must be one hundred
percent (100%) masonry, or stucco; and
         e.   Other walls of the building visible from a street must have trees
planted on thirty foot (30') centers within twenty five feet (25') of the
building.
      3.   Exterior construction of maintenance buildings for golf courses,
public or parochial schools, churches, or the city of Filer may be metal upon
issuance of a special use permit. Exterior construction of buildings used for
agricultural purposes in conjunction with a school may be metal upon issuance
of a special use permit. If an expansion or an addition to an existing metal
building is not greater than ten percent (10%) or seven thousand (7,000) square
feet, whichever is greater, the masonry requirements shall not apply to the
expansion or addition to the existing metal building.
      4.   The city council may approve materials which are equivalent to, or
exceed, the standards set forth in this section. (Ord. 635, 10-4-2022)
9-19-3: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Minimum Standards: The required minimum size landscaped area shall, as
a minimum, have the following plant life:
      1.   One tree per five hundred (500) square feet of landscaped area. At
least fifty percent (50%) of the required trees shall be evergreens. All trees
shall have a height of at least four feet (4') when planted.
      2.   One bush per three hundred (300) square feet of landscaped area. At
least fifty percent (50%) of the required bushes shall be evergreens.
      3.   The commission and/or design review committee may approve
alternative plans or designs to allow innovative landscaping.
   B.   Approval And Completion:
      1.   A landscaping plan conforming to the minimum requirements of this
section shall be submitted for approval as part of the development map whenever
a subdivision application is submitted for approval. A landscaping plan
conforming to the minimum requirements of this section shall be submitted for
approval as part of the application for a building permit to construct a
building.
      2.   Landscaping conforming to the approved landscaping plan shall be
completed before a certificate of occupancy is issued for the appurtenant
building or at such other time as may be agreed upon in writing by the
administrator and landowner; however, said agreement shall not extend the
completion date beyond the next normal planting season for the proposed
vegetation.
      3.   All landscaping shall be maintained in a manner consistent with the
minimum requirements of this section for as long as the building is occupied.
(Ord. 635, 10-4-2022)
9-19-4: SCREENING:
   A.   Screening Required:
      1.   Screening shall be required between any residential use and any
trade or manufacturing use in adjacent zoning districts or any zoning district
where both such uses are permitted outright and may be required around any
special use. The trade, manufacturing or special use shall provide any required
screening. Screening shall not be required if a public trafficway other than a
service road separates the two (2) uses.
      2.   Screening shall be required between a Mobile Home Park and any other
zoning district provided by the Mobile Home Park developer.
      3.   No wrecking yard or wrecking house or junkyard or junk house shall
be established unless the same shall be completely surrounded by a fence of
wood, concrete or slatted chain-link not less than eight feet (8') in height
from the level of the ground and completely obscuring the wreckage and parts
therein from outside view.
   B.   Minimum Standards:
      1.   Screening shall be a minimum six foot (6') fence or wall or a
landscaped area or any combination thereof. If it is a fence or wall it shall
be constructed of wood, solid vinyl, metal, concrete or concrete block. If it
is a landscaped area, it shall be evergreen bushes or trees and may include an
earthen berm.
      2.   Whenever bushes or trees are used as screening, the screening height
may not be less than three feet (3') at the time of planting, providing a
minimum height of six feet (6') is achieved within six (6) years after
planting.
      3.    Screening shall completely obscure objects inside the screened area
when viewed from any angle outside the screened area and shall be constructed
so as to reduce noise, lights and blowing trash.
   C.   Exceptions: Screening shall not be constructed so as to create a
traffic hazard and it shall conform to the height restrictions in the chapters
establishing dimensional standards in zoning districts. (Ord. 635, 10-4-2022)
9-19-5: PARKING AREAS:
   A.   Pedestrian Access: Access to each building shall be provided by
connecting the principal entrance into each building to the parking areas
intended for the use of the occupants with a sidewalk that is not more than
three hundred feet (300') in length.
   B.   Surfacing: All parking and maneuvering areas shall be hard surfaced
with Portland concrete or asphaltic concrete surface material. In the R-
1 zoning district the requirement does not apply.
   C.   Striping: Parking areas that are intended to provide more than ten (10)
spaces on a single site shall be marked off with a four inch by fifteen foot
(4" x 15') long painted stripe along the sides of each parking space.
   D.   Lighting: Parking areas that are intended to provide more than eighteen
(18) spaces on a single site shall have lighting that will provide at least one
foot-candle of light at the ground surface on the entire parking site. Lighting
shall be screened so that it does not directly illuminate any adjacent
residential uses with more than one-fourth (0.25) of a foot-candle and so that
it does not create a traffic hazard.
   E.   Vehicle Access:
      1.   Any motor vehicle entrance to a public trafficway from private
property shall be considered a driveway approach and shall conform to the
standards established herein.
      2.   The city engineer shall establish construction standards for all
driveway approaches. The standard depressed curb type approach shall be
constructed unless otherwise directed by the city engineer. The city engineer
may require an arterial street driveway approach, with rounded curbing when
traffic conditions on arterial streets warrant a more rapid entrance and exit
through the driveway approach. This decision of the city engineer requiring an
arterial street driveway approach may be appealed to city council. Nothing in
this subsection should be construed to prevent the construction of an arterial
street driveway approach, if desired by the property owner.
      3.   The City Engineer may allow driveway approaches conforming to the
following standards, providing they do not pose any unusual traffic hazards:
         a.   Residential use driveway approaches: Shall not exceed twelve feet
(12') for a single drive or twenty feet (20') for a double drive. Joint use
drives between two (2) separate properties to serve multi-family residences
will be allowed; however, the total width of the curb cut shall not exceed
forty feet (40'). There shall be at least twenty-five feet (25') between
driveways entering curb between the end of a driveway and the end of a corner
radius and at least two feet (2') between the end of a driveway and side
property line.
         b.   Commercial and manufacturing use driveway approaches: Shall not
exceed forty feet (40') nor be less than thirty feet (30') except one-way
approaches which shall not be less than twelve feet (12'). There shall be at
least twenty-five feet (25') of curb between driveways and at least eighteen
feet (18') of straight curb between the end of driveways and the end of a
corner radius and at least thirteen feet (13') between the end of a driveway
and a side property line when parking is allowed on the street.
         c.   The City Engineer may allow curb cuts up to sixty-five feet (65')
for commercial or industrial drives where it appears that it is necessary to
accommodate large trucks and trailers and to reduce the distance between a
commercial or industrial driveway and a side property line when on street
parking is not allowed or not practical because of existing conditions. The
public welfare, safety and convenience shall be considered in granting such
applications.
         d.   The City Engineer may allow additional driveway width under the
following conditions: the street is not an arterial or collector street; the
traffic generated by the land use is minimal (no high traffic generating retail
trade uses, services, residential uses or public assembly); a parking plan is
submitted and adhered to that conforms to section
9-19-4 of this title; and driveways conform to standard slope and height
dimensions to control drainage. (Ord. 635, 10-4-2022)
9-19-6: STREETS:
   A.   Adequate Access: No building shall be constructed or erected on a lot
in a zoning district unless adequate access to a fifty foot (50') wide minimum
standard all weather public trafficway is provided. Said access may be a
private drive providing such drive conforms to the following chart and must be
approved by the Public Works Supervisor, City Engineer and Fire Chief:
Private Driveway Length
 
Width 100'     150'     200'     250'     300'
15'   5 units  4 units  n/a      n/a      n/a
20'   8 units  7 units  6 units  n/a      n/a
25'   10 units 10 units 8 units  8 units  n/a
30'   12 units 12 units 12 units 12 units 12 units
 
In commercial and manufacturing zoning districts, a private drive may not
exceed three hundred feet (300') in length, must have a width of twenty feet
(20') for one-way traffic and twenty five feet (25') for two-way traffic and
may not serve a total building area of over fifty thousand (50,000) square
feet.
The City Council may approve additional driveway length in excess of three
hundred feet (300') in cases where isolated parcels of land cannot be developed
with minimum fifty foot (50') dedicated right-of-way.
Such a private drive shall be surfaced with Portland concrete or asphaltic
concrete. No zoning subdistrict will be allowed that does not have direct
access to a fifty foot (50') wide minimum standard all weather paved public
trafficway.
   B.   Curb, Gutter And Sidewalk:
      1.   New curbs, gutters and sidewalks shall be constructed at the expense
of the property owner with, and at the same time as, all new construction or
modification of existing buildings in accordance with City standards on all
streets, within and adjacent to the development, and in all zoning districts
except the Agricultural District, for all land uses, except where the Public
Works Director determines that, due to the location or character of the
development, new curbs, gutters and/or sidewalks need not be constructed.
      2.   The City Engineer may defer the construction of required curbs,
gutters and/or sidewalks until other curbs, gutters and/or sidewalks are
constructed adjacent to other lands in the neighborhood under any one or more
of the following conditions:
         a.   If the total length of existing curb-gutter on both sides of the
street in an existing development plus the length of the property in question
is less than forty percent (40%) of the total property length adjacent to a
standard block unless the curb-gutter will connect to an existing curb-gutter
section. The standard block shall be the distance between two (2) intersecting
streets or four hundred feet (400') whichever is less. The same criteria shall
apply separately to sidewalks. All curb-gutter to be considered as existing
shall be acceptable line and grade.
         b.   If another governmental agency having jurisdiction over a
particular street requests the curb-gutter be deferred.
         c.   If existing curbs, gutters and/or sidewalks are in good repair
and to an acceptable line and grade that conforms to the line and grade of
other curbs, gutters and/or sidewalks in the standard block, it may be
retained.
      3.   Curbs, gutters and sidewalks shall not be required or allowed to be
constructed or may be deferred if, in the opinion of the City Engineer, the
improvement would create a traffic hazard or an unusual drainage problem.
   C.   Construction Standards For Vertical And Rolled Curb: Both vertical and
rolled curbs shall be allowed in the City in accordance with the provisions of
this Code and in conformance with the standard construction design and
specification for the same, as are on file in the City Engineer's Office. The
most recent construction design and specifications shall prevail. Standard
detail C-2 (4 inch rolled curb) shall be used only when the following
applicable conditions are met:
      1.   On local residential streets in new developments, when the top of
curb to top of curb street drainage capacity is not exceeded by the peak flow
generated during a 50-year 24-hour storm. It shall be the developer's
engineering consultant's responsibility to compile and submit drainage
calculations to the City for review and approval.
      2.   On residential cul-de-sac streets in new developments that meet the
drainage requirements set forth in subsection C1 of this section.
      3.   On local residential streets in existing developments where no curb
or gutter exists in the block under consideration and a study by the City
Engineer indicates that the proposed installation will meet the drainage
requirements set forth in subsection C1 of this section.
      4.   In all cases four inch (4") rolled curb shall be transitioned into
six inch (6") vertical curb around all curb returns.
   D.   Public Improvement Requirements: In areas where two (2) or more zoning
districts and said zoning districts have different public improvement
requirements, the Council may impose the least restrictive requirement if the
Council finds that imposition of the least restrictive requirements will
further the policies and purposes described in this title. (Ord. 635, 10-4-
2022)
9-19-7: SANITATION FACILITIES:
   A.   Waste Pens: A waste pen of sufficient size to accommodate all trash or
solid waste stored on the premises shall be provided in any zoning district
except buildings containing two (2) or less household units. All waste pens
shall be completely surrounded with a well maintained fence or wall of a type
that will completely obscure from view all trash and waste stored in the pen.
   B.   Incinerators: Incinerators or trash burners shall not be permitted with
in the city limits of Filer.
   C.   Wastewater: Overflow of water from air conditioners or other sources of
wastewater shall not be permitted to discharge into alleys or street gutters.
(Ord. 635, 10-4-2022)
9-19-8: WATER AND SEWER:
All buildings intended for human occupancy shall have adequate sanitary
facilities. Such facilities shall be connected to an approved domestic water
source conforming to the water regulations of the City and to an approved
wastewater system conforming to the wastewater regulations of the City and
health authority. (Ord. 635, 10-4-2022)
9-19-9: DRAINAGE AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Best Management Practices: Building sites shall use best management
practices (BMPs) to retain as much stormwater as possible on the property.
   B.   Highway Drainage: Drainage to a state highway shall be subject to the
regulations of the Idaho transportation department. Necessary permits shall be
acquired by the developer.
   C.   Road Drainage: Drainage to a road under the care, custody and control
of the Filer Highway District shall be subject to their regulations. Necessary
permits shall be acquired by the developer.
   D.   Drainage To U.S. Waters Or Canals: No drainage shall be allowed from a
building site directly to any waters of the United States or to any privately
owned canal system.
   E.   Residential Subdivisions:
      1.   All residential subdivisions shall design and construct stormwater
retention facility or facilities to retain the 100-year 24-hour rainstorm
event.
      2.   The stormwater shall be detained and released over a forty-eight
(48) hour period or at a rate that is approved by the Twin Falls Canal Company
or by any other entity that may govern the waterway downstream.
      3.   The stormwater dischargers releasing water from their retention area
shall use best management practices (BMPs) to reduce the amount of pollutants
from the water. Discharge water quality shall comply with the most current
regulations or standards that may apply.
      4.   The retention facilities shall also have an overflow device that can
convey the 100-year 24-hour rainstorm event, without damage to the retention
facility. This structure should be designed to minimize any downstream safety
problems.
      5.   Storm sewers shall be placed in a public right of way or minimum
fifteen foot (15') wide easement. Easements shall also be required for the
retention areas. The city reserves the right to modify the retention facilities
to stay in compliance with any state or federal regulation.
   F.   Commercial And Industrial Developments: All commercial and industrial
developments shall design and construct stormwater retention facilities to
retain the 100-year 24-hour rainstorm event. No discharge of stormwater will be
allowed from these areas.
   G.   Procedure For Review And Approval Of The Stormwater Management Plan:
Review and approval by the city does not constitute an engineering review of
project plans and calculations. The review is for the purpose of ensuring
general conformance to city policies and requirements. The submitting engineer
is solely responsible for the design. All submissions to the city shall be
stamped by a professional engineer registered in the state of Idaho. The
following shall be submitted to the city:
      1.   Topographic survey of the development showing all drainage and
irrigation water conveyance systems within the area encompassed by a line two
hundred feet (200') outside the property line.
      2.   Peak flow calculations, with peak flows delineated on the drawings.
      3.   Runoff volume calculations.
      4.   Plans and profiles of new or modified drainage and irrigation water
conveyance systems.
      5.   Plans, profiles and calculations for stormwater retention or
detention facilities.
      6.   Flood routing computations for the 100-year 24-hour rainstorm event
through any existing drainage conveyance systems.
      7.   Maintenance and operation manuals for stormwater facilities.
      8.   Infiltration rates where applicable.
      9.   Seasonal high ground water table elevations where applicable. This
applies when the absorption of stormwater is used as a best management
practice. Facilities using absorption designs shall not intercept the post
development ground water table. The bottom of the facility shall have a minimum
four foot (4') vertical separation from the seasonal high ground water
elevation and bedrock. The four foot (4') separation between the bottom of the
facility and the seasonal high ground water table shall contain a sandy loam
material to treat the water prior to entering the ground water. If the best
management practices are utilized to pretreat the water prior to discharge into
the absorption facility, the requirement for four feet (4') of sandy loam will
be waived. The seasonal high ground water table elevation shall be established
and used for the facility design. The elevation of the seasonal high ground
water table shall be determined by a monitoring well established at the
facility site and monitored during the high ground water season. The high
ground water elevation shall be shown on the plans and be referenced to a
nearby bench mark, the latitude and longitude of the well shall be shown on the
plans. If ground water is encountered during construction of the facility at an
elevation higher than that shown on the plans, the facility shall be redesigned
to account for the higher elevation.
      10.   Soil classifications where applicable.
      11.   Flood routing of the 100-year 24-hour rainstorm event to the
ultimate drainage system.
      12.   Copies of associated permits and discharge agreements.
      13.   Copy of the pollution prevention plan that is on file with the EPA
for the development.
Prior to beginning of construction on any development site larger than five (5)
acres, the developer or their representative must have a pollution prevention
plan in place and must file a notice of intent (NOI) with the EPA, in
accordance with NPDES (national pollutant discharge elimination system)
requirements. The pollution prevention plan will include provisions for
reducing sediment discharges from the construction site and tracking of mud
onto roadways. A copy of this plan and the NOI shall be provided to the city
prior to any site grading. Refer to 40 CFR chapter 1, section 122.26 stormwater
discharges for NPDES requirements. (Ord. 635, 10-4-2022)
9-19-10: PRESSURIZED IRRIGATION:
   A.   System Installation Required: In each subdivision the developer shall
provide pressurized irrigation water to each and every lot within the
subdivision. The pressurized irrigation system shall be constructed and
installed at the same time as the domestic water lines, but shall not
necessarily be in the same trenches.
   B.   Cross Connections Prohibited: There shall be no cross connections
between the domestic water lines and the irrigation water lines that do not
comply with title 7, chapter 6-4, of this code.
   C.   Approval By City Engineer: All such pressurized irrigation water
systems shall be approved by the city engineer. (Ord. 635, 10-4-2022)
TITLE 10
LAND SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Compliance With Provisions
10-1-2: Definitions
10-1-1: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
From the effective date hereof, all subdivisions and plats of any tract of land
located wholly or in part in the City or within the area of impact shall comply
with the requirements set out in this Title. (Ord. 470, 7-7-95)
10-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section:
ALLEY: A minor public way providing secondary access at the back or side of a
property.
CITY: The City of Filer, Idaho.
COUNCIL: The City Council of the City.
COUNTY RECORDER: The office of the County Recorder of Twin Falls County, Idaho.
CROSSWALK: A right of way dedicated to public use which cuts across a block to
facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent streets and properties.
CUL-DE-SAC: A dead-end street provided with turnaround space at its terminus.
DEAD-END STREET: A street connecting to another street at one end only and not
having provision for vehicular turnaround at its terminus.
EASEMENT: A grant of right to use land for specific purposes.
ENGINEER: The City Engineer of the City.
LOT: A portion of a recorded subdivision intended as a unit for transfer of
ownership or for development.
MASTER PLAN: A planning map of the City, and the land area within one mile of
the City, showing the existing zoning and street layout together with the
future zoning and street layout as planned and proposed by the City to secure
and maintain an orderly growth and expansion program.
OWNER: An individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership or corporation
having sufficient proprietary interest in land to be subdivided to commence and
maintain proceedings under these regulations.
PLAT, FINAL: A plan of a subdivision, dedication or any portion thereof
prepared for filing and recording by the Twin Falls County Recorder and
containing those elements and requirements set forth in subsection 10-2-4B of
this Title. Upon its being filed and recorded by the Twin Falls County
Recorder, a final plat shall thereafter be known as an authorized plat,
subdivision or dedication.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A preliminary plan of a proposed subdivision of dedication,
containing the elements and requirements set forth in subsection 10-2-4A of
this Title.
SHALL: The term "shall" designates a mandatory requirement.
STREET: A right of way which provides vehicular and pedestrian access to
adjacent properties, the dedication of which has been officially accepted by
the City Council. The term "street" includes also the terms highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place and other such
terms.
Arterial: A street designated as an arterial street by the City Council. It is
the primary purpose of an arterial street to carry fast or heavy traffic.
Collector: A street designated as a collector street by the City Council. A
collector street has the primary purpose of carrying traffic from minor streets
to other collector streets and arterial streets.
Frontage: A minor street, parallel to and adjacent to an arterial street, which
has the primary purpose of providing access to abutting properties.
Residential: A minor street whose purposes is to provide access to abutting
properties.
SUBDIVIDER: An individual, corporation, firm or group who undertakes the
subdividing of a lot, tract or parcel of land for the purpose of transfer of
ownership or development and including dedication of streets or changes in
street or lot lines.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a developed or undeveloped tract of land laid out
or to be laid out in building lots, which may or may not include streets,
highways, alleys or other land intended to be dedicated to the public use.
UTILITIES: Installations for conducting water, sewage, gas or electricity and
similar facilities providing service to and used by the public. (Ord. 380, 9-
11-79)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: General Subdivison Provisions
10-2-2: Procedure for Subdivision Approval
10-2-3: Design Standards
10-2-4: Improvement Standards
10-2-5: Special Development Subdivisions
10-2-1: GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   Authority: These regulations are authorized by title 50, chapter 13
and title 67, chapter 65 of the Idaho Code; and article 12, section 2 of the
Idaho Constitution, as amended or subsequently codified.
      2.   Purpose: The purpose of these regulations is to promote the public
health, safety and general welfare, and to provide for:
         a.   The harmonious development of the area;
         b.   The coordination of streets and roads within the subdivision with
other existing or planned streets and roads;
         c.   Adequate open space for travel, light, air and recreational
facilities;
         d.   Adequate transportation, water drainage and sanitary facilities;
         e.   The avoidance of scattered subdivision of land that would result
in either of the following:
            (1)   The lack of water supply, sewer service, drainage,
transportation or other public services; and
            (2)   The unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of
public funds for the supply of such services;
         f.   The requirements as to the extent and the manner in which:
            (1)   Roads shall be created and improved; and
            (2)   Water and sewer and other utility mains, piping connections
or other facilities shall be installed;
         g.   The manner and form of making and filing of any plat; and
         h.   The administration of these regulations by defining the powers
and duties of approval authorities.
      3.   Jurisdiction: These regulations shall apply to the subdividing of
land within the corporate limits of the City including the property within one
mile outside the corporate limits thereof. They shall also apply to the "area
of impact" as established by agreement between the City and County in
conformance with State law.
      4.   Interpretation: All subdivisions as defined shall be submitted for
approval by the Council and shall comply with the provisions of these
regulations. These regulations shall supplement all other regulations, and
where at variance with other laws, regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the
more restrictive requirements shall apply.
      5.   Administration: The administration of this title shall be conducted
by the Administrator. The Administrator shall be appointed by the Mayor and the
appointment shall be ratified by the council. (1994 Code, amd. Ord. 624, 10-20-
2020)
10-2-2: PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL:
   A.   Subdivision Approval Required: Any person desiring to create a
"subdivision" as herein defined shall submit all necessary applications to the
Administrator on forms as provided by the City. No final plat shall be filed
with the County Recorder or improvements made on the property until such plat
is approved by the health authority as to water and sewer systems. No final
plat shall be filed with the County recorder or improvements made on the
property until the plat has been acted upon following public hearings held by
the council on a preliminary plat and a public meeting held by the council on
final plats prior to council approval. No lots shall be sold until the plat has
been recorded in the office of the county recorder.
   B.   Preapplication:
      1.   Application: The developer shall submit a preapplication to enable
the administrator to review and comment on the proposed subdivision. The
preapplication shall include at least one copy of a sketch plan. The sketch
plan shall include the entire developmental scheme of the proposed subdivision,
in schematic form and include the following:
         a.   The general layout and approximate dimensions of streets, blocks
and lots in sketch form;
         b.   The existing conditions and characteristics of the land on and
adjacent to the proposed subdivision site; and
         c.   The areas set aside for schools, parks and other public
facilities.
      2.   Fee: None required.
      3.   Administrator Action: The administrator shall notify the developer
within thirty (30) days from the date of receiving an acceptable preapplication
as to the general conformance or nonconformance of the proposal with this
title, and shall provide the necessary forms and checklists, as well as the
additional following considerations:
         a.   Compliance of the proposed development with existing local or
state policies, goals and objectives or comprehensive plans;
         b.   Determination if additional special permits or ordinance
conflicts, such as rezone, special development permit or variance are needed
and the manner of coordinating such permits;
         c.   Consideration of any unique environmental features or hazardous
concerns that may be directly or indirectly associated with the subject
property, such as areas that have been designated as areas of critical
environmental concern, unique plant or animal life and floodplains; and
         d.   Consideration of other local and state agencies that the
developer should contact before preparing a preliminary plat.
         e.   The city may require the developer to mitigate the impact the
subdivision will have on the ability of political subdivisions of the state,
including school districts, to deliver services without compromising quality of
service delivery to current residents or imposing substantial additional costs
upon current residents to accommodate the proposed subdivision.
   C.   Preliminary Plat:
      1.   Application: The developer shall file with the administrator a
complete subdivision application form and preliminary plat date as required in
this title.
      2.   Combining Preliminary and Final Plats: The applicant may request
that the subdivision application be processed as both a preliminary and final
plat if all the following exist:
         a.   The proposed subdivision does not exceed ten (10) lots;
         b.   No new street dedication or street widening is involved;
         c.   No major special development considerations are involved, such as
development in floodplain or hillside development; and
         d.   All required information for both preliminary and final plat is
complete and in an acceptable form.
      A request to combine both preliminary plat and final plat into one
application shall be acted upon by the council after receiving a recommendation
by the administrator.
      3.   Content of Preliminary Plat: The contents of the preliminary plat
and related information shall be in such a form as stipulated by the council;
however, additional maps or data as deemed necessary by the administrator may
also be required.
      The developer shall submit to the administrator at least the following:
         a.   Nine (9) copies of the preliminary plat of the proposed
subdivision, drawn in accordance with the requirements hereinafter stated; each
copy of the preliminary plat shall be on good quality paper, shall be drawn to
a scale of not less than one-inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), shall
show the drafting date and a north arrow.
         b.   A written application requesting approval of the preliminary
plat.
         c.   Appropriate information that sufficiently details the proposed
development within any special development area, such as hillside, planned unit
development, floodplain, cemetery, mobile home, large scale development,
hazardous and unique areas of development.
         d.   To ensure adequate water supply to each new subdivision/
development, all subdivision/development preliminary plat applications to the
city will include water modeling results which indicates the new subdivision/
development can be developed in a manner that will provide adequate water
supply for domestic water and fire protection and the new subdivision/
development will not adversely affect the city's ability to continue to provide
adequate domestic water and fire protection to the existing water system users.
         e.   To ensure adequate sewer treatment service by the city, each
subdivision/development preliminary plat application to the city shall include
sewer service treatment modeling results which indicates the new subdivision/
development can be developed in a manner that will provide adequate sewer
service and sewer treatment capacity by the city and the new subdivision/
development will not adversely affect the city's ability to continue to provide
adequate sewer treatment capacity to the existing sewer system users.
         f.   The cost of the water and sewer modeling will be the
responsibility of the developer.
      4.   Requirement of Preliminary Plats: The following shall be shown on
the preliminary plat or shall be submitted separately together with any other
pertinent information requested by the administrator:
         a.   The name of the proposed subdivision, which does not duplicate
the name of any other subdivision in Twin Falls County.
         b.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the developers, the
engineer or surveyor who prepared the plat and any other professional persons
involved in the subdivision.
         c.   The names and addresses of all surrounding property owners both
adjacent to and beyond any public thoroughfares within three hundred feet
(300') from the subject property on record in the county assessor's office.
         d.   The legal description of the subdivision by section, township and
range.
         e.   A statement of the intended use of the proposed subdivision, such
as: Residential single-family, two-family and multiple housing, commercial,
industrial, recreational or agricultural and a showing of any sites proposed
for parks, playgrounds, schools, churches or other public uses.
         f.   A map of the entire area scheduled for development if the
proposed subdivision is a portion of a larger holding intended for subsequent
development.
         g.   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to
the surrounding area (covering at least a four (4) square mile area).
         h.   The land use and existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and
the adjacent land.
         i.   Existing streets, street names, rights of way and roadway widths,
including adjoining streets or roadways, along with type of surface and the
existence of any curbs, gutters and/or sidewalks.
         j.   Approximate location and length of the boundary lines of each
lot, parcel or site and the proposed lot and block numbers. Approximate acreage
enclosed by subdivision.
         k.   Contour lines, shown at five-foot (5') intervals where land slope
is greater than twenty percent (20%) and at two-foot (2') intervals where land
slope is twenty percent (20%) or less, referenced to an established bench mark
of the city vertical control system, including its location and elevation.
         l.   A site report and/or the approval of the appropriate health
district if individual wells or septic tanks are proposed.
         m.   Location, size and direction of flow of all existing utilities,
including, but not limited to, storm and sanitary sewers, irrigation laterals,
ditches, drainage, bridges, culverts, water mains, fire hydrants, gas lines,
power, telephone and streetlights. If utilities are not on or adjacent to the
property, indicate direction and distance to nearest ones that can serve the
subdivision.
         n.   A copy of any proposed restrictive covenants and/or deed
restrictions.
         o.   Any dedications to the public and/or easements both public and
private, together with a statement of location, dimensions and purpose of such
on both the subject property and surrounding properties.
         p.   Any additional required information for special developments as
specified in this title.
         q.   A statement as to whether or not any variance will be requested
with respect to any provision of this title describing the particular
provision, the variance requested and the reasons therefor.
         r.   Location, right of way width and name of all public or private
trafficways, the location, right of way width and use of any proposed public or
private pedestrian ways or special ways, and a statement of intended
improvements to be made thereto.
         s.   A statement as to what improvements will be made to existing
utilities and what other on site improvements will be made.
         t.   Approximate lot, corner and easement locations of all adjacent
subdivisions.
         u.   Location, size and direction of flow of all drainage, irrigation,
sewer and water line improvements that will be part of the subdivision
development.
         v.   Additional drainage requirements may be requested by the
administrator.
      5.   Fees: A fee for processing and checking a preliminary plat shall be
due at the time upon submittal of the preliminary plat to the administrator.
The amount of the fee shall be established by resolution of the council.
      6.   Administrator Review:
         a.   Certification: Upon receipt of the preliminary plat, and all
other required data as provided for herein, the administrator (after review by
the city engineer) shall schedule a preapplication meeting with appropriate
staff. After the results of the preapplication meeting have been addressed and
appropriate corrections made to the preliminary plat, the administrator shall
certify the application as complete and shall affix the date of application
acceptance thereon. The Administrator shall, thereafter, place the preliminary
plat on the agenda for consideration at the next regular meeting of the
council. The administrator shall deliver one copy of the preliminary plat to
each member of the council at least five (5) days prior to the meeting for plat
consideration.
         b.   Review by Other Agencies: The applicant shall refer the
preliminary plat and application to as many agencies as deemed necessary by the
administrator. Such agencies may include the following:
            (1)   Other governing bodies having joint jurisdiction;
            (2)   The appropriate utility companies, irrigation companies or
districts and drainage districts;
            (3)   The superintendent of the school district; and
            (4)   Other agencies having an interest in the proposed
subdivision.
         c.   Administrator Review: Upon expiration of the time allowance for
department and agency review, the administrator shall prepare a recommendation
to the council.
      7.   Notification to Property Owners: The administrator shall certify
that he/she has notified all adjoining property owners of the proposed
subdivision. Such written notification shall be sent by first class mail at
least fifteen (15) days prior to the council meeting.
      8.   Council Action:
         a.   Preliminary Plat Review: The council shall review the preliminary
plat, comments from the concerned persons and agencies and the report from the
administrator to arrive at a decision on the preliminary plat.
         b.   Council's Findings: In determining the acceptance of a proposed
subdivision the council shall consider the objectives of this title and at
least the following:
            (1)   The conformance of the subdivision with a comprehensive plan;
            (2)   The availability of public services to accommodate the
proposed development;
            (3)    The continuity of the proposed development with the capital
improvement program;
            (4)   The public financial capability of supporting services for
the proposed development; and
            (5)   The other health, safety or environmental problems that may
be brought to the council's attention.
         c.   Action on Preliminary Plat: The council may approve,
conditionally approve, disapprove or table for additional information when
acting on the preliminary plat. If tabled, approval or disapproval shall occur
at the regular meeting following the meeting at which the plat is first
considered by the council. The action and the reasons for such action shall be
stated in writing by the administrator and forwarded to the applicant. The
administrator shall also forward a statement of the action taken and the
reasons for such action together with a copy of the preliminary plat to the
council for its information and record. Upon granting or denying a preliminary
plat the council shall specify:
            (1)   The regulations and standards used in evaluating the
application;
            (2)   The reasons for approval or denial; and
            (3)   The actions, if any that the applicant could take to obtain
plat approval.
         d.   Developer's Agreement: Prior to final approval and filing of the
plat, the developer shall enter into a subdivision development agreement with
the city which will set forth any commitment or agreement to comply with any
conditions set by the city and will set forth any commitments that the city has
made to the developer.
         e.    Action on Combined Preliminary and Final Plat: If the
Administrator's conclusion is favorable to the developer's request for the
subdivision to be considered as both a preliminary plat and final subdivision,
then a recommendation shall be forwarded to the council in the same manner as
herein specified for a final plat. The council may recommend that the combined
application be approved, approved conditionally or disapproved.
      9.   Approval Period:
         a.   Failure to file and obtain the certification of the acceptance of
the final plat application by the administrator within one year after action by
the council shall cause all approvals of said preliminary plat to be null and
void, unless an extension of time is applied for by the developer and granted
by the council.
         b.   In the event that the development of the preliminary plat is made
in successive contiguous segments in an orderly and reasonable manner, and
conforms substantially to the approved preliminary plat, such segments, if
submitted within successive intervals of one year may be considered for final
approval without resubmission for preliminary plat approval.
   D.   Final Plat:
      1.   Application: After the approval or conditional approval of the
preliminary plat, the developer may cause the total parcel, or any part
thereof, to be surveyed, and a final plat prepared in accordance with the
approved preliminary plat. The developer shall submit to the administrator nine
(9) copies of the final plat.
      2.   Content Of Final Plat: The final plat shall include and be in
compliance with all items required under title 50, chapter 13 of the Idaho Code
and shall be drawn at such a scale and contain lettering of such size as to
enable the same to be placed on one sheet of eighteen inch by twenty seven inch
(18" x 27") drawing paper, with no part of the drawing nearer to the edge than
one inch (1"). The reverse of said sheet shall not be used for any portion of
the drawing, but may contain written matter as to dedications, certifications
and other information. If, because of the size or complexity, required
information cannot be shown, additional sheets may be used provided they
conform to this chapter. The final plat shall include at least the following:
         a.   A written application for approval of such final plat as
stipulated by the council.
         b.   Proof of current ownership of the real property included in the
proposed final plat.
         c.   Such other information as the administrator or council may deem
necessary to establish whether or not all proper parties have signed and/or
approved said final plat.
         d.   Conformance with the approved preliminary plat and meeting all
requirements or conditions thereof.
         e.   Conformance with all requirements and provisions of this title.
         f.   Acceptable engineering practices and local standards established
by the administrator.
      3.   Fees: At the time of submission of an application for a final plat,
a fee as established by resolution of the council shall be paid.
      4.   Administrative Review:
         a.   Acceptance: Upon receipt of the final plat and compliance with
all the requirements as provided for herein, the administrator, after review by
the city engineer, shall certify the application as complete and shall affix
the date of acceptance thereon.
         b.   Resubmittal of Final Plat: The administrator shall review the
final plat for compliance with the approved or conditionally approved
preliminary plat. If the administrator determines that there is substantial
difference in the final plat than that which was approved as a preliminary plat
or conditions which have not been met, the administrator may require that the
final plat be submitted to the council in the same manner as requested in the
preliminary plat.
         c.   Submission to The Council: Upon the determination that the final
plat is in compliance with the preliminary plat and all conditional
requirements have been met, the administrator shall place the final plat on the
council agenda at the next regular meeting.
      5.   Agency Review: The applicant must transmit one copy of the final
plat, or other documents submitted, for review and recommendation to the
departments and the agencies as administrator deems necessary to ensure
compliance with preliminary approval and/or conditions of preliminary approval.
Such agency review shall also include the construction standard of
improvements, compliance with health standards, the cost estimate for all
improvements and the legal review of the performance bond.
      6.   Council Action: The council, at its next meeting following receipt
of the administrator's report, shall consider comments from concerned persons
and agencies to arrive at a decision on the final plat. The council shall
approve, approve conditionally, disapprove or table the final plat for
additional information. A copy of the approved plat shall be filed with the
administrator. Upon granting or denying the final plat the council shall
specify:
         a.   The regulations and standards used in evaluating the application;
         b.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
         c.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
approval.
      7.   Plans and Specifications: Prior to recording the final subdivision
plat, the developer shall submit to the administrator checked copies of the
final plans and specifications for streets, water, sewer, a master utility plan
and other public improvements to be constructed.
      All plans and specifications shall have sufficient detail, written
information, vertical and horizontal dimensions to accurately locate the
proposed improvements in the field and determine their relationship to other
improvements. Such standards shall be established by the zoning administrator,
public works supervisor, and city engineer.
         a.   Financial guarantee of improvements;
         b.   An approved weed management plan;
         c.   Street and utility plan approval from the Idaho Department of
Transportation, as required;
         d.   Street and utility plan approval from the Filer Highway District,
as required;
         e.   Gravity irrigation system plan approval from the Twin Falls Canal
Company, as required;
         f.   An executed improvement agreement for developers;
         g.   A recorded conveyance to the city of Filer for water shares equal
to one (1) share per acre for new residential developments (two (2) acres or
larger), and such other number of shares as agreed to between the city and the
developer.
      8.   Fees: At the time of submittal of plans and specifications a fee to
defray costs and expenses of plan checking as provided for by resolution of the
city council shall be paid.
      9.   Approval Period: Final plat shall be filed with the county recorder
within one year after written approval by the council; otherwise such approval
shall become null and void unless prior to said expiration date an extension of
time is applied for by the developer and granted by the council.
      10.   Method of Recording: Upon approval of the final plat by the
council, posting of surety bond or other acceptable guarantee and the inclusion
of the following signatures on the final plat, the developer shall submit the
final plat to the county recorder for recording:
         a.   Certification and signature of the city council verifying that
the subdivision has been approved;
         b.   Certification and signature of the city clerk, if required, and
the city engineer verifying that the subdivision meets the city requirements
and has been approved by the council; and
         c.   Certification of the sanitation restrictions on the face of the
plat per Idaho Code section 50-1326. (Ord. 380, 9-11-79; amd. 1994 Code, Ord.
624, 10-20-2020)
10-2-3: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   General Standards: In order that the subdivision of land within the
jurisdiction of the city will contribute to the development of safe, convenient
and attractive residential, commercial and other areas and advance the public
welfare, the city council, in reviewing and acting upon any subdivision plat,
shall ensure that full consideration and weight are given to the following:
      1.   Street Patterns: Street patterns in residential neighborhoods shall
be designed to create areas free of through traffic but readily accessible to
adjacent arterial streets.
      2.   Street Intersections: Street intersections in residential areas
shall be of a "T" rather than an "X" design whenever such design will not
unduly restrict a free movement of traffic.
      3.   Natural Drainage Courses: All-natural drainage courses shall be left
undisturbed or be improved in a manner which will improve the hydraulics and
ease of maintenance of the channel.
      4.   Street Names: No street names shall be used which will duplicate or
be confused with the names of existing streets. Street names shall be subject
to the approval of the city council and shall conform to the street name and
pattern established by ordinance and the official city map.
   B.   Block Requirements: No block shall be longer than one thousand feet
(1,000') nor less than four hundred feet (400') between street intersections
and shall have sufficient width to provide for two (2) tiers of lots, except as
provided in subsection 10-2-030C.1.
   C.   Lot Requirements:
      1.   Minimum area of each lot shall be eight thousand (8,000) square
feet.
      2.   Double frontage lots are prohibited; except, that where a showing is
made that unusual topography or other conditions make it impossible to meet
this requirement, an exception may be approved by the city council.
   D.   Streets:
      1.   Width of Right of Way: Width of right of way shall meet the minimum
requirements shown in the following table:
 
Type of Street                       Right of Way
Major collector road                 100 feet
Minor collector road commercial      80 feet
Residential street collector streets 50 feet
Cul-de-sac                           50 feet
Turnaround for cul-de-sac            60 feet radius
Alleys                               25 feet
 
      2.   Dead End Streets: Dead end streets shall not be permitted. However,
cul-de-sac streets may be substituted in place of a dead-end street; providing
(in the opinion of the city council), that in the future the street will be
extended for the proper development of the city street pattern, and development
around the cul-de-sac shall leave open adequate area for such future extension
of the city street. The maximum length for a cul-de-sac shall be one thousand
feet (1,000'), unless the Filer highway district approves additional length, as
measured from the entrance to the center of the turnaround and all cul-de-sacs
shall be provided with a turnaround, having a minimum radius of not less than
sixty feet (60') at the curb line.
      3.   Length of Loop Street: The maximum length of a loop street shall be
one thousand feet (1,000').
      4.   Design and Layout of Streets: Streets shall be designed and laid out
in order to intersect as nearly as possible at right angles, and no street
shall intersect any other street at less than seventy degrees (70°).
      5.   Connection Curves May Be Required: Where any street deflects an
angle of ten degrees (10°) or more, a connection curve having a minimum radius
of three hundred feet (300') for arterial and collector streets and one hundred
fifty feet (150') for residential streets may be required by the city council.
      6.   Pavement Base of Streets: The street pavement base and leveling
course gravel shall be constructed in accordance with the recommendations of
the city engineer.
      7.   Street Location and Arrangement: Major collector roads shall be
located on U.S. 30, U.S. 93, and on all section lines. Minor collector roads
shall be located on or near the half and quarter section lines. Collector roads
may, for aesthetic reasons, curve and wind in accordance with these standards,
but such trafficways shall maintain a grid type pattern approximately one-
fourth (1/4) of a mile square.
   E.   Alleys:
      1.   Alleys shall be required at the rear of all business lots and shall
be at least twenty-five feet (25') in width. When provided in residential
blocks, alleys shall be not less than twenty-five feet (25') in width. Alleys
shall be provided in all subdivisions unless the requirement is waived by the
city council.
      2.   At the intersection of two (2) alleys, the corners of the abutting
property shall be provided with a property line return having a radius of not
less than twenty-five feet (25').
      3.   Except under unusual circumstances, alleys shall not terminate in a
dead end, and in no case shall a dead-end alley be adopted unless turnaround
facilities are provided to the satisfaction of the city council.
   F.   Easements: Easements for sewer, water, gas, electric, telephone,
drainage, irrigation or other public utilities shall be required. Easements for
utility lines shall be a minimum of fifteen feet (15') in width and centered on
rear or side lot lines.
   G.   Sewage System: In subdivisions within the city, method and extent of
sewage disposal shall meet the standards of and be approved by the city with
such standards to include, but not be limited to, the standard revisions to
2020 ISPWC and supplemental specifications. In subdivisions within one mile of
the city, method and extent of sewage disposal shall meet the standards of and
be approved by the state department of public health. In a subdivision within a
reasonable distance to an existing sanitary system, the subdivider may be
required to make connection thereto.
   H.   Water Mains: Central water lines and fire hydrants shall be provided in
all subdivisions with the following exception:
      1.   In subdivisions outside of the city limits where the city feels that
it would not be feasible to extend water mains, alternate provisions may be
made for fire protection; provided, that the domestic water supply and such
provision shall meet the standards of the National Board of Fire Underwriters,
Idaho state department of public health, the Idaho state public utility
commission and the Idaho state department of reclamation, and further provided,
that such alternate provision shall be made to the satisfaction of the city
council. In considering such alternate provision, the city council may require
an increase in the minimum lot size and may impose any other requirement which
it deems necessary to protect the public health, safety or welfare.
   I.   Land Surface Drains: Such grading shall be done, and such structures
shall be provided by the subdivider as are deemed essential to the city
engineer to provide adequate drainage.
   J.   Curb and Gutter: All subdivisions should be constructed with vertical
type curbs and gutters in accordance with city specifications.
   K.   Sidewalks:
      1.   Sidewalks shall be provided along both sides of the street and shall
be at least five feet (5') wide. The city council may require sidewalks wider
than five feet (5').    
      2.   Pedestrian Walkways: Right-of-way for pedestrian walkways where
necessary to obtain convenient pedestrian circulation to schools, parks or
shopping areas. Cul-de-sacs will be connected to other adjacent streets with
cul-de-sacs within the proposed subdivision or existing subdivisions and to
adjacent arterial or collector streets with paved pedestrian walkways at least
five feet (5') wide within the applicable easements.
   L.   Driveway Curb Cuts and Approaches: Driveway curb cuts and approaches
shall be made in accordance with city ordinance and specifications.
   M.   Irrigation Lines and Water Stocks:
      1.   Twin Falls Canal Company water stocks for the land included in the
subdivision within the city limits shall be turned over to the city as trustee
before any plat or land shall be approved by the city council.
      2.   If irrigation lines, ditches, laterals, canals, buried irrigation
conduit and/or structures are to be constructed, rerouted or in any way altered
or changed as part of the development of a subdivision, documentary evidence of
consent to the construction, rerouting, alteration or change by all parties
interested, including the Twin Falls Canal Company, shall be presented to the
city council and be a condition of approval of the preliminary plat.
   N.   Pressure Irrigation System:
      1.   The use of the city's potable water supply as the primary source of
irrigation water in all new developments shall be prohibited. For purposes of
this subsection, the term "new development" means any new subdivision, or any
development of any parcel of land of three-fourths (3/4) of an acre or larger
that is not part of a subdivision.
      2.   All new developments shall include an operating pressure irrigation
system constructed to city standards and approved by the city engineer and the
Twin Falls Canal Company. The city engineer shall encourage developers to
participate in a regional system as long as the pump station is operational
before the first building permit is issued for that station's service area.
      3.   The city engineer may authorize in specific cases a variance from
the requirement of a pressure irrigation system, if not contrary to the public
interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this subsection would result in unnecessary hardship.
         a.   Special conditions may include, but are not limited to, small
developments in terms of acreage, developments without viable access to
irrigation water delivery, or developments without Twin Falls Canal Company
water shares.
         b.   Variances shall not be granted on the grounds of convenience or
profit, but only where strict application of the provisions of this title would
result in unnecessary hardship.
      4.   The city engineer shall not authorize a variance from the
requirement of an operating pressure irrigation system unless an alternate
provision has been approved by the city engineer. Alternates may include, but
shall not be limited to, required xeriscaping (i.e., landscaping in ways that
do not require supplemental irrigation), payment of an in-lieu fee equal to the
estimated cost of construction of an operating pressure irrigation system
(including land acquisition), or some combination of these or other acceptable
options.
      5.   One share of Twin Falls Canal Company water for each acre of
property within the subdivision shall be deeded to the city before the filing
of the final plat for use in the pressurized irrigation system.
   O.   Public Sites, Open Spaces, Recreation And Stormwater Retention/
Detention: Where it is determined that a proposed park, playground, school or
other public use as shown on the future acquisition map, as authorized in Idaho
Code section 67-6517, is located in whole or in part within a proposed
subdivision the council shall notify the appropriate public agency concerning
the land proposed to be acquired. Within thirty (30) days of the date of
notice, the public agency may request the Governing Body to suspend
consideration on the subdivision for sixty (60) days. If an agreement is not
reached within sixty (60) days the council shall resume consideration of the
subdivision.
   No plat shall be approved unless it includes provision for open space, parks
and recreation and stormwater retention/detention. Developers may combine land
designated for stormwater retention/detention with the requirement of open
space, parks and recreation with the approval of the Administrator and/or
Design Review Committee.
      1.   A "park" is a parcel of land dedicated to the public, maintained for
the primary purposes of recreation and open space. A "minipark" is a park that
is a minimum of eight thousand (8,000) square feet.
      2.   The council may require the developer of each residential
subdivision, or any part thereof, without regard to the number of phases within
the subdivision, to set aside or acquire land within, adjacent to, or in the
general vicinity of the subdivision for a park. The size of such park shall be
the smaller of either: (a) a minipark; or (b) a park the size of which shall be
a number (in ft.²) equal to the number of household units in the subdivision
multiplied by four hundred thirty-five square feet (435 ft.²). Parks shall be
located so as to serve the largest number of household lots, as is practical,
without crossing an arterial street. The zoning administrator, public works
supervisor and/or the design review committee may approve up to fifty percent
(50%) of this land contribution for development of walking/bicycle trails.
      3.   Development of parks shall include curbs, gutters, finish grading,
sidewalks, power box, irrigation systems, ground cover, trees, picnic tables,
benches and playground equipment, approved by the zoning administrator, public
works supervisor and city engineer.
      4.   All park land shall be dedicated to the city upon completion of all
required improvements, and accepted and maintained by the city after it is
determined that all standards have been met.
      5.   Provide retention/detention basins within open space in the
development to be maintained by the city upon acceptance by the city. The
developer shall be required to provide safety signs on and fencing approved by
council around all retention/detention basins.
   P.   Restrictive Covenants: Restrictive covenants may be prepared and
recorded as part of a subdivision. This is done to provide protection to future
property owners by establishing higher standards than required under other
regulations. The provisions within protective covenants are enforceable solely
through civil actions and local governments shall not be required to enforce
these provisions. (Ord. 380, 9-11-1979; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 624, 10-20-2020;
Ord. 629, 6-1-2021)
10-2-4: IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Responsibility for Plans: It shall be the responsibility of the
developer of every proposed subdivision to have prepared by a registered
engineer, a complete set of construction plans, including profiles, cross
sections, specifications and other supporting data, for all required public
streets, utilities and other facilities. Such construction plans shall be based
on preliminary plans that have been approved with the preliminary plat, and
shall be prepared in conjunction with the final plat. Construction plans are
subject to approval by the responsible public agencies. All construction plans
shall be prepared in accordance with the public agencies' standards or
specifications.
   B.   Required Public Improvements: Every developer may be required to
install the following public and other improvements in accordance with the
conditions and specifications as follows:
      1.   Monuments: Monuments shall be set in accordance with Idaho Code
section 50-1303.
      2.   Streets and Alleys: All streets and alleys shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the Council.
      3.   Curbs and Gutters: Curbs and gutters shall be constructed on all
streets and service roads. All construction shall be in accordance with the
standards and specifications adopted by the Council.
      4.   Bicycle Pathways: A bicycle pathway shall be required within all
subdivisions, as part of the public right-of-way or separate easement, as may
be specified in an overall bicycle plan as adopted by the Council.
      5.   Installation of Public Utilities: Underground utilities shall be
required in all new subdivisions. Existing utilities or new large transmission
lines shall not be required to be buried.
      6.   Driveways: All driveway openings in curbs shall be as specified by
the administration, highway district or State Highway Department.
      7.   Storm Drainage: An adequate storm drainage system shall be required
in all subdivisions. The requirements for each particular subdivision shall be
established by the City Engineer and/or the Council. Construction shall follow
the specifications and procedures established by the Council.
      8.   Public Water Supply and Sewer Systems: All new public water supply
or sewer systems shall be an extension of an existing public system.
      9.   Fire Hydrants and Water Mains: Adequate fire protection shall be
required in accordance with standards established by the City Engineer.
      10.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall be installed in the
appropriate locations at each street intersection in accordance with the local
standards. Cost of street signs shall be the responsibility of the developer.
      11.   Sidewalks and Pedestrian Walkways: Sidewalks may be required on
both sides of the street, except that where the average width of lots, as
measured at the street frontage line or at the building setback line, is over
two hundred ten feet (210'), sidewalks on only one side of the street may be
allowed. These requirements may be waived by the Council due to the location
and/or character of the development. Pedestrian walkways, when required, shall
have easements at least ten feet (10') in width and include a paved walk at
least five feet (5') in width. Sidewalks and crosswalks shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications as adopted by the Council.
      12.   Greenbelt: Greenbelt or landscaping screening may be required for
the protection of residential properties from adjacent major arterial streets,
waterways, railroad rights-of-way or other features. Subdivision plats shall
show the location of any greenbelt areas.
      13.   Street Lighting: Streetlights shall be required to be installed at
intersections throughout the subdivision. Lighting shall be approved by the
City Engineer and the cost shall be borne by the developer.
      14.   Mailboxes: Mailbox locations shall be reviewed and approved by the
Zoning Administrator and the United States Postal Service.
      15.   Irrigation Water: Every subdivider or developer shall be required
to install a pressure irrigation system in accordance with the conditions and
specifications as follows:
         a.   The use of the city's potable water supply as the primary source
of irrigation water in all new developments shall be prohibited. For purposes
of this subsection, the term "new development" means any new subdivision, or
any development of any parcel of land of three-fourths (3/4) of an acre or
larger that is not part of a subdivision.
         b.   All new developments shall include an operating pressure
irrigation system constructed to city standards and approved by the city
engineer and the Twin Falls Canal Company. The city engineer shall encourage
developers to participate in a regional system as long as the pump station is
operational before the first building permit is issued for that station's
service area.
         c.   The city engineer may authorize in specific cases a variance from
the requirement of a pressure irrigation system, if not contrary to the public
interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this subsection would result in unnecessary hardship.
            (1)   Special conditions may include, but are not limited to, small
developments in terms of acreage, developments without viable access to
irrigation water delivery, or developments without Twin Falls Canal Company
water shares.
            (2)   Variances shall not be granted on the grounds of convenience
or profit, but only where strict application of the provisions of this title
would result in unnecessary hardship.
         d.   The city engineer shall not authorize a variance from the
requirement of an operating pressure irrigation system unless an alternate
provision has been approved by the city engineer. Alternates may include, but
shall not be limited to, required xeriscaping (i.e., landscaping in ways that
do not require supplemental irrigation), payment of an in-lieu fee equal to the
estimated cost of construction of an operating pressure irrigation system
(including land acquisition), or some combination of these or other acceptable
options.
         e.   One share of Twin Falls Canal Company water for each acre of
property within the subdivision shall be deeded to the city before the filing
of the final plat for use in the pressurized irrigation system.
         f.   If the City Council and Public Works Director determine that the
PI system is to be owned and maintained by the developer, Home Owners
Association and home owners, applicable Twin Falls Canal Company water shares
shall, not be conveyed to the City and that one irrigation water share for each
acre of property within the development, shall be retained within the
development for all irrigation in perpetuity.
         g.   If the City Council and Public Works Director determine that the
PI system is to be owned and maintained by the City, each new development shall
convey one share of Twin Falls Canal Company for each acre of property within
the development to the City before filing of the final plat.
         h.   All users connected to a pressurized irrigation system shall
install automatic timers to ensure that conservation of and schedules for use
of the water are met in the most efficient manner possible. Systems operating
without the use of automatic timers will be in violation of this Code and
subject to established fines and penalties herein.
         i.   Monthly fees for water districts will be established and assessed
to each user by the City of Filer to maintain the pressure irrigation system.
The fees shall be established by a resolution of the city council.
         j.   All residences within the City of Filer with pressurized
irrigation systems shall irrigate and water flowers, lawns, gardens, trees, and
shrubs as follows: Residences with even number addresses shall water on
Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays only; residences with odd number addresses
shall water on Wednesdays, Fridays, and Sundays only.
   C.   Guarantee of Completion of Improvements:
      1.   Financial Guarantee Arrangements: In lieu of the actual installation
of required public improvements before recording of the final plat, the Council
may permit the developer to execute a trust and escrow agreement and record a
notice prohibiting the sale of an undeveloped lot without a recorded
developer's agreement between the developer and the City relating to that lot,
or to provide a financial guarantee of performance in one or a combination of
the following arrangements for those requirements which are over and beyond the
requirements of any other agency responsible for the administration, operation
and maintenance of the applicable public improvement:
         a.   Surety Bond:
            (1)    Accrual: The bond shall accrue to the City covering
construction, operation and maintenance of the specific public improvement.
            (2)   Amount: The bond shall be in an amount equal to one hundred
twenty five percent (125%) of the total estimated costs for completing
construction of the specific public improvements, as estimated by the
developer's consulting engineer and approved by the City Engineer.
            (3)   Term Length: The term length in which the bond is in force,
for the duration of the phase of the project, shall be for a period of two (2)
years minimum.
            (4)   Bonding for Surety Company: The bond shall be with a surety
company authorized to do business in the State of Idaho, acceptable to the
Council.
         b.   Cash Deposit, Certified Check, Negotiable Bond or Irrevocable
Bank Letter of Credit by An Institution Licensed in The State of Idaho And
Approved by The Council:
            (1)   Treasurer, Escrow Agent or Trust Company: A cash deposit,
certified check, negotiable bond or an irrevocable bank letter of credit such
surety acceptable by the Council, shall be deposited with an escrow agent or
trust company.
            (2)    Dollar Value: The dollar value of the cash deposit,
certified check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be
equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the estimated cost of
construction for the specific public improvement, as estimated by the
developer's consulting engineer and approved by the City Engineer.
            (3)   Escrow Time: The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified
check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be for two
(2) years minimum or one year after subdivision is completed and accepted by
the City Engineer.
            (4)    Progressive Payment: In the case of cash deposits or
certified checks, an agreement between the Council and the developer may
provide for progressive payment out of the cash deposit or reduction of the
certified check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit, to the
extent of the cost of the completed portion of the public improvement, in
accordance with a previously entered into agreement.
      2.   Conditional Approval of Final Plat: With respect to financial
guarantees, the approval of all final subdivision plats shall be conditioned on
the accomplishment of one of the following:
         a.   The construction of improvements required by this title shall
have been completed by the developer and approved by the City Engineer.
         b.   Surety acceptable to the Council shall have been filed in the
form of a cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond, irrevocable bank
letter of credit or surety bond.
      3.   Inspection of Public Improvements Under Construction: Before
approving a final plat and construction plans and specifications for public
improvements, an agreement between the developer and the Council shall be made
to provide for checking or inspecting the construction and its conformity to
the submitted plans.
      4.   Penalty In Case of A Failure To Complete The Construction of A
Public Improvement: In the event the developer shall, in any case, fail to
complete such work within the period of time as required by the conditions of
the guarantee for the completion of public improvements it shall be the
responsibility of the Council to proceed to have such work completed. In order
to accomplish this, the Council shall reimburse itself for the cost and expense
thereof by appropriating the cash deposit, certified check, irrevocable bank
letter of credit, or negotiable bond which the developer may have deposited in
lieu of a surety bond, or may take such steps as may be necessary to require
performance by the bonding or surety company, and as included in a written
agreement between the Council and the developer. (Ord. 380, 9-11-1979, amd.
Ord. 624, 10-20-2020)
10-2-5: SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to identify various types of
developments that normally pose special concerns to the council and elected
officials when reviewing and acting upon subdivision requests. The provisions
of this section are in addition to the plan requirements, design standards and
improvement standards that are required by sections
10-2-2,
10-2-3, and
10-2-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Large Scale Development Subdivision: Due to the impact that a large-
scale development would have on public utilities and services, the developer
shall submit the following information along with the preliminary plat:
      1.   Identification of all public services that would be provided to the
development such as fire protection, police protection, central water, central
sewer, road construction, parks and open space, recreation, maintenance,
schools and solid waste collection.
      2.   Estimate of the public service costs to provide adequate service to
the development.
      3.   Estimate of the tax revenue that will be generated from the
development.
      4.   Suggest public means of financing the services of the development if
the cost for the public services would not be offset by tax revenue received
from the development.
      5.   The developer should submit a plan identifying how the developer
intends to mitigate impacts of the development on the City.
      6.   The developer should submit a plan for stormwater retention/
detention. (Ord. 380, 9-11-79, amd. Ord. 624, 10-20-2020)
CHAPTER 3
LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Lot Line Adjustment Application
10-3-2: Procedure
10-3-3: Denial Of Application
10-3-4: Right Of Appeal
10-3-5: Approval Of Application
10-3-1: LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT APPLICATION:
   A.   An applicant for a lot line adjustment shall complete the following
procedures:
      1.   Submittal of a draft record of survey showing:
         a.   The proposed parcel for adjustment (a hard copy 18 inches by 27
inches and an electronic copy 11 inches by 17 inches),
         b.   The present and proposed lots,
         c.   The correct street names abutting the property,
         d.   The written legal description of all proposed lots,
         e.   The square footage, width, and depth of proposed lots,
         f.   All existing buildings shown to meet Building Department and
zoning setback requirements,
         g.   A note stating the zoning district in effect for the area,
         h.   All recorded easements, including those for sewer and water,
         i.   Affidavits of legal interests,
         j.   A narrative explaining the purpose of this lot line adjustment
and expressing how the public is benefited by such action, and
         k.   Such additional information reasonably required for thorough
review of the application and plat may be required of the applicant.
      2.   The proposed adjustment shall meet the definition of a “lot line
adjustment” which shall be defined as: A modification of boundary lines between
existing lots, parcels of land, or properties, or modification of easement
lines, which does not reduce the area, frontage, width, depth, or building
setback lines of each lot, parcel of land, or property below the minimum zoning
area regulations and which does not create additional lots or new streets. A
lot line adjustment does not vacate the platted lot lines or easements of a
recorded subdivision. A lot line adjustment does not divide lands nor is it a
substitute for dividing lands through the City’s subdivision platting
procedures. A lot line adjustment action shall be consistent with the City’s
comprehensive plan. (Ord. 616, 5-15-2018; amd. Ord. 629, 6-1-2021)
10-3-2: PROCEDURE:
An applicant for a lot line adjustment shall be required to file a draft record
of survey with the Administrator for review. Upon a finding by the
Administrator that the record of survey conforms to the definition of a lot
line adjustment, the Administrator shall provide written notice to owners of
property located within three hundred feet (300') of the boundaries of the lot
proposed for adjustment, and all easement holders within the subject property.
The applicant shall provide the mailing addresses of all property owners within
three hundred feet (300') of the outer boundaries of the lot proposed for
adjustment. Such notice shall inform adjacent property owners they may comment
on the application during a period of fifteen (15) days after the postmark of
the notice. Following expiration of the comment period, and upon a finding by
the Administrator that the record of survey is in compliance with the
provisions of this section, the Administrator may approve, or conditionally
approve, the draft record of survey. Thereafter, the applicant shall submit a
final record of survey, to be drawn in compliance with the requirements of this
title, to the Administrator for final review. The Administrator shall inform
the City Clerk of final approval in writing prior to signature of the record of
survey sheets for the purpose of recordation. (Ord. 616, 5-15-2018; amd. Ord.
629, 6-1-2021)
10-3-3: DENIAL OF APPLICATION:
Upon a finding by the Administrator that the application does not conform to
the definition of a lot line adjustment or is not in compliance with this
title, the Administrator shall deny the application and shall state the reasons
therefor in writing, and a copy signed by the Administrator attached to one
copy of the record of survey shall be returned to the applicant. Any questions
with regard to the interpretation and/or applicability of this section shall be
referred to the Council by the Administrator for determination. (Ord. 616, 5-
15-2018; amd. Ord. 629, 6-1-2021)
10-3-4: RIGHT OF APPEAL:
An appeal from any decision of the Administrator made in the administration or
enforcement of this chapter may be made to the City Council by filing a written
appeal and fee with the City Clerk within fifteen (15) days following the date
of the action or decision giving rise to the appeal. Upon hearing the appeal,
the City Council shall consider the record, the decision of the Administrator,
and the written appeal, together with oral presentation by the appellant, the
Administrator and the applicant. The City Council may affirm, reverse or modify
the decision of the Administrator. The City Council shall not substitute its
judgment for that of the Administrator as to the weight of the evidence on
questions of fact. The City Council shall affirm the Administrator’s decision
unless the City Council finds the decision is: a) clearly erroneous; b)
arbitrary, capricious or an abuse of discretion; or c) not supported by
substantial evidence in the record as a whole. The Administrator shall transmit
a copy of the City Council’s decision and findings to the appellant, the
applicant and any other person or entity who has requested a copy in writing.
The fee for processing the appeal shall be set by resolution of the City
Council. (Ord. 616, 5-15-2018; amd. Ord. 629, 6-1-2021)
10-3-5: APPROVAL OF APPLICATION:
Upon tentative approval of the application by the Administrator subject to any
applicable conditions of approval and the regulations of this title, the
applicant shall have one year to complete the following tasks:
   A.   Cause the property to be surveyed and record of survey recorded;
   B.   Execute and record the necessary deeds to accomplish the property
boundary adjustments as approved;
   C.   Obtain new tax parcel numbers from the Twin Falls County Assessor; and
   D.   Provide copies of the recorded record of survey, recorded deeds, and
the new tax parcel numbers to the Administrator. (Ord. 616, 5-15-2018; amd.
Ord. 629, 6-1-2021; amd. Ord. 629, 6-1-2021)
TITLE 11
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
CHAPTER 11
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SECTION:
11-1-1: Comprehensive Plan Adopted
11-1-1: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED:
The Filer Comprehensive Plan, including a Comprehensive Plan Map, updated for
the City of Filer and the Area of Impact for 1993, is hereby adopted by
reference pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6509 as the Comprehensive Plan for
the City of Filer and Area of Impact. (Ord. 452, 3-1-94)
