CITY CODE
of
FRANKLIN, IDAHO
1999
Code current through:
Ord. 2024-11-13, passed November 13, 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Franklin, as supplemented, contains
ordinances and resolutions up to and including ordinance 2024-11-13, passed
November 13, 2024, and resolution 2019-5-08, passed May 8, 2019. Ordinances and
resolutions of the City adopted after said ordinance and resolution supersede
the provisions of this City Code to the extent that they are in conflict or
inconsistent therewith. Consult the City office in order to ascertain whether
any particular provision of the Code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
PENDING ORDINANCES
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
Ordinance No. 1999-3
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CITY OF FRANKLIN, IDAHO MUNICIPAL CODE; AND
PROVIDING THE DATE WHEN THE ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE.
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Franklin, Idaho,
as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the City
Code of the City of Franklin, Idaho, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.,
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the City, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official
code and law of the City as enacted by the Mayor and City Council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binder together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the City Clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3:All ordinances of a general nature included in this official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official City Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage, approval and publication as
provided by law.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the City Council, this City Code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official Code of the City. This City Code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the FRANKLIN CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the Council and shall be kept up to date as provided
in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this City Code by title in any legal documents. (1999 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1999 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the City Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this City Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the City Code. (1999 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The City Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of the City Code shall make every
effort to maintain said Code in an up-to-date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the City Clerk.
Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the City and shall be returned to
the office of the Clerk when directed to do so by order of the City Council.
(1999 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this City
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this City Code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
City; and all special ordinances. (1999 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the City Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case this City Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1999 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This Section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Action: Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the City herein repealed and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the City under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this City Code. (1999 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this City Code or any part thereof or any portion adopted by reference
therein is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective
by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the
validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this Code, or any part
thereof or any portion adopted by reference therein. The City Council hereby
declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any
one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses
or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1999 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this City Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this City Code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
City Code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been
changed in the content of this City Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1999 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The City of Franklin, County of Franklin, State of Idaho.
CODE: The City Code of the City of Franklin.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Franklin".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense not defined as a felony or infraction under State law.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the City, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Franklin".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this Code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (1999 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the City Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (1999
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of this code or any ordinance of the city
may be fined in a sum not to exceed the current state of Idaho standard for a
misdemeanor offense; and in addition thereto, any person so convicted shall pay
such costs as the court may assess. (Ord. 7, 2-2-1971; amd. 1999 Code)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any
section of this code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or
where any action which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to
be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed
or such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this code.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed; but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (1999 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1999
Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Official Newspaper
1-5-2: Depositories
1-5-3: City Seal
1-5-1: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The Preston Citizen, printed and/or published in the City of Preston, County of
Franklin, is hereby designated the official newspaper of the City, and such
ordinances, notices and publications as are required by law to be given
publication in a newspaper shall be published in said Preston Citizen;
provided, however, the City may use such other alternative forms of publication
as are provided for by State law. (Ord. 3, 9-1-1967; amd. 1999 Code)
1-5-2: DEPOSITORIES:
The Ireland Bank and the First Security Bank of Preston, Idaho are hereby
designated as the official depositories for funds of the City. The Treasurer is
hereby ordered, required and directed to keep monies belonging to or in the
care of the City Treasurer in the above-named depositories; provided, however,
that when so authorized by the Mayor and Council, City funds may, by the
Treasurer, be invested in securities authorized by law. (Ord. 3, 9-1-1967; amd.
1999 Code)
1-5-3: CITY SEAL:
The City Seal shall consist of a circular stamp capable of making an impression
on documents one and three-quarter inches (13/4") in diameter with the words of
THE CITY OF FRANKLIN, FRANKLIN COUNTY around the rim and the word IDAHO in the
center. (1935 Code § 7; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-1967)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election Of Officers
1-6-2: Mayor
1-6-3: Council Members
1-6-4: Expense Reimbursement
1-6-5: Meetings
1-6-6: Council President
1-6-7: Ordinances
1-6-8: Public Hearing Rules Of Procedure
1-6-1: ELECTION OF OFFICERS:
The governing body of the city shall be composed of a mayor and four (4)
council members who shall be elected at the time and in the manner as provided
by the state. (1999 Code)
1-6-2: MAYOR:
   A.   Qualifications: Any person shall be eligible to hold the office of
mayor who is a qualified elector of the city at the time of his election and
remains a qualified elector during his term of office.
   B.   Term Of Office: The term of office of the mayor shall be for a period
of four (4) years, except as otherwise specifically provided. He shall take
office at the time and in the manner provided for installation of council
members.
   C.   Vacancy In Office: In case of a temporary vacancy in the office of
mayor due to absence or disability, the president of the council shall exercise
the office of mayor during such disability or temporary absence and until the
mayor shall return. When a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor by reason of
death, resignation or permanent disability, the city council shall fill the
vacancy from within or without the council as may be deemed in the best
interests of the city, which appointee shall serve until the next general city
election, at which election a mayor shall be elected for the full four (4) year
term.
   D.   Powers And Duties: The mayor shall have those powers and duties as
provided by state law. (1999 Code)
1-6-3: COUNCIL MEMBERS:
   A.   Qualifications; Terms Of Office: Any person shall be eligible to hold
the office of council member of the city who is, at the time of election, and
remains a qualified elector under the constitution and laws of the state. Each
council member elected at the general city election shall be installed at the
first meeting in January following the election.
   B.   Vacancies In Office: A vacancy on the council shall be filled by
appointment made by the mayor with the consent of the council, which appointee
shall serve only until the next general city election, at which election the
vacancy shall be filled for the balance of the original term.
   C.   Powers And Duties: The city council shall have such powers and duties
as are now or may hereafter be provided under the general laws of the state.
(1999 Code)
1-6-4: EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT:
Commencing January 1, 1998, the expense reimbursement of the mayor and the
members of the city council shall be as follows:
   A.   Mayor: The expense reimbursement for the mayor shall be fifty dollars
($50.00) per month.
   B.   Council Members: The expense reimbursement for council members shall be
twenty five dollars ($25.00) per month. (1999 Code)
1-6-5: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The city council shall hold regular meetings on the
second Wednesday of each month. Such meetings shall be held in the city hall,
located at 128 East Main, Franklin, Idaho, and shall commence at seven o'clock
(7:00) P.M. If the regular meeting day is a holiday, the meeting shall be held
on the following day at the regular hour, or postponed one week at the
discretion of the mayor. (Ord. 2002-1, 3-5-2002; amd. Res. 2004-1, 1-8-2004)
   B.   Work Meetings: The city council will meet for appropriate work meetings
as it deems necessary, days and times to be scheduled as warranted. The meeting
agenda will be posted at the city hall forty eight (48) hours in advance. (1999
Code)
   C.   Special Meetings: The mayor or one-half (1/2) plus one of the
membership of the council may call special meetings, the object of which must
be submitted to the council in writing, and the call, object, and disposition
thereof, shall be entered upon the minutes by the clerk. Notice for special
meetings shall be as provided by state statute. (Ord. 1999-1, 2-11-1999)
1-6-6: COUNCIL PRESIDENT:
   A.   Election: At the first meeting of the council in January following a
general city election, the council shall, from its members, elect one council
member to be styled president of the council.
   B.   Powers: The president of the council shall have all powers of the mayor
when serving in that office due to absence of the mayor or vacancy in the
office of mayor. (Ord. 4, 9-1-1967)
1-6-7: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Compliance With Statute: All ordinances of the city shall be presented
and voted upon in the manner and style and shall be subject to the terms and
conditions of Idaho Code section 50-901 et seq.
   B.   Presentation And Passage:
      1.   All ordinances of the city shall be typewritten or printed and
presented to the council by a member at any regular or special meeting. Every
such ordinance shall be read on three (3) different days, two (2) readings of
which may be by title only and one reading of which shall be in full, unless
one-half (1/2) plus one of the members of the full council shall dispense with
the rule. At each reading it shall be open to discussion and amendment or may
be referred to a committee unless by majority vote other disposition is made.
All ordinances which have been amended shall, after the second reading, be
engrossed by the clerk as amended. On final passage, the yeas and nays shall be
called and recorded and a concurrence of a majority of the full council shall
be required for passage.
      2.   When any such ordinance is passed, it shall be signed by the clerk
and the date of its passage by the council shall be added thereto, and it
shall, within three (3) days thereafter, be presented to the mayor, or in case
of his absence from the city, to the president of the council for his approval.
If he approves the same, he shall attach his signature thereto.
   C.   Passage Over Veto:
      1.   Should the mayor not approve the ordinance, he shall, before the
next regular meeting after such ordinance is presented to him for his approval,
return the ordinance to the council with his objections in writing. When any
ordinance is so returned by the mayor, it shall be reconsidered by the council
at the first regular meeting thereafter. If, on such reconsideration, one-half
(1/2) plus one of the members of the full council shall vote in the
affirmative, the ordinance shall become a law notwithstanding the mayor's veto.
The clerk, in such cases, shall annex a certificate to the ordinance stating
the same was vetoed by the mayor and that, on its reconsideration, it received
the required majority of votes.
      2.   Should the mayor refuse or neglect to sign such ordinance and fail
to return the same with his objections in writing at the next regular meeting
after the same has been presented to him, it shall become the law without his
signature. The clerk shall annex to such ordinance a certificate to the effect
that the mayor has failed to sign or veto the same, and it has therefore become
a law without his signature.
   D.   Preservation Of Ordinances: It shall be the duty of the city clerk to
safely keep the original ordinances as engrossed, and after final passage, he
shall copy the same at length in a book to be known as the "ordinance book of
the city of Franklin", which book is to be provided by the council for that
purpose and shall be kept as a permanent record of the city. (1999 Code)
1-6-8: PUBLIC HEARING RULES OF PROCEDURE:
   A.   Rules Established: The following rules are hereby established, shall be
observed in the conduct of any public hearing before the City Council, and
shall be known as the "Public Hearing Rules of Procedure".
      1.   No person shall be permitted to testify or speak before the City
Council at a public hearing, unless such person has signed his name and written
his residential address thereafter on sign- up sheets to be provided by the
City. This rule shall not apply to staff or technical witnesses directed by the
Mayor to give evidence or information to the City Council.
      2.   No person shall be permitted to speak before the City Council at a
public hearing until such person has been recognized by the Mayor.
      3.   All public hearing proceedings shall be recorded electronically or
stenographically and all persons speaking at such public hearings shall speak
before a microphone in such a manner as will assure that the recorded testimony
or remarks will be accurate and trustworthy.
      4.   At the commencement of the public hearing, the City Council shall
establish a time limit to be observed by all speakers. The time limit shall be
established, depending on the number of speakers who sign up for each public
hearing and shall apply only to the speaker's comments.
      5.   The speaker shall not be interrupted by members of the City Council
until his time limit has been expended or until he has finished his statement.
      6.   At the conclusion of a speaker's comments, each City Council member,
when recognized by the Mayor, shall be allowed to question the speaker, and the
speaker shall be limited to answers to the questions asked. The question and
answer period shall not be included in the speaker's time limit, as
established.
      7.   When the public hearing is quasi-judicial in nature or one after
which the City Council is required by law to make findings of fact, each
speaker must swear or affirm that his testimony will be true and correct.
      8.   Any person not conforming to any of the above rules may be
prohibited from speaking during the public hearing. Should any person refuse to
comply with such prohibition, he may be removed from the room by order of the
Mayor.
   B.   Suspend Or Amend Rules: The City Council may suspend or amend any one
or more of these rules by vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the full City
Council, and the Mayor shall have the authority to interpret and apply the
foregoing rules, subject to an appeal to the City Council, whose decision shall
be determined by a majority vote of the Council members present. (1999 Code)
CHAPTER 7
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Appointive Officers
1-7-2: Bonds Of Officers
1-7-3: Compensation
1-7-1: APPOINTIVE OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointment: The City Council may appoint such other officers as it may
determine from time to time by resolution, and fix their compensation. (1935
Code § 19; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-1967; 1999 Code)
   B.   Removal: Any appointive officer may be removed by the Mayor for any
cause by him deemed sufficient; but such removal shall be by and with the
affirmative vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the members of the full Council;
provided, that the City Council, by the unanimous vote of all its members, may
upon their own initiative remove any appointive officer. (1999 Code)
1-7-2: BONDS OF OFFICERS:
The following officers shall give bonds to the City with two (2) or more
sufficient sureties in the penal sums as follows; provided, that surety bonds
may be furnished at the expense of the City in lieu of personal bonds:
 
City Clerk     $31,000.00
City Treasurer 31,000.00
 
(1999 Code)
1-7-3: COMPENSATION:
Officers or employees shall receive such salaries or compensation as the
Council may by resolution provide. Such salaries shall be paid biweekly. (1935
Code § 21; amd. 1999 Code)
ARTICLE A. CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Appointment; Term Of Office
1-7A-2: Duties
1-7A-3: Claims
1-7A-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE:
The City Clerk shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval of the
City Council. He shall hold office for the duration of his appointment unless
sooner removed. (1999 Code)
1-7A-2: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: In all cases where the duty is not expressly charged to any
other department or office, the City Clerk shall have supervision, control and
responsibility of all of the records of the City. He may administer oaths to
any person concerning any matter submitted to him or the City Council. He shall
serve as Clerk of the City Council and perform such other duties of a like
nature as shall be required by the Council.
   B.   Record Keeping: The City Clerk shall:
      1.   Be responsible for the recording, filing, indexing and safekeeping
of all proceedings of the City Council and shall have published all
proceedings, legal notices, ordinances and resolutions that are required to be
published by this Code or by State statute.
      2.   Record in full, uniformly and permanently, all ordinances and shall
authenticate the same.
      3.   Keep and maintain all election records and have custody of all
property used in connection with elections.
      4.   Furnish to any member of the City Council a certified copy of any
record or document in his custody, and he may furnish such a copy to any other
person upon payment of a fee to be determined by the Council.
      5.   Keep a complete record of all outstanding bonds of the City and
report such record regularly to the City Council.
      6.   In all cases where the duty is not expressly charged to any other
department or office, the Clerk shall issue all licenses in accordance with the
provisions of this Code. A record of all licenses issued, including the name of
the person to whom issued, the amount of the license fee and the purpose of the
license shall be kept by the Clerk.
   C.   Notification Of Term Expirations: The Clerk shall notify the appointing
authority of the impending expiration of the term of office of a member of any
board or commission at least thirty (30) days before the expiration of the
term.
   D.   Custodian Of Official Seal: The Clerk shall be the custodian of the
Official Seal of the City.
   E.   Collections To Treasurer: Within ten (10) days after the first day of
each month, the Clerk shall turn over to the Treasurer all funds collected by
him during the preceding month. (1999 Code)
1-7A-3: CLAIMS:
All claims against the City must be filed, in writing, with the City Clerk.
(1999 Code)
ARTICLE B. CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Appointment; Term Of Office
1-7B-2: Duties
1-7B-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE:
The City Treasurer shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval of
the City Council. He shall hold office for the duration of his appointment
unless sooner removed. (1999 Code)
1-7B-2: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: In all cases where the duty is not expressly charged to any
other department or office, the City Treasurer shall act to promote, secure and
preserve the financial and property interests of the City.
   B.   Accounts And Funds: The City Treasurer shall:
      1.   Be the custodian of all monies belonging to the City.
      2.   Keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation, and the
debits and credits belonging thereto.
      3.   Give a receipt to every person paying money into the Treasury,
thereon specifying the date of payment and on what account paid.
      4.   File copies of such receipts with his monthly reports.
      5.   At the end of each and every month and as often as may be required,
render an account to the City Council, under oath, showing the state of the
Treasury at the date of such account and the balance of money in the Treasury;
he shall also accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and
disbursements, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him, which said
warrants, with any and all vouchers held by him, shall be filed with his said
account in the Clerk's office, and if said Treasurer neglect or fail for the
space of ten (10) days from the end of each and every month, to render his said
account, his office shall be declared vacant, and the City Council shall fill
the vacancy by appointment.
   C.   Records Of Bonds: The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding
bonds against the City showing the number, amount of each, and to whom said
bonds were issued; and when any bonds are purchased, paid or canceled, said
record shall show the fact. In his annual report he shall describe particularly
the bonds issued and sold during the year, and the terms of the sale with each
and every item of expense thereof.
   D.   Deliver Records To Successor: The Treasurer shall deliver to his
successor in office all material, records and resources of the office. (1999
Code)
ARTICLE C. CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Appointment; Term Of Office
1-7C-2: Duties
1-7C-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE:
The City Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval of
the Council. He shall hold office for the duration of his appointment unless
sooner removed. (1999 Code)
1-7C-2: DUTIES:
   A.   Legal Advisor: The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the City
and shall render advice on all legal questions affecting the City whenever
requested to do so by any City official. Upon request by the Mayor or by the
Council, he shall reduce any such opinion to writing.
   B.   Special Assessments And Condemnation Proceedings: It shall be the duty
of the City Attorney to see to the completion of all special assessment
proceedings and condemnation proceedings.
   C.   Ordinance And Document Preparation: It shall be the duty of the City
Attorney to draft or supervise the phraseology of any contract, lease or other
documents or instruments to which the City may be a party and, upon request of
the City Council, to draft ordinances covering any subjects within the power of
the City.
   D.   Suits And Actions: The City Attorney shall defend all suits at law or
equity to which the City may be a party or in which it may be interested or
which may be brought against or by any officer of the City on behalf of the
City or in the capacity of such person as an officer of the City. (1999 Code)
CHAPTER 8
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
SECTION:
1-8-1: Creation Of Right
1-8-2: Petitions And Signatures
1-8-3: Form Of Ballot
1-8-4: Conduct Of Election
1-8-5: Election Costs
1-8-6: Canvass Of Returns
1-8-7: Repeat Elections
1-8-8: Violations
1-8-1: CREATION OF RIGHT:
The people of this City shall have the right to enact ordinances through the
initiative process, and to repeal ordinances through the referendum process,
according to the procedures set forth herein. (Ord. 1987-3, 8-4-1987)
1-8-2: PETITIONS AND SIGNATURES:
   A.   Number Of Petitioners Required: To enact an ordinance by initiative or
to repeal an ordinance by referendum, there shall be attached or appended to
the petition demanding such, the signatures of the legal voters of the City
equal to at least twenty percent (20%) of the total number of voters registered
to vote at the last general election in the City.
   B.   Form Of Initiative Petition: The initiative petition shall be in
substantially the following form:
Initiative Petition to the Mayor and Council of the City of Franklin, Idaho:
We, the undersigned citizens and legal voters of the City of Franklin,
respectfully demand that the following proposed ordinance, to-wit: (setting out
full text of measure proposed) shall be submitted to the legal voters of the
City of Franklin, for their approval or rejection at an election to be called
in accordance with Idaho Code Section 50-501(3), and each for himself says: I
have personally signed this petition; I am a legal voter of the City of
Franklin; my residence and post office are correctly written after my name.
Name        Street And Number        Post Office      
   C.   Time For Filing Referendum Petitions: Referendum petitions with the
requisite number of signatures shall be filed with the City Clerk not less than
sixty (60) days following the final adoption of the ordinance to be subject to
referendum.
   D.   Printing Petition And Signature Sheets; Time Limits For Perfecting
Petition:
      1.   Before or at the time of beginning to circulate any petition for
initiative or referendum, the person under whose authority the petition is to
be circulated shall send or deliver to the City Clerk a copy of such petition
duly signed by at least five (5) electors eligible to sign such petition. The
Clerk shall immediately examine the petition and specify the form and kind and
size of paper on which the petition shall be printed and circulated for further
signatures. All petitions and sheets for signatures shall be printed on a good
quality bond or ledger paper, on pages eight and one-half inches in width by
eleven inches in length (81/2" x 11"), with a margin of one and three-fourths
inches (13/4") at the top for binding, and the sheet for signatures shall have
numbered lines thereon from one to twenty (20) for signatures. The petition
shall be prepared in sections with each section numbered consecutively. Each
signature page must have a copy of the petition attached to it.
      2.   The City Clerk shall indicate in writing on the petition that she
has approved it as to form and shall inform the person under whose authority
the petition is to be circulated, in writing, that the petition must be
perfected with the required number of certified signatures within sixty (60)
days following the date of approval as to form. Any petition that has not been
perfected with the required number of certified signatures within the sixty
(60) days allowed shall be declared null and void ab initio in its entirety.
   E.   Verification On Signature Sheets: Each and every signature sheet of
each petition containing signatures shall be verified on the face thereof in
substantially the following form by the person who circulated said sheet of the
petition, by his or her affidavit thereon, as a part thereof:
      STATE OF IDAHO   )
         ) ss.
      County of Franklin   )
I,                              swear, under penalty of perjury, that every
person who signed this sheet of the foregoing petition signed his or her name
thereto in my presence. I believe that each has stated his or her name and the
accompanying required information on the signature sheet correctly, and that
the person was eligible to sign this petition.
         Signature:                                    
         Post Office Address:                      
Subscribed and sworn to before me this         day of           , 19     .
      (Notary Seal)   NOTARY PUBLIC                          
         Residing at:                                   
         My Commission Expires:                 
   F.   Examination And Certification Of Signatures:
      1.   All petitions with attached signature sheet shall be presented to
the City Clerk, who shall make a cursory examination of them to determine
whether the petitions apparently contain the necessary number of signatures.
         a.   If the total number of signatures on the petitions is not
sufficient to satisfy the number required by subsection A of this Section, all
petitions with attached signature sheet shall be retained by the City Clerk who
shall notify in writing the person filing the petition of the number of
signatures needed, and further signatures may be gathered, if within the time
limit of subsection D of this Section.
         b.   If the cursory examination of the signature sheets reveals:
            (1)   Erasures on any signature;
            (2)   Illegible or undecipherable signatures;
            (3)   Signatures not properly identified by all of the information
required on the sheet;
            (4)   Duplicate signatures;
            (5)   Signatures of persons who have requested in writing to have
their names removed from the petition;
the City Clerk shall summarily reject such signatures and they shall not be
counted. Each rejected signature shall be drawn through with ink and initialed
by the Clerk. If the total number of signatures not rejected is not sufficient
to satisfy the number required by subsection A of this Section, all petitions
with attached signature sheet shall be retained by the Clerk who shall notify
in writing the person filing the petition of the number of signatures needed,
and further signatures may be gathered, if within the time limit of subsection
D of this Section.
      2.   All petitions presented to the City Clerk found to apparently
contain the necessary number of signatures, after the cursory examination
provided for above, shall be filed with the City Clerk and become public
records of the City not to be returned. The City Clerk shall examine each such
signature purported to be that of a registered elector of the City, and compare
each such signature with the registration documents available to the City
Clerk. The City Clerk shall summarily reject all signatures which are not the
signatures of a registered elector of the City; and such rejected signatures
shall not be counted. Each rejected signature shall be drawn through with ink
and initialed by the City Clerk. The City Clerk may take not to exceed ten (10)
days after filing of the petition to complete her examination. The City Clerk
shall certify each signature found to comply with all of the requirements of
this Section by an appropriate mark following each signature.
The City Clerk shall total the number of certified signatures, and if found to
total the number of signatures required by subsection A of this Section, shall
proceed as provided in subsection G of this Section.
   G.   Sufficiency Of Petition; Notification; Effect Of Council; Action;
Election:
      1.   In the event that a petition filed with a City Clerk does not
contain the required number of certified signatures, the City Clerk shall
inform the person or organization under whose authority the petition was
circulated that the petition is defective for lack of certified signatures, and
specify the number of additional signatures required to make the petition
valid. If the Clerk's determination that the filed petition is defective occurs
after the time limitation of subsection D of this Section has expired, then an
additional period of thirty (30) days after notice of correction will be
granted to perfect the defective petition. If the petition is not perfected
within the additional thirty (30) day period after notice of correction, the
Clerk shall declare the petition null and void ab initio in its entirety.
      2.   In the event that a petition filed with a City Clerk is found by the
City Clerk to contain the required number of certified signatures, the City
Clerk shall promptly, by certified mail, inform the petitioners, and shall also
notify the City Council at its next meeting, that the initiative or referendum
petition is in proper form.
         a.   If the petition is for a referendum, the City Council shall have
thirty (30) days from the date of certification of the petition to repeal the
ordinance being referred to the voters. In the event the Council repeals the
ordinance, the referendum petition shall be declared null and void.
         b.   If the petition is an initiative petition, the City Council shall
have thirty (30) days to pass an ordinance substantially as proposed by the
petition. In the event the Council passes such an ordinance, the initiative
petition shall be null and void.
         c.   In the event the City Council neither repeals the ordinance which
is the subject of a referendum petition nor enacts an ordinance which is the
subject of an initiative petition, an election shall be ordered by the City
Clerk. A special election for initiative or referendum shall be provided not
more than ninety (90) days following the certification of the petition;
provided, that in the event a Municipal election will occur within the ninety
(90) days, the initiative or referendum shall be submitted at the time of the
Municipal election. (Ord. 1987-3, 8-4-1987)
1-8-3: FORM OF BALLOT:
The City Council shall prepare a ballot for an initiative election in one of
the following ways:
   A.   If the full text of the ordinance or proposed ordinance to be voted
upon does not exceed two hundred (200) words in length, it may be set out in
full on the election ballot; or
   B.   If the full text of the ordinance or proposed ordinance to be voted
upon exceeds two hundred (200) words in length, and the Council votes not to
have it printed at length on the election ballot, it shall, with the assistance
of the City Attorney, prepare a short title and description of the ordinance or
proposed ordinance which shall clearly and impartially state its purpose and
effect, which short title and description shall be printed on the election
ballot. (Ord. 1987-3, 8-4-1987)
1-8-4: CONDUCT OF ELECTION:
Initiative or referendum elections, whether special or general, shall be
conducted and the results thereof canvassed and certified in all respects as
near as practicable, in like manner as general elections, except as otherwise
provided. (Ord. 1987-3, 8-4-1987)
1-8-5: ELECTION COSTS:
The costs of any election held pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter shall
be the sole responsibility of the City. (Ord. 1987-3, 8-4-1987)
1-8-6: CANVASS OF RETURNS:
The Mayor and Council shall meet within five (5) days after said election to
canvass the votes cast at such election, and the City Clerk shall immediately
announce the results. Any initiative measure approved by a majority of the
votes cast shall be in full force and effect from the date of such
announcement. Any ordinance which is the subject of a referendum receiving less
than a majority of the votes cast shall be repealed, effective on the date of
such announcement. (Ord. 1987-3, 8-4-1987)
1-8-7: REPEAT ELECTIONS:
   A.   Limitation On: No petition for initiative or referendum shall be
accepted by the City Clerk concerning any issue or proposal which has been
decided at an initiative or referendum election held within the preceding
twelve (12) months.
   B.   Time: No repeat election concerning any issue or proposal which has
previously been decided by an initiative or referendum election shall be held
at any time other than a general election. (Ord. 1987-4, 12-1-1987)
1-8-8: VIOLATIONS:
A person is guilty of a misdemeanor who:
   A.   Signs any name other than his own to any initiative or referendum
petition;
   B.   Knowingly signs his name more than once on the same initiative or
referendum petition;
   C.   Knowingly signs his name to any initiative or referendum petition if he
is not a registered City elector;
   D.   Wilfully or knowingly circulates, publishes or exhibits any false
statement or representation concerning the contents, purport or effect of any
initiative or referendum petition for the purpose of obtaining any signature to
any such petition, or for the purpose of persuading any person to sign any such
petition;
   E.   Presents to any officer for filing any initiative or referendum
petition to which is attached, appended or subscribed any signature which the
person so filing such petition knows to be false or fraudulent, or not the
genuine signature of the person purporting to sign such petition, or whose name
is attached, appended or subscribed thereto;
   F.   Circulates or causes to circulate any initiative or referendum
petition, knowing the same to contain false, forged or fictitious names;
   G.   Makes any false affidavit concerning any initiative or referendum
petition or the signatures appended thereto;
   H.   Offers, proposes or threatens for any pecuniary reward or
consideration:
      1.   To offer, propose, threaten or attempt to sell, hinder or delay any
initiative or referendum petition or any part thereof or any signatures
thereon;
      2.   To offer, propose or threaten to desist from beginning, promoting or
circulating any initiative or referendum petition;
      3.   To offer, propose, attempt or threaten in any manner or form to use
any initiative or referendum petition or any power of promotion or opposition
in any manner or form for extortion, blackmail or secret or private
intimidation of any person or business interest. (Ord. 1987-3, 8-4-1987)
CHAPTER 9
CITY ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Conduct Of Elections; Precinct
1-9-2: Polling Hours
1-9-1: CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS; PRECINCT:
   A.   Conduct Of Elections: All City general or special elections shall be
conducted in accordance with and in conformity with the Election Code for the
State 1 .
   B.   Precinct: All of the area comprising the City limits shall be
considered one precinct for the above election purposes. (1999 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. title 34 and § 50-401 et seq.
1-9-2: POLLING HOURS:
At all general and special City elections, the polls shall be opened at eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. and shall be closed at eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. (1999
Code)
CHAPTER 10
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
1-10-1: Creation
1-10-2: Organization
1-10-3: Duties
1-10-4: City Clerk Duties
1-10-5: Rules, Records, And Meetings
1-10-6: Expenditures And Staff
1-10-1: CREATION:
There is created a commission to be known and designated the Planning and
Zoning Commission of the City, which Commission shall consist of from six (6)
to twelve (12) members to be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the City
Council. Not more than one-third (1/3) of which number may be ex officio
members by virtue of public office or position held in the City for which the
Commission is created; provided, one member may be a nonresident taxpayer. The
term of office for the ex officio members shall correspond to their respective
tenures of office. The term of office for the first appointive members
appointed to such Commission shall be two (2), four (4) and six (6) years, to
be determined by lot. Thereafter the term of office for each appointive officer
shall be six (6) years. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the
expiration of terms shall be filled by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council.
Members may be removed for cause by a majority vote of the City Council.
Members shall be selected without respect to political affiliation and may
receive such mileage and per diem compensation to be determined by the City
Council. (Ord. 23, 3-23-1983)
1-10-2: ORGANIZATION:
The Commission shall elect a chairman and create and fill any other office that
it may deem necessary. The Commission may establish subcommittees, advisory
committees or neighborhood groups to advise and assist in carrying out the
responsibilities under this Chapter. The Commission may appoint nonvoting ex
officio advisors as may be deemed necessary. (Ord. 23, 3-23-1983)
1-10-3: DUTIES:
The Planning and Zoning Commission shall adopt such rules and regulations as it
may deem necessary to carry into effect the provisions and purposes of such
commissions as set forth in Idaho Code title 67, chapter 6, and it shall hold
such meetings and meet at such places from time to time and have such hearings
as the Commission or majority thereof may determine. At the first meeting of
the Commission after this act takes effect, the Commission shall elect one of
their number chairman, and then on the second Monday in January each year
thereafter the Commission shall meet and organize by electing a chairman to
serve as such for one year. (Ord. 23, 3-23-1983)
1-10-4: CITY CLERK DUTIES:
The City Clerk shall be ex officio clerk of the Planning and Zoning Commission
and keep its records and notify it of the filing of applications for permits
and such other matters that come before the Commission, and the Commission
shall, when there is business to transact, hold a meeting at least once each
month and as much more often as the business to be transacted by the Commission
may require. The Clerk shall keep the records and files of the Zoning
Commission and attend its meetings, notify the members when there is business
to be attended to and perform such other duties from time to time of a clerical
nature as the Zoning Commission may require or by regulations prescribe. (Ord.
23, 3-23-1983)
1-10-5: RULES, RECORDS, AND MEETINGS:
Written organization papers or bylaws consistent with the laws of this State
for the transaction of business of the Commission shall be adopted. A record of
meetings, hearings, resolutions, studies, findings, permits, and actions taken
shall be maintained. All meetings and records shall be open to the public. At
least one regular meeting shall be held each month for not less than nine (9)
months in a year. A majority of voting members of the Commission shall
constitute a quorum. (Ord. 23, 3-23-1983)
1-10-6: EXPENDITURES AND STAFF:
With approval of the City Council, the Commission may receive and expend funds,
goods, and services from the Federal Government or agencies and
instrumentalities of State or local governments or from civic and private
sources and may contract with these entities and provide information and
reports as necessary to secure aid. Expenditures by a Commission shall be
within the amounts appropriated by a governing board. Within such limits, the
Commission is authorized to hire employees and technical advisors, including
but not limited to planners, engineers, architects, and legal assistants. (Ord.
23, 3-23-1983)
TITLE 2
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: License Required; Fee
2-1-2: License Term
2-1-3: Application For License
2-1-4: Refusals; Appeals
2-1-5: License Nontransferable
2-1-6: Exhibition Of License
2-1-7: Exceptions
2-1-8: Hours Of Operation
2-1-9: Revocation Of License; Hearing
2-1-10: Penalty
2-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or
operate any business, trade or profession, hereinafter named, in the City, for
which a license is required, without first having obtained such license, and
paying the fee therefor to the City Clerk in advance. (1935 Code § 123; amd.
Ord. 1, 8-1-1967)
   B.   Fee: Unless otherwise provided, the license fee shall be thirty five
dollars ($35.00) for any and all businesses or as set by resolution
subsequently. (1999 Code)
2-1-2: LICENSE TERM:
No license shall be issued for a longer period than one year, paid in advance,
and shall be secured from the City Clerk. (1935 Code § 126; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-
1967)
2-1-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Approval And Signatures: All applications for licenses shall be made to
the City Clerk. All licenses shall be approved and signed by the Mayor and
attested by the City Clerk under Corporate Seal.
   B.   Contents: Licenses shall contain, but not necessarily be limited to the
following information:
      1.   Name and address of applicant.
      2.   Address of business, both mailing and street.
      3.   A brief description of the business activity.
      4.   State whether it is permanent or temporary.
      5.   Social security and/or driver's license number of applicant.
      6.   When the applicant proposes to peddle any food or product for human
consumption, certification by the State Health Department shall be required
prior to issuance of a license. (1999 Code)
2-1-4: REFUSALS; APPEALS:
   A.   Review By City Council: Within five (5) days, excluding weekends and
legal holidays, from the refusal of the City Clerk to issue a license, the
applicant for a license may appeal to the City Council for the purpose of
having the City Council review the action of the City Clerk.
   B.   Written Appeal: The appeal by the licensee or the applicant whose
license has been refused must be in writing and set forth in concise language
the reasons such license should not have been refused.
   C.   Hearing: After the filing thereof, the City Council shall hear the
appeal at the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting. The decision of a
majority of the City Council shall be final as to the issuance of the license.
The Council must report to the applicant in writing within forty eight (48)
hours following the hearing of its decision. (1999 Code)
2-1-5: LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
No license issued to the business shall be transferable to any persons other
than mentioned on license application. Any business selling or leasing to
another person shall be required to apply for a new license. (1999 Code)
2-1-6: EXHIBITION OF LICENSE:
The license issued to the business shall be exhibited in a conspicuous place or
kept on the person and exhibited at any time upon request. (1999 Code)
2-1-7: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Court Order: Any sales under court order.
   B.   Garage Sales: A personal garage or yard sale.
   C.   Traveling Salespersons: Traveling salespersons, commercial travelers or
the like who exclusively or primarily sell to or solicit orders for future
delivery from local retailers, local businesses, local governments, local
schools or wholesale firms.
   D.   Farmers' Markets: The sale of farm or garden products, i.e., farmers'
markets.
   E.   Newspaper Subscriptions: The sale of a newspaper subscription in which
the seller is a person engaged in both the delivery and sale of the newspaper.
   F.   Contributions: Contribution solicitation where the person being
solicited to contribute personally knows the identity of the person soliciting
the contribution, the name of the group or organization he represents and the
nature of the services performed or offered by the group or organization.
   G.   Fund Raising: The occasional sale of admission to a function of their
school by local students, or fund raising or community events sponsored by
local service clubs or the local government.
   H.   Political Groups: Any political group seeking funds or membership.
   I.   Telephone Book Solicitation: Any telephone book solicitation of
information.
   J.   Franchises: A business granted a franchise by the City, pursuant to the
terms of Idaho Code sections 50-329 and 50-330.
   K.   Refreshment Stands: Small children's refreshments stand. (1999 Code)
2-1-8: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Operation On Sundays:
      1.   It shall be lawful to conduct properly conducted games of baseball
within the City limits upon Sunday; provided, the consent of the City Council
shall be first had during such hours as they may provide. (1935 Code § 26; amd.
Ord. 1, 8-1-1967)
      2.   It shall be lawful for any restaurant, hotel, drug store,
confectionery, service station, or convenience store to remain open on Sunday,
during the same hours as on weekdays. (1935 Code § 27; amd. initiative
election, 11-7-1989)
   B.   Dance Halls; Lounges; Pool Halls; Circuses; Carnivals:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any dance hall, lounge, pool hall, opera,
circus, carnival attraction of any kind, whether indoors or out, to remain open
after the hour of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, of any day, until the hour
of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day, nor shall any of such places
remain open at any time between the hour of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on
Saturday and the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following Monday
morning; provided, however, that upon due application to the City Council, the
said Council may grant a special dispensation on special holidays to such
places to remain open for a specified time after said closing hour, under
proper safeguards to maintain the peace; and provided, further, that under no
circumstances shall said place or any of them be permitted to run over, into or
upon the day known as Sunday.
      2.   When such closing hour shall have arrived, all customers within any
of the places enumerated above shall be required to vacate such places, and any
person refusing to vacate such places shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1935
Code § 25; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-1967)
2-1-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSE; HEARING:
   A.   City Council Authority: The City Council shall have the power to revoke
any license granted in accordance with this Chapter for any of the following
reasons:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license.
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
conducting the business or trade.
      3.   Conviction of any crime, felony and/or misdemeanor involving
business or applicant.
      4.   Conducting business in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to
constitute a breach of peace or to constitute a menace to health, safety or
general welfare of the public.
      5.   Any violation of this Chapter.
   B.   Hearing: Prior to any revocation, the licensee shall be granted the
opportunity for a public hearing before the City Council, which will be held no
later than twenty one (21) days after written notice of intent to revoke, which
notice shall specify the date, time and place of hearing, and which shall be
delivered to the licensee personally or mailed to the address set forth in the
license application. If, after such public hearing, the City Council determines
that one or more of the grounds for revocation exists, it shall revoke the
license. (1999 Code)
2-1-10: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1999 Code)
CHAPTER 2
BEER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
2-2-1: License Required
2-2-2: Application For License
2-2-3: License Classifications And Fees
2-2-4: Investigation Of Applicant
2-2-5: License Period; Grant Or Denial Of Application
2-2-6: Record Of Proceedings
2-2-7: Limitations And Conditions Of License
2-2-8: Beer In Kegs
2-2-9: Hearing And Appeals On License Denials, Suspension Or Revocation
2-2-10: Violation; Penalty
2-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell beer at retail within the City
without first obtaining a license therefor as herein provided. The license
requirement contained herein shall include the sale of draft beer, bottled or
canned beer to be consumed on the premises. (1999 Code)
2-2-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
All applications for licenses shall be in writing, filed with the City Clerk
and accompanied by the affidavit of the applicant showing such applicant to be
qualified by this Chapter and by the laws of the State to receive a license.
Such application must state the place of business with respect to which the
license is to be issued and must be accompanied by the license fee. Provided,
however, that before a license shall be issued, the licensee must have procured
a license from the proper official of the State and Franklin County, Idaho.
(1999 Code)
2-2-3: LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS AND FEES:
   A.   Fees: License fees shall be as set by the Council before October of
each year, not to exceed the maximum allowed by State law.
   B.   Classification Of Licenses: There are basically two (2) types of
licenses, one for bottled or canned beer, to be consumed on or off the
premises; and the other for bottled, canned and draught beer to be consumed on
the licensed premises only. (1999 Code)
2-2-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
No license shall be granted hereunder until there has been an investigation of
all applicants. After investigation, the applications will be forwarded to the
Mayor and City Council with a recommendation from the Chief of Police. If the
Chief of Police recommends that an application be denied, he shall state, in
writing:
   A.   The statutes or ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application.
   B.   The reason for the denial.
   C.   The action, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof. (1999 Code)
2-2-5: LICENSE PERIOD; GRANT OR DENIAL OF APPLICATION:
All licenses shall be granted by the Mayor and City Council for a period of one
year beginning January 1 and ending December 31. A full year's license fee
shall be collected after January 1. The City Council shall grant or deny the
application within sixty (60) days of the time it is filed with the City Clerk.
Whenever the Mayor and City Council deny an application, they shall specify, in
writing:
   A.   The statutes, ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application.
   B.   The reason for the denial.
   C.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof.
All licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk. (1999 Code)
2-2-6: RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Record Kept: In all cases where the Mayor and City Council are
considering applications for licenses, transfers or renewals thereof, a
transcribable, verbatim record of the proceedings shall be kept for a period of
not less than six (6) months after a final decision on the matter. Upon written
request and within the time period provided for retention of the record, any
person may have the record transcribed at his expense.
   B.   Minutes Of Proceedings Kept: The Mayor and City Council shall also
provide for the keeping of the minutes of the proceedings. Minutes shall be
retained indefinitely or as otherwise provided by law. (1999 Code)
2-2-7: LIMITATIONS AND CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   License For One Location Only: The license fee shall permit the sale of
such beer in but one place of business, such place of business to be designated
in the license issued.
   B.   Transfer Of License: Such license may be transferred with the consent
of the Mayor and City Council.
   C.   License To Be Posted: It shall be the duty of the licensee to keep such
license posted in a conspicuous place in the place of business for which the
license is granted.
   D.   Hours Of Sale:
      1.   Compliance With State Law: No person licensed by the City shall sell
or serve any beer during hours not allowed under the laws of the State.
      2.   Sunday Beer Sales Permitted Except Beer For Drinking Upon The
Premises: It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person in any place
licensed to sell beer where beer is sold or dispensed to be consumed on the
premises, whether conducted for pleasure or profit, to sell or permit to be
consumed on the premises beer as the same is defined by law, between the hours
of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. Sunday until seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on Monday of
any week. The proprietor or owner of any such place shall be held responsible
for the observance of this subsection, and shall be equally guilty of a
misdemeanor with any employee for violating the provisions hereof. (1935 Code §
32; amd. by initiative election passed 11-7-1989)
2-2-8: BEER IN KEGS:
   A.   Definitions:
    BEER: Any beverage containing not less than one-half of one percentum
(0.5%) and more than four percentum (4%) of alcohol by weight and obtained by
the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or decoction of any malted grain or
similar products. Beer may or may not contain hops or other vegetable products.
"Beer" includes ale, stout and porter.
   KEG: A bulk container for the storage and transportation of beer which shall
contain in excess of four (4) gallons of beer.
   PERSON: Includes any individual, firm, copartnership, corporation,
association, or any group or combination, and the plural as well as the
singular number, unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is disclosed
by the context.
   SELL OR TO SELL: Said terms, when used in this Section in any prohibition,
shall be construed to solicit or receive an order for; to keep or expose for
sale; to deliver for value; to peddle; to possess with intent to sell; to
traffic in; for any consideration, promised or obtained, directly or indirectly
or under any pretext or by any means whatsoever, to procure or allow to be
procured for any other person; and "sale" when so used, shall include every act
of selling as above defined.
   B.   Unlawful To Sell Kegs Of Beer: It shall be unlawful for any person by
himself, his or her employees or agents to sell, or to expose or keep for sale
directly or indirectly upon any premises, any keg of beer within the City. This
Section shall not prohibit the dispensing of beer from kegs for sale on the
premises of licensed beer retailers.
   C.   Possession Of Kegs: It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase,
consume, or possess either solely or jointly with another, any beer in a keg in
the City, except those persons licensed as manufacturers and distributors and
other licensed individuals, possessing a valid license to possess keg beer
issued by a political subdivision of the State, may possess keg beer for the
purpose of transportation through the City or other lawful purposes within the
City.
   D.   Inference As To Alcohol Beverage: The Court shall, in the absence of
proof to the contrary, be at liberty to infer that the alcoholic beverage in
question is beer from the fact that witnesses described it as beer, or by a
name that is commonly applied to beer by a trade name or otherwise or that it
is labeled as beer. (Ord. 1999-2, 4-8-1999)
2-2-9: HEARINGS AND APPEALS ON LICENSE DENIALS, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
Prior to any revocation or suspension of a license or upon the denial of a
license, the licensee shall be afforded a hearing according to Idaho Code
section 23-1016. If the decision is to revoke or suspend a license or to deny
an application, the licensee or applicant shall have the right to appeal in
accordance with Idaho Code section 23-1016. (1999 Code)
2-2-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any violation hereof shall be declared a misdemeanor and shall subject the
offender to penalties in accordance with Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1999 Code)
CHAPTER 3
BILLIARD HALLS AND BOWLING ALLEYS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Licenses Required
2-3-2: License Fees
2-3-3: Minors Prohibited
2-3-1: LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   Billiard Halls: It shall be unlawful to operate any billiard hall
within the City without securing a license therefor, in addition to any other
license that may be required from the proprietor thereof. A "billiard hall" is
defined hereby as any building or place wherein games are played with a ball
and cue upon a table. (1935 Code § 33; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-1967)
   B.   Bowling Alleys: It shall be unlawful to operate any bowling alley
within the City limits without first securing a license. (1935 Code § 34; amd.
Ord. 1, 8-1-1967)
2-3-2: LICENSE FEES 1 :
   A.   Business License Fee: A separate business license is required for pool
tables and bowling alleys at an annual fee of thirty five dollars ($35.00).
(1999 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  2-1-1B of this Title.
2-3-3: MINORS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of twenty (20) years to resort
to or frequent any billiard hall or bowling alley, within the City, and it
shall be unlawful for any proprietor or his employee in any billiard hall or
bowling alley to knowingly permit any minor to frequent such place or to remain
within such premises, or to play games therein. (1935 Code § 36; amd. Ord. 1,
8-1-1967)
CHAPTER 4
DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITATION
SECTION:
2-4-1: Registration Required
2-4-2: Registration Fee
2-4-3: Required Information
2-4-4: Prohibitions
2-4-5: Term
2-4-6: Display And Possession Of License
2-4-7: Revocation Of License
2-4-8: Violations
2-4-1: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in door to door solicitation
within the corporate limits of the city of Franklin without first registering
with the city, unless exempt by state or federal law. "Door to door
solicitation" shall mean any unsolicited contact by a person with any person at
a residence or dwelling for the purpose of selling any product or service, or
soliciting orders for any product or service.
   B.   Registration for door to door solicitation under the provisions of this
chapter shall be made with the city clerk as set forth in section
2-4-3 of this chapter.
   C.   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to:
      1.   Any sale under court order;
      2.   An auction sale;
      3.   Traveling salespersons, commercial travelers or the like who
exclusively or primarily sell to or solicit orders for future delivery from
local retailers, businesses, governments, schools or wholesale firms;
      4.   The sale of a newspaper subscription in which the seller is a person
engaged in both the delivery and sale of the newspaper;
      5.   Contribution solicitation where the person being solicited to
contribute personally knows the identity of the person soliciting the
contribution, the name of the group or organization he represents and the
nature of the services performed or offered by the group or organization;
      6.   The sale of admission by local school students to a function of
their school or fundraising or community events sponsored by local service
clubs such as Elks, Kiwanis, Boy or Girl Scouts, etc.;
      7.   Any political group seeking funds or membership;
      8.   Any solicitation of information for a telephone book or a city
directory by a company representative;
      9.   A sale made pursuant to prior negotiations between the parties at a
business establishment at a fixed location where goods or services are offered
or exhibited for sale;
      10.   A sale of goods, wares, merchandise and personal property of any
nature whatsoever for resale to or by a business establishment at a fixed
location where goods or services are offered or exhibited for sale;
      11.   Any sales that are within the provisions provided within the home
occupation permit; or
      12.   Any activity protected against regulation by any provision of the
United States constitution or Idaho constitution. (Ord. 2009-12-09, 12-9-2009)
2-4-2: REGISTRATION FEE:
A registration fee in the amount set by the city council by resolution shall be
tendered at the time of submitting a registration application. (Ord. 2009-12-
09, 12-9-2009)
2-4-3: REQUIRED INFORMATION:
Persons registering with the city clerk shall present current and valid
government issued photo identification and shall fill out a registration
application to be provided by the city clerk, which shall give the following
information:
   A.   Name and permanent home address of the applicant;
   B.   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods or
services to be sold or provided;
   C.   Name and address of the person's employer, together with an explanation
of the exact relationship between the person and the employer;
   D.   Length of time for which the door to door solicitation will occur; and
   E.   A statement as to whether or not the person has been convicted of any
crime or violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of the offense and
where the offense was committed. (Ord. 2009-12-09, 12-9-2009)
2-4-4: PROHIBITIONS:
No person registering for door to door solicitation shall:
   A.   Misrepresent the purpose of solicitation;
   B.   Misrepresent affiliation of those engaged in the solicitation;
   C.   Knowingly make any false or misleading statement during solicitation;
   D.   Continue efforts to solicit from a person once that person has informed
the solicitor that he does not wish to give anything or to buy anything from
that solicitor;
   E.   Represent the registration under this chapter as an endorsement or
recommendation of the solicitation;
   F.   Enter upon any premises when the same is posted with a sign stating "No
Peddlers Allowed" or "No Solicitation Allowed" or other words to such effect;
or
   G.   Knowingly make any false statement on the registration application.
(Ord. 2009-12-09, 12-9-2009)
2-4-5: TERM:
   A.   A new registration shall be filed with the city clerk every one hundred
eighty (180) days for solicitation of sales of the same product or service by
the same person.
   B.   A new registration shall be required when a person who has previously
registered within the last one hundred eighty (180) days desires to sell door
to door any products or services not listed on the original registration
application. (Ord. 2009-12-09, 12-9-2009)
2-4-6: DISPLAY AND POSSESSION OF LICENSE:
A registration application endorsed by the city clerk shall be exhibited in a
conspicuous place if the licensee is using a vehicle or a building in his
business and otherwise must be kept by the person and exhibited at any time
upon request. (Ord. 2009-12-09, 12-9-2009)
2-4-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The city has the power to revoke any license granted in accordance with this
chapter for any of the following causes:
   A.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements contained in the
application for license;
   B.   Fraud or misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
conducting the business or trade;
   C.   Any violation of this chapter;
   D.   Conviction of any crime involving moral turpitude; or
   E.   Conducting business in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to
constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or general welfare of the public. (Ord. 2009-12-09, 12-9-2009)
2-4-8: VIOLATIONS:
Violations of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor punishable only by a fine of
up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. 2009-12-09, 12-9-2009)
CHAPTER 5
TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES
SECTION:
2-5-1: Purpose And Intent
2-5-2: Definitions
2-5-3: Prohibited Acts
2-5-4: Required Signage To Be Posted; Identification Required
2-5-5: Penalties, Enforcement And Defenses
2-5-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to protect individuals under the age
of eighteen (18) from the hazards of nicotine addiction and the dangers of
ingesting products with no regulatory oversight as to their purity, contents,
and potential negative health impacts. (Ord. 2015-5-13, 5-13-2015)
2-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
DELIVERY SALE: To distribute electronic cigarettes to a consumer in a state
where either: a) the individual submits the order for such sale by means of a
telephonic or other method of voice transmission, data transfer via computer
networks, including the internet and other online services, or facsimile, or
the mail; or b) the electronic cigarettes are delivered by use of the mail or a
delivery service.
DELIVERY SERVICE: Any person who is engaged in the commercial delivery of
letters, packages or other containers.
DISTRIBUTE: To give, deliver, sell, offer to give, offer to deliver, offer to
sell, market, distribute or cause any person to do the same or hire any person
to do the same.
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE OR E-CIGARETTE: Any device that can provide an inhaled
dose of nicotine by delivering a vaporized solution. "Electronic cigarette" or
"e-cigarette" includes each component of an electronic cigarette including, but
not limited to, liquid nicotine.
LIQUID NICOTINE: Any liquid product composed either in whole or in part of
nicotine, propylene glycol and/or other similar substances and manufactured for
use with an e-cigarette to be converted into a gas for inhaling.
PERSON: Any natural person, individual, corporation, limited liability company,
unincorporated association, proprietorship, firm, partnership, joint venture,
joint stock association, or other entity or business of any kind.
PHOTOGRAPHIC IDENTIFICATION: State, district, territorial, possession,
provincial, national or other equivalent government driver's license,
identification card or military card, in all cases bearing a photograph and a
date of birth, or a valid passport.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any substance that contains tobacco including, but not limited
to, cigarettes, cigars, pipes, snuff, smoking tobacco, tobacco papers or
smokeless tobacco.
VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electronic or other similar device which, upon
the insertion of tokens, money or any other form of payment, dispenses tobacco
products or electronic cigarettes.
VENDOR ASSISTED: Any sale or distribution in which the customer has no access
to the product except through the assistance of the person distributing,
selling or offering the product. (Ord. 2015-5-13, 5-13-2015)
2-5-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   No person shall distribute tobacco products, e-cigarettes, their
components, or samples thereof to any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   Except as provided for under subsection E of this section, no person
shall distribute tobacco products or e-cigarettes, their components or samples
thereof in any manner that does not require an in person transaction in a
retail store to help prevent redemption of such merchandise by a person under
eighteen (18) years of age.
   C.   Unless more than seventy five percent (75%) of the retail store is
related to the sale of ordinary tobacco products or e-cigarettes, and all
minors are excluded from the establishment with prominent warnings at all
doorways, no person shall distribute tobacco products or e-cigarettes, their
components or samples thereof in any manner that does not require vendor
assistance.
   D.   No person shall distribute tobacco products or e-cigarettes, their
components or samples thereof through a vending machine unless the vending
machine is located fully within the retail store establishment, at least ten
feet (10') from all entryways and exits and all minors are excluded from the
establishment with prominent warnings at all doorways.
   E.   No person shall engage in the delivery sale or delivery service of
tobacco products or e-cigarettes, their components or samples thereof in any
manner without first verifying any recipient's or purchaser's address and that
such recipient or purchaser is eighteen (18) years of age or older.
   F.   No person shall distribute tobacco products or e-cigarettes, their
components or samples thereof in any format other than the approved and
original packaging by the manufacturer.
   G.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) shall purchase, attempt to
purchase, possess, or obtain tobacco products, e-cigarettes or their
components. This prohibition does not apply to activities or enforcement
actions under the control of a city, state, or federal law enforcement
authority. (Ord. 2015-5-13, 5-13-2015)
2-5-4: REQUIRED SIGNAGE TO BE POSTED; IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Any person distributing tobacco products or e-cigarettes, their
components or samples thereof, shall display within the retail establishment a
printed sign, posted so that it is clearly visible to anyone therein. The sign
must be in contrasting colors and at least 20-point type and must read
substantially as follows:
IF YOU ARE UNDER 18, YOU COULD BE SUBJECT TO PENALTY FOR PURCHASING TOBACCO
PRODUCTS, E-CIGARETTES OR RELATED DEVICES OR THEIR COMPONENTS. THE SALE OF
TOBACCO PRODUCTS, E-CIGARETTES OR RELATED DEVICES OR THEIR COMPONENTS TO
PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 18 IS STRICTLY PROHIBITED. PHOTO ID REQUIRED.
(Ord. 2015-5-13, 5-13-2015)
2-5-5: PENALTIES, ENFORCEMENT AND DEFENSES:
   A.   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. Each
transaction is a new and separate violation.
   B.   It is a defense to a prosecution for violation of this chapter relating
to age when the person distributing reasonably relied on an officially issued
photographic identification showing the purchaser or recipient was at least
eighteen (18) years old.
   C.   The failure of a person to request and examine photographic
identification from any person under eighteen (18) years of age prior to the
distribution of tobacco products or e-cigarettes or related devices or
components thereof to such person shall be construed against the person and
form a conclusive basis for that person's violation of this chapter.
   D.   It is a defense to subsection
2-5-3D of this chapter if the person demonstrates to the satisfaction of the
building official that it is architecturally impracticable for the vending
machine to be located not less than ten feet (10') from all entrance and exit
ways. (Ord. 2015-5-13, 5-13-2015)
TITLE 3
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
3-1-1: Compulsory Use Of System; Exceptions
3-1-2: Definitions
3-1-3: Refuse Collection And Disposal
3-1-4: Storage Of Garbage And Refuse
3-1-5: Refuse Accumulation Unlawful
3-1-6: Violation; Penalty
3-1-1: COMPULSORY USE OF SYSTEM; EXCEPTIONS:
Every owner and occupant of premises within the prescribed limits of the City
must use the refuse collection and disposal system herein provided and shall
deposit or cause to be deposited in accordance with the regulations all rubbish
and garbage, which is accumulated on such premises; provided, that in areas of
the City where the collection of garbage and refuse on the schedule hereinafter
set forth, would be impracticable, the City Council may issue a special permit
altering the time and extent of collection. (Ord. 10, 12-12-1972)
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, terms used herein are defined as follows:
COLLECTOR: The person holding a license or contract with the City or employed
by the City and thereby authorized and designated by the City to collect,
handle, transport and dispose of refuse and wastes.
GARBAGE: Includes all putrescible waste, except sewage and body waste,
including waste accumulated of animal, food or vegetable matter, and including
waste that attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of
meat, fish, fowl, fruit and vegetable, and shall include all of such wastes or
accumulations of vegetable matter of residences, restaurants, hotels and places
where food is prepared for human consumption.
The term "garbage" shall not include recognized industrial by-products.
INSPECTOR: The authorized employee or employees of the City or some individual
designated by the City Council as having the duty of enforcement of this
Chapter.
OWNER OR OCCUPANT: May be used interchangeably, and shall mean every person in
possession, occupancy, charge or control of any dwelling, flat, rooming house
or any eating place, shop, place of business, manufacturing or business
establishment where garbage or other refuse is created or accumulated.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, institute or corporation
and a plural as well as a singular.
REFUSE: Solid wastes, including garbage and rubbish.
RUBBISH: Refuse other than garbage (tin cans, bottles, ashes, paper,
pasteboard, cardboard, or wooden boxes, leaves, weeds and cuttings from lawns
and gardens and other waste materials produced in normal course of doing
business or every day living).
The term "rubbish" shall not include recognized industrial by-products.
WASTE: Unwanted solids, liquids or gaseous materials. (Ord. 10, 12-12-1972)
3-1-3: REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL:
   A.   Licensing Or Contracting:
      1.   License Or Contract Required: There is hereby established a system
of refuse collection, transportation and disposal. It shall be unlawful for any
person to engage in the business of collecting, transporting, hauling or
conveying any refuse over the streets or alleys of the City, or to dump or
dispose of the same, unless and until such person is licensed therefor, or has
a contract therefor as an authorized representative of the City.
      2.   Authority To License Or Contract: The Mayor and City Council is the
sole authority to license, contract or perform all services pertaining to all
sanitary collection and disposal under this Chapter.
   B.   Collection Schedule: Collectors shall collect rubbish and garbage from
each customer at least once a week or as deemed necessary as provided by the
rules and regulations of the City Council.
   C.   Collection Fees And Rates:
      1.   Fees And Rates Established: Fees and rates for the collection of
garbage and refuse shall be set by rules and regulations of the City. (Ord. 10,
12-12-1972)
         a.   The fees for the collections at single-family residences shall be
five dollars ($5.00) per month, which may be changed by resolution of the City
Council. (Ord. 10, 12-12-1972; amd. 1999 Code)
         b.   The fees for business houses or multiple residences shall be set
by negotiation and contract between the City and the business.
Provided, that where the enforcement of the provisions of this Chapter will
work a financial hardship, or where the amount of refuse and garbage is of such
small amounts as to not warrant the collection of the full charges as herein
provided, the Mayor and City Council may issue a special permit altering the
provisions of this Chapter.
      2.   Bills For Service; Delinquencies: Sanitary service fees shall be
carried on the water bill, and the same shall be paid with the water bill, and
the Water Department is authorized to discontinue services to any premises if
the entire water and garbage fee shall not be paid, said charges to become
delinquent as provided for water charges and shall be subject to the same
penalties provided in the water ordinance.
   D.   Privately Hauling Garbage: Any person may haul their own garbage in
watertight containers. (Ord. 10, 12-12-1972)
3-1-4: STORAGE OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE:
   A.   Containers: It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of any
place where garbage or rubbish is created or accumulated to at all times keep
or cause to be kept portable appurtenances consisting of metal or other
approved type of container for the deposit therein of rubbish and garbage, and
except as otherwise provided, to deposit or cause to be deposited all rubbish
and garbage therefrom.
      1.   Container Specifications: Such containers shall not be more than
thirty two (32) gallons' capacity and limited to fifty (50) pounds in weight,
when filled. The containers shall not be less than twenty eight (28) gauge
metal or the equivalent, and be hotdipped after fabrication to ensure
nonleaking cans or a can that is guaranteed by the manufacturing processes.
      2.   Watertight With Lid: All such containers shall be watertight, not
easily corrodible, rodent- and flyproof, and shall be equipped with handles and
a close fitting lid. Such lid shall not be removed except when necessary to
place garbage and rubbish in such container or to take the same therefrom.
Whenever garbage or rubbish is placed therein or taken therefrom, such lid
shall be replaced by the person placing or taking therefrom such garbage or
rubbish.
      3.   Sanitary Condition: Containers shall be kept in sanitary condition,
with the inside and outside thereof washed at such times as to keep the same
free and clean of all accumulating grease and decomposing material and so that
no odor nuisance shall exist.
      4.   Placement Of Containers: All garbage or refuse cans shall be kept in
a place accessible to the collector; provided, that in the case of isolated
dwellings or places of business or where reasonable access cannot be had by a
truck, the cans may be kept in such places as may be agreed upon by the owner
and collector, or at such place as may be designated by the Inspector;
provided, further, that whereas there is no alley entrance, such cans shall be
placed on the street curb on collection day.
   B.   Rubbish; Special Handling: Rubbish consisting only of cardboard, or
wooden boxes, leaves, weeds and cuttings from shrubs and gardens may be kept
separately without depositing in such containers; providing, that both
material, such as leaves shall be in a can, box, sack or receptacle for ease of
loading. (Ord. 10, 12-12-1972)
3-1-5: REFUSE ACCUMULATION UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or to suffer to accumulate in or
about any yard, lot, place or premises, or upon any street, alley or sidewalk
adjacent to such lot, yard, place or premises owned or occupied by such person,
any garbage or refuse so as to cause such yard, lot, premises, street, alley or
sidewalk adjacent thereto, to remain in such a condition as to cause or create
a nuisance or offensive odor or atmosphere or rodents harborage or thereby to
be or to become or cause or create, a public nuisance, within the City limits.
(Ord. 10, 12-12-1972)
3-1-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: It shall be unlawful and a violation of this Chapter for any
person to throw into or leave on any public thoroughfare or any public place or
on the premises owned by him or on the premises of another, any garbage or
rubbish except in containers as herein specified. (Ord. 10, 12-12-1972)
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions this Chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 10, 12-12-1972; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Nuisances Prohibited
3-2-2: Nuisances Enumerated
3-2-3: Violation
3-2-1: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
Whatever is dangerous or offensive to human life or health, and whatever
renders soil, air, water or food for humans impure or unwholesome are hereby
declared to be nuisances. (1935 Code § 108)
3-2-2: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
   A.   Offensive Stench: It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any
offensive stench to arise from any premises belonging to him or under his
control in the City, and if any such condition shall exist, the City police may
notify said person to abate same within twelve (12) hours, and if such person
shall fail so to do, said police may enter upon said premises and abate such
condition at the expense of such person. (1935 Code § 107; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-
1967)
   B.   Contaminated Foods: If shall be unlawful for any person to produce or
offer for sale for human consumption, any food, meats, confectionery or drinks
that are impure or dangerous to human life or health or that are kept or
produced under insanitary conditions. (1935 Code § 109; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-1967)
   C.   Expectorating In Public: It shall be unlawful for any person to spit
upon or throw any chewed tobacco upon the sidewalks or the floor of any public
building in the City. (1935 Code § 64; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-1967)
3-2-3: VIOLATION:
Any person who permits a nuisance to exist in the City, or refuses to abate the
same after notice so to do, is hereby declared to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1935 Code § 108; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-1967)
CHAPTER 3
NOISE
SECTION:
3-3-1: Authority And Purpose
3-3-2: Excessive Noise Prohibited
3-3-3: Excessive Noise From Vehicle Speakers And Radios, Sound Trucks And
Similar Devices Prohibited
3-3-4: Disturbing The Peace
3-3-5: Dynamic Braking Devices Prohibited
3-3-6: Penalty
3-3-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted by Idaho Code section
50-302 to provide for the safety and promote the health, morals, peace, order,
comfort, and convenience of the inhabitants of Franklin City, and to create a
more peaceful and healthful environment within Franklin City. (Ord. 2001-1, 9-
12-2001)
3-3-2: EXCESSIVE NOISE PROHIBITED:
Noise which due to its volume, its duration, or its location disturbs, injures
or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of persons not
voluntary listeners thereto is hereby declared to be excessive and inimical to
the welfare of the citizens of Franklin City. It is unlawful for any person to
make, continue, or cause to be made, or allow to be made on any premises or any
public place or public right of way from any radio, CD player, tape player,
musical instrument, phonograph, or sound amplifier or similar device, any
excessive, loud, unnecessary or unusual noise. Specifically prohibited is the
playing, using, operating, or permitting to be played, used or operated, any
device for playing, producing, or reproducing sound at a louder volume than is
necessary for the hearing of persons who are voluntary listeners on the
premises, or in the building, room, or chamber in which the sound is being
played, produced, or reproduced. Provided, however, that persons engaged in
school related or sports related promotional activities, lawful parades and
community events shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter for the
duration of the activity. (Ord. 2001-1, 9-12-2001)
3-3-3: EXCESSIVE NOISE FROM VEHICLE SPEAKERS AND RADIOS, SOUND TRUCKS AND
SIMILAR DEVICES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful to use, operate, or permit to be used, played, or operated,
radios, CD players, tape players, phonographs, vehicle stereo systems, and
similar devices mounted in or on a vehicle loudly enough to disturb the peace,
quiet or comfort of persons who are involuntarily subjected to the sound who
are on or in premises other than the vehicles. Sounds louder than necessary for
the hearing of persons in the vehicle are hereby deemed excessive. Provided,
however, that emergency vehicles and persons engaged in school related or
sports related promotional activities, lawful parades, and community events
shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter for the duration of the
activity. (Ord. 2001-1, 9-12-2001)
3-3-4: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Wilfully or maliciously or intentionally or unnecessarily disturb the
peace and quiet of another by loud or unusual noises or by indecent or
offensive conduct;
   B.   Engage in prolonged shouting, yelling, hooting, whistling, singing, or
playing of musical instruments loud enough to disturb the peace, quiet, and
comfort of persons who are involuntarily subjected to such noise, particularly,
but not limited to, between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M.; provided, however, that persons engaged in school related
or sports related promotional activities, lawful parades, and community events
shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter for the duration of the
activity. The brief celebratory display of noisemaking at twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight on New Year's Eve or other official holidays shall not be
considered a violation of this chapter;
   C.   Engage in construction/repair of buildings, including site excavation
and grading, between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:
00) A.M., except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public health
and safety and with the permission of the building official;
   D.   Engage in the use of chain saws and/other woodcutting equipment, or
gasoline or electric powered lawn care equipment between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. in any residential area,
regardless of the underlying zoning district. (Ord. 2001-1, 9-12-2001)
3-3-5: DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICES PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to operate any motor
vehicle with a dynamic braking device engaged within the city of Franklin,
Idaho.
   B.   "Dynamic Braking Device" is defined as a device used primarily on
trucks for the conversion of the engine from an internal combustion to air
compressor for the purpose of braking. Dynamic braking device is also commonly
referred to as a "Jacobs Brake", "Engine Brake" or "Compression Brake". (Ord.
2001-1, 9-12-2001)
3-3-6: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violation of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor
and is punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day a violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. (Ord. 2001-1, 9-12-2001)
CHAPTER 4
SOLID FUEL HEATING APPLIANCES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Authority And Purpose
3-4-2: Definitions
3-4-3: Air Quality Designations And Alert Criteria
3-4-4: Public Notification
3-4-5: Burning Solid Fuel Or Refuse
3-4-6: Solid Fuel Heating Appliance Restrictions And Permits
3-4-7: Exemptions From Restrictions
3-4-8: Minimum Standards For Clean Burning Appliances
3-4-9: Penalty
3-4-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is protect air quality resources vital to the
public health, safety, and welfare of the city of Franklin by controlling
emissions from solid fuel and refuse burning. (Ord. 2012-9-12, 9-12-2012)
3-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
derivations all have the meanings given herein. The word "shall" is always
mandatory and not merely directive.
AIR POLLUTION: The presence in the outdoor atmosphere of any contaminate or
combinations thereof in such quality or of such nature and duration and under
such conditions as would be injurious to human health or welfare, to plant or
animal life, or to property, to interfere unreasonably with the enjoyment of
life or property.
BUILDING: Any structure, dwelling, office, industrial plant, garage or barn,
whether publicly or privately owned or any other structure as defined by the
international building code.
BURN DOWN: That period of time following an air pollution alert required for
the cessation of combustion within solid fuel heating appliances or any other
outdoor fires or burning or incineration included within this chapter.
CLEAN BURNING APPLIANCE: A solid fuel heating appliance that has been certified
as clean burning by the United States environmental protection agency (EPA).
FIREPLACE: A residential solid fuel burning device with an air to fuel ratio of
greater than thirty (30) which is a permanent structural feature of a building.
A fireplace is made up of a concealed masonry or metal flue and a masonry or
metal firebox enclosed in decorative masonry or other building materials. A
residential solid fuel burning device which is freestanding or which is
installed into an existing "fireplace" opening is not included in this
definition.
HEAT OUTPUT: The British thermal unit (BTU) per hour output of a solid fuel
heating appliance.
OPEN BURNING: For the purposes of this chapter, the combustion of any material
not contained in a heating appliance. Also for the purposes of this chapter,
the use of a fireplace is considered open burning.
PARTICULATE MATTER (PM10/PM2.5): Any gasborne particles resulting from
incomplete combustion, consisting predominantly, but not exclusively, of carbon
and other combustible matter.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
organization or governmental entity.
REFUSE: All solid waste, garbage, and rubbish, including, but not limited to,
cardboard, plastic, rubber, styrofoam, petroleum products, foodstuff, Christmas
trees, yard debris or chemically treated wood.
SOLE SOURCE: One or more solid fuel heating devices which constitute the only
source of heat in a building for the purpose of space heating. No solid fuel
heating device(s) shall be the sole source of heat if the building is equipped
with a permanently installed furnace or heating system designed to heat the
building that is connected or unconnected from its energy source, utilizing
oil, natural gas, electricity or propane.
SOLID FUEL: Any form of untreated wood, coal, pressed logs, and pellet fuel.
SOLID FUEL HEATING APPLIANCE: An enclosed device designed for solid fuel
combustion that meets all of the following criteria:
   A.   An air to fuel ratio averaging less than thirty five to one (35:1);
   B.   Firebox volume less than twenty (20) cubic feet;
   C.   Minimum burn rate less than five kilograms (5 kg) per hour; and
   D.   Maximum weight of less than eight hundred kilograms (800 kg). (Ord.
2012-9-12, 9-12-2012)
3-4-3: AIR QUALITY DESIGNATIONS AND ALERT CRITERIA:
   A.   The quality of the city's air shall be determined by monitoring
pollutant levels in and/or around the city with equipment and methods approved
and provided by DEQ at its expense.
   B.   The quality of the city's air shall be designated by DEQ according to
the following table (as may be amended from time to time by the EPA):
      AIR QUALITY INDEX (AQI)
 
Designations                   AQI
Good                              0 - 50
Moderate                          51 - 100
Unhealthy for sensitive groups    101 - 150
Unhealthy                         151 - 200
Very unhealthy                    201 - 300
Hazardous                         301 - 500
 
   C.   All wood burning, including, but not limited to, within a solid fuel
heating appliance designed for wood fuel (commonly known as a "wood stove") or
open fireplace, is prohibited whenever the DEQ forecasts an AQI of seventy five
(75) or greater or forecasts air stagnation conditions will continue for at
least twenty four (24) hours.
   D.   No person shall allow, suffer, cause or permit any open burning of any
kind (see IDAPA 58.01.01.600 - 623) whenever DEQ forecasts an AQI of seventy
five (75) or greater or forecasts air stagnation conditions will continue for
at least twenty four (24) hours. (Ord. 2012-9-12, 9-12-2012)
3-4-4: PUBLIC NOTIFICATION:
Whenever air pollution alert conditions are met, local print and news media,
local officials, the police and fire departments, and city officials will be
notified. In addition DEQ will post information on the DEQ website and the air
quality hotline. (Ord. 2012-9-12, 9-12-2012)
3-4-5: BURNING SOLID FUEL OR REFUSE:
   A.   No person shall cause or allow refuse or coal to be burned in a solid
fuel heating appliance designed for wood fuel commonly known as a "wood stove".
   B.   No person shall cause or allow a wood stove to be operated contrary to
the design, specifications and manufacturer's instructions.
   C.   Notwithstanding the provisions of any section of this chapter, no
person shall allow, suffer, cause, or permit the burning of materials which
emit toxic contaminants or large volumes of smoke, particulate or odors deemed
a public nuisance; such prohibited materials consist of, but are not limited
to, the following: garbage, tires or any other rubber materials, plastics,
heavy petroleum products, dead animals or parts thereof, treated lumber, tree
stumps, trash, wet or green vegetation, trade waste, commercial waste, roofing
materials or any other asphaltic materials, drywall, sheetrock, tarpaper, floor
underlayment, insulation, chemicals, household garbage, motor vehicles or parts
thereof whether junked or not, insulated wire, pathogenic wastes, hazardous
wastes, etc.
   D.   No person shall operate a residential solid fuel burning device or
fireplace if the visible emissions exceed twenty percent (20%) opacity as
measured by EPA method 9, except as follows:
      1.   During an initial fifteen (15) minute startup period, or
      2.   During refueling operations which may not exceed a fifteen (15)
minute period in any three (3) hour period.
   E.   Notwithstanding the provisions of any section of this chapter, no
person shall allow, suffer, cause or permit the burning of any materials when
the AQI as forecasted by the DEQ reaches seventy five (75) or higher for any
air pollutant within the Cache Valley airshed. (Ord. 2012-9-12, 9-12-2012)
3-4-6: SOLID FUEL HEATING APPLIANCE RESTRICTIONS AND PERMITS:
   A.   From the effective date hereof, no person may sell or offer for sale
within the city any solid fuel heating appliance which is not listed and
certified by the EPA as a clean burning appliance.
   B.   No person shall install any solid fuel heating appliance in any new or
existing building without first having obtained a permit to do so from the
city. In order for such a permit to be granted, all such appliances shall be
listed and certified by the EPA as clean burning appliances. Installations
shall be in accordance with the fire code and manufacturer's instructions.
   C.   From the effective date hereof, no person shall construct, or attempt
to construct, any building for which a solid fuel burning appliance will be the
sole source of heat. (Ord. 2012-9-12, 9-12-2012)
3-4-7: EXEMPTIONS FROM RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   All solid fuel burning appliances classified by the EPA as a clean
burning appliance may be operated during an air quality alert.
   B.   A three (3) hour burn down period shall be allowed for solid fuel
heating appliances or fireplaces whose operation was commenced prior to the air
quality alert.
   C.   The city may grant exemptions from this chapter if it is determined
that:
      1.   A solid fuel heating appliance is the sole source of heat for the
structure in which is situated; or
      2.   Using alternative heating would cause an unreasonable economic
hardship.
   D.   Any building constructed after the effective date hereof shall not be
eligible for an exemption under subsections C1 and C2 of this section. (Ord.
2012-9-12, 9-12-2012)
3-4-8: MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR CLEAN BURNING APPLIANCES:
   A.   Appliances shall meet the requirements of the code of federal
regulations title 40, part 60, subpart AAA, "standards of performance for new
residential wood heaters". (Ord. 2012-9-12, 9-12-2012)
3-4-9: PENALTY:
A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord.
2012-9-12, 9-12-2012)
TITLE 4
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
4-1-1: Cruelty To Animals
4-1-2: Animals At Large
4-1-3: Breeding Animals In Public
4-1-4: Sanitary Conditions
4-1-5: City Pound
4-1-6: Poundmaster
4-1-7: Impoundment Procedure
4-1-8: Exceptions From Provisions
4-1-1: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to torture, cruelly beat, ill-treat or
inflict pain upon any animal unnecessarily within the City limits, or to place
out any poison either upon their own or any other premises for the purpose of
killing any domestic animals of another. It shall be unlawful to fail to
properly feed and water any domestic animals, or to tie any domestic animals
upon the public streets or in any public place for more than five (5) hours
without food and water. (1935 Code § 41; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-1967)
4-1-2: ANIMALS AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any horses, cows or cattle of any
kind, sheep, pigs, goats, chickens or poultry of any kind to run at large upon
the public streets, or upon any public grounds or to trespass upon the property
of another. Any person driving any animals through the streets of the City
shall have same under control, and shall proceed with the same without delay to
their destination and shall keep same off public sidewalks, and shall be liable
for any damage they may do in passing through the City, either to public or
private property. (1935 Code § 44; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-1967)
4-1-3: BREEDING ANIMALS IN PUBLIC:
It shall be unlawful to stand any animal for breeding service within sight of
the public. (1935 Code § 50)
4-1-4: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
   A.   Location Of Animal Corrals: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep
any corral for horses, cattle or sheep, or any pigsty, within fifty feet (50')
of any sidewalk, or any inhabited house or public building within the City.
(1935 Code § 103; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-1967)
   B.   Removal Of Manure: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any
horses, cattle, sheep, pigs or chickens in any corral, pigsty or chicken house
in the City, unless he shall, before May 1 of each year, remove all manure or
excrement of said livestock from said places, and either spread the same upon
his lands and plow the same under or remove the same from the City limits.
(1935 Code § 104; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-1967)
   C.   Dead Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any dead
animals or poultry to remain on his premises for more than twenty four (24)
hours without either burying same or removing the same outside the City limits
and burying same, and such animals when buried shall be covered by not less
than two feet (2') of earth. (1935 Code § 105; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-1967)
4-1-5: CITY POUND:
The Mayor, with the consent of the Council, shall select a suitable enclosure,
and equip the same for use as a City pound for the safekeeping of estrays
running at large within the limits of the City. (1935 Code § 84; amd. Ord. 1,
8-1-1967; 1999 Code)
4-1-6: POUNDMASTER:
   A.   Appointment; Term; Compensation: The Mayor, with the consent of the
Council, shall select a suitable person to act as poundmaster, and such person
shall have the power of a police officer of the City, be under the supervision
of a City designated officer, hold office during the pleasure of said Council,
and receive such compensation for his services as the Council may by resolution
fix. (1935 Code § 85; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-1967; 1999 Code)
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of said poundmaster to take charge of the
City pound and to keep the same in repair, to feed and properly care for any
estrays impounded in the same, to report all estrays to the City Clerk within
twenty four (24) hours of the impounding of the same, to advertise and sell all
unclaimed estrays according to the provisions hereof, and to do all things
under the direction of the Mayor necessary to carry out the intent of this
Chapter. He shall not release to any person any animals impounded in the City
pound, except upon order of the City Clerk. (1935 Code § 86; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-
1967; 1999 Code)
4-1-7: IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Impoundment: It shall be unlawful for any cattle, horses, mules, asses,
sheep, goats, hogs or any other livestock to run at large upon the streets,
alleys or public grounds in the City at any time, and such animals found
running at large shall be considered as estrays, and it shall be the duty of
the poundmaster to take any such animals and to impound the same in the City
pound. (1935 Code § 87; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-1967)
   B.   Interference With Poundmaster Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to take any such animals from the custody of the poundmaster after he
has seized the same as estrays and is driving them to the City pound without
his consent, or to take any such animals from the City pound without first
paying the charge for taking up, or costs incurred against such animals
hereunder. (1935 Code § 88; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-1967; 1999 Code)
   C.   Notice Of Impoundment:
      1.   If the owner of any animal is known and resides in the City, the
poundmaster shall notify such owner in person or in writing within twenty four
(24) hours of the impounding of such animal found running at large within the
limits of the City, and if the known owner of such animal is not a resident of
the City, then the poundmaster shall send notice of the impounding of such
animal to such owner, by registered mail, within twenty four (24) hours of the
impounding of the same.
      2.   If the owner of such animal so impounded is unknown, the poundmaster
shall send a description of such animal, giving its breed, sex, marks, brands
and any distinguishing marks thereon to the Bureau of Registration of the State
Department of Agriculture, at Boise, Idaho, with any necessary fee for
searching the records of ownership, with a request that the owner's name and
address be furnished. He shall give notice of the impounding of said animal
with charges therefor to the owner of said animal, by registered mail, within
twenty four (24) hours of the receipt of such information. (1935 Code § 91;
amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-1967; 1999 Code)
   D.   Impounding Fees: The owner of any animals seized or impounded as
estrays hereunder shall be required to pay to the City Clerk as a penalty and
as costs for the taking up and keep of any such estrays, a sum to be determined
by resolution by the City Council per head for any cattle, horses, mules or
asses taken up hereunder; and a sum to be determined by resolution by the City
Council per day per head for any major part of a day for the feeding of any
such animals while in custody; and a sum to be determined by resolution by the
City Council per day per head for the taking up and impounding of any sheep,
goats or hogs; and a sum to be determined by resolution by the City Council per
day or part of a day per head for the feeding of any such animals until
claimed. Such persons shall also pay all costs incurred herein. (1935 Code §
89; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-1967; 1999 Code)
   E.   City Clerk To Keep Records: It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to
keep the City pound book, and register therein the name and description of all
estrays impounded hereunder, the date of their impounding, the date of their
release, the charges assessed and collected against each animal, the amount
received from the sale of all estrays, and the costs and expenses of each sale.
(1935 Code § 90; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-1967)
   F.   Disposition Of Unclaimed Animal:
      1.   Notification Of Sale: If the owner of any animal impounded cannot be
found, or if the known owner makes no claim for same or refuses to pay the
charges incurred for the impounding, care of or expense incurred in impounding
or caring for said animal so impounded hereunder, within five (5) days after
being notified of the impounding thereof, then the poundmaster shall advertise
said animal for sale, by posting notice of the time and place of sale, and as
full and accurate a description as possible of the animal to be sold, giving
the approximate age as near as possible, kin, sex, weight, brands and
distinguishing marks of said animal, in three (3) public places in the City,
and publishing the same in the official City newspaper, for not less than two
(2) issues next preceding said sale, and by sending a copy of said notice of
sale to the owner, if known, by registered mail. Such notice shall be posted
and published for not less than ten (10) days nor more than fifteen (15) days
before the date of sale, from the date of posting or first publication of the
notice, and if said animals are not claimed and all costs incurred on account
of them paid before said sale, the same shall be sold at public auction by the
poundmaster to the highest bidder for cash. (1935 Code § 92; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-
1967; amd. 1999 Code)
      2.   Disposition Of Monies: All monies received from the sale of
impounded animals unclaimed shall be turned over by the poundmaster to the City
Clerk, and by him delivered to the City Treasurer. All expenses incurred for
the impounding, keeping, search for owner, advertising or selling of such
animals shall be first paid out of such receipts, and the balance remaining, if
any, shall be placed in a separate fund, and held therein for six (6) months
after such sale, during which time the owner of any animal so sold may appear
and prove his ownership of any animal so sold, and be entitled to receive any
such balance remaining above such costs. All monies unclaimed at the end of
such period shall be placed in the General Fund of the City. (1935 Code § 93;
amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-1967)
4-1-8: EXCEPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as prohibiting the driving
of animals or stock, while under the supervision or control of a competent
person, through the streets of the City. (1935 Code § 94; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-
1967)
ARTICLE A. DOGS
SECTION:
4-1A-1: Definitions
4-1A-2: License Required
4-1A-3: Kennel Licenses
4-1A-4: Running At Large Or Committing Nuisance
4-1A-5: Animal Control Officer
4-1A-6: Interference With Animal Control Officer
4-1A-7: Impoundment
4-1A-8: Dogs Showing Rabies Symptoms Or Biting Any Person
4-1A-9: Vicious Animals
4-1A-10: Penalties
4-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, unless the context otherwise indicates:
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: The person or persons designated to enforce this
article.
AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner and not on a leash or under voice
control of the owner.
COMMERCIAL KENNEL: One wherein the owner or keeper of dogs shall derive monies
from the boarding, breeding, training, treating, or handling of dogs.
DOG: Animal of the canine family, both male and female.
NUISANCE: A dog that damages, defiles, soils or defecates on private property
other than the owner's, or on public walks and recreation areas unless such
waste is immediately removed and properly disposed of by the owner; causes
unsanitary, dangerous or offensive conditions; causes a disturbance by
excessive or continuous barking or other noise making; or chases vehicles, or
molests, attacks, or interferes with persons or other domestic animals on
public property.
OWNER: Any person or persons, firm, association, or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring a dog.
UNLICENSED DOG: Means and includes any dog not bearing a license issued by the
City for the current year. (Ord. 1990-2, 11-13-1990)
4-1A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall own, keep, or harbor any dog over the age of four (4) months
within the City without paying a license fee as provided in this article, and
obtaining a license for said dog from the City.
   A.   Application For License:
      1.   Application for a license shall be made by the owner before the last
day of January each year, or within thirty (30) days of obtaining an unlicensed
dog over the age of four (4) months, or within thirty (30) days of a dog
turning four (4) months of age.
      2.   Written application for a dog license shall be made to the City
Clerk and shall include the name, address, and telephone number of the owner,
and the name, breed, color, age, and sex of the dog.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for anyone to make a false statement in said
application for said license.
   B.   Term Of License: A license issued shall be effective until December 31
of the year in which issued; provided, that if purchased in 1990, it shall be
effective until December 31, 1991. (Ord. 1990-2, 11-13-1990)
   C.   Fee:
      1.   A license shall be issued by the City after payment by the owner of
a fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each neutered or spayed dog and twenty
dollars ($20.00) for each unneutered or unspayed dog. Owners who fail to obtain
a license by the time set forth herein shall be subject to an additional
delinquent fee of ten dollars ($10.00). (Ord. 1990-2, 11-13-1990; amd. per
Council motion 12-1999; Ord., 1-10-2007; Res. 2016-8-31, 8-31-2016, eff. 10-1-
2016)
      2.   License fees shall be waived for dogs serving the blind or deaf. All
other licensing provisions shall apply.
   D.   Tag And Collar:
      1.   Upon payment of the license fee, the City Clerk shall issue to the
owner a metallic tag for each dog so licensed. The tag shall be changed every
year, and shall have stamped thereon the year for which it is issued. Every
owner shall be required to provide each dog with a collar to which the license
tag must be affixed and shall see that the collar and tag are constantly worn.
In case a dog tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate will be issued by the City
Clerk upon payment of fifty cents ($0.50) for such duplicate.
      2.   Dog tags shall not be transferable from one dog to another and no
refunds shall be made after a tag has been issued.
   E.   Record Kept: The City Clerk shall keep a record of all licenses issued
under the terms of this article.
   F.   Temporary License: When any dog already licensed by another
municipality shall be temporarily in the City for a period of less than thirty
(30) days, the owner or person having charge of the dog may obtain a temporary
license at no cost. A license tag shall be issued with each license, and such
tag shall be securely attached to a substantial, durable collar that the dog
shall wear at all times. (Ord. 1990-2, 11-13-1990)
4-1A-3: KENNEL LICENSES:
It shall be unlawful to keep, maintain, harbor or possess upon the premises of
any one household more than two (2) dogs over the age of four (4) months unless
the owner or person in charge thereof shall have obtained a kennel license.
(Ord. 1990-2, 11-13-1990)
   A.   Noncommercial License; Fees:
      1.   Application for a noncommercial kennel license shall be made to the
City Clerk and must be accompanied by the written consent to such noncommercial
kennel by at least seventy five percent (75%) of all persons in possession of
the premises within one hundred feet (100') of the boundary lines of the
premises upon which said noncommercial kennel is to be maintained, and
accompanied by a deposit of a license fee of five dollars ($5.00) for the first
three (3) dogs and one dollar ($1.00) for each dog over that number, which
deposit shall be returned to the applicant if the license is not finally
issued. The license shall be in force until December 31 of the year in which
issued. (Ord. 1990-2, 11-13-1990; amd. Res. 2016-8-31, 8-31-2016, eff. 10-1-
2016)
      2.   The issuance of a noncommercial kennel license shall not obviate the
necessity of obtaining an individual dog license for each dog.
      3.   Noncommercial licenses shall not be transferable. Whenever additions
are made to the number of dogs for which a kennel license has been issued, the
licensee shall within three (3) working days report to the Clerk and pay the
required license fee. Whenever puppies are born, such puppies shall not be
counted as additions until four (4) months old.
   B.   Commercial License: No commercial kennels shall be allowed within the
City. (Ord. 1990-2, 11-13-1990)
4-1A-4: RUNNING AT LARGE OR COMMITTING NUISANCE:
   A.   Prohibited; Exceptions: It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow or
permit any dog, whether licensed or not, to be or remain upon the streets of
the City or a public place in the City, or upon the premises of another without
the consent of the person in possession of such other premises, unless:
      1.   Such dog be in the charge of a person and controlled by a leash not
exceeding fifteen feet (15') in length, or such dog be in the charge of an
owner and under voice command of the owner, or unless;
      2.   Such dog be confined in a motor vehicle.
   B.   Penalties: Persons found in violation of subsection A of this section,
as above set forth, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as follows:
(Ord. 1990-2, 11-13-1990)
      1.   First Offense: A fine of seventy dollars ($70.00) shall be assessed
for the first offense within any continuous twelve (12) month period. (Ord.
1990-2, 11-13-1990; amd. 1999 Code; Ord., 1-10-2007; Res. 2016-8-31, 8-31-2016,
eff. 10-1-2016)
      2.   Second Offense: A fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be
assessed for the second offense within any continuous twelve (12) month period.
(Ord. 1990-2, 11-13-1990; amd. Ord., 1-10-2007; Res. 2016-8-31, 8-31-2016, eff.
10-1-2016)
      3.   Third Offense: A fine of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) shall
be assessed for the third offense and for each other offense above three (3)
within any continuous twelve (12) month period. (Ord. 1990-2, 11-13-1990; amd.
Res. 2016-8-31, 8-31-2016, eff. 10-1-2016)
      4.   Additional To Fees: Such fines shall be in addition to license fees,
if unlicensed, and a daily care fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per day if the
dog has been impounded by the City. (Ord. 1990-2, 11-13-1990; amd. Ord., 1-10-
2007; Res. 2016-8-31, 8-31-2016, eff. 10-1-2016)
      5.   Failure To Pay: All license fees, fines, and impound fees shall be
paid to the City Clerk. Failure to pay the same within ten (10) days shall
result in a citation being issued to the owner for the violation and the same
shall be heard in a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 1990-2, 11-13-1990)
4-1A-5: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, may appoint an animal control
officer to enforce and carry out the duties and obligations as provided in this
article. (Ord. 1990-2, 11-13-1990)
4-1A-6: INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
It shall be unlawful and punishable as a misdemeanor for any person to evade or
attempt to evade paying the fee for claiming an impounded dog, or to interfere
with the animal control officer in performance of his duties. (Ord. 1990-2, 11-
13-1990)
4-1A-7: IMPOUNDMENT:
When a dog is found running at large or creating a nuisance, the animal control
officer or his designee shall notify the owner of the dog of such violation, or
if the owner is not known or cannot be contacted, shall seize and impound the
dog.
   A.   Disposition Of Dog:
      1.   The animal control officer or his designee may dispose of any
impounded dog after five (5) or more days have elapsed following notice of
impoundment.
      2.   After a period of five (5) days, the animal control officer or his
designee may dispose of the dog by: a) delivering it to any person who will pay
the impoundment fee, together with all licensing costs, if any; or b) by
destroying the dog in a humane fashion.
   B.   Notice Of Impoundment:
      1.   Notice of impoundment shall be given to the owner by personal
service or by certified mail. Notice by certified mail shall be effective upon
mailing of same by City Clerk. In case of an unlicensed dog, notice of
impoundment shall be posted in an appropriate place on the front door of the
City Hall.
      2.   Failure to give notice as set forth in subsection B1 of this section
shall not prevent disposition of any impounded dog if the animal control
officer or his designee is unable, following inquiry, to ascertain the name or
location of the owner or persons having charge of the dog. (Ord. 1990-2, 11-13-
1990)
4-1A-8: DOGS SHOWING RABIES SYMPTOMS OR BITING ANY PERSON:
   A.   Authority: The animal control officer or his designee shall have the
authority to order the owner of any dog showing symptoms of rabies, or any dog
not having a rabies shot as attested by a current certificate of vaccination,
or of any dog which has bitten any person so as to cause an abrasion of the
skin to subject such dog to the City Pound for quarantine, for a period not to
exceed fifteen (15) days, and if such dog shall be determined free of rabies
the same shall be returned to the owner upon payment of one-half (1/2) of the
regular fee for keeping dogs impounded. No other fee shall be charged. If such
fee is not paid, the dog will be subject to disposal as hereinbefore provided.
   B.   Quarantine: However, in lieu of submitting such dog to the City Pound,
the animal control officer may, at the owner's expense, immediately admit such
dog to a veterinarian for examination, and said dog shall be quarantined with
the veterinarian until found not to have rabies.
   C.   Immediate Disposition: Any dog afflicted with rabies shall be disposed
of immediately, either by the owner or by the poundmaster. (Ord. 1990-2, 11-13-
1990)
4-1A-9: VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Definition; Exception:
      1.   Defined: A "vicious animal" is:
         a.   Any animal which, when unprovoked, in a taunting or terrorizing
manner, approaches any person in an apparent attitude of attack upon the
streets, sidewalks, any public grounds or places, or private property not owned
or possessed by the owner of the animal; or
         b.   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to
attack unprovoked, to cause injury, or to otherwise endanger the safety of
human beings or domestic animals; or
         c.   Any animal which bites, inflicts injury, assaults, or otherwise
attacks a human being or domestic animal without provocation; or
         d.   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of fighting, or any animal trained for fighting; or
         e.   Any dog which has been trained as an attack dog, except dogs used
by law enforcement agencies.
      2.   Exception: Notwithstanding the above definition of a "vicious
animal", an animal is not necessarily vicious merely because injury or damage
is sustained by a person over the age of eighteen (18) who, at the time such
injury or damage was sustained, was committing a wilful trespass or other tort
upon the premises occupied by the owner of the animal, or was teasing,
tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal, or was committing or attempting
to commit a crime. An animal is not to be considered vicious if the animal was
protecting or defending a human being within the immediate vicinity of the
animal from an unjustified attack or assault.
   B.   Secure Enclosure: No owner or custodian shall keep a vicious animal
within the city limits unless such animal is kept within an absolutely secure
enclosure. A secure enclosure shall have a roof, a six foot (6') chainlink
fence, poles embedded in concrete footings extending one foot (1') belowground
and a concrete floor or foundation with the chainlink embedded three inches
(3") into the concrete.
   C.   Registration Required: Any person harboring, keeping or owning a
vicious animal shall register the animal with the city clerk.
   D.   Liability Insurance: Any person harboring, keeping or owning a vicious
animal which has not bitten any person on two (2) occasions, without
provocation, may continue to keep the animal upon posting with the city clerk a
liability insurance policy specifying not less than one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) liability for damages caused by the vicious animal and
further endorsing the city as party to be notified in the event of
cancellation.
   E.   Impound Or Dispose Of Animal; Failure To Comply: Any owner or custodian
whose animal has been reported to have bitten or attacked a human being on two
(2) occasions, without provocation, shall be required to give his or her animal
up for impoundment and disposal. Failure to comply with this section shall be a
misdemeanor and each day of failure to comply shall be separate violations of
this section.
   F.   Restraints Required: Any time the owner or custodian of a vicious
animal leaves the owner's or custodian's property the animal shall be
restrained with a chain and muzzle. (Ord. 1990-2, 11-13-1990)
4-1A-10: PENALTIES:
Any violation of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Violation of subsection 4-1A-4A of this article shall be
punishable as set forth in subsection 4-1A-4B of this article which, if not
paid within ten (10) days, shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable as set
forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1990-2, 11-13-1990; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 2
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Discharging Firearms Or Fireworks
4-2-2: Fireworks; Explosives
4-2-3: Possession Or Consumption Of Intoxicating Substances In Public Places
4-2-1: DISCHARGING FIREARMS OR FIREWORKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearms or shoot off any
fireworks of any kind in the city; provided, however, that target practice may
be permitted if a proper backstop be placed behind the target, and no firearm
of greater than .22 caliber be used; and, provided further, that public
fireworks displays may be permitted by the city council upon public
celebrations. (1935 Code § 43; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-1967)
4-2-2: FIREWORKS; EXPLOSIVES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, possess or give away any
firecrackers or any devices that depend upon the use of fire or flame in any
manner to operate them in the city, or to set off any explosives in the city,
for the purpose of amusement or celebration, nor shall any explosives be used
in the city unless the consent of the city council be first obtained. (1935
Code § 59; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-1967)
4-2-3: POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION OF INTOXICATING SUBSTANCES IN PUBLIC PLACES:
   A.   Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person to possess an open
container containing any alcoholic or other intoxicating substance, including
beer, or to consume any alcoholic or other intoxicating substance or beverage
of any kind, including beer, upon the streets, parks, public grounds, or
sidewalks, or in any public building, in the city.
   B.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violation of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor and is punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day a violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. (Ord. 2001-2, 10-11-2001)
CHAPTER 3
JUNKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Authority And Purpose
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Prohibition And Exceptions; Temporary Special Permit
4-3-4: Penalties, Civil Remedies, And Attorney Fees
4-3-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted to promote the health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens of Franklin, and to promote a more aesthetically pleasing and healthy
environment. (Ord. 2011-6-8-2, 6-10-2011)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any automobile, motorcycle, truck, trailer, semitrailer, truck
tractor and semitrailer combination, or other vehicle originally designed for
operation on the roads of this state, or any other state, or used to transport
persons or property, and propelled by power other than muscular power. Small
trailers, having less than ten thousand (10,000) pounds' gross vehicle weight,
which are used only for farming or agricultural purposes, shall not be
considered motor vehicles herein.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, trust, corporation, association, or
any group or organization or combination acting as a unit.
SIGHT OBSCURING: A fence, wall, or screen that is either solid or has openings
not to exceed twelve (12) square inches in every square foot. Further, the
sight obscuring structure must be at least six feet (6') high. (Ord. 2011-6-8-
2, 6-10-2011)
4-3-3: PROHIBITION AND EXCEPTIONS; TEMPORARY SPECIAL PERMIT:
   A.   No person shall store upon any area, lot, land, or parcel within
Franklin more than two (2) motor vehicles that are without current
registration, inoperable, or dismantled. Camp trailers shall be considered
registered if registered in the previous calendar year.
   B.   The prohibition contained herein shall not apply where the vehicles are
stored within a completely enclosed structure, or behind a sight obscuring
fence, wall, or screen.
   C.   Upon written application to the city, and with the approval of the city
council, which shall be granted for good cause shown, a person may receive a
temporary special permit to keep or store more than two (2) motor vehicles
which are not registered, are inoperable, or are dismantled. The approval
granted shall state the good cause for granting the permit, and shall specify
the terms and conditions of the special permit, including the time period by
which it will expire. (Ord. 2011-6-8-2, 6-10-2011)
4-3-4: PENALTIES, CIVIL REMEDIES, AND ATTORNEY FEES:
   A.   Any person in violation of this chapter shall first be given a written
notice of violation, which shall state the nature of the violation and set
forth the time period by which the violation must be abated. If the violation
is not abated within the prescribed time period, the city may proceed with
prosecution or a civil enforcement action.
   B.   Violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor, and punishable by a fine of
fifty dollars ($50.00) per day of violation, with the total fine not to exceed
three hundred dollars ($300.00) per year, and also by imprisonment of up to six
(6) months.
   C.   In addition to criminal enforcement of this chapter, Franklin may elect
to seek all civil and equitable remedies available at common law or under Idaho
law for the enforcement of this chapter. In the event that Franklin is the
prevailing party in any civil action involving enforcement of this chapter,
Franklin shall be awarded its reasonable costs and attorney fees. (Ord. 2011-6-
8-2, 6-10-2011)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
SECTION:
5-1-1: Adoption Of Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws
5-1-2: Parking Regulations
5-1-1: ADOPTION OF IDAHO MOTOR VEHICLE LAWS:
There is hereby adopted the motor vehicle laws of the state of Idaho, that
being particularly Idaho Code title 49, as presently in effect or as may
hereafter be amended, for the regulation of motor vehicles and motor vehicle
traffic within the city, and said Idaho motor vehicle laws, and any subsequent
amendments enacted into law by the Idaho legislature, contained in said
document, or its subsequent editions. (1999 Code)
5-1-2: PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   No Parking Areas: No vehicle shall be parked at any time, nor shall be
allowed to stand in any of the following places, except in compliance with
traffic control devices or at the direction of a police officer:
      1.   In any intersection.
      2.   In any crosswalk.
      3.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
      4.   On any public sidewalk or parkway.
      5.   Any place where official signs prohibit parking.
      6.   Along any curb painted red. (Ord. 2007-9-11, 9-11-2007)
   B.   No Parking Zones:
      1.   U.S. Highway 91: No vehicle shall be parked at any time along the
road, curb, or right of way of U.S. Highway 91 at the following locations:
         a.   Along the west side of the highway between its intersection with
Main Street and a point one hundred twelve feet (112') south.
         b.   Along the east side of the highway between its intersection with
Main Street and a point thirty feet (30') south.
         c.   Along the east side of the highway between its intersection with
Main Street and a point one hundred sixty feet (160') north.
      2.   Main Street: No vehicle shall be parked at any time along the road,
curb, or road right of way of the city street known as Main Street at the
following locations:
         a.   Along the north side of said street between its intersection with
U.S. Highway 91 and a point sixty feet (60') west.
         b.   Along the south side of said street between its intersection with
U.S. Highway 91 and a point sixty feet (60') west.
         c.   Along the north side of said street between its intersection with
U.S. Highway 91 and a point thirty feet (30') east.
         d.   Along the south side of said street between its intersection with
U.S. Highway 91 and a point thirty feet (30') east. (Ord. 1991-1, 7-9-1991)
      3.   Overnight Parking Or Camping: No overnight parking or camping is
permitted around city parks or on city streets or rights of way, except out of
town family or friends may park in front of city residents' homes for a period
not to exceed seven (7) days, unless authorized by the mayor or a city
councilman. Violations are subject to towing at owner's expense and fine within
twenty four (24) hours.
      4.   Long Term Parking: No long term resident parking of cars, trucks,
tractors, trailers, boats, or recreational vehicles, on city rights of way
exceeding forty eight (48) hours. Violators will be warned and vehicles towed
at owners' expense and fined. Two (2) or more repeated offenses will be
prosecuted as a misdemeanor in the courts.
      5.   Miscellaneous Materials On Rights Of Way: No placement of
miscellaneous materials including, but not limited to, dirt, gravel, yard
clippings, limbs, etc., on city rights of way, exceeding a period of seventy
two (72) hours.
      6.   Short Term Parking: To ensure adequate parking, to permit sweeping
or snow removal, and to provide for public safety, a short term parking time
limit is provided to control parking of vehicles including trucks, trailers,
tractors, or farm equipment around city buildings, city parks or in city
provided parking areas. Parking will be limited to a maximum of four (4) hours
in a twenty four (24) hour period. This restriction excludes city employees
working at their assigned work locations; election workers and other scheduled
events such as family reunions, parties, and any event scheduled with the city
and approved by the city council or city employees. The parking provided at the
city parks is for those citizens using the parks and not for storing or selling
vehicles or for advertising or promoting private business or products.
Violators will be warned in writing. Failure to comply with this subsection
will result in a fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first offense;
and fifty dollars ($50.00) for each subsequent offense. The vehicle will be
towed or immobilized and all fines that are the responsibility of the
registered owner must be paid in full before the vehicle is released. (Ord., 9-
23-2004)
   C.   Parallel Parking: No vehicle shall be parked at any time along the
road, curb, or road right of way, except passenger cars by parking parallel to
said highway in a single row within eighteen inches (18") of the curb or barrow
pit, on the following streets or parts of streets:
      1.   U.S. Highway 91: Along the east side of U.S. Highway 91 between a
point thirty feet (30') south of the highway intersection with Main Street, and
a point one hundred seventeen feet (117') south therefrom.
      2.   Main Street: Along the south side of Main Street between a point
thirty feet (30') east of the street intersection with U.S. Highway 91, and a
point one hundred feet (100') eastward therefrom. (Ord. 1991-1, 7-9-1991)
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1991-1, 7-9-1991; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 2
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Excavations
5-2-2: Obstructions
5-2-3: Water
5-2-4: Removal Of Snow, Ice And/Or Rubbish
5-2-5: Damages Or Construction
5-2-1: EXCAVATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to tear up, damage, excavate, or make
inaccessible any sidewalk, public street, or alley of the city without first
getting the consent of the city council and posting an acceptable bond in an
amount approved by the city council or, if the council chooses to so delegate,
the director of public works. (Ord., 7-14-2010)
5-2-2: OBSTRUCTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place any obstructions including parking
vehicles, trailers, tractors, or any portion of these and other items that
block or partially block a public sidewalk or a public roadway. A courtesy
warning will be issued. Subsequent failure to comply and continuing to impede
the safe movement of pedestrians on any public sidewalks and any vehicular
traffic on any public roadways, or alleys within the city will be penalized
under provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 7-14-2010)
5-2-3: WATER:
   A.   Water Flowing On Public Ways: It shall be unlawful for any person using
or controlling water within the city, whether for irrigation or other use, to
permit the same to run upon any sidewalk or public street in the city.
   B.   Ditches Across Public Ways: It shall be unlawful for any person to
construct any ditches across any sidewalks or streets in the city without first
securing the consent of the city council, and placing a suitable box or culvert
under said sidewalk or street. (Ord., 7-14-2010)
5-2-4: REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE AND/OR RUBBISH:
   A.   Snow, Ice And Rubbish: The owner, tenant or occupant of any premises
abutting or adjoining any sidewalk or alley within the city is hereby required
to remove all snow, ice and rubbish from said sidewalk and all rubbish from
said alley and to keep such sidewalk and alley clear of the same.
Owners, tenants, or homeowners' associations in any "PUDs", "subdivisions", or
"multiple-family developments" shall be required to remove all snow and ice
from all nondedicated streets, sidewalks, driveways and parking areas in such a
manner as to preclude damage or obstruction to any city streets or adjoining
property and to ensure access for city workers, agents and licensees.
   B.   Weeds, Grass And Rubbish: The owner, tenant or occupant of private
property within the city is required to and shall, within reason, keep such
premises free of weeds, rubbish, and unreasonably long grass, and shall
eradicate from such premises any diseases, pests, or vermin, including eggs and
larvae of any pests injurious to trees, plants, shrubs, or vines. This duty
extends from such private property to the center of any street or alley along
or in front of such property including parking within curbing abutting such
property.
   C.   Abatement By City: In the event the owner, tenant or occupant of any
premises or private property mentioned in subsection A or B of this section
shall fail to comply with the provisions of this section, the city shall have
the option, at its sole discretion, to remove such snow, ice and rubbish or cut
or remove such weeds, rubbish, and grass and assess the cost thereof against
the premises abutting the sidewalks or alleys so cleared or treated for
eradication and against the private property as cleaned or cleared or treated
for eradication. Such assessment shall be certified by the city clerk to the
county assessor or other proper county official having charge of making up the
assessment roll and such assessment shall be placed on the assessment roll and
collected in the same manner as other city taxes are collected. (Ord., 7-14-
2010)
5-2-5: DAMAGES OR CONSTRUCTION:
The city roads, right of way, curbs, and sidewalks are public assets hereafter
known as city assets in this section. Property owners and their agents
operating within the city of Franklin will be required to protect city assets
from damage. Prior to any landscaping, remodeling, repairs, or new construction
activity, the Franklin building inspector or the Franklin public works
department will certify the condition of the assets that may be affected by the
planned activity. The city may, at its option, require persons intending to
perform any landscaping, remodeling, repairs or new construction which impacts
the city assets, to post an acceptable bond in an appropriate amount as
determined by the city before any work begins. If damage occurs during the
construction, remodeling, landscaping, repair, or other improvement activities,
the owner or contractor is responsible for restoring the damaged asset to the
original condition and satisfaction of the city. If the necessary repairs are
not completed or, the city may, at its option, draw upon any bond so posted to
have the repairs completed or have the repairs completed and then bill the
owner. (Ord., 7-14-2010)
CHAPTER 3
WATER USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-3-1: City Property
5-3-2: Duties Of Water Superintendent
5-3-3: Turning On, Shutting Off Water
5-3-4: Meters
5-3-5: Water Fees And Rates
5-3-6: Billing And Collection Of Water Rates
5-3-1: CITY PROPERTY:
All mains, laterals, pipes, hydrants and fixtures now laid, constructed or
installed or hereafter to be laid, constructed or installed, in, under, across
or through the streets, alleys and other thoroughfares of the city, or adjacent
territory, for supplying water to the city and the inhabitants thereof, are
hereby declared to be the property of the city under the control thereof and
subject to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 20, 8-1-1978)
5-3-2: DUTIES OF WATER SUPERINTENDENT:
The water superintendent shall:
   A.   Have general supervision over the waterworks of the city, and
appurtenances thereto, under the direction of the mayor and city council.
   B.   Attend to the tapping of mains, laying and connecting laterals and
installation of meters and meter boxes. He shall see that all open ditches and
excavations on or along the streets, alleys and thoroughfares of the city are
carefully guarded by rails and lights or other proper warning signals.
   C.   Have charge of and operate the reservoir and keep the mains of said
system filled with pure and wholesome water at a pressure sufficient for proper
fire protection.
   D.   Keep an inventory of all property belonging to the water system and,
with the consent of the mayor and city council, purchase supplies and equipment
necessary for the maintenance of the system.
   E.   Upon request, attend meetings of the city council and render such
reports and statements as may be required of him by law or order of the mayor
and city council, and to the end that the provisions of this section may be
carried out, he shall be allowed such assistance as the mayor and city council
may deem necessary and proper. (Ord. 20, 8-1-1978)
5-3-3: TURNING ON, SHUTTING OFF WATER:
   A.   Authority: No water from the city water supply shall be turned on for
service into any premises by any person but the superintendent or some person
by him authorized to perform this service.
   B.   Application To Turn On Water: Application to have water turned on shall
be made by the owner of the property in writing to the clerk, and shall contain
an agreement by the applicant to abide by and accept all the provisions of this
chapter as conditions governing the use of the city water supply by the
applicant.
   C.   Plumbing Requirements: No water shall be turned on for service in
premises in which the plumbing does not comply with the specifications of the
city; provided, that water may be turned on for construction work in unfinished
buildings, subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Fee: The fee for disconnecting and reconnecting water hookups shall be
set by resolution. (Ord., 11-12-2014)
5-3-4: METERS:
   A.   Meters Required; Charges: All premises using city water must be
equipped with an adequate water meter which will be furnished by the city upon
payment of the following installation charges:
      1.   For residential type three-fourths inch (3/4") size meters, the fees
shall be set by resolution.
      2.   For commercial type meters of a size larger than three-fourths inch
(3/4") meter, the charges shall be determined by the mayor and the city
council.
   B.   Installation: All meters shall be installed under the direction of the
superintendent and subject to his approval.
   C.   Reading Meters:
      1.   The superintendent shall read or cause to be read every water meter
used in the city at such times as are necessary that the bills may be sent out
at the proper time.
      2.   The superintendent shall have access to any building at any
reasonable hour for the purpose of inspection of any part of the water system.
   D.   Testing Meters: Any city water meter shall be taken out and tested upon
complaint of the consumer, upon payment of a fee of ten dollars ($10.00). If
upon test the meter is not within three percent (3%) of being accurate, it
shall be repaired or replaced and the ten dollar ($10.00) fee returned to the
customer. (Ord., 11-12-2014)
5-3-5: WATER FEES AND RATES:
   A.   Any person or entity requesting a connection to the city culinary water
system must make application to the city clerk, pay the current water
connection fee as set by resolution of the city council, and, if the
application is approved and a connection is made, pay the monthly water rates
as set and amended from time to time by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Water connections will only be approved for a particular parcel of
property and are not transferable. (Ord. 2007-2-15, 2-15-2007)
5-3-6: BILLING AND COLLECTION OF WATER RATES:
   A.   Statements: Statements for water used shall be dated and sent out at
such times as specified by the mayor and city council.
   B.   Payment Of Bills; Discounts; Shutoff: The water supply may be shut off
from any premises for which the water bill remains unpaid for a period of
thirty (30) days after the bill is rendered and mailed. A discount shall be set
by resolution.
   C.   Charges A Lien:
      1.   Charges for water shall be a lien upon the premises as provided by
statute. Whenever a bill for water service remains unpaid sixty (60) days after
it has been rendered, the clerk may file with the recorder of the county a
statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal description of
the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the city
claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges for water served
subsequent to the period covered by the bill. If the consumer of water whose
bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises, and the clerk has notice of
this, the notice shall be mailed to the owner of the premises, if his address
is known to the clerk, whenever such bill remains unpaid for a period of sixty
(60) days after it has been rendered.
      2.   The failure of the clerk to record such lien claim or to mail such
notice, or the failure of the owner to receive such notice, shall not affect
the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid water bills. (Ord., 11-12-2014)
ARTICLE A. CROSS-CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
5-3A-1: Purpose And Scope
5-3A-2: Definitions
5-3A-3: Cross-Connections Prohibited; Rules And Regulations
5-3A-4: Backflow Prevention Devices; Required
5-3A-5: Types Of Backflow Prevention Devices
5-3A-6: Installation Of Backflow Prevention Devices
5-3A-7: Underground Sprinkling Devices
5-3A-8: Installation Permits
5-3A-9: Inspections
5-3A-10: Additional Remedies
5-3A-11: Violation; Penalty
5-3A-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
The purpose of this Article is to protect the public health of water consumers
by the control of actual and/or potential cross-connection. (Ord. 21, 9-2-1980)
5-3A-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Article, terms used herein are defined as follows:
BACKFLOW: The flow, other than the intended direction of flow of any foreign
liquids, gases or substances into the distribution system of a public water
supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device to counteract back pressure or prevent
back siphonage.
CITY: The City of Franklin or its authorized agent.
CITY HEALTH OFFICER: The Health Officer of the City, or his authorized agent.
CONTAMINATION: The entry into or presence in public water supply of any
substance which may be deleterious to health and/or quality of the water.
CROSS-CONNECTION: Any physical arrangement whereby a public water supply is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water supply system, sewer,
drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture or other device which
contains or may contain contaminated water, sewage, or other waste or liquids
of unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of introducing contamination
to the public water supply as a result of backflow.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: Any system or water supply intended or used for human
consumption or other domestic uses, including source, treatment storage,
transmission and distribution facilities, where water is furnished to any
collection or number of individuals, or is made available to the public for
human consumption or domestic use.
SUPERINTENDENT: The Public Works Superintendent of the City or his authorized
agent. (Ord. 21, 9-2-1980; amd. 1999 Code)
5-3A-3: CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED; RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Cross-Connection Prohibited: No water service connection to any
premises shall be installed or continued in use by the City unless the water
supply is protected by backflow prevention devices as may be required by the
Article. The installation or maintenance of cross-connection which will
endanger the water quality of the potable water supply of the City shall be
unlawful and is prohibited. Any such cross-connection now existing or hereafter
installed is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and the same shall be
abated.
   B.   Control Or Elimination: The control or elimination of cross-connections
shall be in accordance with this Article together with the latest addition of
appropriate manuals of standard practice pertaining to the cross-connection
control approved by the State of Idaho. The Superintendent shall have the
authority to establish requirements more stringent than State regulations if he
deems that the conditions so dictate. The City shall adopt rules and
regulations as necessary to carry out the provisions of this Article. (Ord. 21,
9-2-1980; amd. 1999 Code)
5-3A-4: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES; REQUIRED:
Backflow prevention devices shall be installed at the ties on the premises or
the materials used in connection with service connection or within any premises
where, in the judgment of the City, the nature and extent of the activities, or
the materials stored on the premises, would present an immediate and dangerous
hazard to health and/or be deleterious to the quality of the water should a
cross-connection occur; even though such cross-connection does not exist at the
time backflow prevention devices shall be installed under circumstances,
including but not limited to the following: (Ord. 21, 9-2-1980; amd. 1999 Code)
   A.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply.
   B.   Premises having internal cross-connection that are not correctable, or
intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to ascertain whether
or not cross-connections exist.
   C.   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross-
connection cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficient frequency
or at sufficiently short notice to assure that cross-connections do not exist.
   D.   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished.
   E.   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply, or where a cross-connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters.
   F.   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled in
such a way that if back siphonage should occur, a serious health hazard might
result.
   G.   The following types of facilities will fall into one of the above
categories where a backflow prevention device is required to protect the public
water supply. A backflow prevention device shall be installed at these
facilities:
      1.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics.
      2.   Laboratories.
      3.   Metal plating industries.
      4.   Sewage treatment plants.
      5.   Food or beverage processing plants.
      6.   Chemical plants using a water process.
      7.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
      8.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
      9.   Others specified by the State of Idaho. (Ord. 21, 9-2-1980)
   H.   Other premises, as specified by the Superintendent, where backflow
prevention devices are required to protect the public water supply. (Ord. 21,
9-2-1980; amd. 1999 Code)
5-3A-5: TYPES OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   An air-gap separation or a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed where the public water supply may be
contaminated with sewage, industrial waste of a toxic nature, or other
contaminant which could cause a health or system hazard.
   B.   In the case of a substance which may be objectionable but not hazardous
to health, a double check valve assembly, air-gap separation, or a reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed. (Ord. 21, 9-
2-1980)
5-3A-6: INSTALLATION OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   Backflow prevention devices required by this Article shall be installed
at the meter, at the property line of the premises when meters are not used, or
at a location designated by the City. The device shall be located so as to be
readily accessible for maintenance and testing, and furthermore, where no part
of the device will be submerged.
   B.   Backflow prevention devices required by this Article shall be installed
under the supervision of and with the approval of the City.
   C.   Any protective device required by this Article shall be a model
approved by the Superintendent. A double check valve assembly or a reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device will be approved if it has
successfully passed performance tests of the State or other testing
laboratories satisfactory to the State and the Superintendent. These devices
shall be furnished and installed by and at the expense of the customer.
   D.   Backflow prevention devices installed pursuant to this Article, except
atmospheric vacuum breakers, shall be inspected and tested annually, or more
often if necessary. Inspections, tests and maintenance shall be at the
customer's expense. Whenever the devices are found to be defective, they shall
be repaired, overhauled or replaced at the customer's expense. Inspections,
tests, repairs and records thereof shall be accomplished under the City's
supervision by certified testers.
   E.   Failure of the customer to cooperate in the installation, maintenance,
testing or inspection of backflow prevention devices required by this Article
shall be grounds for terminating water service to the premises, or, in the
alternative the installation of an air-gap separation at the customer's
expense. (Ord. 21, 9-2-1980; amd. 1999 Code)
5-3A-7: UNDERGROUND SPRINKLING DEVICES:
No underground sprinkling device will be installed without adequate backflow
prevention devices at the point from which the water for irrigation is taken
from the public water supply. (Ord. 21, 9-2-1980)
5-3A-8: INSTALLATION PERMITS:
If cross-connection control device(s) are found to be necessary the owner of
the property served must apply to the City for a specific installation permit.
(Ord. 21, 9-2-1980; amd. 1999 Code)
5-3A-9: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Inspection Required: No water shall be delivered to any structure
hereafter built within the City or within areas served by City water until the
same shall have been inspected by the City for possible cross-connections and
been approved as being free of same.
   B.   Backflow Prevention Devices Required For Hazardous Facilities: Any
construction for industrial or other purposes which is classified as hazardous
facilities pursuant to subsection 5-3A-4G of this Article, where it is
reasonable to anticipate intermittent cross-connections, or as determined by
the Superintendent, shall be protected by the installation of one or more
backflow prevention devices at the point of service from the public water
supply or any other location designated by the City.
   C.   Periodic Inspections: Inspections shall be made periodically of all
buildings, structures, or improvements of any nature now receiving water
through the City's system, for the purpose of ascertaining whether cross-
connections exist. Such inspections shall be made by the City. (Ord. 21, 9-2-
1980; amd. 1999 Code)
5-3A-10: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
In the event an improper cross-connection is not corrected within the time
limit set by the Superintendent, or, in the event the City is refused access to
any property for the purpose of determining whether or not cross-connections
exist, delivery of water to the property shall cease until the deficiency is
corrected to the City's satisfaction. In addition, the City may effect the
necessary repairs or modifications at the expense of the property owner and
refuse delivery of water to the property until the cost thereof shall have been
paid. (Ord. 21, 9-2-1980; amd. 1999 Code)
5-3A-11: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to comply with, or
resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this Article or the rules
and regulations as adopted by the City, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall for each offense be subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 21, 9-2-1980; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
5-4-3: Private Sewage Disposal
5-4-4: Building Sewers And Connections
5-4-5: Use Restrictions
5-4-5-1: Discharge Of Effluent
5-4-5-2: Prohibited Substances
5-4-5-3: Materials Under Special Review
5-4-5-4: Interceptors And Grease Traps
5-4-5-5: Preliminary Treatment
5-4-5-6: Industrial Wastes
5-4-5-7: Measurements, Tests And Analyses
5-4-5-8: Special Agreements
5-4-6: Rates And Charges
5-4-7: Industrial Cost Recovery
5-4-8: Protection From Damage
5-4-9: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
5-4-10: Violations; Penalties
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: Part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which
received the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewers, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building walls.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from any nongovernmental user of publicly
owned treatment works identified in the "Standard Industrial Classification
Manual", 1972, office of management and budget, as amended and supplemented
under the following divisions:
   A.   Division A - agriculture, forestry and fishing.
   B.   Division B - mining.
   C.   Division D - manufacturing.
   D.   Division E - transportation, communications, electric, gas and sanitary
services.
   E.   Division I - services.
A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined that it will
introduce primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
association, society, corporation or group.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of
sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SHALL/MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration
of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds, for any period of
duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times the average
twenty four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
STORM DRAIN OR STORM SEWER: A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and
drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted
cooling water.
SUPERINTENDENT: The Superintendent of Public Works of the City or his
authorized deputy, agent or representative, or other person or persons
designated by the City.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are renewable by
laboratory filtering.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 26, 7-5-1983)
5-4-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Discharge Of Garbage, Wastes: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any
natural outlet within the City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
City, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste,
except as otherwise provided by City ordinance.
   B.   Discharge Of Sewage, Polluted Waters: It shall be unlawful to discharge
to any natural outlet within the City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the City, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this Chapter.
   C.   Privies And Septic Tanks: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be
unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool
or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   Connection To Public Sewer: The owner of all houses, buildings or
properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes,
situated within the City and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in
which there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or
combined sewer of the City, is hereby required at his expense to install
suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly
with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter,
within six (6) months after Franklin City sewer system is functional; provided,
that said public sewer is within three hundred feet (300') of the property
line. (Ord. 26, 7-5-1983)
5-4-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Private System Required: Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is
not available under the provisions of subsection
5-4-2D of this Chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Permit Requirements; Fee: Before commencement of construction of a
private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit
signed by the Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on
a form furnished by the City, which the applicant shall supplement by any
plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
shall be paid to the City at the time the application is filed.
   C.   Inspection: A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not
become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within forty
eight (48) hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   D.   Construction Specifications: The type, capacities, location and layout
of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of
the Department of Health and Welfare of the State of Idaho, and the
Southeastern District Health Department. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   E.   Connection To Public Sewer:
      1.   At such time a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in subsection
5-4-3D of this Chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this Chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned.
      2.   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within sixty (60) days.
   F.   Responsibility Of Owner: The owner shall operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no
expense to the City.
   G.   Provisions Nonlimiting: No statement contained in this Chapter shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by
law. (Ord. 26, 7-5-1983)
5-4-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
Superintendent.
      2.   Classification Of Permits; Fee: There shall be two (2) classes of
building sewer permits: a) for residential and commercial service, and b) for
service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the
owner or his agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the
City. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications
or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for
an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the City at the time the
application is filed.
   B.   Separate Sewers Required: A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building; except where one building stands at the
rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
   C.   Use Of Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test
by the superintendent, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   D.   Construction Specifications:
      1.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of
the city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and WPCF manual of practice no. 9 shall apply.
      2.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
   E.   Connections To Public Sewers:
      1.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
superintendent or his representative.
      2.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF manual of practice no. 9.
All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from
the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the superintendent
before installation.
   F.   Excavations: All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   G.   Surface Water Runoff: No person shall make connection of roof
downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of
surface runoff or ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   H.   Liability Of Owner: All costs and expense incident to the installation
and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner
shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer. (Ord. 26,
7-5-1983)
   I.   Design Standards For Sewage Lift Stations And Pressure Force Main
Sewers:
      1.   Pumping Facilities: Public lift stations must meet established
minimum standards, and are considered a special feature, and will only be
allowed on an individual case by case basis. Lift stations shall be sized such
that they serve a service area, not necessarily only the proposed development.
The following design standards are intended to be used at a minimum. These
standards generally apply to typical residential lift stations. Additional
requirements may be mandated or required by the city as necessary on a case by
case basis, but prior to approval of the final construction plans. The
facilities must also meet, at a minimum, Idaho department of environmental
quality requirements and standards. The terms provided, installed, and
furnished are intended to include all appurtenances to provide an operation or
complete product.
      2.   Design Plans, Specifications And Submittals:
         a.   One copy of all plans and specifications for facilities to be
installed under these standards shall be furnished to the city of Franklin for
review. Upon approval, four (4) copies shall be submitted to the city of
Franklin to be forwarded to the Idaho department of environmental quality for
review and approval. Upon approval, two (2) originals will be returned to the
applicant when approved and will bear evidence of such approval by the
signature of the Idaho DEQ and the city of Franklin or designated
representative. One copy will be retained by the Idaho DEQ, and one by the
city.
         b.   Provide detailed electrical and control system plans, HVAC plans,
force main plans, lift station building and all appurtenances plans, and odor
control plans.
         c.   Any revisions or deviations from the approved plans and/or
specifications shall be reviewed and approved by the city. Significant
deviations shall be approved by both the city and the Idaho DEQ.
         d.   Complete submittals shall be provided to the city for review and
approval prior to the purchasing of equipment or fabrication. Submittals shall
include, at minimum, drawings, product data, manufacturers specifications.
         e.   O&M manuals shall be provided which include information on
general operation and maintenance, owner's manuals, parts lists, etc.
Information for all mechanical and electrical items shall be provided. Provide
six (6) copies in 3-ring binders.
      3.   Wet Well:
         a.   Aluminum hatches with safety rails shall be provided. Hatches
shall be capable of supporting two (2) workers, and have a recessed, lockable
hasp/latch.
         b.   Dry and wet wells must have direct outside ventilation.
         c.   Buoyancy problems, trash of grease traps, and corrosion control
should be considered and described.
         d.   Calculations showing buoyancy potential and proper ballasting
shall be provided, also the factor of safety used.
         e.   Calculations showing average and peak flow for the present and
design conditions, as well as wet well configuration, wet well size, pump size,
system head curves, head losses, static head, dynamic head, etc., shall be
provided.
         f.   Check valves and control valves shall not be located in the wet
well.
         g.   The lift station shall be equipped with an electric chain hoist,
with stainless steel chain of sufficient length, for installation and removal
of the pumps. It shall be mounted on a trolley and suspended above the wet well
opening.
         h.   The wet well floor should have a minimum slope of three to one
(3:1) to the pumps.
         i.   Wet well ventilation should provide at least twelve (12) complete
air changes per hour. For intermittent operation, at least thirty (30) changes
per hour should be provided.
         j.   All pipe penetrations shall be properly sealed and grouted to
prevent any infiltration.
         k.   All bolts and fasteners shall be manufactured from stainless
steel.
         l.   All metal appurtenances inside the wet well shall be stainless
steel, aluminum, or coated to prevent corrosion.
         m.   Two (2) fall protection harnesses and two (2) self-retracting
lanyards shall be provided. A point of connection to the ceiling capable of
supporting a worker shall also be provided.
         n.   The storage capacity of the wet well shall be sized to provide
thirty (30) minutes' response time during projected peak hourly flows between
the high water elevations and overflow conditions at the nearest manhole or
dwelling sewer stub.
      4.   Valve Vault:
         a.   Aluminum hatch(es) with safety rails shall be provided. Hatches
shall be capable of supporting two (2) workers (traffic rated if in a traffic
area). Adequate size or quantities of hatches shall be located above control
and check valves to allow easy installation and removal with minimum side to
side movement of the valves.
         b.   The vault shall have direct outside ventilation.
         c.   The vault shall be equipped with ladder rungs.
         d.   The vault shall have a drain connected to the wet well. The floor
shall slope toward the drain. The outlet of the drain piping to the wet well
shall be fitted with a flap valve.
         e.   Check valves shall be of the ball check type.
         f.   Each discharge line shall be fitted with a valve and ball check
valve.
         g.   Resilient seat gate valves, or plug type valves may be used and
shall be equipped with hand wheels.
         h.   Gate valves shall not be used for throttling.
         i.   All pipe penetrations shall be properly sealed and grouted to
prevent any infiltration.
         j.   All piping and all fittings shall be flanged ductile iron and all
piping shall be properly supported.
      5.   Force Main:
         a.   At design flow, average velocity of four feet (4') per second
shall be maintained.
         b.   Water pressure pipe with a pressure class of two hundred (200)
psi or greater shall be used. The line, fittings, and reaction blocking shall
be designed to withstand normal pressure and pressure surges. The pipe shall be
green in color, or of a color and markings that distinguish it as a sewer.
         c.   The force main sewer shall be constructed to applicable state
standards, and follow all requirements for separation from potable water lines.
         d.   The force main should be constructed on a slight slope. High
spots on the force main should be avoided. In locations where this is not
feasible, an air release/vacuum valve shall be installed in a manhole.
         e.   Force mains should enter the gravity sewer at a point equal to
the flow of the gravity sewer, but in no case more than two feet (2') above the
flow line of the receiving manhole.
         f.   The force main shall have at least five feet (5') of cover.
         g.   The construction plans shall show a profile for the force main.
      6.   Generator, Electrical, Plumbing, Mechanical:
         a.   Backup Generator:
            (1)   All lift stations shall be fitted with an emergency standby
generator with automatic transfer switch.
            (2)   The backup generator shall be capable of providing full load
plus peak startup requirements for all electrical devices in the lift station.
            (3)   Size, voltage, and fuel will be dependent on station design
criteria and location characteristics.
            (4)   Proper ventilation, cooling, heating, and noise deadening
shall be provided.
            (5)   Generators shall be supplied with an enclosed/internal
exhaust system.
            (6)   The generator shall be housed within the lift station.
            (7)   Generator, other than natural gas fueled, shall be provided
with forty eight (48) hours of fuel storage at continuous full load operation.
The storage tank shall conform to all applicable regulations. Before acceptance
by the city, the fuel tank shall be full.
            (8)   Final design and specification of the unit shall be approved
by the city.
         b.   Electrical:
            (1)   Lift Station Control Panel(s): Lift station control panel(s)
shall include, at a minimum, the following items:
               (A)   All wires are to be labeled and numbered with heat shrink
labels.
               (B)   All contacts and relays shall be pin type. Blade type is
not allowed.
               (C)   All panel labels for internal devices such as contactors,
circuit breakers, and relays, shall be rigid phenolic plastic laminate, and are
to be engraved and riveted to the panel door. Background shall be black, and
lettering shall be white.
               (D)   One spare set of fuses are to be provided.
            (2)   Electrical Lighting: The lift station shall have sufficient
indoor electrical lighting. Exterior lighting on all four (4) sides of the
building shall also be provided. Sufficient quantities of electrical outlets
shall also be provided.
            (3)   Alarm:
               (A)   An automatic dialer capable of dialing up to four (4)
numbers shall be provided. The dialer must be capable of monitoring at least
four (4), four (4) to twenty (20) mA channels. The dialer shall be Microtel,
Omegaphone, or as approved by the city, and be housed in an enclosure.
               (B)   Visual alarm shall be strobe type and red in color.
         c.   Plumbing:
            (1)   A one inch (1") hydrant with a three-fourths inch (3/4") hose
bib, hose, and industrial quality hose rack shall be provided in the wet well
room for washing down the wet well.
            (2)   All water services shall include reduced pressure zone
backflow prevention devices.
            (3)   Facilities for washing hands shall be provided, and shall
include a commercial quality/size sink in the wet well room.
            (4)   A water heater shall be provided.
         d.   Mechanical:
            (1)   The lift station shall be equipped with an electric heater(s)
of sufficient size to maintain a temperature of seventy degrees Fahrenheit
(70°F) in all rooms and be thermostatically controlled.
            (2)   Adequate ventilation shall be provided for all pump stations
to provide for recommended air exchanges as well as ventilation of the
building. The ventilation shall be thermostatically controlled. Intake louvers/
dampers shall be motorized, and operate in tandem with the ventilation. All
louvers shall seal tight. Louvers shall also be equipped with guards, bird
screens, etc.
         e.   Flow Meter: A flow meter shall be provided. Sigma 950 area
velocity meter is the meter used by the city.
         f.   Lift Station Startup: On site startup training shall be provided
by the equipment supplier (factory trained) to the city employees responsible
for operation of the lift station. The objective of the startup and training is
to assure that the equipment is operating per the manufacturer's
specifications, and to provide common working knowledge concerning operation of
the system. Training shall include one 3-hour training session provided at the
completion of startup.
      7.   Pumps And Motors:
         a.   The following design concepts must be observed unless
justification supporting other concepts is provided:
            (1)   For reliability, complete redundancy of all necessary
equipment must be provided. At least two (2) pumps shall be provided. Each
individual pump shall be able to handle flows in excess of the expected maximum
flow. Pumps shall be of the nonclog type, and be capable of pumping raw,
unscreened wastewater. Provisions shall be made to alternate the pumps in use.
            (2)   Design flows shall include minimum daily, average daily,
maximum daily, and peak hourly. The flows shall be used to verify the operating
characteristics of the lift station.
            (3)   Pumps shall be rated explosionproof and meet national
electrical code (NEC) requirements.
            (4)   Lift station must handle maximum (peak) design flows without
largest pump unit in service.
            (5)   Lift station must be safe from flooding.
            (6)   Pumps shall operate on 3-phase power. The design engineer
shall recommend either two hundred forty (240) volt or four hundred sixty (460)
volt and provide calculations and/or rationale for the selection and the long
term pumping costs for each.
            (7)   Each pump shall be provided with an elapsed time meter.
            (8)   Pumps shall be equipped with seal failure detection/
notification with amber "push to test" pilot light.
            (9)   Pumps shall be removable without entering the wet well.
            (10)   Pumps shall be provided with one set of common spare parts
and seals.
            (11)   Pumps shall be capable of passing a three inch (3") diameter
sphere.
            (12)   Pumps shall be controlled through a "hand off auto" selector
switch, and have red and green indicator lights. The indicator lights shall be
of the "push to test" type.
         b.   Pumps shall be compatible and of the same make as other pumps
used by the city. Alternate manufacturers will be used at the sole discretion
of the city.
         c.   Provide pump curves with system curves superimposed.
         d.   Pump control shall be provided by means of Siemens Milltronics
HydroRanger 200 Ultrasonic Level Controller, with full float switch system
backup. A high level override float shall also be provided. It shall be
configured for two (2) pump alternating operation based on level as indicated
on the drawings, with high and low level alarm outputs. Provide one handheld
programming unit with the level controller.
         e.   Pumps shall operate on an automatic alternating use basis.
      8.   Odor Control:
         a.   Odor control shall be provided. Two (2) methods are approved,
biological and activated carbon. Provide justification for the form of odor
control selected, and the sizing thereof, for approval by the city. Regardless
of the method selected, continuous ventilation/circulation shall be provided by
means of a variable speed electric blower as allowed by the odor control
manufacturer.
      9.   Building:
         a.   A buffer zone of at least twenty five feet (25') should be
established between the lift station fence and its surrounding environment.
         b.   No portion of the site shall be within the floodway zone. All
parts of the station and the access roadway shall be located two feet (2')
above the 100-year floodplain elevation as shown on FEMA FIRM maps.
         c.   The lift station site, including all slabs, equipment, and
utilities shall be enclosed in an industrial duty chainlink (with top rail)
security fence with a twelve foot (12') wide (two 6-foot wide) gate. All items
located within the fenced area shall be at least five feet (5') from the fence.
         d.   A hard surfaced drive, fifteen feet (15') in width shall be
provided from the road, to and along all doors.
         e.   The building shall be constructed of split face concrete masonry
block with an insulated metal roof. Block color and roof color shall be
selected by the city.
         f.   The wet well shall be housed in a room separate from the
electrical controls, generator and odor control units.
         g.   Exterior doors to the wet well room shall have at least a ten
foot (10') tall opening, and be of adequate width to facilitate easy handling
of the pumps and equipment. (Ord. 2008-3-12, 3-12-2008)
5-4-5: USE RESTRICTIONS:
5-4-5-1: DISCHARGE OF EFFLUENT:
No person shall discharge any stormwater, surface water, ground water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted
industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer. (Ord. 26, 7-5-1983)
5-4-5-2: PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES:
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   A.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   B.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes
to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard
to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited to,
cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter (2 mg/l) or CN in the wastes as
discharged to the public sewer.
   C.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works.
   D.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, diapers,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders. (Ord. 26, 7-5-1983)
5-4-5-3: MATERIALS UNDER SPECIAL REVIEW:
   A.   Prohibited Substances: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged the following described substances, materials, waters or wastes if
it appears likely in the opinion of the superintendent that such wastes can
harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse
effect on the receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public
property or constitute a nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the
acceptability of these wastes, the superintendent will give consideration to
such factors as to quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of
the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent
factors. The substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      2.   Any water or waste containing fats, gas, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100) mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between thirty two degrees
(32°) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) .
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
superintendent.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectional or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the superintendent for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the State, Federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction of such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the superintendent in
compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations.
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      9.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      10.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   B.   Options Available To Superintendent: If any waters or wastes are
discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to the public sewers, which waters
contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in subsection
A of this Section and which, in the judgment of the superintendent, may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the superintendent may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
section
5-4-6 of this chapter.
If the superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the superintendent, and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances and laws. (Ord. 26, 7-5-1983)
5-4-5-4: INTERCEPTORS AND GREASE TRAPS:
   A.   Interceptors Required: Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
provided when, in the opinion of the superintendent, they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
superintendent, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. (Ord. 26, 7-5-1983; amd. Ord., 8-30-2006)
   B.   Grease Traps Required: Whenever a building is used as a hotel, boarding
house, or restaurant, the owner or occupant shall provide a properly
constructed grease trap through which all wastes of a greasy nature shall be
drained. The city shall conduct periodic inspections that will be done by city
personnel to make sure the system is working properly. (Ord., 8-30-2006)
5-4-5-5: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT:
Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided for any
waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his expense. (Ord. 26, 7-5-1983)
5-4-5-6: INDUSTRIAL WASTES:
When required by the superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and
shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times. (Ord.
26, 7-5-1983)
5-4-5-7: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of
Water And Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (Ord. 26, 7-5-1983)
5-4-5-8: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the industrial concern.
(Ord. 26, 7-5-1983)
5-4-6: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Sewer Connection Fee:
      1.   After the Franklin city sewer system becomes functional, a fee shall
be charged by the city for any new connections onto the public sewer system,
which fee shall be in addition to all other fees contained herein.
      2.   The sewer connection fee shall be paid in advance of connection at
the city office, and the amount of said fee shall be set from time to time by
resolution of the city council.
      3.   Wastewater (sewer) connections will only be approved for a
particular parcel of property and are not transferable.
   B.   Sewer Use Rates:
      1.   The monthly sewer service rate for using the sewer system shall be
paid every month at the Franklin city office, and the rates and time for
payment for use of the system by users hereunder shall be set from time to time
by resolution of the city council.
      2.   The city sewer system will have no vacation on charges.
      3.   If sewer charges are not paid upon billing or thirty (30) days
thereafter, city water service may be discontinued by the city, in addition to
all other remedies of the city, which remedies are specifically reserved to the
city.
   C.   Wastewater Sewer Districts:
      1.   The current gravity flow collection system for wastewater in the
city of Franklin, including any extension or modification thereto by gravity
flow users, shall be charged for sewer service at the standard monthly rate as
set and amended from time to time by resolution of the city council.
All properties connected to the city wastewater system where wastewater can
flow using only the force of gravity, shall be included in the "G" or gravity
flow district of the city wastewater treatment system.
      2.   Any connection, extension or modification of the city wastewater
treatment system which requires a pump, lift, or means other than the force of
gravity for wastewater to flow, shall be charged the standard monthly rate as
set and amended by resolution of the city council from time to time, plus an
additional charge per month to cover the expense for operation and maintenance
of pumping and/or lift stations, including a capital improvement reserve
specifically for that district of the city's wastewater treatment system.
All properties connected to the city wastewater system requiring a pump, lift,
or any other means other than the force of gravity in order for wastewater to
flow, shall be included in the "P" or pump district of the city wastewater
treatment system. (Ord., 11-12-2014)
5-4-7: INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY:
   A.   Grant Repayment: All industrial users shall be required to pay that
portion of the federal assistance grant under PL 92-500 allocable to the
treatment of waste from such users.
   B.   Repayment Program: The system for industrial cost recovery shall be
implemented and maintained according to the following requirements:
      1.   Each year during the industrial cost recovery period, each
industrial user of the treatment works shall pay its share of the total federal
grant amount divided by the recovery period.
      2.   The industrial cost recovery period shall be equal to thirty (30)
years or the useful life of the treatment works, whichever is less.
      3.   Payments shall be made by industrial users no less often than
annually. The first payment by an industrial user shall be made no later than
one year after such user begins use of the treatment works.
      4.   An industrial user's share shall be based on all factors which
significantly influence the cost of the treatment works, such as strength,
volume and flow rate characteristics. As a minimum, an industry's share shall
be based on its flow versus treatment works' capacity except in unusual cases.
      5.   An industrial user's share shall be adjusted when there is a
substantial change in the strength, volume or flow rate characteristics of the
user's wastes or if there is an expansion or upgrading of the treatment works.
      6.   An industrial user's share shall not include any portion of the
federal grant amount allocable to unused or unreserved capacity.
      7.   An industrial user's share shall include any firm commitment to the
city of increased use by such user.
      8.   An industrial user's share shall not include an interest component.
   C.   Applicability: This requirement applies only to those features of
wastewater treatment and transportation facilities which have been constructed
with federal assistance administered by the U.S. environmental protection
agency under PL 92-500. (Ord. 26, 7-5-1983)
5-4-8: PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct. (Ord. 26, 7-5-1983)
5-4-9: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   Access To Premises; Confidentiality Respected: The superintendent and
other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. The superintendent or his representatives shall
have no authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical,
chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point
having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or
waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
   B.   Company Held Harmless: While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to in subsection A of this section, the superintendent or
duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable
to the premises established by the company and the company shall be held
harmless for injury or death to the city employees and the city shall indemnify
the company against loss or damage to its property by city employees and
against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain safe conditions as required in section
5-4-5-6 of this chapter.
   C.   Easements On Private Property: The superintendent and other duly
authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification
shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds
a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 26,
7-5-1983)
5-4-10: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter except
section
5-4-8 of this chapter shall be served by the city with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. (Ord. 26, 7-5-1983)
   B.   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in subsection A of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, on conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. Each day in which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 26, 7-5-1983; amd.
1999 Code)
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city by
reason of such violation. (Ord. 26, 7-5-1983)
CHAPTER 5
STORMWATER DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Purpose
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Design Requirements
5-5-4: Required Hydrologic Methodology
5-5-5: Hydraulic Calculations
5-5-1: PURPOSE:
These design standards provide the required stormwater design criteria and
methodology to be utilized for all public and private development and
redevelopment required. Any deviations from these criteria shall be reviewed
and approved, only if adequate, by the City Engineer in writing prior to
initiating and again before finalizing the design or bidding the project. Where
any deviations may also affect a canal company or irrigation ditch, a written
approval of the canal company shall also be required before the designs will be
approved and before bidding the project.
All designs must utilize and comply with the most current edition of the Idaho
Standards for Public Works Construction (ISPWC). (Res. 2019-5-08, 5-8-2019,
eff. 5-8-2019)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
CERTIFIED PERCOLATION TEST: A saturated soil percolation test completed in
accordance with Idaho Administrative Code, IDAPA 41.03.01 with the exception
that the test shall extend 2.0 feet below the bottom of the proposed invert of
the pond. These tests shall be done in accordance with the certification
requirements by a "qualified individual".
DEQ: Department of Environmental Quality.
DETENTION: The detaining or holding of water on site and releasing the water
from the site into a pipeline, channel, or other water bodies at a slower rate
than would otherwise occur.
DETENTION BASIN: A pond or basin, either above ground or below, that catches
the stormwater runoff from a contributing area and uses the detention process.
EM 1110-2-1601: Engineering and Design - Hydraulic Design of Flood Control
Channels, CECW-EH-D, U.S. Army Corp of Engineers, June 1994.
EPA: United States Environmental Protection Agency.
HEC-11: Design of Rip-Rap Revetment, Hydraulic Engineering Circular No. 11,
U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration (FHWA-IP-89-
016, March 1989).
HEC-22: Urban Drainage Design Manual, Hydraulic Engineering Circular No. 22,
U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration (FHWA-SA-96-
078, August 2001).
HISTORICAL RUNOFF FLOW: The runoff that has historically flowed off of a given
piece of land in the specified storm frequency and duration prior to
development, either in the land's pre- development agricultural (to be
calculated as grass pasture in good condition) or native condition.
ISPWC: Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction.
NOI: A notice of intent to construct permit obtained from the DEQ which is
required for all construction on areas greater than or equal to 1.0 acre.
NOT: A notice of termination to construction submitted to the DEQ upon the
stabilization of seventy percent (70%) of the project site that required a NOI.
PWD: Public Works Department.
RETENTION: The retaining or keeping of water on site and preventing its release
from the site by any method other than infiltration or evaporation.
RETENTION BASIN: A pond that is built to capture and retain the design storm on
site and dispose of it through infiltration.
RETURN FREQUENCY: The frequency or likelihood of a storm occurring. A 100-year
storm has a one percent (1%) chance of occurring in any given year while a 10-
year storm has a ten percent (10%) chance of occurring in any given year. This
should never be interpreted as happening only once every one hundred (100) or
ten (10) years for the two (2) given examples.
SWPPP: A stormwater pollution prevention plan which is required on any
construction site.
SPREAD WIDTH: The width of water flow as measured from the flow line of the
gutter into the asphalt.
STORM EVENT: The event and hyetograph that define the design volume of
precipitation, duration of the storm, intensity of the storm, and the pattern
in which the precipitation falls.
STREAM ALTERATION PERMIT: A permit that is obtained through the Idaho
Department of Water Rights and is necessary anytime construction impacts a
stream, wetland, riparian zone, or other water body defined as the waters of
the U.S.
UNDERGROUND INJECTION/RETENTION SYSTEM: A system designed to be fully
underground and to dispose of water, entirely or in part, through infiltration.
These require a special permit from the DEQ known as a Class 5 injection well
permit.
UNDERGROUND INJECTION WELL: A facility, such as a pressured injection well,
free draining injection well, sump, or other buried underground facility that
infiltrates or injects surface water into the subsurface or groundwater system
to eliminate surface runoff.
WETLANDS MITIGATION, OR 404, PERMIT: A permit obtained through the U.S. Army
Corp of Engineers which allows the wetlands to be impacted and provides for
required mitigation before the project can be approved. (Res. 2019-5-08, 5-8-
2019, eff. 5-8-2019)
5-5-3: DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All projects, irrespective of the size or type, shall meet these
requirements. Where projects are governed by a State or Federal agency, their
standards shall take precedence. All designs shall be in compliance with the
PWD.
Subsequent sections identify the required methodology based upon the size and
type of the project.
      1.   Stormwater Submittals:
         a.   Submittals Required: Every submittal shall include the
calculations in the following table based on contributing stormwater runoff
source area.
   STORMWATER SUBMITTALS REQUIRED
 
Contributing Areas                      Requirements
                                        Pollution Control Plan (see subsection
                                        A2 of this section)
Less than 1.0 acre disturbed and not     
part of a common plan of development    Hydrologic checklists and summary
                                        calculations required on checklist
                                         
                                        LID and BMP selection checklist
                                        SWPPP
                                         
                                        Hydrologic report and copy of
                                        checklists, with associated
Greater than 1.0 acre disturbed or part calculations for each drainage basin
of a common plan of development          
                                        Water quality/treatment requirements
                                        checklist
                                         
                                        LID and BMP selection documentation and
                                        checklist
 
      2.   Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan: Stormwater pollution
prevention plans (SWPPP) are required on all projects in PWD boundaries and
every project must comply with PWD standards and specifications, whether
approved by the PWD or not. The following table summarizes the requirements of
the SWPPP.
   SWPPP REQUIREMENTS
 
Contributing Area Size               Minimum Requirements
                                     A pollution control plan that will
                                     address at a minimum the control and
                                     prevention of the following: erosion and
                                     sediment; dust; debris and garbage;
                                     concrete washout and excess material,
                                     wastewater from washout and cleanout of
                                     stucco, paint, form release oils, curing
                                     compounds or other construction
Less than 1.0 acre and not part of a materials; soaps, solvents or detergents
common plan of development           used in vehicle or equipment washing; and
                                     toxic or hazardous substances from spills
                                     or other releases. Each pollution control
                                     plan shall also include an inspection and
                                     maintenance plan, record keeping and
                                     training, and final stabilization. These
                                     can be on a standard design sheet as
                                     detailed notes with supporting details or
                                     a standalone document
                                     A full SWPPP using the EPA template
                                     downloadable from the EPA at the
                                     following web site:
1.0 acre and larger or less than 1.0  
acre and part of a common plan of    https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/
development                          files/2016-01/sw _swppp_
                                     template_authstates.doc
                                      
                                     All elements in the SWPPP document must
                                     be included in the submittal
 
      3.   Irrigation Canals And Systems: Every existing irrigation ditch or
canal has played a part of the City stormwater facilities from the settling of
the community. When the canals were built, they delivered water from the river
and intercepted stormwater runoff from uphill naturally. However, when the
canals flooded, there were not houses at risk back then. Now, with ongoing
development, these conditions have changed. Design of storm drainage systems
using the canals have special requirements as a result and must be approved by
not only the City, but also the canal company serving the area of question.
The PWD requires that irrigation ditches and canals that deliver irrigation
water be preserved to deliver the water to the water users and to allow access
to the ditch or canal for maintenance.
All irrigation canals, pipes, ditches, channels, structures, diversions, and
other portions of the system shall be designed for the full range of base flows
including historical maximum flows, historical minimum flows, and the full
water right flow. Then the channel shall have the upstream storm drain inflows
and irrigation return flows added to the model to ensure that all future
systems have sufficient capacity. These design flows must be approved by the
associated canal company or irrigation ditch owners in writing and the City
Engineer.
         a.   Water Right Flows: The design flow will be the maximum flow
allowed by the canal water rights. Flows down laterals and distribution ditches
shall be obtained in accordance with the agreements between the City and the
canal companies. Obtain the water righted flows and the lateral flows directly
from the canal companies. These must be documented in a letter signed by an
authorized canal company representative to be accepted by the City. Primary
canal company contacts are available from the City.
         b.   Return Flows: Many of the canals receive return flows from the
upstream canals. This can seriously complicate the stormwater design since many
people turn off their irrigation water and simply pass it down the ditch during
storms. This can result in major flooding issues on some canals, even without
any stormwater entering the canals. When designing a section of the canal, it
shall be necessary to take the return flows into consideration and to discuss
them with the canal companies. Again, the agreed upon flows must be obtained in
accordance with the canal agreements with the City.
      4.   Storm Event (Frequency And Duration Requirements): All stormwater
facilities associated with projects shall be designed in accordance with the
following table.
   STORM EVENT FREQUENCY AND DURATION DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
 
              Temporary    Permanent                          Rainfall Depths
Contributing  Construction Construction BMPs Design Storm     At KVNU Radio
Area Size     BMPs Design  Design Frequency  Duration         Station
              Frequency
                                             Retention/
                                             infiltration: 48
Less than 1.0 2-year       100-year          hours
acre                                                         24-hour,
                                             All other BMPs:   
                                             24 hours         2-year: 1.46"
                                             Retention/       10-year: 2.04"
1.0 acre and                                 infiltration: 48 25-year: 2.41"
less than 640 2-year       100-year          hours            50-year: 2.71"
acres                                                        100-year: 3.02"
                                             All other BMPs:   
                                             24 hours         48-hour,
                                                               
                                             Retention/       2-year: 1.68"
                                             infiltration: 48 10-year: 2.33"
640 acres and              10-year, 25-year, hours            25-year: 2.75"
larger        2-year       50-year, and 100-                 50-year: 3.08"
                           year              All other BMPs:  100-year: 3.42"
                                             24 hours
 
Existing development shall be required to construct stormwater facilities to
meet the new stormwater design criteria at the time of redevelopment or
reconstruction of any facilities. However, the return frequency and design
duration may be modified under extreme conditions at the direction of the City
Engineer with approval of the agency managing the receiving waters in writing.
      5.   Allowable Stormwater Discharge: There are two (2) criteria related
to the allowable discharge that shall be met by all projects. Any exceptions to
this requirement shall be evaluated and approved on a case by case basis using
the methodology provided in this document and other equivalent water quality
treatments shall be utilized. Approval by the ISPWS is required before any
deviations are allowed.
         a.   Mandatory Onsite Management: All new development and re-
development, including roads, shall be designed to manage the 90th percentile
rainfall event as defined in the following tables. The entire volume of the
90th percentile storm that falls on the site shall be infiltrated, evaporated,
and/or harvested (not exceeding amounts allowed by Idaho Department of Water
Rights).
   90th PERCENTILE STORM DEFINITIONS IN CACHE VALLEY
 
                Logan Radio KVNU UT Logan UT         Logan 5 SW Experimental
Gauging Station U.S.                State University Farm UT U.S.
                                    UT U.S.
Depth           0.60 inches         0.66 inches      0.63 inches
Elevation       4,505 feet          4,778 feet       4,491 feet
 
   90th PERCENTILE DESIGN CRITERIA BY PWD
 
PWD      90th Percentile Criteria
         Elevation <4,642: Use 0.60 inches (KVNU)
Franklin  
         Elevation >4,642: Use 0.66 inches (UT State University)
 
Under conditions where the 90th percentile storm cannot be managed on site, the
designer shall provide a stormwater design report that shall document the
following:
            (1)   Why the 90th percentile storm cannot be managed on site.
            (2)   Provide an alternative design rationale that maximizes all of
the following:
               (A)   Infiltration,
               (B)   Rain harvesting as allowed by the Idaho Department of
Water Rights,
               (C)   Evapotranspiration.
         b.   Maximum Allowable Discharge: Most of the stormwater in Cache
Valley discharges to irrigation ditches and canals before reaching the rivers
and streams. However, the ditches and canals are not designed to carry the
increase in flows and are at risk of flooding both private and public property.
Through negotiations with the canal companies, the following flow rate
restrictions have been agreed upon:
            (1)   The stormwater runoff leaving the site during the one percent
(1%) (100-year) event shall not exceed the lesser of:
               (A)   Discharge prior to development (historical runoff flow),
or
               (B)   0.2 cfs per acre.
            (2)   All stormwater calculations shall include the following:
               (A)   A calculation of historical/predevelopment flow rate. This
is defined as the flow rate off of an irrigated pasture in good condition using
the NRCS curve number methodology defined in subsection A3 of this section.
(i) If the historical/predevelopment flow rate is greater than 0.2 cfs/acre,
then the maximum allowable discharge is 0.2 cfs/acre.
(ii) If the historical/predevelopment flow rate is less than 0.2 cfs/acre, then
the historical/predevelopment flow rate is the maximum allowable discharge.
               (B)   A calculation of the post-construction flow rate and
volume. If the post-construction flow rate, after the removal of the 90th
percentile storm in subsection A5a of this section, exceeds the maximum
allowable discharge, additional detention or retention of flows shall be
included in the design until the discharge is reduced to not more than the
maximum allowable discharge.
            (3)   The locations of the stormwater discharge shall not be
altered without permission. This is interpreted to mean that the ditches or
canals receiving the discharge cannot be changed without express approval of
the managers of the receiving ditches or canals.
      6.   Water Quality/Treatment Requirements And Possible BMPs: The City
desires to "ensure that any stormwater controls or management practices for new
development and redevelopment will prevent or minimize impacts to water
quality. BMPs must be selected that address pollutants known to be discharged
or anticipated to be discharged from site." The BMPs and procedures included in
this section summarize the design requirements for the most common BMPs. The
following table summarizes many of the pollutants of concern based on expected
land use.
   PRIMARY POLLUTANTS OF CONCERN
 
Pollutant Source    Potential          Actual Pollutant    Narrative
                    Pollutant Material                     Requirement
                    Organic trash such                     Limit:
                    as leaves, grass                        
                    trimmings,                             Total phosphorus
                    decomposing        Phosphorus,         <0.07 mg/L
Residential yard    vegetation, and    nitrogen, BOD, E.    
runoff              animal waste       coli, pesticides,   Total nitrogen <6
                                      herbicides, and     mg/L
                    Application of     other chemicals      
                    fertilizers,                           BOD5 <5 mg/L
                    pesticides, and                         
                    herbicides                             E. coli <126
                                                           Limit:
                                                              
                                                           Total phosphorus
                                                           <0.07 mg/L
                                                            
                                                           Total nitrogen <6
                                                           mg/L
                                                            
                                                           BOD5 <5 mg/L
                    Oils, fuel, fuel                        
                    combustion         TDS, TSS,           E. coli <126
Roadway and parking byproducts, salt,  phosphorus,          
lots                sediment, garbage  nitrogen, petroleum TDS <1,200 mg/L
                    and trash          products, trash      
                                                           TSS cause <10 NTU
                                                           increase in
                                                           receiving water
                                                            
                                                           TSS <70 mg/L
                                                            
                                                           Petroleum cause no
                                                           sheen
                                                            
                                                           Trash cleaned up
                                                           Limit:
                                                            
                                                           Total phosphorus
                                                           <0.07 mg/L
                                                            
                                                           Total nitrogen <6
                    Organic trash such                     mg/L
                    as leaves, grass                        
                    trimmings,                             BOD5 <5 mg/L
                    decomposing                             
                    vegetation, and    TDS, TSS,           E. coli <126
                    animal waste       phosphorus,          
                                      nitrogen, petroleum TDS <1,200 mg/L
Commercial malls,   Application of     products, trash,     
industrial parks    fertilizers,       BOD, E. coli,       TSS cause <10 NTU
                    pesticides, and    pesticides,         increase in
                    herbicides         herbicides, and     receiving water
                                      other chemicals      
                    Oils, fuel, fuel                       TSS <70 mg/L
                    combustion                              
                    byproducts, salt,                      Petroleum cause no
                    sediment, garbage                      sheen
                    and trash                               
                                                           Trash cleaned up
                                                            
                                                           Other chemicals
                                                           related to the
                                                           specific industry at
                                                           no discharge
                                                           Limit:
                                                            
                                                           Total phosphorus
                                                           <0.07 mg/L
                                                            
                                                           Total nitrogen <6
                                                           mg/L
                                                            
                                                           BOD5 <5 mg/L
                    Oils, fuel, fuel   Petroleum products,  
                    combustion         trash, BOD, E.      E. coli <126
Retail gasoline     byproducts, salt,  coli, pesticides,    
outlets             sediment, garbage  herbicides, and     TDS <1,200 mg/L
                    and trash          other chemicals      
                                                           TSS cause <10 NTU
                                                           increase in
                                                           receiving water
                                                            
                                                           TSS <70 mg/L
                                                            
                                                           Petroleum cause no
                                                           sheen
                                                            
                                                           Trash cleaned up
                    Organic trash such                     Limit:
                    as leaves, grass                        
                    trimmings,                             Total phosphorus
Large grassed areas decomposing        Phosphorus,         <0.07 mg/L
(parks, churches,   vegetation, and    nitrogen, BOD, E.    
etc.) and golf      animal waste       coli, pesticides,   Total nitrogen <6
courses                               herbicides, and     mg/L
                    Application of     other chemicals      
                    fertilizers,                           BOD5 <5 mg/L
                    pesticides, and                         
                    herbicides                             E. coli <126
                                                           Limit:
                                                            
                                                           Total phosphorus
                                                           <0.07 mg/L
                                                            
                                                           Total nitrogen <6
Animal operations                      Phosphorus,         mg/L
(feed lots,                            nitrogen, BOD, E.    
veterinary clinics, Animal wastes      coli, pesticides,   BOD5 <5 mg/L
research                               herbicides, and      
facilities)                            other chemicals     E. coli <126
                                                            
                                                           TSS cause <10 NTU
                                                           increase in
                                                           receiving water
                                                            
                                                           TSS <70 mg/L
 
      7.   Required LID And BMP Selection: The City desires to "ensure that all
stormwater controls or management practices for new development and
redevelopment will prevent or minimize impacts to water quality. BMPs must be
selected that address pollutants known to be discharged or anticipated to be
discharged from site." As part of the selection of BMPs, the designer is to
evaluate and utilize LID methods that infiltrate, evapotranspire, or harvest
and use stormwater on site to protect water quality. The BMPs and procedures
included in this section summarize the design requirements for the most common
BMPs.
         a.   Mandatory LID Evaluation: Each project shall be evaluated for the
use of LID approach which encourages the implementation of BMPs that
infiltrate, evapotranspire or harvest and use stormwater on site to protect
water quality. The evaluation shall use and shall include both structural and
non-structural BMPs. If the designer determines that an LID approach cannot be
utilized, the designer shall document and explain the reasons that LID will not
work on the specific site and provide the rationale for the chosen alternative
controls that will be used to obtain the same water quality objectives. This
evaluation shall be completed on a case by case basis. As a minimum, the
evaluation shall document:
            (1)   Why LID will not work.
            (2)   Rationale for the chosen alternative controls on a case by
case basis for each project.
         b.   Mandatory LID Included On All Projects:
            (1)   Development In Riparian Areas:
               (A)   Riparian areas are defined as being within seventy five
feet (75') of centerline of stream drainage a basin larger than one square
mile, and land within twenty five feet (25') of stream centerline for streams
that drain areas of one square mile or less.
               (B)   All structures shall maintain a setback of twenty five
feet (25') from the top of the stream bank within a riparian area.
               (C)   No more than fifty percent (50%) of the land area within
the riparian area may be disturbed, including grading, clearing, grubbing, tree
removal, etc. All disturbed areas shall be revegetated within sixty (60) days
of initial disturbance.
               (D)   Trees larger than twelve inches (12") dbh shall not be
removed from the riparian area unless they are considered a hazard tree,
diseased or dead.
            (2)   Open Space Preservation:
               (A)   Open space is an area of land or water that may be used
for passive or active recreation, agriculture, conservation, landscaped areas,
preservation of the natural environment, scenic land, and/or other similar
uses.
               (B)   Minimum open space by development type shall include:
                  (i) Residential: Twenty percent (20%).
                  (ii) Commercial: Ten percent (10%).
                  (iii) Industrial: Ten percent (10%).
               (C)   A permanent restrictive covenant in the form of a
perpetual conservation easement shall be placed upon open space land requiring
its maintenance as open space.
            (3)   Land Designation As A Resource Conservation Zone:
               (A)   The Resource Conservation Zone includes lands protected
from development such as highly productive agricultural lands, areas of high
visual value, and critical environmental resources especially including lands
critical to protecting the water quality of our rivers and streams. Much of
this land would be wetlands.
               (B)   This zone is intended to maintain the vegetation in this
area.
            (4)   Landscaping:
               (A)   Refer to the City's Development Code.
         c.   Infiltration BMPs:
            (1)   At Grade Retention/Infiltration Basins:
               (A)   All retention basins shall be sized to meet the
requirements of this section and to contain one hundred percent (100%) of
project site runoff from the design storm.
               (B)   Side slopes shall not be steeper than 3:1 (H:V).
               (C)   The maximum depth of the pond shall be three feet (3')
plus one foot (1') of freeboard above the emergency overflow and a maximum
water depth of three feet (3') below the emergency overflow. All other ponds
require special design, approval, and permitting including safety precautions
on a case by case situation.
               (D)   All ponds shall be stabilized with rocks or planted
vegetation to prevent internal erosion. Vegetation or other stabilization shall
be maintained.
               (E)   All ponds shall drain within three (3) days (72 hours)
from the end of the storm event. This is to be documented with a certified
percolation test of the native sub-grade material and the material placed
during construction, and documented in the soils report.
               (F)   Emergency overflows and the flow path of the overflows
shall be mapped for purpose of flooding.
               (G)   The emergency overflow shall be designed to pass the full
100-year event.
               (H)   Other utilities (for example water lines, sewer lines, gas
lines, power lines, phone lines, etc.) shall not be allowed through the
retention pond or within five feet (5') of the pond berms.
               (I)   The invert or lowest point in the pond shall be not less
than twelve inches (12") above the historically highest groundwater levels.
               (J)   The bottom of the pond shall be finished to maintain
historical infiltration.
            (2)   Underground Retention/Infiltration Systems:
               (A)   Underground buried retention and injections systems are
not allowed in Drinking Water Source Protection Zones 1 and 2.
               (B)   Underground systems shall provide adequate access points
for cleaning and maintenance of the underground chambers.
               (C)   All systems shall drain by infiltration within three (3)
days (72 hours) from the end of the storm event. This is to be documented with
a certified percolation test and documented in the soils report.
               (D)   Sumps shall provide adequate water quality treatment to
prevent contamination of the groundwater aquifer.
               (E)   Emergency overflows and the flow path of the overflows
shall be mapped for purpose of flooding and flood insurance requirements.
               (F)   The emergency overflow shall be designed to pass the full
100-year event.
               (G)   Other utilities (for example water lines, sewer lines, gas
lines, power lines, phone lines, etc.) shall not be allowed through or under
the underground retention system.
               (H)   Registration with the DEQ of a Class 5 injection well
permit are required for all underground retention/infiltration systems.
            (3)   Infiltration Trenches:
               (A)   Infiltration trenches are not allowed in Drinking Water
Source Protection Zones 1 and 2.
               (B)   Infiltration trenches shall provide adequate access points
for cleaning and maintenance underground piping.
               (C)   Infiltration trenches shall drain by infiltration within
three (3) days (72 hours) from the end of the storm event to provide adequate
storage for a subsequent event. This is to be documented with a certified
percolation test and documented in the soils report.
               (D)   Infiltration trenches shall have adequate water quality
treatment to prevent contamination of the groundwater aquifer.
               (E)   Emergency overflows and the flow path of the overflows
shall be mapped for purpose of flooding and flood insurance requirements.
               (F)   The emergency overflow shall be designed to pass the full
100-year event.
               (G)   Other utilities (for example water lines, sewer lines, gas
lines, power lines, phone lines, etc.) shall not be allowed through or under
the infiltration trenches.
               (H)   Registration of Class 5 injections well permits are
required for all infiltration trenches.
            (4)   Infiltration Swales:
               (A)   Side slopes shall not be steeper than 4:1 (H:V).
               (B)   The maximum depth of the pond shall be one foot (1').
               (C)   All ponds shall be landscaped per landscaping
requirements. Vegetation or other stabilization shall be maintained.
               (D)   All swales shall drain within three (3) days (72 hours)
from the end of the storm event. This is to be documented with a certified
percolation test of the native sub-grade material and the material placed
during construction and documented in the soils report.
               (E)   Emergency overflows and the flow path of the overflows
shall be mapped for purpose of flooding to ensure all emergency overflows are
to the PWD drainage system.
               (F)   The invert or lowest point in the pond shall be not less
than twelve inches (12") above the historically highest groundwater levels.
               (G)   The bottom of the pond shall be finished to maintain
historical infiltration.
            (5)   Permeable Pavements: Permeable (or pervious) pavements
contain small voids that allow water to pass through to a stone base. They come
in a variety of forms; they may be modular paving system (concrete pavers,
modular grass or gravel grids) or poured in place pavement (porous concrete,
permeable asphalt). All permeable pavements with a stone reservoir base treat
stormwater to remove sediments and metals to some degree by allowing stormwater
to percolate through the pavement and enter the soil below. All permeable
pavement systems shall be designed to ensure that water in the pavement and the
rocks below completely infiltrate into the soil within seventy two (72) hours.
            (6)   Injection Wells (Sumps):
               (A)   Injection wells also known as sumps are not allowed in
Drinking Water Source Protection Zones 1 and 2.
               (B)   Injection wells shall provide adequate access points for
cleaning and maintenance underground piping.
               (C)   Injection wells shall drain by infiltration within three
(3) days (72 hours) from the end of the storm event to provide adequate storage
for a subsequent event. This is to be documented with a certified percolation
test and documented in the soils report.
               (D)   Injection wells shall have adequate water quality
treatment to prevent contamination of the groundwater aquifer.
               (E)   Emergency overflows and the flow path of the overflows
shall be mapped for purpose of flooding and flood insurance requirements.
               (F)   The emergency overflow shall be designed to pass the full
100-year event.
               (G)   Registration of Class 5 injections well permits are
required for all infiltration trenches.
         d.   Stormwater Harvesting:
            (1)   The stormwater harvesting will be reviewed by the City and
DEQ on a case by case basis.
         e.   Natural Filters: Natural filter facilities are landscaped shallow
depressions that capture and filter stormwater runoff. As stormwater passes
down through the planting soil, pollutants are filtered, adsorbed, and
biodegraded by the soil and plants. Because they are not contained within an
impermeable structure, they may allow for infiltration.
Projects that have demonstrated they cannot manage one hundred percent (100%)
of the water quality design volume onsite through infiltration and/or
stormwater harvesting BMPs may manage the remaining volume through the use of a
high removal efficiency natural filter BMP. A high removal efficiency natural
filter BMP shall be sized to adequately capture 1.5 times the volume not
managed through infiltration and/or capture and use.
            (1)   Bio-Filters: Most natural filter systems can be classified as
biofilters. They normally consist of a ponding area, mulch layer, planting
soils, plants, and in some cases an underdrain. Runoff that passes through a
biofiltration system is treated by the natural absorption and filtration
characteristics of the plants, soils, and microbes with which the water
contacts.
            (2)   Rain Gardens: Rain gardens are simply gardens designed to
capture and treat runoff. They are generally small in size and should not be
used to treat impervious areas exceeding four thousand (4,000) square feet.
Rain gardens most often utilize native plant species and soil amendments to
encourage absorption of stormwater. For projects with impervious areas
exceeding four thousand (4,000) square feet biofilters, planter boxes with
infiltration, vegetated swales or natural buffer strips should be considered.
            (3)   Planter Boxes With Infiltration: Planter boxes with
infiltration are natural filtration treatment control measures located in and
around structures and facilities to handle larger volumes of water than a
typical rain garden. They typically are constructed with vertical or near
vertical sides and above ground. They can be equipped with underdrains if
necessary. Planter boxes with infiltration should maintain setbacks from
adjacent buildings, other structures, sidewalks or roadways.
            (4)   Vegetated Swales: Vegetated swales are open, shallow channels
with dense, low-lying vegetation covering the side slopes and bottom that
collect and slowly convey runoff to downstream discharge points. An effective
vegetated swale achieves uniform sheet flow through the densely vegetated area
for a period of several minutes. The vegetation in the swale can vary depending
on its location and is the choice of the designer. Most swales are grass-lined.
            (5)   Filter Or Buffer Strips: Filter strips are vegetated areas
designed to treat sheet flow runoff from adjacent impervious surfaces such as
parking lots and roadways, or intensive landscaped areas such as golf courses.
While some assimilation of dissolved constituents may occur, filter strips are
generally more effective in trapping sediment and particulate-bound metals,
nutrients, and pesticides. Filter strips are more effective when the runoff
passes through the vegetation and thatch layer in the form of shallow, uniform
flow. Filter strips are primarily used to pretreat runoff before it flows to an
infiltration BMP or another natural filtration BMP.
         f.   Man-Made Treatment:
            (1)   Planter Boxes: Planter boxes are bioretention treatment
control measures that are completely contained within an impermeable structure
with an underdrain (they do not infiltrate). They are similar to bioretention
facilities with underdrains except they are situated at or above ground and are
bound by impermeable walls. Planter boxes may be placed adjacent to or near
buildings, other structures, or sidewalks.
            (2)   Hydrodynamic Separators: Hydrodynamic separators are
stormwater management devices that work primarily based on vortex and gravity
principles to separate stormwater from the pollutants. They are generally
designed as flow-through systems with either on-line or off-line storage of
pollutants. They include chambers for settling and storage of pollutants and
are often used in conjunction with other BMPs as pretreatment. They are not
especially effective for the removal of fine materials or dissolved pollutants.
On-line separators are more susceptible to scour or re-suspension of pollutants
than systems that incorporate off-line storage.
         g.   Settlement Systems: Settlement systems are used to store and
settle out sediment using Stokes Law. This approach does not infiltrate,
harvest, or evaporate sufficient water. However, it can be used in combination
with other BMPs to ensure treatment of water above the 90th percentile storm to
ensure water quality requirements and the flow requirements of the canal
companies are met.
            (1)   At Grade Detention Basins:
               (A)   Side slopes shall not be steeper than 3:1 (H:V).
               (B)   The maximum depth at the emergency overflow location of
the pond shall be three feet (3') plus one foot (1') of freeboard above the
emergency overflow and a maximum water depth of three feet (3') below the
emergency overflow. All other ponds require special design, approval, and
permitting including safety precautions on a case by case situation.
               (C)   All ponds shall be stabilized with rocks or planted
vegetation to prevent internal erosion. Vegetation or other stabilization must
be maintained.
               (D)   Where orifice and snouts are used, the orifice size is
limited to not less than three inches (3") in diameter to prevent clogging.
               (E)   Emergency overflows and the flow path of the overflows
shall be mapped to natural streams, canals, or City approved drainage system
for purpose of flood mapping using existing topographic mapping.
               (F)   The emergency overflow shall be designed to pass the full
100-year event.
               (G)   Other utilities (for example water lines, sewer lines, gas
lines, power lines, phone lines, etc.) shall not be allowed through the
detention pond or within five feet (5') of the pond berms.
               (H)   The invert or lowest point in the pond shall be not less
than twelve inches (12") above the historically highest groundwater levels
(whichever is higher).
               (I)   The bottom of the pond shall be finished to maintain
historical infiltration.
            (2)   Underground Detention Systems:
               (A)   Underground systems shall provide adequate access points
for cleaning and maintenance.
               (B)   All detention systems shall drain by discharge (detention
basins) within three (3) days (72 hours) from the end of the storm event. This
is to be documented.
               (C)   Emergency overflows and the flow path of the overflows
shall be mapped for purpose of flooding and flood insurance requirements.
               (D)   The emergency overflow shall be designed to pass the full
100-year event.
               (E)   Other utilities (for example water lines, sewer lines, gas
lines, power lines, phone lines, etc.) shall not be allowed through or under
the underground retention system.
      8.   Curb And Gutter Flow Design:
         a.   The flow depth in the gutter shall not be allowed to exceed the
lesser of the top back of curb elevation (TBC) or the peak drive way approach
elevation during the required storm event. This includes a combination of
piping, curb and gutter, and ditches.
         b.   Where the flow depth is exceeded, storm drain inlets and a piped
system shall be required and appropriate actions taken to eliminate overtopping
of the curbs and flooding private property.
      9.   Channel Design:
         a.   Channel side slopes shall not be steeper than 3:1 (H:V) unless
they are concrete. Where they are incorporated into landscaping, flatter slopes
shall be required. This will be evaluated on a case by case basis.
         b.   Channel velocities shall be slow enough to prevent scour, and
where possible, facilitate further settlement of sediments unless the channel
is used to deliver irrigation water as well. If the channel will also carry
irrigation water, maintain velocities above two feet (2') per second if
possible, but at no time exceed four feet (4') per second.
         c.   Where rip-rap is used, design shall be in accordance with EM-1110
from the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers or HEC-11 from the Federal Highway
Administration.
         d.   Freeboard on the channels shall be in compliance with the Bureau
of Reclamation, Design of Small Canal Structures.
         e.   Channel maintenance easements shall be maintained as required in
the City and canal company agreements.
      10.   Pipe Design:
         a.   For stormwater pipes, roughness coefficients listed in the table
included in section
5-5-5 of this chapter that coincide with the accepted pipe materials in the
City's Standard Specifications, most current edition shall be used.
         b.   Maintain velocities in the pipes at design flows sufficient to
prevent sediment deposition and low enough to prevent scour damage to the pipe.
         c.   Pipe outlets shall have a flared end discharge unless more
stringent methods of energy dissipation are required.
         d.   Minimum diameter of storm drains shall be:
            (1)   Twelve inches (12") for laterals;
            (2)   Fifteen inches (15") for trunk lines;
            (3)   Eighteen inches (18") under the ITD right-of-way.
         e.   Pipe sizes shall not decrease in the downstream direction.
         f.   Maximum flow depth in the pipe during the design storm shall not
exceed 0.85 times the diameter of the pipe. (Res. 2019-5-08, 5-8-2019, eff. 5-
8-2019)
5-5-4: REQUIRED HYDROLOGIC METHODOLOGY:
   A.   Methods And Procedures:
      1.   Design Methodology: The following table summarizes the required
methods based on the area contributing flows to the system, including offsite
flows. The rational equation is not allowed for design of Best Management
Practices.
   HYDROLOGIC METHODS REQUIRED
 
Contributing Area (Acres) Methodology Required
                          SCS method with calculated time of concentration.
Less than 10.0 acres      Time of concentration shall not be less than 5
                          minutes
                          SCS method. The time of concentration can be
                          calculated or hydrodynamic solutions may be used. If
Greater than 10.0 acres   hydrodynamic solutions are used, the model must be
                          provided to the PWD for detailed review of all
                          assumptions and data used
 
      2.   Design Hyetographs: The following table summarizes the hyetograph
which shall be used during the design.
   REQUIRED DESIGN HYETOGRAPH
 
Contributing Area (Acres) Methodology Required
Less than 10.0 acres      SCS type II storm
10.0 acres or larger      SCS type II storm or other acceptable hyetograph with
                          special approval
 
      3.   Hydrologic Procedures: The SCS method, as developed in TR-55 by the
Soil Conservation Service in the 1950s, requires the designer to address the
soil conditions, vegetative cover, and the antecedent soil condition (AMC)
being evaluated.
         a.   SCS Soil Conditions: Soil maps and references available from the
Natural Resource Conservation Service will identify the group associated with
each soil class. However, the designer needs to consider the effects of the
final landscaping, such as the use of top soil, as part of his design.
There are four (4) primary soil conditions available in the SCS method, grouped
as A, B, C, and D.
Group A soils typically are gravels and sands with fast infiltration rates and
low runoff potential. While there are group A soils on some of the benches and
along the rivers in some places, as soon as any landscaping with topsoil
occurs, the stormwater benefit is lost. Unless specific LID design is
incorporated to maintain the infiltration potential of these soils, final
landscaping will require a different soil group.
Group B soils have moderate infiltration rates when wetted and consist of
moderately well drained soils with moderately fine to coarse textures,
typically without clay.
Group C soils have slow infiltration rates if thoroughly wetted and consist of
soils that have a layer that impedes vertical infiltration.
Group D soils have a slow infiltration rate if thoroughly wetted and consist of
clays, usually with high swelling potential, soils with a permanent high-water
table, soils with a clay pan or hard pan layer near the surface, and shallow
soils over an impervious material.
         b.   Antecedent Soil Conditions: In addition to the soil group, the
antecedent moisture condition (AMC) must also be considered. For the average
case, the SCS has defined AMC II to apply as the definition of the conditions
preceding most annual floods. For this purpose, AMC II will be used for all PWD
approved projects.
Upon selecting the soil group, the appropriate curve number can be selected
from various standard references and text books. A common free reference is the
HEC-HMS Technical Reference Manual which can be downloaded from the Army Corp
of Engineers HEC website. Runoff coefficients are subject to approval by the
City Engineer.
         c.   Runoff Coefficients: PWD has established standard runoff
coefficients that shall be used to ensure compatibility of results from the
base model and each individual project. Calculations differing from these
values shall be returned to the design professional for corrections.
   REQUIRED RUNOFF COEFFICIENT (CN)
Condition Soil Group A Soil Group B Soil Group C Soil Group D
Condition                   Soil Group A Soil Group B Soil Group C Soil Group D
Asphalt                     98           98           98           98
Concrete pavement           98           98           98           98
Grassed open space (grass   39           61           74           80
cover >75%)
Grassed open space (grass   49           69           79           84
cover 50% - 75%)
Graveled areas              76           85           89           91
Woods and forested areas    25           55           70           77
(good condition)
Residential lots1, less     77           85           91           94
than 1/4 acre
Residential lots1, 1/4 acre 61           75           83           87
to 1/2 acre
Commercial business areas1  89           92           94           95
Industrial areas1           81           88           91           93
 
   Note:
       1.    Where the weighted values are too cumbersome to calculate, or
insufficient data is available outside of the project area, use these values.
         d.   Time Of Concentrations Calculations: There are numerous equations
for calculating the time of concentrations. While many may be applicable to
various locations, the following table identifies the methods that shall be
used in determining the time of concentrations within the PWD areas.
   TIME OF CONCENTRATION CALCULATIONS
 
Larger Of
Contributing Area Sheet Flow          Open Channel Flow    Piped Flow
Or Project Area
(Acres)
Less than 10.0    Calculated per HEC- Calculated per HEC-  Calculated per HEC-
acres             22                  22                   22
10.0 acres or     Coordinate with     Coordinate with City Coordinate with City
larger            City Engineer       Engineer             Engineer
 
(Res. 2019-5-08, 5-8-2019, eff. 5-8-2019)
5-5-5: HYDRAULIC CALCULATIONS:
   A.   Hydraulic calculations shall be used for sizing pipes and open channels
associated with the total design flows.
      1.   Channel Design: Channels shall be designed with a trapezoidal cross
section using roughness coefficients associated with the final restored
condition. The Manning's equation methodology shall be used for sizing and
considering the associated backwater impacts from downstream conditions.
Computer software can be used to calculate the channel size, but sufficient
data and results shall be provided to validate the procedure, assumptions, and
conclusions.
      2.   Pipe Design: For design of pipes and culverts, the designer shall
demonstrate that the pipes meet the standard design requirements using
Manning's equation for open channel flow and standard culvert calculation
procedures to determine inlet and outlet control conditions. Full pipe flow
designs are not allowed for gravity systems. For stormwater pressure mains from
pump stations, either the Hazen-Williams or Darcy-Weisbach equations will be
allowed. Roughness coefficients and assumptions shall be in accordance with the
following table selected from various references.
   MANNINGS COEFFICIENTS FOR PIPE
 
Material                         Roughness "n"
Smooth interior HDPE or ADS pipe 0.010
Corrugated metal pipe (CMP)      0.024
Concrete                         0.013
PVC                              0.010
 
The design and sizing may be done manually or with the use of computer
software. However, the results must be provided as part of the submittal review
process.
      3.   Spread Width Calculations: Spread width calculations and depth of
flow in the gutters shall be completed in accordance with HEC-22 methodology
developed by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA). These calculations can
be completed using numerous available software or manually. However, the
calculations must be documented and provided to the City for review for the
design storms.
(Res. 2019-5-08, 5-8-2019, eff. 5-8-2019)
CHAPTER 6
PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW) PRETREATMENT PROGRAM
SECTION:
5-6-1: Purpose And Scope
5-6-2: Definitions
5-6-3: Legal Authority And Enforcement
5-6-3-1: Legal Authority
5-6-3-2: Control Mechanisms
5-6-3-3: General Control Mechanisms For Similar Industrial Users
5-6-3-4: Monitoring And Inspection
5-6-4: Enforcement And Penalties
5-6-4-1: Remedies For Non-Compliance
5-6-4-2: Confidentiality
5-6-5: Industrial User Reporting Requirements
5-6-5-1: Reporting Obligations
5-6-6: Water Sampling Requirements
5-6-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   This Chapter establishes the legal authority for the City of Franklin,
Idaho, to implement and enforce a Pretreatment Program for the Publicly Owned
Treatment Works (POTW), consistent with sections 307(b), 307(c), and 402(b)(8)
and (9) of the Clean Water Act and the regulations outlined in 40 CFR 403. The
purpose is to regulate the discharge of pollutants into the POTW to protect the
wastewater treatment process, ensure compliance with the National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit, and prevent harm to human health,
property, and the environment.
(Ord. 2024-11-13, 11-13-2024)
5-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The following definitions apply to terms used in this Chapter:
   POTW: The Publicly Owned Treatment Works owned and operated by the City of
Franklin, Idaho.
   INDUSTRIAL USER (IU): A source of indirect discharge that introduces
pollutants into the POTW from a non-domestic source.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU): Any industrial user that meets the
criteria defined under 40 CFR 403.3(v).
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS: The standards under Section 307(b) and (c) of the
Clean Water Act, including both categorical and local limits.
(Ord. 2024-11-13, 11-13-2024)
5-6-3: LEGAL AUTHORITY AND ENFORCEMENT:
5-6-3-1: LEGAL AUTHORITY:
   The City of Franklin, Idaho, shall operate under the authority provided by
Federal, State, and local law to implement and enforce all pretreatment
requirements of the Clean Water Act and 40 CFR 403. This includes the authority
to:
   A.   Deny or condition new or increased contributions of pollutants to the
POTW by industrial users that do not meet applicable Pretreatment Standards or
cause violations of the POTW’s NPDES permit.
   B.   Require compliance by industrial users with all applicable Pretreatment
Standards and Requirements.
   C.   Issue individual or general control mechanisms (permits, orders, or
equivalent) for the contribution of pollutants by significant industrial users
to ensure compliance.
   D.   Require industrial users to develop compliance schedules and submit
required reports and monitoring data to demonstrate adherence to pretreatment
standards.
   E.   Inspect, monitor, and enter any industrial premises as necessary to
ensure compliance.
   F.   Obtain remedies for non-compliance, including injunctive relief, civil,
or criminal penalties of at least $1,000 per day per violation.
   G.   Ensure confidentiality of any proprietary information, consistent with
40 CFR 403.14.
(Ord. 2024-11-13, 11-13-2024)
5-6-3-2: CONTROL MECHANISMS:
   For industrial users, the POTW shall issue control mechanisms that are
enforceable and contain, at a minimum:
   A.   A statement of the control mechanism’s duration (not to exceed five
years).
   B.   Conditions of non-transferability without prior notice and provision of
a copy of the existing mechanism to any new owner/operator.
   C.   Effluent limits and Best Management Practices based on general
Pretreatment Standards, local limits, and state and federal law.
   D.   Self-monitoring, sampling, and reporting requirements, identifying the
pollutants to be monitored, sampling locations, and frequency.
   E.   Civil and criminal penalties for violations, along with any applicable
compliance schedules.
   F.   Provisions for controlling Slug Discharges, if deemed necessary by the
POTW.
(Ord. 2024-11-13, 11-13-2024)
5-6-3-3: GENERAL CONTROL MECHANISMS FOR SIMILAR INDUSTRIAL USERS:
   At the POTW’s discretion, significant industrial users with similar
operations, discharge types, and effluent limits may be subject to a general
control mechanism, provided they meet the following conditions:
   A.   AU facilities involved must discharge similar types of waste and
require similar effluent limitations and monitoring.
   B.   The significant industrial user must file a written request for
coverage under the general control mechanism, including details of production
processes, waste monitoring, and requests for any monitoring waivers.
(Ord. 2024-11-13, 11-13-2024)
5-6-3-4: MONITORING AND INSPECTION:
   The POTW shall establish procedures to:
   A.   Monitor industrial discharges, including the authority to enter
industrial premises, inspect facilities, and access records as required under
Section 308 of the Clean Water Act.
   B.   Conduct surveillance and sampling independently of industrial users to
verify compliance with Pretreatment Standards.
(Ord. 2024-11-13, 11-13-2024)
5-6-4: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
5-6-4-1: REMEDIES FOR NON-COMPLIANCE:
   In the event of non-compliance with any applicable Pretreatment Standards or
requirements, the City of Franklin, Idaho, shall have the authority to:
   A.   Seek injunctive relief, enforce civil and criminal penalties, or both,
in amounts not less than $1,000 per violation per day.
   B.   Immediately halt any discharge that presents an imminent threat to
human health, safety, or the environment.
   C.   Halt any discharge that may interfere with the POTW’s operations or
result in environmental endangerment.
(Ord. 2024-11-13, 11-13-2024)
5-6-4-2: CONFIDENTIALITY:
   A.   The City of Franklin, Idaho, shall maintain the confidentiality of
industrial user information, particularly trade secrets and proprietary data,
in compliance with 40 CFR 403.14.
   B.   Disclosure of such information shall be limited to regulatory
authorities as required.
(Ord. 2024-11-13, 11-13-2024)
5-6-5: INDUSTRIAL USER REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
5-6-5-1: REPORTING OBLIGATIONS:
   Industrial users must submit all reports necessary to assess compliance with
applicable Pretreatment Standards, including but not limited to:
   A.   Baseline monitoring reports.
   B.   Compliance schedule progress reports.
   C.   Periodic compliance reports, including self-monitoring data, as
required under 40 CFR403.12.
(Ord. 2024-11-13, 11-13-2024)
5-6-6: WATER SAMPLING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Sampling for Significant Industrial Users (SIUs):
      1.   Frequency: SIUs must conduct water sampling at least twice per year
(semi-annually) or more frequently as specified in their individual or general
control mechanisms, depending on the nature of the discharge.
      2.   Sampling Location: All samples must be taken at a designated
compliance sampling point prior to the discharge entering the POTW but after
treatment processes at the industrial facility.
      3.   Sample Type: Sampling must include both composite samples (collected
over a period of time) and grab samples (single samples taken at a specific
time) to capture a representative profile of the discharge.
   B.   Sampling for Contaminants: The following contaminants must be monitored
for industrial users, and the corresponding allowable concentrations (which
shall not be exceeded) are provided below. Local limits must be revised as
necessary to comply with NPDES permit requirements and state regulations.
Contaminant Allowable Concentration (mg/L) Sampling Method
Contaminant                      Allowable Concentration (mg/L) Sampling Method
Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD5) 300 mg/L (local limit)         Composite
Total Suspended Solids (TSS)     350 mg/L (local limit)         Composite
pH                               6.0 to 9.0 SU (standard units) Grab
Oil and Grease                   100 mg/L                       Grab
Ammonia (as N)                   20 mg/L (local limit)          Composite
Total Phosphorus                 10 mg/L (local limit)          Composite
Arsenic                          0.10 mg/L                      Grab
Cadmium                          0.05 mg/L                      Grab
Chromium (Total)                 1.0 mg/L                       Grab
Copper                           1.0 mg/L                       Grab
Lead                             0.10 mg/L                      Grab
Mercury                          0.0002 mg/L                    Grab
Nickel                           1.0 mg/L                       Grab
Zinc                             2.0 mg/L                       Grab
Cyanide (Total)                  0.10 mg/L                      Grab
 
   Note: Limits for toxic pollutants such as arsenic, mercury, and cyanide
maybe adjusted based on applicable federal or state categorical pretreatment
standards. All applicable categorical pretreatment standards set by the EPA
under 40 CFR Parts 405- 471 will be followed.
   C.   Additional Sampling Requirements:
      1.   Slug Discharge Control: In cases where slug discharges are a
concern, the POTW may require additional sampling for specific pollutants.
Industrial users must notify the POTW immediately in the event of a slug
discharge.
      2.   Monitoring Waivers: Industrial users may request a monitoring waiver
for a specific pollutant if they can demonstrate that the pollutant is neither
present nor expected to be present in the discharge. The waiver must be
approved by the POTW in writing, in accordance with 40 CFR 403.12(e)(2).
   D.   POTW Monitoring:
      1.   The POTW shall independently sample and monitor industrial
discharges to verify compliance with the pretreatment standards. This may
include both scheduled and unscheduled monitoring events.
      2.   Annual Sampling: At least once per year, the POTW will conduct its
own sampling of each significant industrial user (SIU) to ensure compliance
with the local limits and applicable pretreatment standards.
(Ord. 2024-11-13, 11-13-2024)
TITLE 6
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL BUILDING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Labor Camps
6-1-2: Sanitary Services
6-1-3: Tracked Mud And Debris
6-1-1: LABOR CAMPS:
   A.   Labor Camps Prohibited: The establishment of camps or the erection of
living quarters and structures within the limits of the city, for the housing
and use of transient laborers in seasonal agricultural or factory employment,
is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Nuisance Declared: Any such camp, living quarters or structure
mentioned in subsection A of this section is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance and the same may be removed by order of the city council. (Ord. 126,
2-17-1960; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-1967)
   C.   Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and each day that the condition prohibited by subsection A
of this section continues shall constitute a separate offense against this
section. (Ord. 126, 2-17-1960; amd. Ord. 1, 8-1-1967; 1999 Code)
6-1-2: SANITARY SERVICES:
All builders and construction companies are required to provide sanitary
services on site. (Res. 2007-6-13, 6-13-2007)
6-1-3: TRACKED MUD AND DEBRIS:
All builders and construction companies are required to provide ways to keep
mud and debris from being tracked onto city streets from any building or
construction project they are involved with. All streets must be cleaned up of
any mud or debris that is tracked onto the street. (Res. 2007-6-13, 6-13-2007)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Adoption Of Codes
6-2-2: Administration And Enforcement
6-2-3: Violation; Penalty
6-2-1: ADOPTION OF CODES:
   A.   The city adopts the following uniform or model codes and standards, as
though fully set forth herein, for the purpose of regulating the erection,
construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal, conversion,
demolition, and occupancy of buildings and structures in the city. The city
adopts the international building code in its current version (2009) and as the
same may be amended from time to time in the future. The city also adopts the
international residential code, the international mechanical code,
international fuel gas code, international fire code, and international energy
conservation code. In addition, the city adopts, as administered by the state
of Idaho, the international plumbing code and international electrical code.
   B.   All construction, alteration. repair, and demolition within the city
requiring a permit or inspection shall be performed according to the codes
adopted herein.
   C.   The city council may direct, from time to time, that a portion or
portions of said uniform or model codes shall not apply within the city. The
city clerk shall maintain a current list, available to the public, of the
applicable building and related codes. (Ord. 2011-9-14, 9-14-2011)
6-2-2: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
If any portions of the codes adopted herein conflict with any other city
ordinance, the existing city ordinance shall prevail. Any references in the
codes adopted herein to a board of appeals shall be construed to mean the city
council, and the city council may establish such procedures as it sees fit to
hear and determine appeals. Existing city ordinances and policies regarding
procedures and costs for permits shall supersede any such regulations set forth
in any of the codes adopted by this chapter. (Ord. 2011-9-14, 9-14-2011)
6-2-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Each violation of this chapter or of any regulation or ruling promulgated
hereunder shall constitute a misdemeanor, and each continuance of the violation
shall be a separate violation for each day that the same may be continued and
remain in violation. Each violation may be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2011-9-14, 9-14-2011)
TITLE 7
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS; ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
7-1-1: Short Title
7-1-2: Purpose
7-1-3: Interpretation
7-1-4: Conflicting Provisions
7-1-5: Effect Upon Previous Ordinance And Map
7-1-6: Definitions
7-1-7: Enforcement
7-1-8: Severability
7-1-9: Violation And Penalty
7-1-10: Fees And Costs
7-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF CITY OF FRANKLIN, IDAHO,
and may be so cited and pleaded. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-1-2: PURPOSE:
This title is designed and enacted for the purpose of promoting the health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and welfare of the present and
future inhabitants of the city, while preserving the historic value of the
past, including amongst other things, the lessening of congestion in the
streets or roads, securing safety from fire and other dangers, providing
adequate light and air, classification of land uses and distribution of land
development and utilization, protection of the tax base, securing economy in
governmental expenditures, fostering the city's commercial and industrial
growth, and the protection of both residential and nonresidential development.
(Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, the requirements
contained herein are declared to be the minimum requirements for the purposes
set forth. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-1-4: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
   A.   More Restrictive Provisions Prevail: This title shall not nullify the
more restrictive provisions of covenants, agreements, other ordinances or laws,
but shall prevail notwithstanding such provisions which are less restrictive.
   B.   Conflict With Other Laws: It is not intended by this title to impair or
interfere with other regulations of state or local laws, or with private
restrictions on the use of land, improvements, and structures. Where this title
imposes greater restrictions, this title shall prevail. This title repeals any
and all ordinances and regulations of the city in conflict herewith. (Ord.
1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-1-5: EFFECT UPON PREVIOUS ORDINANCE AND MAP:
The existing zoning ordinance of the city of Franklin, Idaho, including maps,
is hereby superseded and amended to read as set forth herein; provided,
however, that this title shall be deemed a continuation of the previous
ordinance, and not a new enactment, insofar as the substance of revisions of
the previous ordinance is included, whether in the same or in different
language; and this title shall be so interpreted upon all questions of
construction, including, but not limited to, questions of construction relating
to tenure of officers and boards established by previous ordinances and to
questions of conforming or nonconforming uses, buildings, or structures, and to
questions as to dates upon which such uses, buildings, or structures became
conforming or nonconforming. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-1-6: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain words and terms are defined as follows:
words used in the present tense include the future; words in the singular
number include the plural and the plural the singular; words not included
herein but defined in the building code shall be construed as defined herein.
ACCESSORY APARTMENT: A housing unit that is self-contained, but incorporated
within an existing structure that was originally designed for a single family
and will not be substantially altered.
ACCESSORY USE: A use incidental and subordinate to the principle use of the
premises.
AGRICULTURE: The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture and
gardening, including the keeping or raising of domestic animals and fowl, and
not including any agricultural industry or business such as fruit packing
plants, fur farms, animal hospitals, feed lots, or similar uses.
ALLEY: A public thoroughfare twenty six feet (26') or less in width.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure which is
arranged, and designed or used as a single housekeeping unit and has complete
kitchen and sanitary facilities permanently installed.
AUTOMOBILE SALES LOT: Premises on which new or used passenger automobiles,
trailers, mobile homes, or trucks in operating condition are displayed in the
open for sale or trade, and where no repair or service work is done.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: A building or portion thereof, other than a private
garage, designed or used for servicing, repairing, equipping, hiring, selling
or storing motor driven vehicles. Premises used primarily for the retail sale
and delivery to the vehicle of motor vehicle fuel and of lubricating oils,
tires and incidental vehicular accessories, and providing vehicular lubrication
and related services, including minor vehicle repairs.
BASEMENT: A story partly underground. A basement shall be counted as a story
for purposes of height measurement if its height is one-half (1/2) or more
above grade.
BLOCK: The space along one side of a street between the two (2) nearest
intersection streets, or between an intersecting street and a right of way,
waterway or other similar barrier, whichever is lesser.
BOARDING HOUSE OR BED AND BREAKFAST: A building with not more than five (5)
guest rooms where, for compensation, meals are provided for not more than
fifteen (15) persons.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the
housing or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels.
BUILDING, HEIGHT OF: The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point
of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the
ridge of a gable, hip, or gambrel roof.
BUILDING, MAIN: The principal building or one of the principal buildings upon a
lot, or the building or one of the principal buildings housing the principal
use upon a lot.
BUILDING, NONCONFORMING: Any building which does not conform to the
requirements of this Title.
BUILDING, PUBLIC: A building owned and operated or owned and intended to be
operated by a public agency of the United States of America, of the State of
Idaho or any of its subdivisions.
CARPORT: A private garage not completely enclosed by walls or doors. For the
purposes of this Title, a carport shall be subject to all of the regulations
prescribed for a private garage.
CITY: The City of Franklin, Idaho.
CLERK: The City Clerk of the City.
CLUB, PRIVATE: An organization, group or association supported by the members
thereof, the sole purpose of which is to render a service customarily rendered
for members and their guests but shall not include any service, the chief
activity of which is customarily carried on as a business and does not include
labor union organizations or similar labor or business organizations.
COMMISSION: The Planning and Zoning Commission of the City. The Planning
Commission is declared to also be the Zoning Commission of the City (Idaho Code
section 50-406).
COMPREHENSIVE GENERAL PLAN: The Comprehensive General Plan for the City
officially adopted by the Council as such.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use of land for which a conditional use permit is required
pursuant to Chapter 7 of this Title.
COUNCIL: The City Council of the City.
DAIRY: A commercial establishment for manufacture or processing of dairy
products.
DISTRICT: A portion of the area of the City of Franklin, Idaho shown on a map
attached to this Zoning Ordinance and given a district name.
DORMITORIES: Any building arranged or designed for two (2) or more dwelling
units and with three (3) or more sleeping rooms per unit.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, containing one or more dwelling units.
The term "dwelling" does not include any trailer, motel, hotel, guest house, or
boarding house as defined herein.
DWELLING, GROUP: Two (2) or more dwelling structures occupying the same lot and
having yards and open spaces in common.
DWELLING, HIGH RISE MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A multiple-family building or portion
thereof, containing two (2) or more stories and which may include off-street
parking facilities and having at least one passenger elevator to serve the
dwelling units.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A multiple-family building, or portion thereof,
containing four (4) or more dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building designed for use and occupancy by no more
than one family.
DWELLING, TWO- AND THREE-FAMILY: A detached building designed for and occupied
exclusively by two (2) or three (3) families living independently of each
other.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms designed for, or used as a residence for not
more than one family, including all necessary household employees of such
family, and constituting a separate, and independent housekeeping unit, with a
single kitchen permanently installed. The term does not imply or include such
types of occupancy as a lodging or boarding house, club, sorority, fraternity
or hotel.
FAMILY: One or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption, occupying
a dwelling unit and living as a single housekeeping unit, an distinguished from
renter, roomers, or as a group occupying a "boarding house", lodging house, or
"hotel", as herein defined.
FAMILY CHILDCARE CENTER: A home or residence where no more than six (6)
children under the age of six (6) and no more than two (2) children under the
age of two (2) are cared for, with or without charge or stated educational or
developmental purposes, at least four (4) and less than twenty four (24) hours
daily by a provider who may or may not be related to the children.
FLOOR AREA, GROSS: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors
including the exterior walls of a building or portion, thereof.
FLOOR AREA, NET: The portion of the gross floor area of the building occupied
by the listed use or uses and shall include hallways, storage and packaging
space, dressing or rest rooms and laboratory or work room; provided, however,
that floor space within the building reserved for parking or loading of
vehicles, and basement space used only for building maintenance and utilities
shall be excluded.
FRONTAGE: All property fronting on one side of the street between intersection
or intercepting streets, or between a street and a right of way, waterway, end
of dead-end street, or political subdivision boundary, measured along the
street line. An intercepting street shall determine only the boundary of the
frontage on the side of the street which it intercepts.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building designed or used for the storage of
motor vehicles owned and used by the occupants of the building to which it is
accessory. A garage shall be considered part of a dwelling if the garage and
dwelling have a roof or wall in common.
GRADE: A. For buildings adjoining one street only, the elevation of the
sidewalk at the center of that wall adjoining the street.
   B.   For buildings adjoining more than one street, the average of the
elevations of the sidewalks at the centers of all walls adjoining the streets.
   C.   For building having no wall adjoining the street, the average level of
the ground (finished surface) adjacent to the exterior walls of the building.
All walls approximately parallel to and not more than five feet (5') from a
street line are to be considered as adjoining a street.
GROUP CHILDCARE CENTER: A facility or establishment separate from a home or
residence in which seven (7) or more children less than fourteen (14) years of
age and unrelated to the caregiver are cared for, with or without charge or
stated educational or developmental purposes, at least four (4) and less than
twenty four (24) hours daily.
GROUP PRESCHOOL: A facility or establishment separate from a home or residence
licensed by the City of Franklin, Idaho for the care and instruction of
children by an instructor who may or may not be related to the children. The
group preschool is maintained for less than four (4) hours per day and less
than twenty (20) hours per week for children under the age of eight (8) years.
This care may be given with or without charge.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried on by
persons residing in the dwelling unit, which is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change
the character thereof and in connection with which there is no display, nor
stock in trade. The home occupation shall not include the sale of commodities
except those which are produced on the premises and shall not involve the use
of any accessory building or yard space or activity outside the main building,
not normally associated with residential use. Home occupation shall include the
use of the home by a beauty shop, physician, surgeon, dentists, lawyer,
clergyman, engineer, or other professional person for consultation or emergency
treatment, but not for the general practice of his trade or profession. A home
occupation in a multiple dwelling (2 or more units) will be considered as one
of the units in determining the allowable number of units.
HOME PRESCHOOL: A home licensed by the City Of Franklin for the care and
instruction of seven (7) or more by an instructor who may or may not be related
to the children. The home preschool is maintained for less than four (4) hours
per day and less than twenty (20) hours per week for children under the age of
eight (8) years. This care may be given with or without charge.
HOME SALES: Wholesale or retail sales conducted entirely within a dwelling and
carried on only by members of the family residing within the dwelling unit,
wherein the sales are clearly incidental and secondary to the intended
residential use of the dwelling and does not alter the character thereof and in
connection with these activities there is to be neither display nor inventory.
The home sales activity shall not include the use of any accessory building,
yard, or activity outside the main residential dwelling. In all cases there
shall be no window displays; however, a two (2) dimensional window sign with no
illumination and with a maximum of three hundred (300) square inches may be
used as per Chapter 8 of this Title with all other signs being prohibited.
Noise levels and required parking must not be in excess of those intended for
the residential zone in which the permit for home sales is issued.
HOTEL: A building designed or occupied as the more or less temporary abiding
place of fifteen (15) or more individuals who are, for compensation, lodged,
with or without meals, and in which no provision is made for cooking in any
individual room or suite.
HOUSEHOLD PETS: Animals or fowl ordinarily permitted in the house and kept for
company or pleasure, such as dogs, cats and canaries.
JUNK: Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste or junked, dismantled or wrecked automobiles or parts thereof,
iron, steel and other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous material.
JUNKYARD: Any yard, establishment or business maintained, used or operated for
storing, keeping, buying or selling junk, or for the maintenance or operation
of an automobile graveyard, and the term includes garbage and sanitary fills.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises or portion thereof, on which three (3) or more
dogs, cats, and other household domestic animals are maintained, harbored,
possessed, boarded, bred or cared for in return for compensation or kept for
sale.
LIVESTOCK FEEDYARD: A commercial operation on a parcel of land where livestock
are kept in corrals or yards for extended periods of time at a density which
permits little movement, and where all feed is provided for the purpose of
fattening or maintaining the condition of livestock prior to their shipment to
a stockyard for sale, etc.
LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET: An open off-street area of land other
than a street or public way the principal use of which is for the standing,
loading and unloading from motor vehicles, tractors, and trailers to avoid
undue interference with public streets and alleys.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a main building, or group
of buildings (main and accessory), together with such yards, open spaces, lot
width and lot area as are required by this Title and having frontage upon a
street. Except for group dwellings, not more than one dwelling structure shall
occupy any one lot.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting on two (2) intersections or intercepting street,
where the interior angle or intersection or interception does not exceed one
hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT INTRA BLOCK: A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a main
building, or group of buildings (main and accessory), together with such yards,
open spaces, lot width and lot area as are required by this Title and not
having frontage on a public street, but having access to a public street.
LOT LINE: The boundary property line encompassing a lot.
Front Lot Line: The boundary line which abuts a public street. For a corner
lot, the owner may select either street line as the front lot line.
Interior Lot Line: A side line in common with another lot.
Rear Lot Line: The lot line most nearly parallel to and most remote from the
front property line.
Side Lot Line: All other lot lines are side lot lines.
LOT, WIDTH: The horizontal distance between side lot lines measured at right
angles to the depth at a point midway between the front and rear lot lines.
MANUFACTURED HOUSE: A manufactured house is a structure transportable in one or
more modules which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with a permanent foundation and footings when connected to required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
systems contained therein. The manufactured home shall be attached permanently
to an approved foundation and footings. Units which are not manufactured after
June 1976 or stamped approved by HUD (National Manufactured Home Construction
and Safety Standards Act of 1974) shall not be considered a "manufactured home"
as defined herein.
For clarification, this definition excludes "Mobile Home" as defined
immediately below, (Trailer, Mobile Home or Camper) which are permitted in
mobile home parks as defined below under "Mobile Home Park". Also excluded are
other types of manufactured housing often referred to as factory built or
modular units.
MOBILE HOME: A vehicle or structure constructed with wheels for transportation
or use on public streets or highways and which may have sleeping, cooking and
plumbing facilities and intended for human occupancy as a residence or as an
office or business building.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any area or tract of land upon which four (4) or more mobile
homes or trailer coaches are parked for living and/or sleeping purposes, such
premises set apart for the purpose of supplying to the public parking space for
such mobile homes for sleeping purposes. "Mobile home park" shall be deemed to
be synonymous with trailer court or camp or such other names as may be used in
connection with the use as defined herein.
MOBILE HOME SPACE: A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for the
use of occupancy of one mobile home.
MOBILE HOME STAND: That portion of a mobile home space designed for the
location of a mobile home and all accessory structures, cabanas, etc. or other
add-on enclosed space at least ten feet (10') feet wide and forty five feet
(45') long.
MODULAR HOME: A home constructed in units designed to satisfy all provisions in
the Uniform Building Code. Such units are similar to site-built structures in
design and construction, except that they would be modular in design to
facilitate their transportation. These units would be considered as
prefabricated construction regulated by chapter 50 of The Uniform Building
Code, and for this reason are not included within the scope of this definition.
MOTEL: A group of attached or detached buildings containing individual sleeping
rooms designed for or used temporarily by automobile tourists or transients,
with garage attached or parking space conveniently located to each unit.
NATURAL WATERWAYS: Those areas, varying in width, along streams, creeks,
springs, gullies, or washes which are natural drainage channels as determined
by the Building Inspector or maintenance supervisor, in which areas no
buildings shall be constructed.
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURE: A building or structure or portion
thereof, lawfully existing at the time this Title became effective, which does
not conform to all the height, area and yard regulations herein prescribed in
the zone in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING LOT: A lot existing at the time this Title became effective which
does not conform to all square footage or frontage regulations herein
prescribed in the zone in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the time
this Title became effective and which does not conform with the use regulations
of the zone in which it is located.
NURSING HOME: An institution providing residence and care for the aged or
infirm.
PARKING LOT: An open area, other than a street, used for the temporary parking
of more than four (4) automobiles and available for public use, whether free,
for compensation, or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
PARKING SPACE: Space within a building, lot or parking lot with minimum
dimensions of nine feet by twenty feet (9' x 20') for the parking or storage of
one automobile.
RESTRICTED LOT: A parcel of land severed or placed in separate ownership after
adoption and publication hereof, and which does not meet all area, width, yard
and other requirements of this Title for a lot, or a parcel of land which does
meet all the requirements of this Title for a lot, but the creation of which
has caused any adjacent lot from which it was severed to be insufficient in
area, width, setback, yard or coverage requirements.
RETIREMENT CENTER: Housing complex intended for use by the elderly or those of
retirement age only. Building may be single or multiple story with individual
units which may be attached or detached. The complex should be independently
owned and shall be comprised of separate, totally self-contained rented housing
units. Facilities for laundry services, storage, and recreation may also be
available.
ROOMER: One who occupies a hired room in another's house.
SETBACK AREA: The space on a lot required to be left open and unoccupied by
buildings or structures, either by the front, side or rear yard requirements of
this Title, or by definition on a recorded subdivision map.
SIGN: Any device used for visual communication to the general public but not
including any flag, badge, or ensign of any governmental agency.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building for the keeping of horses owned
by the occupants of the premises and not kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
STABLE, PUBLIC: A stable other than a private stable.
STORY: The space within a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the ceiling next above.
STORY, HALF: A story with at least two (2) of its opposite sides situated in a
sloping roof, the floor area of which does not exceed two-thirds (2/3) of the
floor immediately below it.
STREET: A public thoroughfare which affords principal means of access to
abutting property, and is more than twenty six feet (26') wide.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in supporting members of a building, such as
bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, which requires location on the
ground or attached to something having a location on the ground.
TAVERN OR LOUNGE: Building where alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption
on the premises, not including restaurants where the principal business is
serving food.
TRAVEL OR CAMPER TRAILER: Any living unit designed for short term occupancy,
designed for living, eating, working and sleeping either self-propelled or
capable of being hauled by auto or truck, generally considered to be for
purposes of recreation and sport.
TRAVEL OR CAMPER TRAILER PARK: Any area, tract, plat, or site of land,
whereupon campers or travel trailers are placed, located or maintained for
temporary dwelling purposes on semipermanent, short term basis and for which a
fee, rental or contract for payment for such use is collected by or collectable
by the person holding the land.
VETERINARY OR ANIMAL HOSPITAL: A building and runs where both large and small
animals are kept and/or treated by a licensed veterinarian.
WIDTH OF LOT: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, measured at
the required front yard setback line.
YARD: A space on a lot unoccupied and obstructed from the ground upward, by
buildings, except as otherwise provided herein.
YARD, FRONT: A space on the same lot with a building, between the front line of
the building (exclusive of steps) and the front lot line, and extending across
the full width of the lot.
YARD, REAR: A space on the same lot with a building, between the rear line of
the building (exclusive of steps and chimneys) and the rear line of the lot and
extending the full width of the lot.
YARD, SIDE: A space on the same lot with a building, between the side line of
the building (exclusive of steps or open stairways) and the side line of the
lot and extending from the front yard line to the rear yard line.
ZONE: Synonymous with the term "district" as defined in this section. (Ord.
1998-1, 7-17-1998; amd. 1999 Code)
7-1-7: ENFORCEMENT:
An enforcing officer shall be appointed by the mayor and city council and such
officer shall be responsible for the enforcement of the provisions of this
title. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-1-8: SEVERABILITY:
If any provisions of this title or the application thereof to any persons or
circumstances are held invalid, the remainder of this title or the application
or provisions to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-1-9: VIOLATION AND PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Violation A Misdemeanor: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this title shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be deemed guilty
of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which
any violation of any of the provisions of this title is committed, continued or
permitted.
   B.   Punishment Pursuant To Idaho Code: Upon conviction of any violation of
any of the provisions of this title, such persons shall be punished by a fine
as set by the state of Idaho code. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  7-8-9 of this title.
7-1-10: FEES AND COSTS:
   A.   Whenever the city is presented with an application or request under
this title or title 8 of this code for the city to approve a subdivision,
development, or zoning issue, including, but not limited to, a variance,
approval of a nonconforming use, rezoning of property, conditional use,
building permit, planned unit development, or subdivision development, the
applicant shall pay an application fee fixed by resolution of the city council.
   B.   In addition to the application fee, the applicant shall reimburse the
city for all costs incurred by the city in the review and approval process,
including, but not limited to, copying and reproduction costs, attorney and
engineer fees, mailing and advertising costs, publication costs, and other
costs specifically incurred by the city with regard to the subject application
and project. (Ord. 2011-6-8-1, 6-10-2011)
CHAPTER 2
SUPPLEMENTARY AND QUALIFYING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Effect Of Chapter
7-2-2: Lots In Separate Ownership
7-2-3: Yard Space For One Building Only
7-2-4: Dwellings Maintained On Lots
7-2-5: Separately Owned Lots; Reduced Yards
7-2-6: Private Garage With Side Yard; Reduced Yards
7-2-7: Yards To Be Unobstructed; Exceptions
7-2-8: Walls, Fences Or Hedges
7-2-9: Area Of Accessory Buildings
7-2-10: Exceptions To Height Limitations
7-2-11: Minimum Height Of Main Buildings
7-2-12: Clear View Of Intersecting Streets
7-2-13: Sale Or Lease Of Required Space
7-2-14: Group Dwellings
7-2-15: Coverage Regulations
7-2-16: Yard Regulations
7-2-17: Movement Of Structures
7-2-18: Division Of Lots And Buildings
7-2-1: EFFECT OF CHAPTER:
The regulations hereinafter set forth in this Chapter qualify or supplement, as
the case may be, the zone regulations appearing elsewhere in this Title. (Ord.
1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-2-2: LOTS IN SEPARATE OWNERSHIP:
Any single lot or parcel of land, which was of record at the time of readoption
of this Title, but does not meet the requirements of the district in which it
is located for minimum lot width and area, may be utilized if all other
requirements of this Title are met. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-2-3: YARD SPACE FOR ONE BUILDING ONLY:
No required yard or other open space around an existing building, or which is
hereafter provided around any building for the purpose of complying with the
provisions of this Title, shall be considered as providing a yard or open space
for any other building; nor shall any yard or other required open space on an
adjoining lot be considered an providing a yard or open space on a lot whereon
a building is to be erected or established, except as provided in planned unit
developments. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-2-4: DWELLINGS MAINTAINED ON LOTS:
Every dwelling shall be located and maintained on a "lot" as defined in Section
7-1-6 of this Title. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-2-5: SEPARATELY OWNED LOTS; REDUCED YARDS:
In any lot under a separate ownership from adjacent lots and of record at the
time of passage of the Zoning Ordinance and such lot having a smaller width
than required for the zone in which it is located, the width of each of the
side yards for a dwelling may be reduced to a width which in not less than the
same percentage of the width of the lot as the required side yard should be of
the required lot width; provided, that on interior lots, the smaller of the two
(2) yards shall be in no case less than five feet (5'), or the larger less than
eight feet (8'), and for corner lots the side yard on the side street shall be
in no case less than fifteen feet (15') or the other side yard be less than
five feet (5'). (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-2-6: PRIVATE GARAGE WITH SIDE YARD; REDUCED YARDS:
On any interior lot where a private garage, containing a sufficient number of
parking spaces to meet the requirements of this Title, has a side yard equal to
the minimum side yard required for a dwelling in the same zone, the width of
the other side yard for the dwelling may be reduced to equal that of the
minimum required side yard, except in a Transitional Zone. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-
1998)
7-2-7: YARDS TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; EXCEPTIONS:
Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky unobstructed except for
accessory buildings in a rear yard, the ordinary projections of skylights,
sills, belt courses, cornices, roof overhang, chimneys, flues, and other
ornamental features which project into a yard not more than four feet (4') and
open or lattice enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways and
balconies upon fire towers projecting into a yard, not more than five feet
(5'). (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-2-8: WALLS, FENCES OR HEDGES:
   A.   Height Of Fences, Hedges Or Shrubs: No fence or wall or other similar
structure shall be erected in any required front, rear or side yard to a height
in excess of six feet (6') or in the case of residential front yards, to a
height in excess of forty eight inches (48"), except for accessory buildings
and structures permitted therein. Where there is a difference in the grade of
the properties on either side of a fence or wall, the height of the fence or
wall shall be measured from the average elevation of finished grades of the
adjoining properties in question at the fence line, except that no fence need
be less than forty eight inches (48") in height.
   B.   Retaining Walls: Where a retaining wall protects a cut below the
natural grade and located on the line separating lots, such retaining wall may
be topped by a fence, wall or hedge of the same height that would otherwise be
permitted at the location if no retaining wall existed. Where a retaining wall
contains a fill, the height of the retaining wall built to retain the fill
shall be considered as contributing to the permissible height of a fence, solid
wall or hedge; provided, that in any event a protective fence or wall not more
than forty eight inches (48") in height may erected at the top of the retaining
wall.
   C.   City May Require Fence Or Obstruction: Where the subdivision or lot
line is adjacent to any public, commercial, manufacturing, or private
enterprise or business, a fence or obstruction may be required to be
constructed by the subdivider or builder when in the judgment of the City
Council such fence or obstruction is needed to prevent a hazard, nuisance or to
otherwise protect the best interest of the citizens of the City. Said fences
shall be required to separate residential areas from areas of high public and
private) schools, or any other similar type use. Said fences or obstructions
shall be six feet (6') or more in height and subject to approval by the City
Council. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-2-9: AREA OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
No accessory building nor group of accessory buildings in any residential zone
shall cover more than twenty five percent (25%) of the rear yard. (Ord. 1998-1,
7-17-1998)
7-2-10: EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
Penthouse or roof structures for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks,
ventilating fans or similar equipment required to operate and maintain the
building, and parapet walls, skylights, towers, steeples, flagpoles, chimneys,
smoke stacks, water tanks, wireless or television masts, theater lofts, silos,
or similar structures may be erected above the height limits herein prescribed,
but no space above the height limit shall be allowed for the purpose of
providing additional floor space. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-2-11: MINIMUM HEIGHT OF MAIN BUILDINGS:
No dwelling shall be erected to height less than one story above grade. (Ord.
1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-2-12: CLEAR VIEW OF INTERSECTING STREETS:
Clear view of intersecting streets in all zones which require a front yard, no
obstruction (shrubs, trees, rocks, solid fences, woods, patios, signs, etc.) to
view in excess of three feet (3') in height with respect to the adjacent street
crown shall be placed on any corner lot within a triangular area formed by the
street property lines and a line connecting them at points forty feet (40')
from the intersection of the lines except a reasonable number of trees pruned
high enough to permit unobstructed vision to automobile drivers and pumps at
gasoline service stations. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-2-13: SALE OR LEASE OF REQUIRED SPACE:
A restricted lot which meets all the requirements of this Title for a lot, but
the creation of which has caused any adjacent lot from which it was severed to
be insufficient in area, width, yard, or other requirements may be considered
otherwise by adding or designating sufficient acreage to the adjacent lot to
meet all the requirements of this Title for a lot. The added or designated land
must then be duly recorded in the office of the County Recorder, Franklin
County, Idaho, before a building permit may be issued. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-2-14: GROUP DWELLINGS:
Group dwelling developments are permitted in any A-2 Zone through the issuance
of a conditional use permit, subject to the following conditions:
   A.   Type Of Dwelling: Type of dwelling shall not exceed that allowed in the
zone.
   B.   Lot Area: Each dwelling structure shall have a lot area equal to that
required in the zone for an individual lot. Front, side and rear yards shall
equal those required in the particular zone. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
   C.   Parking Spaces: Three (3) auto parking spaces shall be provided for
each dwelling unit. (Ord., 3-1-2007)
   D.   Fence Enclosure: All perimeter lot lines shall be enclosed with a six
foot (6') visual barrier fence.
   E.   Landscaping: Landscaped areas are provided.
   F.   Site Plan Approval: Approval of the site plan by the planning
commission. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-2-15: COVERAGE REGULATIONS:
In no zone shall a building or group of buildings with their accessory building
cover more than sixty percent (60%) of the area of the lot. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-
1998)
7-2-16: YARD REGULATIONS:
   A.   Main Residential Buildings And Private Garages: The minimum depth of
front yard for main residential buildings and for private garages (which have a
minimum side yard of 15 feet) shall be thirty feet (30'), or the average of the
existing buildings where fifty percent (50%) or more of the frontage between
two (2) street intersections is developed, but in no case less than twenty feet
(20').
   B.   Corner Lots: All corner lots will have a minimum of ninety feet (90')
frontage on all adjacent streets. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-2-17: MOVEMENT OF STRUCTURES:
No used structures shall be moved into or within the corporate limits of this
city, without first obtaining a conditional use permit approval as specified in
this title and final approval from the city council. This does not apply to
trailers or mobile homes placed within an approved mobile home park, or
temporary storage of items designed for recreational use, such as campers,
boats, etc. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-2-18: DIVISION OF LOTS AND BUILDINGS:
The presence of more than one zone within a lot shall not be permitted nor
shall a building or structure be divided by two (2) or more zones. (Ord. 1998-
1, 7-17-1998)
CHAPTER 3
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Intent
7-3-2: Incompatibility Of Nonconforming Uses
7-3-3: Avoidance Of Undue Hardship
7-3-4: Single Nonconforming Lots Of Record
7-3-5: Nonconforming Lots Of Record In Combination
7-3-6: Nonconforming Uses Of Structures Or Of Structures And Land In
Combination
7-3-7: Repairs And Maintenance
7-3-8: Uses Under Special Use Provisions Not Nonconforming Uses
7-3-9: Uses Not Allowed; Exceptions
7-3-10: Grandfather Clause Regarding Animals
7-3-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this Title to permit nonconforming uses to continue until
they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent
of this Title that nonconforming uses shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or
extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or use& prohibited
elsewhere in the same district. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-3-2: INCOMPATIBILITY OF NONCONFORMING USES:
Nonconforming uses are declared by this Title to be incompatible with permitted
uses in the districts in which such use is located. A nonconforming use shall
not be extended or enlarged after passage of this Title by attachment on a
building or premises of additional signs intended to be seen from off the
premises, or by the addition of other uses of a nature which would be generally
prohibited in the district in which such use is located. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-
1998)
7-3-3: AVOIDANCE OF UNDUE HARDSHIP:
To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this Title shall be deemed to require a
change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building on which
actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption
or amendment of this Title and upon which actual building construction has been
carried on diligently. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-3-4: SINGLE NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a single-family
and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of record
(see definition of "lot" of record) at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this Title, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other
provisions of this Title. Such lot must be in separate ownership and not of
continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership (see Section
7-3-5 of this Chapter). This provision shall apply even though such lot fails
to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally
applicable in the district; provided, that yard dimensions and requirements
other than those applying to area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform
to the regulations for the district in which such lot is located. (Ord. 1998-1,
7-17-1998)
7-3-5: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD IN COMBINATION:
If two (2) or more lots or a combination of lots and portions of lots with
continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or
amendment of this Title and if all or part of the lot with no buildings do not
meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands involved
shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purpose of this Title and
no portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which diminishes
compliance with lot width and area requirements established by this Title, nor
shall any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with a width or
area below the requirements stated in this Title. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-3-6: NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES OR OF STRUCTURES AND LAND IN
COMBINATION:
If a lawful use involving individual structures, or of a structure and land in
combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
Title that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this Title,
the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject
to the following provisions:
   A.   Changing Use: No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by
this Title in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
   B.   Extending Use: No nonconforming use shall be extended to occupy any
additional land area.
   C.   Special Use Permit: If no structural alterations are made, any
nonconforming use of a structure or structure and land may, upon the issuance
of a special use permit of the Commission, be changed to another nonconforming
use; provided, that the Commission shall find that the proposed use is equally
appropriate or more appropriate to the district than the existing nonconforming
use. In permitting such change, the Commission may require appropriate
conditions and safeguards in accord with other provisions of this Title.
   D.   Use Superseded By Permitted Use: Any structure, or structure and land
in combination, in or on which a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted
use shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district, and the
nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
   E.   Use Discontinued Or Abandoned: When a nonconforming use of a structure,
or structure and land in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for more
than one year (except when government action impedes access to the premises),
the structure or structure and land in combination, shall not thereafter be
used except in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is
located.
   F.   Removal Or Destruction: Where nonconforming use status applies to a
structure and land in combination, removal, or destruction of the structure
shall eliminate the nonconforming status of the land. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-3-7: REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE:
On any nonconforming structure, or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs or on repair or
replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing; provided, that
the cubic content existing when it became nonconforming shall not be increased.
Nothing in this Chapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or
restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety upon order of
such official. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-3-8: USES UNDER SPECIAL USE PROVISIONS NOT NONCONFORMING USES:
Any use which in permitted as a special use in a district under the terms of
this Title shall not be deemed a nonconforming use in such district, but shall,
without further action, be considered a conforming use. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-
1998)
7-3-9: USES NOT ALLOWED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Certain Animals:
      1.   Prohibition: In Zoning Districts Residential A-1 and A-2 as defined
elsewhere in this Title, there shall be no mink, rabbits, foxes, goats, mules,
donkeys, swine or any other animal raised for commercial purposes whatsoever in
said districts.
      2.   Livestock Allowed: However, a maximum of two (2) cows or two (2)
horses or eight (8) sheep or a proportionate combination thereof according to
the foregoing limitations may be kept in private stables for personal use only.
Any stables, corrals, or sheds constructed for the use of such animals shall be
at least one hundred fifty feet (150') distant from any sidewalk and one
hundred feet (100') distant from any residential dwelling, in addition to
conforming to all other building regulations stated in this or other City
ordinances.
      3.   Number: Number may not be increased from the maximum allowed except
offspring in which case the offspring may stay at the mother's side, until six
(6) months of age.
   B.   Barbed Wire Fences: There shall be no barbed wire fences erected
adjacent to any sidewalk or public walkway of any kind or within one hundred
feet (100') of any such sidewalk or walkway in the Zoning Districts Business,
Residential A-1 or Residential A-2. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-3-10: GRANDFATHER CLAUSE REGARDING ANIMALS:
Owner may not increase the number of animals past these limits but may have
more animals than allowed if there were more in the past three (3) years prior
to January 1, 1998. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
CHAPTER 4
APPEALS AND VARIANCES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Consideration By Commission
7-4-2: Administrative Appeals
7-4-3: Variances
7-4-4: Application And Standards For Variances
7-4-5: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
7-4-6: Notice And/Or Hearing
7-4-7: Action By Commission
7-4-8: Notification To Applicant
7-4-9: Appeal To Council
7-4-10: Request For Hearing By Affected Persons
7-4-1: CONSIDERATION BY COMMISSION:
The Commission shall consider administrative appeals where it is alleged that
an error has been made by the City, variances from the terms of this Title and
requests for hearings from affected persons. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-4-2: ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS:
Appeals to the Commission concerning interpretation or administration of this
Title may be taken by any person aggrieved or by an officer or bureau of the
legislative authority affected by any decision. Such appeal shall be taken
within twenty (20) days after the decision by filing with the Clerk and with
the Commission a notice of appeal specifying the grounds upon which the appeal
is being taken. The Clerk shall transmit to the Commission all the papers
constituting the record upon which the appeal is based. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-
1998)
7-4-3: VARIANCES:
The Commission may authorize in specific cases such variance from the terms of
this Title as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this Title would
result in unnecessary hardship. No nonconforming use of neighboring lands,
structures or buildings in the same district and no permitted or nonconforming
use of lands, structures or buildings in other districts shall be considered
grounds for issuance of a variance. Variances shall not be granted on the
grounds of convenience or profit, but only where strict application of the
provisions of this Title would result in unnecessary hardship. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-
17-1998)
7-4-4: APPLICATION AND STANDARDS FOR VARIANCES:
A variance from the terms of this Title shall not be granted by the Commission
unless and until a written application for a variance in submitted to the Clerk
and the Commission containing:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant(s).
   B.   Legal description of property (and street address, where possible).
   C.   Description of nature and variance requested.
   D.   A narrative statement demonstrating that the requested variance
conforms to the following standards:
      1.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar
to the land, structure or building involved and which are not applicable to
other lands, structures or in the same district.
      2.   That a literal interpretation of the provisions of this Title would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this Title.
      3.   That special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant.
      4.   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this Title to other lands,
structures or buildings in the same district.
   E.   A summary of the variance requested, in one paragraph of not more than
one hundred (100) words explaining the variance requested (which summary shall
be used in the notice required by Section
7-4-6 of this Chapter). A variance shall not be granted unless the Commission
makes specific findings of the fact based directly on the particular evidence
presented to it which support conclusions that the above mentioned standards
and conditions have been met by the applicant. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-4-5: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
Under no circumstances shall the Commission grant an appeal or variance to
allow a use not permissible under the terms of this Title in the district
involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of
this Title in said district. In granting any appeal or variance, the Commission
may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this
Title. Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the
terms under which the appeal or variance is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of this Title. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-4-6: NOTICE AND/OR HEARING:
   A.   Notice Of Hearing: Upon receipt of the application for a variance, the
Commission shall hold a hearing. It shall publish notice in the official
newspaper at least ten (10) days prior to the date on which the Commission will
consider the request for a variance by publishing a notice containing a summary
of the variance requested, the date on which the request shall be considered by
the Commission, and an invitation to any potentially affected persons to object
to said request by appearing before the Commission on such date.
   B.   Provide Names Of Adjoining Landowners: The applicant shall provide the
Clerk with the names and addresses of the immediately adjoining landowners to
the parcel affected by the variance request. The Clerk shall notify these
individuals of the date upon which the variance request will be considered by
the Commission so that they can attend and give testimony if such landowners so
desire.
   C.   Payment Of Costs: The persons requesting the variance shall pay all
costs of notification and publications as referred to in this Section. (Ord.
1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-4-7: ACTION BY COMMISSION:
   A.   Time Limit: Within thirty one (31) days after the receipt of the
application the Commission shall either approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove the request for the variance.
   B.   Specifications: Upon granting or denying an application the Commission
shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application.
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial.
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
variance.
   C.   Appeal From Council Decision: The applicant or any affected person who
appeared in person or in writing before the Commission may appeal the decision
of the Commission to the Council, provided the appeal is submitted to the
Council within fifteen (15) days from the Commission's action. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-
17-1998)
7-4-8: NOTIFICATION TO APPLICANT:
Within ten (10) days after a decision has been rendered, the Clerk shall
provide the applicant with written notice of the action on the request. (Ord.
1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-4-9: APPEAL TO COUNCIL:
Upon receipt of an appeal from the action of the Commission, the Council shall
set a hearing date to consider all information, testimony and Commission's
minutes of the public hearing to reach a decision to uphold, conditionally
uphold or overrule the decision. The Council shall only overrule the Commission
by a favorable vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the full Council. (Ord. 1998-
1, 7-17-1998)
7-4-10: REQUEST FOR HEARING BY AFFECTED PERSONS:
   A.   Definition: An "affected person" shall mean one having an interest in
real property which may be adversely affected by the issuance or denial of a
variance authorizing the development.
   B.   Petition For Hearing; Decisions: Any affected person may, at any time
prior to final action on a variance, if no hearing has been held on the
application, petition the Commission or Council in writing to hold a hearing as
set forth in Section
7-7-3 of this Title; provided, however, that if any affected persons petition a
hearing, the hearing shall be held. After a hearing, the Commission or Council
may:
      1.   Grant or deny a variance.
      2.   Delay such a decision for a definite period of time for further
study or hearing.
   C.   Seek Judicial Review: An affected person aggrieved by a decision may,
within sixty (60) days after all remedies have been exhausted under local
ordinances, seek judicial review under the procedures provided by section 67-
5215 (b) through (g) and 67-5216, Idaho Code. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
CHAPTER 5
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
7-5-1: Intensity Of Use
7-5-2: Change Of Existing Building Use
7-5-3: Access To Parking Spaces
7-5-4: Existing Parking
7-5-5: Calculation Of Required Number Of Spaces
7-5-6: Parking Space Requirements Not Mentioned Herein
7-5-7: Off Street Parking For Several Buildings
7-5-8: Open Off Street Parking
7-5-9: Lighting
7-5-10: Parking Space Requirements
7-5-1: INTENSITY OF USE:
When the intensity of use of any building, structure or premises is increased
through the addition of dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity or
other units of measurement specified as requiring parking or loading
facilities, parking and loading facilities as required herein shall be provided
for such increased intensity of use. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-5-2: CHANGE OF EXISTING BUILDING USE:
Whenever the existing use of a building or structure shall hereafter be changed
to a new use, parking or loading facilities shall be provided as required for
such new use. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-5-3: ACCESS TO PARKING SPACES:
Access to parking spaces as required herein for commercial and industrial uses
shall not be less than twelve feet (12') wide and not more than forty feet
(40') wide at the curb line. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-5-4: EXISTING PARKING:
No lawfully existing building shall be deemed to be a nonconforming building
solely because of the lack of any such required spaces; provided, that the
space being used for off street parking or loading in connection with any such
building at the time of the effective date hereof shall not be further reduced
in area or capacity. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-5-5: CALCULATION OF REQUIRED NUMBER OF SPACES:
When the calculation of the required number of spaces called for herein results
in a fractional number, fractions equal to or greater than one-half (1/2) shall
be adjusted to the next higher whole number of spaces. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-5-6: PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS NOT MENTIONED HEREIN:
Parking space requirements for a use not specifically mentioned shall be the
same as for a use specified which has similar traffic generating
characteristics. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-5-7: OFF STREET PARKING FOR SEVERAL BUILDINGS:
Except as required for dwellings and motels, off street parking facilities for
several buildings, structures or uses, or for mixed uses, may be provided that
the total number of spaces so located together shall not be less than the sum
of the separate requirements for each of the buildings or uses. (Ord. 1998-1,
7-17-1998)
7-5-8: OPEN OFF STREET PARKING:
Every open off street parking area having more than four (4) contiguous parking
spaces shall be hard surfaced, including access driveways. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-
1998)
7-5-9: LIGHTING:
Lighting used to illuminate off street parking areas shall be directed away
from residential properties. Parking areas shall be effectively screened on any
side adjoining property in a residential zone by a wall, fence or hedge to a
height of six feet (6') except for the front yard setback area of the adjoining
residential property, in which case the maximum height shall be three feet
(3'). (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
Multi-family dwelling parking and pedestrian areas shall have adequate lighting
for safety as approved by the city officials and/or city's consulting engineer.
(Ord., 3-1-2007)
7-5-10: PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
Parking spaces as hereinafter set forth shall be provided for all uses allowed
and special uses permitted in any zone; provided, that a greater or fewer
number of spaces may be required or allowed in any case where a special use
permit in involved. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
Type Of Dwelling  Number Of Spaces
Type Of Dwelling                                                         Number Of
                                                                         Spaces
                                                                         2 parking
Bowling alley                                                           spaces for
                                                                         each alley
                                                                         There shall
                                                                         be provided
                                                                         and
                                                                         maintained
                                                                         with
                                                                         adequate
                                                                         design to
                                                                         provide safe
                                                                         and
                                                                         efficient
                                                                         means of
Buildings hereafter erected containing more than 15,000 square feet in   access and
area and which are designed to be occupied by any use requiring         maneuvering:
receipt or dispatch of merchandise by truck                              1 loading
                                                                         space not
                                                                         less than 30
                                                                         feet in
                                                                         length, and
                                                                         10 feet in
                                                                         width,
                                                                         exclusive of
                                                                         access
                                                                         platforms
                                                                         and
                                                                         maneuvering
                                                                         areas
                                                                         1 parking
                                                                         space for
Business offices, not otherwise specified                               each 250
                                                                         square feet
                                                                         of net floor
                                                                         area
                                                                         1 parking
                                                                         space for
                                                                         each 4 seats
Church, auditorium, theater, or sports arena                            in the
                                                                         principal
                                                                         assembly
                                                                         room or area
                                                                         1 parking
                                                                         space, plus
                                                                         1 parking
                                                                         space for
                                                                         each 2
                                                                         doctors
Convalescent, nursing or rest home, sanitarium or home for care of      assigned
children or the aged (each 4 beds)                                       full time to
                                                                         the staff,
                                                                         plus 2
                                                                         parking
                                                                         spaces for
                                                                         each 3 other
                                                                         employees
                                                                         A reservoir
                                                                         space at the
                                                                         entrance
                                                                         containing 1
Drive-in theater                                                        parking
                                                                         space for
                                                                         each 10
                                                                         vehicles
                                                                         accommodated
                                                                         within
                                                                         3 parking
                                                                         spaces per
                                                                         dwelling
Dwelling unit, to include multiple-dwelling dwelling units              unit are
                                                                         required, 2
                                                                         of which may
                                                                         be uncovered
                                                                         2 additional
Home being used as a lawful home occupation                             parking
                                                                         spaces
                                                                         1 parking
                                                                         space for
                                                                         each 1,000
                                                                         square feet
Hospital                                                                of net floor
                                                                         area plus 1
                                                                         parking
                                                                         space for
                                                                         each regular
                                                                         employee
Hotel, motel, club, lodging house (guest bedroom)                       1 parking
                                                                         space
                                                                         1 parking
                                                                         space for
                                                                         each
                                                                         employee,
Manufacturing establishments                                            based on the
                                                                         greatest
                                                                         number of
                                                                         employees at
                                                                         any 1 time
                                                                         1 parking
                                                                         space for
Medical or dental office or clinic                                      each 250
                                                                         square feet
                                                                         of net floor
                                                                         area
Mortuary                                                                25 parking
                                                                         spaces
Retail stores or sales:                                                  
                                                                         3 additional
                                                                         parking
   And for drive-in banks                                            spaces for
                                                                         each teller
                                                                         window
                                                                         1 parking
                                                                         space for
                                                                         each 600
   Retail sales establishments handling only durable goods or bulky   square feet
merchandise, such as machinery, furniture, or vehicles, personal        of net floor
service and repair shops, wholesale stores                               area in
                                                                         excess of
                                                                         2,000 square
                                                                         feet
                                                                         1 parking
                                                                         space for
                                                                         each 200
                                                                         square feet
   Retail stores, banks and shops other than as specified herein     of net floor
                                                                         area in
                                                                         excess of
                                                                         2,000 square
                                                                         feet
                                                                         A number of
                                                                         parking
                                                                         spaces equal
                                                                         to 20
                                                                         percent of
                                                                         the capacity
                                                                         in persons.
                                                                         For the
Social hall, dance hall, nightclub, pool hall, restaurant, or other      purposes of
similar enterprise or establishment (floor space used by the public or  this
by members)                                                              section,
                                                                         capacity in
                                                                         persons
                                                                         shall mean
                                                                         the gross
                                                                         floor area
                                                                         divided by
                                                                         15 square
                                                                         feet
 
(Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998; amd. Ord., 3-1-2007)
Motor vehicle access must meet Idaho department of transportation standards or
other special use designated by the city council. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
CHAPTER 6
MOTOR VEHICLE ACCESS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Businesses Requiring Access
7-6-2: Location Of Gasoline Pumps
7-6-3: State Transportation Department Right-Of-Way Use Policy Manual
7-6-1: BUSINESSES REQUIRING ACCESS:
Service stations, roadside stands, public parking lots, and all other
businesses requiring motor vehicles access shall meet the requirements as
hereinafter provided or as prescribed in the current State of Idaho
Transportation Department manual entitled "Right-of-Way Use Policy". (Ord.
1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-6-2: LOCATION OF GASOLINE PUMPS:
Gasoline pumps shall conform with all State of Idaho regulations. (Ord. 1998-1,
7-17-1998)
7-6-3: STATE TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT RIGHT-OF-WAY USE POLICY MANUAL:
State Transportation Department Right-Of-Way Use Policy Manual, dated October
1982, is hereby adopted by reference, one copy of which shall remain on file in
the office of the City Clerk. (1999 Code)
CHAPTER 7
CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
7-7-1: Purpose
7-7-2: Conditional Use Permit Requirements
7-7-3: Procedure For Hearing; Notice
7-7-4: Approval
7-7-1: PURPOSE:
To provide for the regulation of uses to ensure their compatible integration in
the land use pattern of Franklin City. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-7-2: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
An approved conditional use permit shall be required for each conditional use
listed in this Title. No building permit or other permit or license shall be
issued for a conditional use by any officer or employee of Franklin City unless
a conditional use permit shall have been approved.
   A.   Application: Application for a conditional use permit shall be made at
the Franklin City office.
   B.   Development Plan: The applicant for a conditional use permit shall
prepare a site plan of the proposed conditional use, drawn to scale and showing
all existing and proposed buildings, fences, landscaping, automobile parking
and loading areas, and any other information the Planning Commission may deem
necessary.
   C.   Fee: The conditional use permit fee shall be established by resolution
by the City Council.
   D.   Hearing: A hearing need not be held; however, a hearing may be held
when the Planning Commission shall deem a hearing to be necessary to serve the
public interest.
   E.   Planning Commission Action:
      1.   The Planning Commission may approve, modify and approve, or deny the
conditional use application. In approving any conditional use, the Planning
Commission shall impose regulations and conditions as are necessary to protect
the public welfare.
      2.   In approving a conditional use, the Planning Commission shall find:
         a.   That the proposed use is necessary or desirable and will
contribute to the general well-being of the community.
         b.   That the use will not be detrimental to the health, safety, or
general welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity or injurious to
property or improvement in the vicinity.
         c.   That the proposed use will comply with the regulations of this
Title.
         d.   That the proposed use is in harmony with the intent of the Master
Plan.
   F.   Appeals: Appeal of any decision of the Planning Commission shall be to
the City Council. Notice of appeal specifying the grounds for the appeal shall
be made in writing and shall be filed at the City office with the Planning
Commission to be given a copy of the notice and a copy shall also be given to
the City Council. The notice of appeal shall be so filed not more than ten (10)
working days after the decision by the Planing Commission. The City Council
shall affirm, modify or reverse the decision of the Planning Commission.
However, the City Council shall present, in writing, the reasons for its
action.
   G.   Time Limit: A conditional use permit shall be null and void one year
after approval unless substantial work shall have been accomplished toward its
completion unless otherwise stipulated at the time of application.
   H.   Revocation Of Permit:
      1.   Reasons For Revocation: A conditional use permit may be revoked upon
failure to comply with the conditions imposed at the time of the original
approval of the permit. In addition, the renewal of any conditional use permit
may be denied at the annual or other periodic renewal time, or at any other
time regardless of the issue date of the permit, and any conditional use permit
may also be revoked, for good cause. "Good cause" shall include, but not be
limited to the following, within the discretion of the Planning Commission:
circumstances which are detrimental to or have a negative impact on the health,
safety and welfare concerns of the citizens and residents of Franklin City,
incompatible zoning or land use, complaints of noise, odor, failure to keep
dogs or other animals under proper care and/or control, failure to comply with
the conditions imposed at the time the original approval of the permit was
given, the creation and existence of a public or private nuisance, failure of
the permit holder or his agent or employees to comply with the conditions and
requirements of applicable State, County and/or Federal laws, rules and
regulations, unlawful activities conducted or permitted on the promises for
which the conditional use permit was issued, and/or other legitimate factors.
In this regard, four (4) or more legitimate complaints received by the City
Animal Officer or other law enforcement officers concerning animal rights or
any other activity or business allowed by a conditional use permit may be
cause, as determined by the Planning Commission, for denying, refusing to renew
and/or revoking the conditional use permit.
      2.   Notice Of Action Taken: Prior to the revocation of a conditional use
permit or the denial of an application to renew a conditional use permit, the
permit holder shall be given a notice which shall state in substance that the
Planning Commission intends to revoke the conditional use permit or deny the
application to renew it, together with the reason or reasons therefor, at a
regular or special meeting of the Planning Commission (which shall be at least
10 days and not more than 30 days from the date notice is sent) and the permit
holder shall have a right to appear, to be represented by counsel, to hear the
evidence against him/her, to cross-examine witnesses and to present evidence as
to why the permit should not be revoked or the application denied.
      3.   Original Applications Excepted: The preceding subsection shall not
apply to original applications for conditional use permits which have not
previously been issued or approved by the Planning Commission, and such
applicants need only be informed that their application has been denied and the
reasons for such denial.
   I.   Special Provisions For Animal Rights Conditional Use Permits:
      1.   Considerations: In considering each application for a conditional
use permit relating to animal rights, the Planning Commission shall proceed as
herein required, and in imposing such regulations and conditions as are
necessary to protect the public welfare in this regard, the Planning Commission
shall consider, among other thing, the zone in which the conditional use is
proposed the size of lot involved, the proximity of the proposed enclosures to
neighbors, the proposed size of the enclosure, its placement on the property
and the proposed number of animals. Together with anything else stated in an
approved permit.
      2.   Maximum Number Of Animals And Type Of Fencing:
         a.   In Zoning Districts Residential A-1 and A-2 as provided
previously in Section
7-3-9 of this Title, there shall be no mink, rabbits, foxes goats, mules,
donkeys, swine or any other animal raised for commercial purposes whatsoever in
said districts.
         b.   However, a maximum of two (2) cows or two (2) horses or eight (8)
sheep or a proportionate combination thereof according to the foregoing
limitations may be kept in private stables for personal use only. Any stables,
corrals, or sheds constructed for the use of such animals, shall be at least
one hundred fifty feet (150') distant from any sidewalk and one hundred feet
(100') distant from any residential dwelling, in addition to conforming to all
other building regulations stated in this or other City ordinances.
         c.   There shall be no barbed wire fences erected adjacent to any
sidewalk or public walkway accommodated within.
      3.   Term Of Permit: Each permit shall be granted for a maximum of one
calendar year, and shall expire on December 31 of the year in which it is
granted, subject to renewal during January of the following year. Provided,
however, that with respect to any permit granted after July 1, of any year, the
Planning Commission may provide for an expiration date of December 31 of the
following year.
      4.   Public Hearing: Any public hearing relating to an application for
animal rights conditional use permit shall be subject to the provisions of
Section
7-7-3 of this Chapter. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-7-3: PROCEDURE FOR HEARING; NOTICE:
Prior to granting a special use permit, at least one public hearing in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard shall be held. At
least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time and place and
a summary of the proposal shall be published in the official newspaper or paper
of general circulation within the jurisdiction. Notice may also be made
available to other newspapers, radio or television stations serving the
jurisdiction for use as a public service announcement. Notice of the hearing
shall also be provided by the applicant to property owners and residents within
the land being considered, three hundred feet (300') beyond the external
boundaries of the land being considered and any additional area that may be
substantially impacted by the proposed special use as determined by the
Commission. The applicant shall provide the Administrator with the signatures
of such property owners acknowledging that they have received such notice. When
notice is required to two hundred (200) or more property owners or residents,
in lieu of the mailing notification, three (3) notices in the newspaper or
paper of general circulation is sufficient; provided, the third notice appears
ten (10) days prior to the public hearing. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-7-4: APPROVAL:
This conditional use permit must be approved by the City Council before it can
be issued. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
CHAPTER 8
BUILDING PERMITS
SECTION:
7-8-1: Building Permit Required
7-8-2: Contents Of Application
7-8-3: Approval Of Building Permit
7-8-4: Expiration Of Building Permit
7-8-5: Failure To Obtain Building Permit
7-8-6: Compliance With Approved Plans And Applications
7-8-7: Schedule Of Fees, Charges And Expenses
7-8-8: Complaints Regarding Violations
7-8-9: Penalties
7-8-1: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Requirement: No new building shall be erected or extreme remodeling be
undertaken without a permit therefor issued by the commission or its designated
agent. Building permits shall be issued only in conformity with the provisions
of this title. "Extreme remodeling" shall be defined as any remodeling,
alteration, or repair of any building structure that involves enlarging the
footprint of the building structure itself or excavation or grading work below
grade.
   B.   Exempted Work: A building permit will not be required for the
following:
      1.   Fences six feet (6') high or less.
      2.   Retaining walls which are not over four feet (4') in height measured
from the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall unless supporting a
structure or impounding flammable liquids.
      3.   Platforms, walks, and driveways not more than thirty inches (30")
above grade and not over any basement or story below.
      4.   Painting, papering and similar finish work.
      5.   Temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets and
scenery.
      6.   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall of A-1 and A-
2 occupancies when projecting not more than fifty four inches (54").
      7.   Prefabricated swimming pool accessory to A-1 or A-2 occupancy in
which the pool walls are entirely above the adjacent grade and if the capacity
does not exceed five thousand (5,000) gallons.
   C.   Accessory Buildings: A one story detached accessory building used as a
tool shed, storage shed, playhouse, or similar use, and not for human
habitation, shall not require a building permit if the foundation (or if no
foundation, total floor square footage) does not exceed one hundred twenty
(120) square feet. If the foundation (or total floor square footage) of any
such building is greater than one hundred twenty (120) square feet, but less
than or equal to two hundred fifty (250) square feet, such construction shall
require an accessory building permit, and the fee therefor shall be ten dollars
($10.00). (Ord. 2011-10-12, 10-12-2011)
7-8-2: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
The application for building permit shall be signed by the owner or applicant
attesting to the truth and exactness of all information supplied on the
application. Each application shall clearly state that the permit shall expire
and may be revoked if work has not begun or is substantially completed within
one year. At a minimum, the application shall contain the following:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
   B.   Legal description of property and street address.
   C.   Existing use.
   D.   Proposed use.
   E.   Zoning district.
   F.   Plan drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and the shape of the
lot to be built upon; the exact size and location of existing buildings on the
lot, if any; and the location and dimensions of the proposed buildings or
alteration.
   G.   Building heights.
   H.   Number of off street parking spaces or loading berths.
   I.   Number of dwelling units.
   J.   Proposed sewer and water facilities.
   K.   Such other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance with,
and provide for, the enforcement of this title. (Ord. 2011-10-12, 10-12-2011)
7-8-3: APPROVAL OF BUILDING PERMIT:
Within thirty one (31) days after the receipt of an application, the commission
or its designated agent shall either approve or disapprove the application in
conformance with the provisions of this title. All building permits shall,
however, be conditional upon the commencement of work within one year. One copy
of the plans shall be returned to the applicant by the administrator after the
administrator shall have marked such copy either as approved or disapproved and
attested to same by his signature on such copy. One copy of plans similarly
marked, shall be retained by the administrator. The administrator shall issue a
placard, to be posed in a conspicuous place on the property in question,
attesting to the fact that the use or alteration is in conformance with the
provisions of this title. (Ord. 2011-10-12, 10-12-2011)
7-8-4: EXPIRATION OF BUILDING PERMIT:
If the work described in any building permit has not begun within one year from
the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire. (Ord. 2011-10-12, 10-
12-2011)
7-8-5: FAILURE TO OBTAIN BUILDING PERMIT:
Failure to obtain a building permit prior to commencement of construction shall
be in violation of this title and subject to applicable fines as per this code
and may be subject for removal of building at owner's expense. (Ord. 2011-10-
12, 10-12-2011)
7-8-6: COMPLIANCE WITH APPROVED PLANS AND APPLICATIONS:
Building permits issued on the basis of plans and applications approved by the
commission authorize only the use, and arrangement, set forth in such approved
plans and applications or amendments thereto, and no other use, arrangement or
construction. Use, arrangement or construction contrary to that authorized
shall be deemed a violation of this title. (Ord. 2011-10-12, 10-12-2011)
7-8-7: SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES:
   A.   Establish Fees And Collection Procedure: The council shall establish a
schedule of fees, charges and expenses and a collection procedure for building
permits, amendments, appeals, variances, special use permits, plan approvals,
and other matters pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this
title requiring investigations, inspection, legal advertising, postage and
other expenses. The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the clerk
and may be altered or amended only by the council. Until all applicable fees,
charges and expenses have been paid in full, no action shall be taken on any
application or appeal.
   B.   Adherence To Code Standards: Exemption from the permit requirements of
this title shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done
in any manner in violation of the provisions of this title or any other laws or
ordinances of this jurisdiction. (Ord. 2011-10-12, 10-12-2011)
7-8-8: COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS:
Whenever a violation of this title occurs or is alleged to have occurred, any
person may file a written complaint. Such complaint, stating fully the causes
and basis thereof, shall be filed with the clerk. The clerk shall properly
record such complaint in the records of the city. (Ord. 2011-10-12, 10-12-2011)
7-8-9: PENALTIES 1 :
The city attorney may, in addition to taking whatever criminal action deemed
necessary, take steps to civilly enjoin any violation of this title. Penalties
for failure to comply with or violations of the provisions of this title shall
be as follows: violation of any of the provisions of this title or failure to
comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. The landowner,
tenant, subdivider, builder, public official or any other person who commits,
participates in, assists in or maintains any violation may be found guilty of a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the council or any
other public official or private citizen from taking such lawful action as is
necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this title or of the Idaho
Code. (Ord. 2011-10-12, 10-12-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  7-1-9 of this title.
CHAPTER 9
ZONES
SECTION:
7-9-1: Establishment Of Zones
7-9-2: Boundaries Of Zones
7-9-3: Filing Of Ordinance And Map
7-9-4: Rules For Locating Boundaries
7-9-5: Amendments To Regulations Or Zone Boundaries
7-9-6: Initiation Of Zoning Amendments
7-9-7: Contents Of Application
7-9-8: Transmittal To Commission
7-9-9: Commission Hold Public Hearing
7-9-10: Recommendation By Commission
7-9-11: Action By Council
7-9-12: Resubmission Of Application
7-9-13: Zoning Upon Annexation
7-9-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES:
For the purpose of this Title, the following five (5) zones are created to be
applied as necessary to regulate the development of the land in the City:
 
Single-Family Residential   A-1
Multiple-Family Residential A-2
Business Zone               Business
Industrial Zone             Industrial
Transitional Zone           Transitional
 
(Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9-2: BOUNDARIES OF ZONES:
The boundaries of each of the said zones are hereby established as described
herein or shown on the map entitled "Zoning Map of Franklin City, Idaho" which
Map is attached to Ordinance 1998-1, on file in the office of the City Clerk,
and all boundaries, notations, and other data shown thereon are made by this
reference as much a part of this Title as if fully described and detailed
herein. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9-3: FILING OF ORDINANCE AND MAP:
This Title and Map shall be filed in the custody of the City Clerk and may be
examined by the public subject to any reasonable regulations established by the
City Clerk. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9-4: RULES FOR LOCATING BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any zone, the following rules
shall apply:
   A.   Center Lines Of Streets: Wherever the zone boundary is indicated as
being approximately upon the center line of a street, alley, or block, or along
a property line, then, unless otherwise definitely indicated on the Map, the
center line of such street, alley, or block or such property line, shall be
construed to be the boundary of such zone.
   B.   Center Line Of Waterway Or Railroad: Whenever such boundary line of
such zone is indicated as being approximately at the line of any river,
irrigation canal or other waterway or railroad right of way, or public park or
other public land or any section line, then in such case the center of such
stream, canal or waterway, or of such railroad right of way or the boundary
lines of such public land or such section line shall be deemed to be the
boundary of such zone.
   C.   Council Interpretation: Where the application of the above rules does
not clarify the zone boundary location, the City Council shall interpret the
Map. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9-5: AMENDMENTS TO REGULATIONS OR ZONE BOUNDARIES:
Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare or good zoning
practices require, the Council may, by ordinance after receipt or
recommendation thereon from the Commission and subject to procedures provided
by law, amend, supplement, change or repeal the regulations, restrictions and
boundaries or classification of property. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9-6: INITIATION OF ZONING AMENDMENTS:
Amendments to this Title may be initiated in one of the following ways:
   A.   By adoption of a motion by the Commission;
   B.   By adoption of a motion by the Council; and
   C.   By the filing of an application by a property owner or a person who has
existing interest in property within the area proposed to be changed or
affected by said amendment. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9-7: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
Applications for amendments to the Official Zoning Map adopted as part of this
Title shall contain at least the following information:
   A.   Name, address, and phone number of applicant;
   B.   Proposed amending ordinance, approved as to form by the Council;
   C.   Present land use;
   D.   Present zoning district;
   E.   Proposed use;
   F.   Proposed zoning district;
   G.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the Commission showing property
lines, thoroughfares, existing and proposed zoning and such other items as the
Commission may require;
   H.   A list of all property owners and their mailing addresses who are
within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being
considered;
   I.   A statement on how the proposed amendment relates to the Comprehensive
Plan, availability of public facilities and compatibility with the surrounding
area;
   J.   A fee as may be established by Council. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9-8: TRANSMITTAL TO COMMISSION:
Zoning districts shall be amended in the following manner:
   A.   Requests for an amendment to the Zoning Ordinance shall be submitted to
the Commission which shall evaluate the request to determine the extent and
nature of the amendment request.
   B.   If the request is in accordance with the adopted Comprehensive Plan,
the Commission may recommend and the Council may adopt or reject the ordinance
amendment under the notice and hearing procedures an herein provided.
   C.   If the request is not in accordance with the adopted Comprehensive
Plan, the request shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission or,
in its absence, the Council, which shall recommend any changes to the Plan.
Then the Council may adopt or reject an amendment to the Comprehensive Plan
under the notice and hearing procedures provided in section 67-6509, Idaho
Code. After the Comprehensive Plan has been amended, the Zoning Ordinance may
then be amended as hereinafter provided for. The hearing on the Comprehensive
Plan and the proposed change to the Zoning Ordinance may be held concurrently.
(Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9-9: COMMISSION HOLD PUBLIC HEARING:
The Commission shall hold a public hearing and make recommendations on proposed
zoning amendments. Zoning amendments may consist of text or Map revisions.
   A.   Zoning Ordinance Text Amendment: The Commission prior to recommending a
Zoning Ordinance text amendment to the Council shall conduct at least one
public hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be
heard. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of time and
place and a summary of the amendment shall be published in the official
newspaper of general circulation within the jurisdiction. Following the
Commission's hearing, if the Commission makes a material change from what was
presented at the public hearing, further notices and hearing shall be provided
before the Commission forwards the amendment with its recommendation to the
Council.
   B.   Zoning Ordinance Map Amendment: The Commission prior to recommending a
Zoning Ordinance Map amendment that is in accordance with the Comprehensive
Plan to the Council shall conduct at least one public hearing in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard. At least fifteen (15)
days prior to the hearing, notice of time and place and a summary of the
amendment shall be published in the official newspaper or paper of general
circulation within the jurisdiction. Additional notice of hearing shall be
provided by mail to property owners by the applicant and residents within the
land being considered; three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of
the land being considered; and any additional area that may be impacted by the
proposed change as determined by the Commission. The applicant shall provide
the Administrator with the signatures of such property owners acknowledging
that they have received such notice. When notice is required to two hundred
(200) or more property owners or residents, in lieu of the mail notification
three (3) notices in the official newspaper or paper of general circulation is
sufficient; provided, that the third notice appears ten (10) days prior to the
public hearing. Following the Commission's hearing, if the Commission makes a
material change from what was presented at the public hearing, further notice
and hearing shall be provided before the Commission forwards the amendment with
its recommendation to the Council. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9-10: RECOMMENDATION BY COMMISSION:
Within sixty (60) days from the receipt of the proposed amendment, the
Commission shall transmit its recommendation to the Council. The Commission may
recommend that the amendment be granted as requested, or it may recommend that
the amendment be denied. The Commission shall ensure that any favorable
recommendations for amendments are in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan
and established goals and objectives. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9-11: ACTION BY COUNCIL:
   A.   Hearing; Notice: The Council, prior to adopting, revising, or rejecting
the amendment to the Zoning Ordinance as recommended by the Commission, shall
conduct at least one public hearing using the same notice and hearing
procedures as the Commission. Following the Council hearing, if the Council
makes a material change from what was presented at the public hearing, further
notice and hearing shall be provided before the Council adopts the amendment.
   B.   Action On Commission Recommendation: The Council shall accept the
recommendation of the Commission's report unless rejected by a vote of one-half
(1/2) plus one of the members.
   C.   Specifications: Upon granting or denying an application to amend the
Zoning Ordinance, the Council shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   D.   Passage Of Ordinance: In the event the Council shall approve an
amendment, such amendment shall thereafter be made a part of this Title upon
the preparation and passage of an ordinance. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9-12: RESUBMISSION OF APPLICATION:
No application for a reclassification of any property which as been denied by
the Council shall be resubmitted in either substantially the same form or with
reference to substantially the same premises for the same purposes within a
period of one year from the date of such final action; unless there is an
amendment in the Comprehensive Plan which resulted from a change in conditions
as applying to the specific property under consideration. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-
1998)
7-9-13: ZONING UPON ANNEXATION:
Prior to annexation of an unincorporated area, the Council shall request and
receive a recommendation from the Planning and Zoning Commission on the
proposed Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Ordinance changes for the unincorporated
area. The Commission and the City Council shall follow the notice and hearing
procedures provided in Section
7-4-6 of this Title. Concurrently or immediately following the adoption of an
ordinance of annexation, the Council shall amend the Comprehensive Plan and
this Title. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
ARTICLE A. A-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE ZONE
SECTION:
7-9A-1: Purpose
7-9A-2: Permitted Uses
7-9A-3: Conditional Uses
7-9A-4: Height Regulations
7-9A-5: Area, Width And Yard Regulations
7-9A-6: Modifying Regulations
7-9A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the A-1 Single-Family Residence Zone is to provide appropriate
locations where low density residential neighborhoods may be established,
maintained and protected. The regulations also permit the establishment of,
with proper controls, the public and semi-public uses such as churches,
schools, libraries, parks and playgrounds, which serve the requirements of
families. The regulations are intended to prohibit those uses that would be
harmful to a single-family neighborhood. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory uses and buildings.
"Agriculture", as defined herein.
Household pets.
Single-family dwellings. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Art museum, public.
Church.
Family childcare center.
Home occupation, sales and service 1 .
Home preschool.
Intra block lot for single-family dwelling.
Library, public.
PUD 2 .
Park or playground, public.
Parking lot for permitted use.
Public building.
Public school.
Public utility.
Residential handicap facility. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. This shall be any business that does not have any traffic that picks up or
  drops off anything.
2 2. See Chapter 11 of this Title, Planned Unit Developments.
7-9A-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No main building shall be erected to a height greater than twenty five feet
(25') to be measured from grade. Accessory buildings and other main buildings
shall not be erected to a height greater than the dwelling. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-
1998)
7-9A-5: AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REGULATIONS:
 
Area           Width  Front   Side            Rear
                      Setback Setback         Setback
12,500 sq. ft. 90 ft. 30 ft.  15 ft. x 15 ft. 30 ft.
 
(Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9A-6: MODIFYING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Main Buildings: Side yard - main buildings and other buildings shall
have a minimum of fifteen feet (15') for each side yard. The street side of a
corner lot shall be thirty feet (30') for main and all accessory buildings.
(Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
   B.   Accessory Buildings: All accessory buildings must be five feet (5')
from side and back property lines. (Ord., 12-9-2015)
ARTICLE B. A-2 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE ZONE
SECTION:
7-9B-1: Purpose
7-9B-2: Permitted Uses
7-9B-3: Conditional Uses
7-9B-4: Height Regulations
7-9B-5: Area, Width And Yard Regulations
7-9B-6: Improvements
7-9B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the A-2 residence zone is to provide appropriate locations for
multiple-family dwellings. (Ord., 3-1-2007)
7-9B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory buildings and uses.
Agriculture.
Dwelling, single-family.
Home occupations and home sales and service. (Ord., 3-1-2007)
7-9B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Accessory building for two-, three-, four-families.
Church.
Dwelling, two-, three-, four-family on an individual lot.
Homes providing daycare for children.
Intrablock development.
Nursing home.
Parking lot for permitted or conditional uses.
Public park or playground.
Public school.
Public utility.
Retirement center. (Ord., 3-1-2007)
7-9B-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall be erected to a height greater than twenty five feet (25')
above grade and no accessory building shall be erected to a height greater than
twenty five feet (25') above grade. (Ord., 3-1-2007)
7-9B-5: AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REGULATIONS:
 
District Area1                  Width   Front   Side               Rear
                                        Setback Setback            Setback
A-2      12,500 square feet for 90 feet 30 feet 15 feet by 15 feet 30 feet
         first unit
 
Note:
      1.      For each additional unit there shall be 5,000 square feet of area
up to a maximum of 4 family units.
(Ord., 3-1-2007)
7-9B-6: IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Dwelling Area: Each family dwelling unit shall contain a minimum of
eight hundred fifty (850) square feet of living area.
   B.   Green Space: All A-2 complexes must provide an area equal to twenty
percent (20%) of total real property sited for the development. Green space
includes grass, trees, and other shrubbery and plants. Green space will allow
for improved drainage and milder temperature fluctuations.
   C.   Recreation Area: A-2 complexes with eight (8) individual units or more
must provide an area equal to five percent (5%) of total real property sited
for the development with fully developed recreation facilities as approved by
the city's consulting engineer. Recreation area should be in addition to green
space required.
   D.   Lighting: Multi-family dwelling parking and pedestrian areas shall have
adequate lighting for safety as approved by the city officials and/or city's
consulting engineer.
   E.   Water/Sewer: One water/sewer hookup or line is required per unit. The
size of the line will be determined by ERUs. (Note: This would be done
according to the current resolution on water and sewer connection fees.)
   F.   Number Of Living Units: Maximum living units per building shall be no
more than four (4) individual family units.
   G.   Side Yard: Main buildings and other buildings shall have a minimum of
fifteen feet (15') for each side yard. The side yard for one building cannot be
the same as the side yard for another, so that there is a minimum of thirty
feet (30') between buildings. The street side yard of a corner lot shall be
thirty feet (30') for main and accessory buildings.
   H.   Perimeter Fence: Property shall be effectively screened on any side
adjoining property by a wall, fence, or hedge to a height of six feet (6')
except for the front yard setback area of the adjoining property, in which case
the maximum height shall be three feet (3').
   I.   Parking Space Requirements: Three (3) parking spaces shall be provided
for each dwelling unit, two (2) of which may be uncovered.
   J.   Garbage Dumpsters: If garbage dumpsters are used for multiple families,
they shall be placed in a screened, sight obscured area.
   K.   Curb And Gutter And Sidewalk: Curb, gutter and sidewalk shall be
required along city rights of way and shall be placed according to the city's
comprehensive plan as approved by the city's consulting engineer. (May refer to
subdivision ordinances for specific requirements.)
   L.   Disposal Of Stormwater: Proper and adequate provision shall be made for
disposal of stormwater. The type, extent, location, and capacity of drainage
facilities shall be determined for the individual multi-family complex by the
complex engineer and approved by the city's consulting engineer.
   M.   Performance Bond: A building permit shall not be issued for any multi-
family dwelling unless the owner or developer shall furnish the city a form of
security which will ensure the proper and prompt installation of all site
improvements as required by this chapter. Such surety bond or other guarantee
shall be in the amount of one hundred ten percent (110%) of the estimated cost
of the improvements as determined by the city's consulting engineer. (Ord., 3-
1-2007)
ARTICLE C. TRANSITIONAL ZONE
SECTION:
7-9C-1: Purpose
7-9C-2: Permitted Uses
7-9C-3: Area And Height Requirements
7-9C-4: Yard And Setback Requirements
7-9C-5: Modifying Regulations
7-9C-6: Off-Street Parking And Loading Requirements
7-9C-7: Accessory Uses
7-9C-1: PURPOSE:
This type of zoning pattern is intended to create a transitional area and
buffer zone between agriculture areas and residential development. This zoning
pattern is not intended to eliminate agricultural uses with the City. It is,
however, intended to discourage the establishment of new agricultural
operations within the City limits. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9C-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Those used allowed in Zoning Districts Residential A-1, A-2 as
regulated therein.
   B.   No other uses, industrial, commercial, or otherwise, unless such use
has been allowed. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9C-3: AREA AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The minimum lot area for single-family dwellings shall be twelve
thousand five hundred (12,500) square feet.
   B.   The minimum area for each dwelling unit above that required for single-
family dwellings shall be three thousand (3,000) square feet of land area for
each additional unit.
   C.   Any building or structure or portion thereof thereafter erected shall
not exceed twenty five feet (25') in height measured from the existing grade of
the proposed site, unless approved by a special use permit. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-
1998)
7-9C-4: YARD AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
 
District     Area*                    Width  Front   Side            Rear
                                             Setback Setback         Setback
Transitional 12,500 sq. ft. for first 90 ft. 30 ft.  15 ft. x 15 ft. 30 ft.
             unit
 
*For each additional unit there shall be 3,000 square feet of area.
(Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9C-5: MODIFYING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Side Yard: Main buildings and other buildings shall have a minimum of
fifteen feet (15') for each side yard. The street side yard of a corner lot
shall be thirty feet (30') for the main and accessory buildings.
   B.   Dwellings Area: Each family dwelling unit shall contain a minimum of
eight hundred fifty (850) square feet of living area.
   C.   Recreation Area: All transitional and A-2 multi-family complexes must
provide an area equal to ten percent (10%) of total area with fully developed
recreation facilities.
   D.   Density: Multiple-family dwellings must be located such that the
density is equivalent to no greater than four (4) residential multiple
dwellings per block area within the City limits. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9C-6: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
Refer to Chapter 5 of this Title. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9C-7: ACCESSORY USES:
All accessory uses need a conditional use permit that will be in accordance
with the zone in which it is located. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
ARTICLE D. BUSINESS ZONE
SECTION:
7-9D-1: Purpose
7-9D-2: Permitted Uses
7-9D-3: Area And Height Requirements
7-9D-4: Yard And Setback Requirements
7-9D-5: Off-Street Parking And Loading Requirements
7-9D-6: Accessory Uses
7-9D-7: Residential Building Permits
7-9D-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the Business Zone is to establish district zones regulated to
fulfill general shopping center retail needs and travel or highway related
service requirements within the community. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9D-2: PERMITTED USES:
Automobile and truck repair shop.
Automobile sales and service.
Automobile sales lot, surfaced.
Automobile service stations.
Boarding and rooming houses.
Bowling alley, dance hall, or similar commercial establishments for public
gatherings or recreational use.
Camper or travel trailer park.
Club or lodge.
Commercial and private off-street parking lot for passenger automobiles.
Drive-in theater.
Farm machinery, heavy equipment sales and services, or any other similar uses.
Government or public utilities facilities of a nonindustrial character.
Hospital.
Medical clinics.
Mortuary.
Motels and hotels.
Nursery school, school for students of art, dancing, dramatics, music, business
or secretarial work.
Office of a medical, professional or administrative character.
Radio, television and FM broadcasting stations, including aerials when made an
integral part of a principal building.
Retail stores and retail or personal service shops, banks, offices, hotels,
motels and restaurants.
Tavern or lounges.
Theater, indoors.
Trailer sales and rental. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9D-3: AREA AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   There shall be no minimum lot sizes.
   B.   Any building or structure or a portion thereof hereafter erected shall
not exceed five (5) stories or forty five feet (45') in height, unless approved
by the special use permit. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9D-4: YARD AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
Certain structures within and projections into required rear area are
permitted, as herein specified, and shall not be considered to be obstructions
or included in the calculations of coverage unless otherwise specified.
   A.   Setback Requirements: No front or side yard except that when a building
or group of buildings abuts upon a residential district, a yard shall be
provided on the side of a lot abutting the residential district, having a width
of not less than ten feet (10').
   B.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard with a depth of not less than
fifteen feet (15'), unless a special use permit is approved. The rear yard may
be used for off-street parking and loading. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9D-5: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
Refer to Chapter 5 of this Title. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9D-6: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses are permitted if constructed either at the same time or
subsequent to the main building. Such uses shall be limited to two (2) stories
in height and shall not encroach upon required setback areas. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-
17-1998)
7-9D-7: RESIDENTIAL BUILDING PERMITS:
Residential building permits in the Business Zone can apply for a variance on a
case by case basis. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
ARTICLE E. INDUSTRIAL ZONE
SECTION:
7-9E-1: Purpose
7-9E-2: Conditional Uses Allowed
7-9E-3: Area And Height Requirements
7-9E-4: Yard And Setback Requirements
7-9E-5: Off-Street Parking And Loading Requirements
7-9E-6: Accessory Uses
7-9E-1: PURPOSE:
The Industrial Zone is established to provide for and encourage the grouping
together of light industrial uses and heavy industrial uses capable of being
operated under such standards as to location and appearance of buildings and
the treatment of the land about them, that they will be unobtrusive and not
detrimental to surrounding commercial or residential uses. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-
1998)
7-9E-2: CONDITIONAL USES ALLOWED:
Those uses allowed in the Business Zone except multiple- family dwellings,
school, churches, and hospitals.
Boarding kennel.
Broadcasting tower for radio or television.
Contracting equipment, maintenance for operating equipment of public agencies
or public utilities or materials and equipment of a similar nature including
lumber, coal, sand and gravel yards.
Creameries.
Flour mills.
Food processing.
Grain elevators and bulk storage, such as for potatoes, hay, and other similar
uses.
Laundry and dry cleaning of an industrial character.
Manufacturing, assembling, fabricating, processing, packing, repairing, or
storage uses which have not been declared a nuisance by statute, resolution or
in any court of competent jurisdiction, and provided these uses shall not
cause:
   A.   Unreasonable dust, smoke, gas, fumes, noise, vibration, or odor beyond
the boundaries of the site upon which such use in conducted.
   B.   Hazard of fire, explosion, or other physical damage to any adjacent
building or plant growth.
Tannery. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9E-3: AREA AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
None, except that within one hundred feet (100') of the boundary of any
adjoining zone, no building shall exceed the height limit established for main
buildings in such adjoining zone and shall not exceed height limit of the
Business Zone. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9E-4: YARD AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
Certain structures within and projections into required yard areas are
permitted, as herein specified, and shall not be considered to be obstructions
or included in the calculations of coverage unless otherwise specified.
   A.   Front Yard: The front yard setback shall be a minimum of thirty feet
(30') when a lot abuts, touches, or adjoins or is across the street from a
residential district, otherwise no front yard setback is required.
   B.   Side Yard: The side yard shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') when a
lot abuts, touches or adjoins a residential district, otherwise no side yard
setback is required.
   C.   Rear Yard: The rear yard shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') when a
lot abuts, touches or adjoins a residential district, otherwise no rear yard is
required. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9E-5: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
Refer to Chapter 5 of this Title. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-9E-6: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses are permitted. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
CHAPTER 10
INTRA BLOCK DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
7-10-1: Purpose
7-10-2: Provisions And Conditions
7-10-3: Development Plan
7-10-4: Public Hearing
7-10-5: Performance Bond
7-10-6: Fees
7-10-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide, through conditional use process, a
means by which intra blocks within the City can be developed in an efficient
and orderly manner without creating undue hardship on the City. (Ord. 1998-1,
7-17-1998)
7-10-2: PROVISIONS AND CONDITIONS:
The requirements of this Title shall not prevent the development of a single-
family dwelling or multiple-family dwellings on an individual "intra block
lot", as defined in Chapter 1 of this Title, provided the following conditions
are satisfied:
   A.   Allowed As Conditional Use: That the intra block lot is allowed as a
conditional use in the zone in which the lot is located.
   B.   Compliance With Subdivision Ordinance: That the requirements of any
subdivision ordinance be met except where waivers are determined to be
appropriate for certain required improvements or where this Chapter has implied
that certain required improvements be waived.
   C.   Access: That the private access for one lot has a minimum right of way
or ingress-egress easement width of sixteen feet (16') and the private access
for more than one lot has a minimum right-of-way width of twenty four feet
(24'). Private access roads will only be permitted in cases where public
streets are not possible, financially feasible, or practical. Private access
roads shall be constructed with a gravel base, bituminous (asphalt) or cement
surface, and gravel shoulders which shall be two feet (2') in width on each
side of the bituminous surface. The bituminous surface on private roads shall
be ten feet (10') wide for access to one housing unit and shall be twenty feet
(20') wide for access to more than one housing unit.
   D.   Improvements: That the owner or developer will be responsible for the
extension of all utilities, roadway and drainage improvements, and other
improvements necessary and/or required for the development of the intra block
property. All construction on public rights of way or where connection is made
to a public utility said construction or connection is subject to inspection by
the City.
   E.   Placement Of Dwellings: That consideration be given to the placement of
proposed dwellings so as to ensure the compatibility and to protect the privacy
of existing homes.
   F.   Privacy Fence: That a sight-proof privacy fence be constructed to a
minimum height of six feet (6') and adjacent to existing residences and/or at
other locations on the property boundary as specified by the Planning and
Zoning Committee and City Council. Fence type must be stated in plan. (Ord.
1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-10-3: DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
An intra block development plan shall be prepared by the developer or owner and
be approved by the City Planning and Zoning Commission, Public Works
Department, and City Council. The proposed plan shall provide the following
information:
   A.   The development plan shall be drawn to a scale of at least one inch
equals fifty feet (1" = 50') and should contain the north arrow point.
   B.   All property boundaries, easements and rights of way, and owners of
parcels or lots in the block where the intra block development is proposed.
   C.   All existing streets and the location of the proposed access to the
development including any future roadway extensions for further block
development.
   D.   The location and dimensions of all proposed lots, street, and
easements.
   E.   All existing structures adjacent to the development and the tentative
location and dimensions of proposed dwellings.
   F.   All existing irrigation ditches and drainage ways and the proposed
method of disposal of surface drainage.
   G.   The location of existing and proposed utilities.
   H.   The location and type of existing and proposed fences.
   I.   A statement of approval and a signature space for each of the
following: Public Works Department, Planning Commission, and City Council.
   J.   Any other information pertaining to the proposed development as
requested by the Planning and Zoning Commission. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-10-4: PUBLIC HEARING:
A public hearing shall be held by the Planning and Zoning Commission after
public notice has been given in the local newspaper and after written notice
has been given to adjacent property owners. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-10-5: PERFORMANCE BOND:
   A.   Improvements: A building permit shall not be issued for any dwelling or
structure to be placed in the intra block development unless the owner or
developer shall furnish the City a form of security which will ensure the
proper and prompt installation of all improvements as required by this Chapter.
Forms of acceptable security and amounts of said security shall be limited to
those which are determined by the City Council. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998; amd.
1999 Code)
   B.   Exclusion: Exclusion for single-family dwelling from performance bond
and bituminous surface. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-10-6: FEES:
   A.   Prevailing Fee Schedule: Any and all persons requesting approval on an
intra block development shall first have paid all fees set forth by the most
recent prevailing fee schedule adopted by resolution of the City Council. The
prevailing fee schedule is an office checking and field engineering fee to be
payable to the City at the time of submittal. In the event the original
submittal is not approved and a second, third, etc., submittal is required, a
fee shall be paid to the City on an hourly basis for the time incurred in
checking and approving the submittal. All hourly fees shall be based on the
most recent prevailing fee schedule adopted by the City.
   B.   Outside Engineering Fee: This can include any fee for outside
engineering from Alex Hudson, LarWest, or any other firm needed. (Ord. 1998-1,
7-17-1998)
CHAPTER 11
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
7-11-1: Purpose
7-11-2: Definitions
7-11-3: Identification
7-11-4: Uses
7-11-5: Location
7-11-6: Unified Control
7-11-7: Standards And Conditions
7-11-8: Time Limit
7-11-9: Procedure
7-11-1: PURPOSE:
Because of the substantial public advantages of planned unit development, it is
the intent of this Chapter to allow development thereunder where tracts
suitable in size, location, and character for the uses and structures proposed
are planned and developed as units in a unified and coordinated manner. In such
circumstances, where Municipal planning and development may effectively proceed
together, it is necessary and appropriate that there be requirements and
regulations other than on a lot- by-lot or subdivision basis so as to provide
flexibility and innovation in site planning and land-use relationships while
also ensuring substantial compliance with the intent, objectives, and purposes
of the Zoning Ordinance and the City's General Plan. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
COMMON AREAS: A. All land, other than individual lots, within the planned unit
development boundaries.
   B.   Any buildings or structures intended or reserved for the common use of
the residents and owners of the planned unit development.
   C.   Installations of or easements for central utility services or streets.
   D.   Such community and commercial facilities as may be provided for in the
declaration of the planned development.
   E.   All other parts of the planned unit development necessary for or
normally in common use.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): A development based upon an integrated design
in which one or more of the regulations of the zone in which the development is
to be situated is waived or varied for development of multiple uses or
densities in accordance with an approved plan and imposed general requirements
as specified in the Zoning Ordinance. A planned unit development may be:
   A.   The development of compatible land uses arranged in such a way as to
provide desirable living environments that may include private and common open
spaces for recreation, access, aesthetic, or other uses.
   B.   The conservation or development of desirable amenities not otherwise
possible by typical or lot-by-lot development standards.
   C.   The creation of areas for multiple use that are of benefit to the
community. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-11-3: IDENTIFICATION:
The boundaries of all land approved for development as a planned unit
development shall, after final approval, be indicated on the Official City
Zoning Map with the symbol "PUD" and the appropriate zone district (e.g., A-1/
PUD). (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-11-4: USES:
   A.   Planned unit developments shall be allowed as a conditional use in all
zones.
   B.   Uses shall be recommended by the Planning Commission and approved by
the City Council and shall be limited to uses designed to benefit and service
the population of the development and immediate community but shall not be such
as to adversely affect adjacent properties or their use.
   C.   All uses proposed within the planned unit development shall be
specified in the application and plan.
   D.   Accessory uses may be included in planned unit developments to provide
necessary services to the occupants of the development as determined by the
Planning Commission; provided, that agreements and restrictive covenants
controlling the proposed uses, ownership, characteristics, and design are filed
by and entered into by the developer and approved by the Planning Commission
and City Council to assure that the approved necessary services are maintained.
(Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-11-5: LOCATION:
In making decisions or recommendations as to the approval of a planned unit
development, the Planning Commission and City Council shall apply the following
locational standards:
   A.   Conformance With Plan: The concept of a planned unit development is an
important factor in the implementation of the City's Comprehensive Master Plan
and should be located in conformity with such Plan.
   B.   Access: The planned unit development should be so located with respect
to streets and public ways as to provide direct access to such developments
without creating or generating traffic along minor streets outside the
development.
   C.   Utilities: Planned unit developments should be so located in relation
to utilities that neither extension nor enlargement of such systems shall be
required in any way so as to result in higher net public cost.
   D.   Hazards Avoided: The site shall be suitable for development without
hazards to persons or property, on or off the tract, from flooding, erosion, or
other dangers or annoyances. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-11-6: UNIFIED CONTROL:
   A.   Ownership: All land included in the development shall be under the
legal control of the applicant, whether the applicant is an individual,
partnership, corporation, or a grouping thereof, such control to be in the form
of ownership or the option to purchase.
   B.   Evidence: Applicants requesting approval shall present evidence of
unified control of the entire tract comprising the development together with
the written opinion of legal counsel representing the applicant/developer
establishing that the applicant has the unrestricted right to impose all of the
covenants and conditions upon the land as are contemplated by the provisions of
this Title. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-11-7: STANDARDS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Area: A tract of land proposed for development as a PUD shall contain
minimum acreage in accordance with the following table:
 
Zone              Minimum Land Area
Transitional Zone 10 acres
All other zones   5 acres
 
   B.   Density:
      1.   The maximum number of lots or units shall be the number of
developable acres of the development divided by the minimum lot size permitted
by the requirements of the zone in which the PUD is located.
      2.   When it can be adequately shown that the intent of this Title and
the Zoning Ordinance can and will be maintained and the over crowding of lots
or units will not result, density increases may be granted; provided, that the
PUD:
         a.   Lends itself to economy of service delivery and minimization of
public costs.
         b.   Provides for the recreational needs of the future PUD occupants.
         c.   Minimizes the impact of increased density on adjacent properties
and streets by providing adequate and approved buffering.
      3.   In computing "developable" acreage, the following lands may be
excluded:
         a.   Property which is in excess of thirty percent (30%) natural grade
and considered undevelopable.
         b.   Property located within natural drainage channels or 100-year
flood zones.
         c.   Property of a unique character deemed by the Planning Commission
to be undevelopable.
   C.   Lot Requirements: Lot area, width, setback, yard coverage, and building
height and location requirements shall be determined by approval of the site
plan.
   D.   Landscaping: All areas not covered by buildings, by off-street parking,
or streets shall be planted with natural vegetation and so landscaped as to be
compatible with adjacent properties and the community.
   E.   Access: Every unit, lot, or other use permitted in the PUD shall have
access to a public street or way either directly or by an approved private road
or area dedicated to private public use guaranteeing access.
   F.   Parking: Off-street parking shall be provided in compliance with the
parking requirements of this Title.
   G.   Open Space: Functional and aesthetic usable open spaces are deemed
essential to and shall be included within a PUD and in accordance with the
following:
      1.   There shall be a minimum usable open space of thirty percent (30%)
of the total gross area of the PUD.
      2.   Areas beyond the perimeter of the PUD, streets, driveways, and
parking areas shall not be included in determining the usable open space.
      3.   Common park or recreational areas and facilities may be included in
determining usable open space if they are used and are appropriate for their
stated purposes and they are accessible and available to all occupants within
the PUD.
      4.   The preservation, maintenance, and ownership of usable open space
within the PUD must be assured and specified in a manner and evidenced by
appropriate legal documentation approved by the City Council and City Attorney.
   H.   Utilities: All utilities within the PUD, including telephone, telephone
cable, and electrical systems shall be installed underground. Appurtenances to
these systems which require aboveground installation must be effectively
screened and approved, and thereby may be exempt from this requirement.
   I.   Arrangement: Arrangement of structures, lots or units, and usable open
spaces within the PUD shall be such as to assure that adjacent properties and
their uses will not be adversely affected.
   J.   Changes:
      1.   Minor: Minor changes in the location, siting, or character of
buildings and structures may be authorized by the City Council if required by
engineering or other circumstances not foreseen at the time the final plan was
approved.
      2.   Other Changes: All other changes in the project, including changes
in the site plan and in the development schedule, must be approved by the
Planning Commission and City Council.
      3.   Deviations: Deviations from the approved plans or failure to comply
with any requirements imposed by the Planning Commission or City Council in
approving the PUD shall constitute a violation of this Title. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-
17-1998)
7-11-8: TIME LIMIT:
   A.   Time Limit Specified: The applicant must begin and substantially
complete the development of the PUD within two (2) years from the date of
approval.
   B.   Extension Of Time; Appeal: If the applicant does not begin or
substantially complete the development within the time limits imposed, the
Planning Commission shall review the PUD and may extend the time limit, revoke
the approval, or amend the plan. The developer may appeal the decision of the
Planning Commission to the City Council which shall review the record and
decision of the Planning Commission and affirm, set aside, remand, or modify
the Planning Commission's decision. Such appeal must be filed in writing within
ten (10) calendar days of the date of the decision appealed. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-
17-1998)
7-11-9: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application:
      1.   An application for PUD must be on a form approved by the City and be
duly executed and filed jointly by all owners and persons or entities having
legal control of the property.
      2.   The required filing fee shall be paid at the time of filing and
before the application may be considered.
      3.   The application shall be accompanied by a preliminary development
plan for the PUD which shall contain or show the following:
         a.   The name or title of the PUD.
         b.   The names of any professional planner or engineer for the project
and the names of all owners or persons or entities having legal control of the
property.
         c.   Scale, date, north arrow, and general location map of the
project.
         d.   The boundaries and legal description of the property to be
included in the PUD and the legal descriptions, owners, and parcel numbers of
all individual tracts and comprising the proposed zone.
         e.   Proposed land uses.
         f.   Unified and organized arrangement and location of buildings,
structures, and building groups.
         g.   Provisions for off-street parking.
         h.   Internal and external traffic circulation.
         i.   Proposed density.
         j.   Proposed street cross sections.
         k.   Proposed usable open space, parks, and public areas.
         l.   Location and type of proposed landscaping.
         m.   Relation to future land use and development in the surrounding
area as proposed by any general plan.
         n.   Proposed location of utilities.
         o.   Easements.
         p.   Schematic drawings demonstrating the design and character of the
PUD.
      4.   The applicant shall also:
         a.   Provide the owner's name and address and a brief description of
each adjacent property.
         b.   State the waivers or modifications of the general zoning
subdivision, or other City ordinances desired to be waived or modified and the
reasons therefor.
      5.   The City Clerk shall confirm that the application has been duly
executed and filed, the filing fee paid, and that the preliminary plan complies
with the above requirements and upon such confirmation shall place the
application upon the agenda of the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
Planning Commission which shall be no sooner than ten (10) days from the date
of filing.
   B.   Planning Commission Review And Approval:
      1.   Upon its initial review of an application for approval of a PUD, the
Planning Commission shall:
         a.   Meet with the applicant and assist the applicant in bringing the
application and attachments as nearly as possible into conformity with the
requirements of this Title and/or define specifically those variations from
such requirements which appear justified in the circumstances; and
         b.   Establish a public hearing date in not more than thirty (30) days
and direct the City Clerk to give at least fifteen (15) days' notice by mail to
all adjacent landowners, by publication at least once in the newspaper, by
posting at three (3) places in the City of the time, date, place, and purpose
of the public hearing.
      2.   The Planning Commission may require additional materials,
information, maps or otherwise which it deems necessary to make the necessary
recommendations. The applicant shall submit all evidence deemed necessary by
the Planning Commission of his ability to undertake the project.
      3.   After the public hearing, the Planning Commission may recommend to
the City Council that the application for approval of the PUD be granted as
requested or be granted subject to specific conditions and stipulations. The
Planning Commission may also disapprove the application in which case the
application may be considered by the City Council.
      4.   The Planning Commission, in order to approve the application, with
or without conditions or stipulations, must find specifically that:
         a.   The application and proposed PUD comply with all requirements
imposed by this Title.
         b.   The proposed PUD in consistent with the objectives and purposes
of this Title.
         c.   The proposed PUD is designed to be compatible with the adjacent
and surrounding properties and area.
         d.   The proposed PUD is designed to be compatible with the physical
features of the proposed site.
         e.   The desired waiver or modification of the general zoning,
subdivision, or other City ordinances applied to the particular case would be
justified and appropriate.
         f.   Adequate usable open space over conventional development is
provided for the occupants of development and the general public.
         g.   Desirable natural features indigenous to the site are preserved.
      5.   The Planning Commission shall include in its recommendation for
approval, if granted, the amount of bond which the applicant should be required
to submit to insure the completion of the project including improvements and
landscaping.
   C.   City Council Approval: Within fifteen (15) days of the date of approval
of the Planning Commission, the application shall be submitted to the City
Council for its consideration. The City Council, after the public hearing if
required by law, shall review the application and the Planning Commission's
findings and recommendation and may give preliminary approval to the PUD
application, with or without modification including stipulations and/or
conditions for approval and development, remand the matter to the Planning
Commission with instructions for further action or consideration, or disapprove
the application.
   D.   Final Plan And Approval:
      1.   A final development plan, conforming to all stipulations,
conditions, and requirements imposed by the City Council and this Title shall
be submitted and shall show in detail the unified and organized arrangement of
buildings, their proposed use, off-street parking, all other details required
on the preliminary plan, as well as the final grading, irrigation, and
landscaping plans.
      2.   No building permit shall be issued until the final development plan
has been approved by the Planning Commission and the City Council and has been
duly recorded in the office of the Franklin County Recorder.
      3.   The final development plan must have the signature of the City
Council approving the plan and the signature of the City Attorney approving the
plan as to form.
      4.   The City Council may require that all restrictive or other
covenants, agreements, or appropriate documents be recorded in the office of
the County Recorder as it deems necessary or advisable in order to assure
compliance with the final plan and this Title.
      5.   Unless otherwise required by law, no public hearing or notice shall
be required as to the final plat.
      6.   Copies of the final plat, as approved and recorded, shall be kept on
file in the office of the City Clerk.
   E.   Fees And Costs:
      1.   The applicant shall pay a filing fee at the time of filing of the
application as established by the City Council.
      2.   In addition to the filing fee, the applicant shall reimburse the
City for all costs incurred in the review and approval process including, but
not limited to, reproduction cost, attorney costs, engineer fees, mailing and
advertising costs, and other costs specifically incurred by the City with
regard to the subject application and project.
      3.   An irrevocable letter of credit may be substituted for the surety
bond if approved by City Council and City Attorney. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
CHAPTER 12
ACCESSORY APARTMENTS
SECTION:
7-12-1: Purpose
7-12-2: Conditions
7-12-3: Application Procedure
7-12-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of permitting an accessory apartment is to:
   A.   Provide homeowners with a means of obtaining, through tenants in an
accessory apartment, rental income, companionship, security, and services, and
thereby to enable them to stay more comfortable in homes and neighborhoods they
might otherwise be forced to leave;
   B.   Add inexpensive rental units to the housing stock to meet the needs of
smaller households, both young and old;
   C.   Make housing units available to moderate income households who might
otherwise have difficulty finding homes within the City;
   D.   Develop housing units in single-family neighborhoods that are
appropriate for small households at a variety of stages in the life cycle,
thereby lessening fluctuations in neighborhood demand for particular services.
(Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-12-2: CONDITIONS:
   A.   Standards And Criteria: A conditional use permit will be granted for a
use to be known as accessory apartment rental in owner-occupied single-family
dwellings; provided, that the following standards and criteria are met:
      1.   The apartment will be a separate housekeeping unit that can be
isolated within the original unit.
      2.   Only one apartment will be created within a single-family house.
      3.   The owner(s) of the residence in which the accessory unit is created
shall occupy at least one of the apartments in the dwelling, except for bona
fide temporary absences determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      4.   The accessory apartment shall be designed so that the appearance of
the building remains that of a one-family residence. Any new entrances shall be
located on the side or in the rear of the building.
      5.   The design and size of the apartment conforms to all applicable
standards in the health, building, and other codes. Certification by the Health
Department must be issued stating that the waste disposal system in sized
according to total available bedrooms in the house before a permit is granted.
The minimum of eight hundred fifty (850) square feet may be waived for the
apartment.
      6.   At least three (3) off-street hard surfaced parking spaces are
available for use by the owner-occupant(s) and tenant(s). Parking not to exceed
twenty five percent (25%) of front or side property line.
      7.   Other conditions for accessory apartment:
         a.   Building permit.
         b.   Termination of conditional use permit upon sale of property.
         c.   Conditional use permit review for renewal in three (3) years.
      8.   Any other appropriate or more stringent conditions deemed necessary
by the Planning and Zoning Commission to protect public health, safety, and
welfare, and the single-family character of the neighborhood.
      9.   City will charge property owner for the additional garbage service
for the apartment.
   B.   Allowable Locations: Accessory apartments are allowed in A-1 Single-
Family Residential Zone, A-2 Multi-Family Residential Zone, Transitional Zone
and where existing housing exists in Business Zone. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
7-12-3: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Accompanying Documents; Fee: Application for a permit for an accessory
apartment shall be made to the Planning and Zoning Commission in accordance
with the conditional use permit procedures given in this Title and shall
include:
      1.   A notarized letter accompanying the application from the owner(s)
stating that the owner will occupy one of the dwelling units on the premises,
except for bona fide temporary absences;
      2.   A floor plan of one-fourth inch to the foot (1/4" = 1') showing
proposed changes to the building;
      3.   A site plan;
      4.   A fee to cover costs of processing the application, legal notice.
   B.   Notice; Hearing: Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of an
application, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a public hearing.
Legal notice of such public hearing shall be published in the official
newspaper at least ten (10) days prior to the public hearing.
   C.   Purchaser Of Home: The purchaser of a home that had a conditional use
permit for an accessory apartment who wants to continue renting the apartment
must reapply for a permit and must demonstrate that all conditions prerequisite
to obtaining the relevant permit, in particular their residence in the home,
have been met.
   D.   Approval Prior To Sale: Where appropriate, the Planning and Zoning
Commission will take steps to expedite approval or to give conditional approval
prior to sale in order to protect continued residence by existing tenants.
(Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
CHAPTER 13
MANUFACTURED HOUSES
SECTION:
7-13-1: Requirements
7-13-1: REQUIREMENTS:
The requirements of this Title shall not prevent the placement of a single-
family dwelling on an individual "lot", as defined in Section
7-1-6 of this Title, provided the following conditions are satisfied:
   A.   Design Standards: Architectural compatibility with site built housing
standards:
      1.   Shingled pitched roof with eaves.
      2.   Conventional exterior siding which extends to a permanent continuous
foundation of concrete or masonry block with access hole. No seamless metal
shells.
      3.   Has permanent entrances and exits (porches and steps).
      4.   Stamped approval by HUD (S-5402-6).
      5.   Consist of two (2) or more modules not less than twenty four feet
(24') total width.
      6.   The minimum square footage to be not less than one thousand (1,000)
square feet or the average of square footage of adjacent homes.
   B.   Building Permits: The necessary building permits are obtained to assure
that site preparation, foundations, installation, roof loads, etc., meet the
appropriate codes.
   C.   Waste Disposal: Meets the waste disposal requirements of the City,
County and State Board of Health.
   D.   Deed Restrictions: Does not violate any deed restrictions or covenants
in the area where the unit is to be located.
   E.   Recorded With County: The manufactured home is recorded with the County
Recorder as being "permanently affixed" to real estate.
   F.   Yards: Meets side, rear, and front yard requirements in residential
zones in which they are permitted.
   G.   Installation: The manufactured house will be placed, installed, and
anchored according to installation codes adopted by the City or County building
codes and shall be inspected after the manufactured home has been installed and
permanently anchored. (Ord. 1998-1, 7-17-1998)
CHAPTER 14
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
7-14-1: Title
7-14-2: Purpose
7-14-3: Definitions
7-14-4: Mobile Home Restrictions
7-14-5: Mobile Home Parks
7-14-5-1: Building Permit
7-14-5-2: Licensing Provisions
7-14-5-3: Park Design; Facilities Required
7-14-5-4: Maintenance Requirements
7-14-5-5: Inspections
7-14-6: Construction Standards
7-14-7: Variances
7-14-8: Penalty
7-14-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and may be referred to as the FRANKLIN CITY MOBILE
HOME PARK ORDINANCE. (Ord. 16, 6-29-1982)
7-14-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide regulations for the establishment,
construction, improvement and alteration of private mobile homes and mobile
home parks in the incorporated area of Franklin City, Idaho, in order to
promote, protect and secure the public health, safety and general welfare of
its inhabitants. (Ord. 16, 6-29-1982)
7-14-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, terms used herein are defined as follows:
ACCESSWAY: An unobstructed way of specified width containing a drive or roadway
which provides vehicular access within a mobile home park and connects to a
public street.
BUILDING INSPECTOR: Any duly appointed officer of the City, or his authorized
representative, charged with the administration and enforcement of the
provisions of this Chapter.
DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME OR TRAILER: A mobile home which does not have a toilet
and/or a bathtub or shower.
INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME: A mobile home as described hereinbelow, which has a
flush water closet and bath or shower.
MOBILE HOME: A dwelling unit, factory-built and factory- assembled, designed
for conveyance after fabrication, on streets and highways on its own wheels or
on flatbed or other trailers, and arriving at the site where it is to be
occupied as a dwelling unit complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor
and incidental unpacking and assembly operations such as locating on jacks or
other foundation, or connection to utilities and which may have sleeping,
cooking and plumbing facilities and intended for human occupancy as a residence
or as an office or business building.
The term "mobile home" shall include all types of mobile homes or "house-
trailers" including, but not limited to "double-wide" or other over-sized
structures.
The term "mobile home" shall not apply to residence or business buildings
constructed in prefabricated sections and moved from factory or place of
construction to a location within the City of Franklin to become affixed to and
a part of the real property by erection upon a concrete or other permanent
foundation in the same manner as on-site built structures and are not readily
capable of having wheels and similar running type gear attached thereto.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any area or tract of land upon which four (4) or more mobile
homes or trailer coaches are parked for living and/or sleeping purposes, such
premises set apart for the purpose of supplying to the public parking space for
such mobile homes for sleeping purposes. "Mobile home park" shall be deemed to
be synonymous with "trailer court" or "camp" or such other names as may be used
in connection with the use as defined herein.
MOBILE HOME SPACE: A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for the
use or occupancy of one mobile home.
MOBILE HOME STAND: That portion of a mobile home space designed for the
location of a mobile home and all accessory structures, cabanas, etc., or other
add-on enclosed space at least ten feet wide and forty five feet long (10' x
45').
SERVICE BUILDING: A building housing the following facilities for public use
and/or use of all occupants within a mobile home park: slop-water closet,
toilet and bathing facilities for both men and women.
SETBACK: Yard requirements. The distances that buildings or uses must be
removed from their lot lines. Setbacks shall be measured, where applicable,
from proposed or actual public or private street right-of-way lines.
VACATION TRAILER: A vehicle or structure equipped with wheels for highway use
that is intended for human occupancy, for vacation and recreational purposes.
(Ord. 16, 6-29-1982)
7-14-4: MOBILE HOME RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Location In Mobile Home Park Required: It shall be unlawful for any
person to park a mobile home within the corporate limits of the City outside of
a mobile home park with intent to make use of the same for the purpose of human
habitation. Such prohibition shall apply irrespective of whether the parking
site shall be on private or public premises, streets, alleys or highways at all
times, except for emergency purposes.
   B.   Existing Mobile Homes:
      1.   Registration Required:
         a.   All occupied mobile homes located in the City on the effective
date hereof shall be registered by the City Clerk. No new registration shall be
issued for the continued use of a property for a mobile home site if the name
of the person applying for a renewal is different than the name of the person
which appeared on the registration as the occupant of the mobile home on the
effective date hereof.
         b.   A registration shall be obtained each year from the City Clerk
for any mobile home outside a mobile home park.
      2.   Discontinuance Of Use: If the use of the property for a mobile home
site is discontinued for any reason for more than six (6) months, it shall not
be reestablished.
   C.   Storage Of Unoccupied Mobile Homes: The storage of any unoccupied and
uninhabited mobile home not exceeding eight feet (8') in width shall be
permitted in the rear yard of any premises; provided, that it does not extend
into any setback area, nor shall it be connected to a sewer, water, electricity
or gas, and that such storage is not in conflict with any other section of this
Chapter or any other regulations of the City. (Ord. 16, 6-29-1982)
7-14-5: MOBILE HOME PARKS:
7-14-5-1: BUILDING PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall construct, enlarge or alter any mobile
home park without first obtaining a building permit issued for the performance
of such work by the City Council and approval by the Southeast Idaho Health
Department or successor agency.
   B.   Application Procedure: Application for the construction, enlargement or
alteration of a mobile home park shall be made by filing a general line plot
plan, five (5) copies professionally prepared, showing the following:
      1.   General location in relation to existing streets.
      2.   Access roads within the proposed mobile home park.
      3.   Location of each mobile home space.
      4.   Location of parking spaces.
      5.   Location and description of proposed fences, ornamental fences and
landscape treatment.
      6.   Location of all utility lines, such as water, gas, sewage disposal
facility, telephone, electrical, etc. (Ord. 16, 6-29-1982)
7-14-5-2: LICENSING PROVISIONS:
   A.   License Required: In addition to the building permit required by
Section
7-14-5-1 of this Chapter, each operator of a mobile home park shall procure an
annual business license from the City as provided herein.
   B.   License Fee And Term: Each person, before operating a mobile home park,
shall pay to the City Treasurer an annual business license fee for a mobile
home park. The term of the business license is from January 1 through December
31 of the same year. No license shall be transferrable.
   C.   Suspension Of License:
      1.   Whenever, upon inspection of any mobile home park, the City Council
finds that conditions or practices exist which are in violation of any
provision of this Chapter or of any regulation adopted pursuant thereto, the
City Inspector shall give notice of such violation in writing to the person to
whom the license was issued, who shall have thirty (30) days to correct said
deficiency. At the end of the period for correction of said conditions or
practices specified in said notice, the City Inspector shall reinspect such
mobile home park and if such conditions or practices have not been corrected,
he shall give notice in writing to the person to whom the license was issued
that the license has been suspended. Upon receipt of notice of suspension, such
person shall cease operation of such mobile home park.
      2.   Any person whose license has been suspended, or who has received
notice from the City Council that his license will be suspended unless certain
conditions or practices at the mobile home park are corrected, may request and
shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the City Council; provided,
that a petition for such hearing shall have been filed within ten (10) days
following the day on which such license was suspended. (Ord. 16, 6-29-1982)
7-14-5-3: PARK DESIGN; FACILITIES REQUIRED:
   A.   Access Roads:
      1.   Each mobile home park shall be provided with hard surfaced roads at
least twenty feet (20') wide to serve each mobile home space and common parking
areas.
      2.   Each such access road should be continuous and unobstructed and
shall connect directly to a public street.
      3.   Direct vehicular access to mobile home space shall be limited to the
access road provided.
      4.   Where any access road connects to two (2) or more public streets, it
shall be arranged so as to prohibit through traffic.
   B.   Off-Street Parking: Hard surface parking space shall be provided for
the parking of motor vehicles in the ratio of at least two (2) parking spaces
to each mobile space.
   C.   Yards: Each mobile home park shall have the following minimum yard
clearances:
      1.   Front or side yard on a public street: thirty feet (30').
      2.   Side yard bordering adjacent property: fifteen feet (15').
      3.   Rear yard bordering adjacent property: fifteen feet (15').
   D.   Mobile Home Site:
      1.   Size: Each mobile home space shall have a minimum area of three
thousand two hundred (3,200) square feet and a minimum width of forty feet
(40').
      2.   Yards: Each mobile home shall have the following minimum yard
clearances:
         a.   Front yard on a private access road: ten feet (10').
         b.   Side yard on door side of mobile home: twenty feet (20').
         c.   Side yard on no access side of mobile home: five feet (5').
         d.   Rear yard: five feet (5').
   E.   Service Building Required: All mobile home parks containing spaces for
dependent mobile homes shall provide at least one service building containing:
      1.   At least one water closet for each sex for each ten (10), or major
part thereof, dependent mobile home spaces.
      2.   At least one lavatory and one shower or bathtub for each ten (10),
or major part thereof, dependent mobile home spaces.
   F.   Storage: A storage area shall be provided for each mobile home park for
the storage of accessory items such as boats, vacation trailers, campers and
related equipment owned by the park residents. Such items shall be stored in
the storage area and not parked beside the mobile home.
   G.   Water Supply And Sewage Disposal:
      1.   Utility Connections:
         a.   The City will be responsible to make water connections to the
property line (provided the lines are accessible); with the owner of the mobile
home park responsible to provide the distribution lines for water and sewerage
collection as per approval by the City Council pending submitted plans of park.
         b.   The City reserves the right to make mandatory separate shutoffs
at the expense of the mobile home park owner for each mobile home space.
      2.   Water Supply:
         a.   An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall
be provided in each mobile home park. A supply of water shall be used
exclusively and connection shall be made thereto.
         b.   All water piping shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with State and City law; the water piping system shall not be
connected with nonpotable or questionable water supplies, nor be subject to the
hazards of backflow or back siphonage.
         c.   Individual water service connections which are provided for
direct use by mobile homes shall be so constructed that they will not be
damaged by the parking of such homes.
      3.   Sewerage Disposal:
         a.   All plumbing in the mobile home park shall comply with State
plumbing and health laws and regulations.
         b.   Each mobile home space shall be provided with at least a three
inch (3") sewer disposal connection. The sewer disposal connection shall be
provided with suitable fittings, so that a watertight connection can be made
between the mobile home drain and sewer connection. Such individual mobile home
connections shall be so constructed that they can be closed when not linked to
a mobile home, and shall be capped in such a manner as to maintain them in an
odor-free condition.
   H.   Drainage: The mobile home park shall be well drained. Provisions for
drainage shall be made in accordance with plans approved by the City Engineer.
   I.   Landscaping: There shall accompany any application for the construction
or maintenance of any mobile home park a plan for the landscaping of such park,
which plans shall be subject to the approval of the City Council. (Ord. 16, 6-
29-1982)
7-14-5-4: MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Insect And Weed Control: Suitable measures recommended by the City
Inspector shall be taken by the mobile home park operator to control insects
and noxious weeds.
   B.   Pets: No owner or person in charge of a dog, cat or other pet animal
shall permit it to run at large, or to commit any nuisance within the limits of
any mobile home park. (Ord. 16, 6-29-1982)
7-14-5-5: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   City Authority: The Mayor and City Council or their authorized agent
are hereby authorized and directed to make inspections to determine the
condition of mobile home parks within the City, in order that they may perform
their duties of safeguarding the health and safety of occupants of mobile home
parks and of the general public.
   B.   Occupant To Allow Access: It shall be the duty of every occupant of a
mobile home park to give the owner thereof or his agent or employee access to
any part of such mobile home park or its premises at reasonable times for the
purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect
compliance with this Chapter, or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 16, 6-29-1982)
7-14-6: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
All buildings, electrical, plumbing and fire protection construction shall
comply with all State construction standards and codes. (Ord. 16, 6-29-1982)
7-14-7: VARIANCES:
   A.   Authority: The City Council may authorize in specific cases such
variance from the terms of this Chapter as will not be contrary to the public
interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this Chapter would result in unnecessary hardship. No
nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures or buildings in the same
district and no permitted or nonconforming use of lands, structures or
buildings in other districts shall be considered grounds for issuance of a
variance. Variances shall not be granted on the grounds of convenience or
profit, but only where strict application of the provisions of this Chapter
would result in unnecessary hardship.
   B.   Application For Variance: A variance from the terms of this Chapter
shall not be granted by the City Council unless and until a written application
for a variance is submitted to the Clerk and the City Council containing:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of applicant(s);
      2.   Legal description of property (and street address, where possible);
      3.   Description of nature of variance requested; and
      4.   A narrative statement demonstrating that the requested variance
conforms to the following standards:
         a.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are
peculiar to the land, structure or building involved and which are not
applicable to other lands, structures or in the same district;
         b.   That a literal interpretation of the provisions of this Chapter
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same district under the terms of this Chapter;
         c.   That special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant; and
         d.   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this Chapter to other lands,
structures or buildings in the same district.
      5.   A summary of the variance requested, in one paragraph of not more
than one hundred (100) words explaining the variance requested.
   C.   Conditions Of Granting Variance:
      1.   A variance shall not be granted unless the City Council makes
specific findings of fact based directly on the particular evidence presented
to it which support conclusions that the abovementioned standards and
conditions have been met by the applicant.
      2.   Under no circumstances shall the City Council grant a variance to
allow a use not permissible under the terms of this Chapter in the district
involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of
this Chapter in the district. In granting a variance, the City Council may
prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this
Chapter. Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the
terms under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
Chapter.
   D.   Hearing: Upon receipt of the application for a variance, the City
Council shall hold a hearing. It shall publish notice in the official newspaper
at least ten (10) days, or mail notice as provided in Idaho Code section 60-
109A, at least five (5) days, prior to date on which the City Council will
consider the request for a variance containing a summary of the variance by the
City Council, and an invitation to any potentially affected persons to object
to said request by appearing before the City Council on such date.
   E.   Notice Of Variance Request: The applicant shall provide the Clerk with
the names and addresses of the immediately adjoining landowners to the parcel
affected by the variance request. The Clerk shall notify these individuals of
the date upon which the variance request will be considered by the City Council
so that they can attend and give testimony if such landowners desire.
   F.   Decision:
      1.   Within thirty one (31) days after the receipt of the application,
the City Council shall either approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the
request for the variance.
      2.   Upon granting or denying an application, the City Council shall
specify:
         a.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
         b.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
         c.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
variance.
      3.   Within ten (10) days after a decision has been rendered, the Clerk
shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on the request.
(Ord. 16, 6-29-1982)
7-14-8: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this Chapter shall, upon conviction,
be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code, and each day's failure of compliance with any such
provision shall constitute a separate violation. (Ord. 16, 6-29-1982; amd. 1999
Code)
CHAPTER 15
AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
7-15-1: Purpose
7-15-2: Geographic Area Of City Impact And Wellhead And Watershed Protection
Area
7-15-3: Comprehensive Plan
7-15-4: Subdivision Ordinance
7-15-5: Code And Ordinance Administration And Enforcement
7-15-6: Source Water Protection
7-15-7: Renegotiation
7-15-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish an area of impact for the city of
Franklin. This action is required by laws to promote the health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of Franklin and Franklin County by:
   A.   Ensuring that development in the established areas of impact of the
city has no adverse impact on the municipal water supply and does not increase
potential for flooding, contamination or damage to the city's wellhead and
watershed protection area;
   B.   Ensuring that development in the established area of impact of the city
limits does not impose an unnecessary fiscal burden on residents of the city,
by generating demands for new and improved public facilities;
   C.   Ensuring that growth in the established area of impact of the city
limits is planned and managed in an orderly fashion;
   D.   Ensuring that development in the established area of impact of the city
does not unduly impact residents' enjoyment of their homes, create safety
hazards, or necessitate major street improvements. (Ord. 2005-10-12, 10-12-
2005)
7-15-2: GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF CITY IMPACT AND WELLHEAD AND WATERSHED PROTECTION
AREA:
The officially adopted and agreed upon areas of impact for the city of Franklin
are shown on the map attached to the ordinance codified herein. The area of
impact will include one-half (1/2) mile outside of the current city boundaries
to the west, north, and east of Franklin. South of the current Franklin city
limits, the area of impact will extend one mile to the Utah state line. The
area of impact also includes the city's water transmission lines and the area
is identified as twenty five feet (25') on either side of the water
transmission lines from the water sources and prohibits building structures
that might prevent normal maintenance and replacement of the water transmission
lines.
The wellhead protection area is identified on the map and description from the
Franklin city source water protection plan attached to the ordinance codified
herein. (Ord. 2005-10-12, 10-12-2005)
7-15-3: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The comprehensive plan and subsequent amendments thereto as officially adopted
by Franklin County shall apply to the area of impact within the unincorporated
area of Franklin. Both the city and county shall amend their comprehensive
plans to be consistent with this agreement, if required. (Ord. 2005-10-12, 10-
12-2005)
7-15-4: SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE:
The subdivision ordinance and subsequent amendments thereto as officially
adopted by Franklin County shall apply within the area of impact. (Ord. 2005-
10-12, 10-12-2005)
7-15-5: CODE AND ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The county of Franklin shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of the county's ordinances where they apply.
   B.   All proposed subdivision development plats or any development requiring
a building permit under county ordinances situated within the area of impact
shown on the map attached to the ordinance codified herein shall be submitted
to the city for review and comment at least fifteen (15) days before the first
official decision regarding the subdivision or development is to be made by the
county.
   C.   Maintenance of public streets located in the area of impact shall
remain the responsibility of Franklin county and the state of Idaho, unless
otherwise stipulated by written agreement between Franklin County, state of
Idaho, and city of Franklin.
   D.   Law enforcement and fire services in the area of impact shall remain
the responsibility of Franklin County, unless otherwise stipulated by written
agreement between the county and/or fire district and the city of Franklin.
(Ord. 2005-10-12, 10-12-2005)
7-15-6: SOURCE WATER PROTECTION:
No permanent building or structure shall be placed within twenty five feet
(25') of the Franklin city water transmission line. The following development
is not permitted within the source watershed protection areas:
   A.   Animal confinement operations (ACOs) as defined by Franklin County
ordinance 2002-2.
   B.   Within the source water protection area as identified on the source
water protection map, the minimum size for a parcel of land will be five (5)
acres. If smaller parcels are proposed, the developer or property owner must
perform a nutrient-pathogen evaluation at their expense. The findings of the
nutrient-pathogen evaluation will be evaluated by the Idaho DEQ organization.
If the nutrient-pathogen evaluation indicates a smaller parcel will not
negatively affect the city of Franklin's watershed, the city and county may
agree to a smaller parcel for the specific project area studied in the
nutrient-pathogen evaluation. (Ord. 2005-10-12, 10-12-2005)
7-15-7: RENEGOTIATION:
The area of impact agreement may be reviewed upon the request of either party
hereto. Renegotiation shall begin thirty (30) days after written request by
either the city or county and shall follow procedures for the original
negotiation, as set forth in Idaho Code, section 67-6526. (Ord. 2005-10-12, 10-
12-2005)
CHAPTER 16
SIGN CODE
SECTION:
7-16-1: Title
7-16-2: Authority
7-16-3: Purpose
7-16-4: Definitions
7-16-5: Permit Required
7-16-6: Signs Requiring Permits
7-16-7: Exemptions To Sign Standards (Signs Not Requiring Permits)
7-16-8: Illumination
7-16-9: Sign Regulations
7-16-10: Prohibited Signs
7-16-11: Nonconforming Signs
7-16-12: Maintenance Of Signs
7-16-13: Conflicting Regulations
7-16-14: Enforcement
7-16-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the FRANKLIN SIGN ORDINANCE.
(Res. 2007-2-15-2, 2-15-2007)
7-16-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in article XII,
section 2 of the constitution of the state of Idaho and of the Idaho Code.
(Res. 2007-2-15-2, 2-15-2007)
7-16-3: PURPOSE:
To regulate the location, size, placement, and certain features of signs in
order to increase safety to life and property, to reduce unnecessary
distractions along public road rights of way, and assure the continued
attractiveness of this city while allowing for the appropriate identification
of property and businesses. (Res. 2007-2-15-2, 2-15-2007)
7-16-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter:
ANIMATED SIGN: A sign that uses movement or change of lighting to depict action
or create a special effect or scene.
AREA OF SIGN: Measured from the outer edge of the sign or frame holding the
sign.
AWNING: A movable shelter supported entirely from the building and a type which
can be retracted, folded or collapsed against the face of the building.
Regulations regarding canopies apply to all awnings.
BANNER: A sign or street graphic composed of fabric or similar material that is
mounted to a pole, building, or other structure by a frame at one or more
edges.
BILLBOARD: See definition of Off Premises Sign.
BUSINESS SIGN: A sign which identifies and/or directs attention to the
business, profession, commodities, services, entertainment or activities
conducted, sold, displayed, or offered or stored on the premises where the sign
is located.
CANOPY: A permanently roofed shelter covering a sidewalk, driveway or similar
area, which shelter may be wholly or partially supported by columns, poles, or
braces extended from the ground; provided, that in no event shall said canopy
extend over the public right of way.
CANOPY SIGN: A sign applied to or painted upon a "canopy" as defined in this
section. Such sign shall be an integral part of the canopy and have no relief.
An awning will be considered a canopy sign.
CONSTRUCTION SIGN: A temporary sign announcing subdivision development
construction or other improvements of property by a builder, contractor or
other person furnishing services, materials or labor to said premises.
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN: An electronic sign which flashes or rolls a message
across it about the services or products of the business and may also have the
time and temperature displayed. The electronic message sign may be incorporated
into a business sign but may not increase that sign's maximum size or height.
FREESTANDING SIGN: A sign which is supported by one or more columns, uprights,
poles, or braces extended from the ground or from an object on the ground, and
is permanent in nature.
HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the elevation of the nearest
sidewalk (or in the absence of a sidewalk from the lowest point of finished
grade on the lot upon which sign is located, but within 25 feet of the sign) to
the uppermost point of the sign or sign structure.
IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A sign displayed to indicate the name or nature of
buildings or uses, other than commercial or industrial uses, located upon the
same premises as the sign, i.e., schools, hospitals, churches, etc.
ILLUMINATION, DIRECT: Lighting by means of an unshielded light source
(including neon tubing) which is effectively visible as part of the sign, where
light travels directly from the source to the viewer's eye.
ILLUMINATION, INDIRECT: Lighting by means of a light source which is directed
at a reflecting surface in such a way as to illuminate the sign from the front,
or the entire building facade upon which the sign is displayed.
ILLUMINATION, INTERNAL: Lighting by means of a light source which is within a
sign having a translucent background silhouetting opaque letters or designs, or
which is within letters or designs which are themselves made of translucent
materials.
JOINT IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A sign which serves a common or collective
identification for two (2) or more businesses or industrial uses on the same
lot.
MARQUEES: A permanently roofed structure attached to and wholly supported by a
building, and projecting from the building.
MONUMENT SIGN: A sign which is supported by its own foundation and internal
support system independent of any other structure.
NAMEPLATE AND HOME OCCUPATION SIGN: A sign indicating the name and occupation
of a person or persons residing on the same premises or legally occupying the
same premises, or indicating a home occupation legally existing on the premises
of the sign. The sign must be attached to the building.
OFF PREMISES ADVERTISING SIGN: Any off premises sign, including a billboard or
general outdoor advertising device, which advertises or directs attention to a
business, commodity, service or activity conducted, sold or offered elsewhere
than on the same lot or within the same building upon which sign is erected or
displayed.
OFF PREMISES SIGN: Any off premises sign, which advertises or directs attention
to a business, commodity, service or activity conducted, sold or offered
elsewhere than on the same lot or within the same building upon which sign is
erected or displayed. The sign will not exceed seventy two (72) square feet,
may not be illuminated, and must be located on the property of an existing
commercial business, with no more than one off premises sign allowed per
commercial business. Off premises signs shall not be allowed when the
commercial business where the off premises sign is located ceases its business
activities for a period of six (6) months. On scenic and/or historic byways,
off premises signs are prohibited in any established city impact area. There
shall also be a one thousand foot (1,000') distance between any two (2) off
premises signs.
ON PREMISES SIGN: A sign which relates solely to a use, business, profession,
service, etc., provided or offered upon the premises where the sign is located.
PORTABLE OR WHEELED SIGNS: A sign that is movable and temporary, constructed
for the purpose of display and advertisement. These signs can only be used for
special events.
PROJECTING SIGN: A sign attached to a building or extending in whole or part,
twelve inches (12") or more horizontally beyond the surface of the building to
which the sign is attached. Support structure must be perpendicular to surface
of the building.
REAL ESTATE SIGN: A sign indicating the availability for sale, rent or lease of
the specific lot, building or portion of a building upon which the sign is
erected or displayed.
ROOF SIGN: A sign painted on the roof of a building, or a sign supported by
poles, uprights, or braces attached to the roof of a building. No part of the
sign may extend vertically above the highest portion of the roof and the sign
erected upon or against the side of the roof must have a forty five degree
(45°) angle, or less, from the vertical.
ROOFLINE: The highest point on any building including any parapet wall, not
including chimneys and exhaust system housing.
SIGN: Any writing, pictorial representation, decoration (including any material
used to differentiate sign copy from its background), form, emblem or
trademark, flag or banner, or any other figure of similar character. If, for
any reason, it cannot be readily determined whether or not an object is a sign
the building inspector and/or county engineer shall make such determination.
SIGN FACE: The surface of a sign, upon, against or through which the message is
displayed or illustrated.
TEMPORARY SIGN: Any sign not permanently erected, visible for no more than
sixty (60) days in any one year period.
TIME-TEMPERATURE-DATE SIGN: A sign which displays the current time, outdoor
temperature and/or date of the month. See definition of Electronic Message
Sign.
WALL SIGN: A sign painted on a wall or displayed upon or against the wall of an
enclosed building, where the exposed face of the sign is in a place parallel to
the plane of said wall and extends not more than twelve inches (12")
horizontally from the face of said wall.
WIND SIGN: A sign consisting of one or more banners, flags, pennants, ribbons,
spinners, streamers or captive balloons, or other objects or material fastened
in such a manner as to move upon being subjected to pressure by wind or breeze.
WINDOW SIGN: A sign which is painted on, applied or attached to, or located
within three feet (3') of, the interior of a window; which sign can be seen
through the window from the exterior of the structure. Merchandise which is
included in a window display shall not be included as part of a window sign.
(Res. 2007-2-15-2, 2-15-2007)
7-16-5: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person or entity shall erect, alter or relocate any sign within Franklin
without first obtaining a sign permit from the building inspector, except where
exempted in section
7-16-7 of this chapter. Permit applications may be obtained at the building
inspector's office. A fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per permit
application shall be remitted at the time of application. The building
inspector shall have one week from the application date to either grant or
reject a permit application. Appeals from action of the building inspector may
be taken to the planning and zoning commission within thirty (30) days. Appeals
from the planning and zoning commission may be taken to the city council within
thirty (30) days. (Res. 2007-2-15-2, 2-15-2007)
7-16-6: SIGNS REQUIRING PERMITS:
Signs requiring permits are as follows:
Canopy sign.
Freestanding sign.
Identification sign.
Joint identification sign.
Monument sign.
Nameplate and home occupation sign.
Off premises sign.
Projecting sign.
Roof sign.
Time-temperature-date sign.
Wall sign.
Window sign. (Res. 2007-2-15-2, 2-15-2007)
7-16-7: EXEMPTIONS TO SIGN STANDARDS (SIGNS NOT REQUIRING PERMITS):
   A.   Bulletin Boards: Bulletin boards twenty (20) square feet or less which
are used for the purpose of notification to the public of an event or
occurrence of public interest, such as a church service, political rally, civic
meeting or other similar events.
   B.   Identification Signs: Identification signs for church or other
institutions, provided such signs are erected and contained on the property
where the church or institution is located, do not have illumination, and do
not exceed twelve (12) square feet in area.
   C.   Dead End Road Sign: Provided such signs are two feet by three feet (2'
x 3'), six (6) square feet or smaller, and located entirely on private
property.
   D.   Election Signs: Provided such signs favoring or opposing a candidate or
issue are confined to private property and city road rights of way. Election
signs may be erected sixty (60) days prior to the election and must be removed
within one week following the election. No election sign shall be placed within
or on publicly owned property except for city road rights of way as far from
the center of the road as possible; all election signs must be authorized by
the owner of property on which the election sign is placed. No election signs
shall exceed an area of thirty two (32) square feet.
   E.   Flags: Flags bearing the official design of a nation, state,
municipality, or educational institution or related to the business. And must
be attached to a permanent pole.
   F.   Incidental Sign: Incidental sign which is generally informational that
has a purpose secondary to the purpose of the lot on which it is located, such
as "no parking", "entrance", "loading only", "telephone", and other similar
directives and is less than four (4) square feet in total area. No sign with a
commercial message legible from a position off the lot on which the sign is
located shall be considered incidental.
   G.   Real Estate Signs: Temporary signs located on the premises, shall be
placed on the property for no longer than one month past the sale, and used for
the purpose of selling or renting property. Signs for selling or renting a
residence shall be no larger than two feet by three feet (2' x 3') or six (6)
square feet; signs for selling or leasing farm ground or commercial shall be no
more than four feet by eight feet (4' x 8') or thirty two (32) square feet.
   H.   No Trespassing Signs: Signs that are two feet by three feet (2' x 3'),
six (6) square feet or smaller, and located entirely on private property.
   I.   Residential Identification Signs: Provided such signs are limited to no
more than six (6) square feet or smaller, and located entirely on private
property.
   J.   Seasonal Agricultural Produce: Signs for the sale of seasonal
agricultural produce provided such signs are placed for a period not to exceed
four (4) months and located entirely on the property where the produce is being
sold.
   K.   Special Events: Provided such signs shall be placed no earlier than
three (3) weeks prior to the event, shall be removed no later than one week
following the event, shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in area,
shall be safely affixed, shall not be placed within or on publicly owned
property or rights of way, shall be authorized by the owner of the property on
which the sign is placed and shall not project beyond the property boundary.
   L.   Public Signs: Signs required or specifically authorized for a public
purpose by any law, statute or ordinance; may be of any type, number area,
height, location or illumination authorized by law. Such signs are considered
to include safety signs, danger signs and traffic signs.
   M.   Construction Signs: Signs advertising subdivision development,
construction, alteration, or repair, announcing the names of contractors,
architects, engineers, and firms involved with the construction, or announcing
the character of the building enterprise or the purpose for which the building
is intended. Such signs shall conform with the following:
      1.   Limited to on premises, freestanding, wall or window signs shall not
exceed sixty four (64) square feet in total area or thirty two (32) square feet
per face, and shall not exceed eight feet (8') in height, and shall be removed
within fourteen (14) days after the completion of work.
      2.   Subdivision signs announcing names of architects, engineers,
contractors, developers, or other individuals, or firms involved with the
subdivision of property or announcing the character of the subdivision; shall
not exceed thirty two (32) square feet per side in total area per sign and
shall not exceed eight feet (8') in height to the top of sign.
   N.   Grand Opening-Closing Signs: Signs of a temporary nature announcing a
grand opening or closing, or reopening of an establishment. Such signs are
permitted fourteen (14) days before the event and must be removed within seven
(7) days after the event, with a total time limit of thirty (30) days.
Streamers, ribbons and pennants are allowed during the same time. (Res. 2007-2-
15-2, 2-15-2007)
7-16-8: ILLUMINATION:
   A.   Illuminated signs shall be subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Any direct light used for the illumination of a sign shall be
shielded downward onto the sign so that the beams or rays of light will not
shine directly onto surrounding areas or into the sky, but directly onto the
sign.
      2.   Signs in commercial and industrial areas may be illuminated,
provided they do not shine directly into any residential areas.
      3.   All illuminated signs shall be fitted with timers, which will turn
off all lights from ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. to five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
Businesses which are open for commerce between ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M.
and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. are exempted and are required to turn off the
lights when closing. (Res. 2007-2-15-2, 2-15-2007)
7-16-9: SIGN REGULATIONS:
Type Of Sign Size In     Maximum Height (Feet) Permit Required
             Square Feet
Type Of Sign         Size In     Maximum Height (Feet) Permit Required
                     Square Feet
Canopy               Defined 1      20              Yes
Freestanding            1507     30              Yes
Identification          322      8               Yes
Joint identification    100/20   25              Yes
Monument                727      84              Yes
Off premises            72       20   maximum Yes
Projecting              201      20   maximum Yes
                                    8   minimum
Roof                    1001  Defined               Yes
Special events          32    Defined5              No
Electronic message   See note 6  Defined               Yes
Wall                 See note 1     35              Yes
Window               See note 1  Defined               Yes
 
Notes:
1.   All signs attached to or painted on a building cannot cumulatively exceed
20 percent of the building facade to which they are attached (includes canopy,
projecting, roof, wall and window signs).
2.   Institutional buildings exempt at 8 square feet and nonilluminated.
3.   100 square feet plus 25 square feet for each additional business with a
maximum of 200 square feet.
4.   Monument height is 8 feet but can be placed on a 4 foot earth berm or
mound that is appropriately landscaped.
5.   Must be removed within 1 week of the event.
6.   Electronic message sign or time-temperature-date part of sign does not
increase the maximum size of the sign into which it is incorporated.
7.   One freestanding or monument sign allowed per business.
(Res. 2007-2-15-2, 2-15-2007)
7-16-10: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
   A.   Animated Signs: All animated signs and all flashing signs that have on
and off phases.
   B.   Wind Signs: All wind signs that include streamers, banners, balloons,
and similar wind activated materials, except at grand openings-closings and
special events as regulated in section
7-16-7 of this chapter.
   C.   Obsolete Signs: Obsolete signs advertising for longer than thirty (30)
days a discontinued business, service, or activity or directional signs for a
business, service, or activity which has changed the location to which it
directs.
   D.   Signs That Imitate: Signs resembling or imitating traffic control signs
or other government signs.
   E.   Obstructing View: Signs erected or placed which partially or completely
obstruct the view or the face of another sign.
   F.   Parking Of Advertising Vehicles: No person shall park any vehicle or
trailer so as to be visible from a public right of way, which has attached
thereto or thereon any sign or advertising device for the basic purpose of
providing advertisement of products or directing people to a business or
activity located on the same or nearby property.
   G.   Flashing External Signs: Any external sign with lights which blink,
flash, move, rotate, scintillate, flicker, vary in intensity or color or use
intermittent electrical pulsations, except light which are placed behind rigid,
permanently affixed translucent panels and approved by conditional use. Time-
temperature-date signs incorporating the use of blinking lights to display a
message or graphic shall be permitted if a conditional use permit is granted
and provided two (2) of the following are displayed within each message cycle
as a public service: time, temperature, or date. Electronic message signs, as
previously defined herein, are not prohibited.
   H.   Obscene Signs: Any sign which contains words, statements or pictures of
an obscene nature; or any sign which would violate the provisions of chapter
41, title 18, Idaho Code.
   I.   Unsafe Signs: Any sign which is structurally unsafe or constitutes a
hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate maintenance or dilapidation
or placement.
   J.   Signs That Cause Glare: Signs with direct rays of light which penetrate
a property used for residential purposes or which may cause a glare, impair the
vision of, or otherwise interfere with the driver of any motor vehicle. (Res.
2007-2-15-2, 2-15-2007)
7-16-11: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
All signs in existence at the passage hereof that do not comply with this
chapter may be maintained. However, if such signs are changed, physically
altered in size or location or illumination, then, such signs must conform to
this chapter. (Res. 2007-2-15-2, 2-15-2007)
7-16-12: MAINTENANCE OF SIGNS:
Signs regulated by this chapter shall be maintained in good visual and
structural appearance at all times. Franklin, or any of its officers or
employees, shall not be liable for negligence for failure of the owner or the
person responsible for maintaining any sign to keep such sign in good condition
or be responsible for damages caused by defective conditions. Those signs
damaged by weather conditions or by accident shall be repaired within thirty
(30) days, or shall be replaced or removed. The removal of signs shall be at
the landowner's expense. (Res. 2007-2-15-2, 2-15-2007)
7-16-13: CONFLICTING REGULATIONS:
Where there exists conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this chapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structures, and the
use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or requirement
shall govern or prevail. (Res. 2007-2-15-2, 2-15-2007)
7-16-14: ENFORCEMENT:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by fine of not more than three hundred
dollars ($300.00). Every person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each
and every day during any portion of which any violation of any provision of
this chapter is committed, continued or permitted to continue by any such
person. (Res. 2007-2-15-2, 2-15-2007)
TITLE 8
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Short Title
8-1-2: Purpose
8-1-3: Jurisdiction
8-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Title shall be cited as the SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE OF THE CITY. (Ord. 2000-
1, 4-4-2000)
8-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Title is to protect the public health, safety and welfare
of the City and its residents by establishing regulations, administrative
procedures and a process of review for the subdivision of land into two (2) or
more lots. These regulations are established to prevent overcrowding of land;
to lessen congestion of streets and highways; to provide adequate space, light
and air; to provide adequate facilities for water, sewerage, parks and
recreation areas, sites for schools and other public uses; to provide for
proper ingress and egress; and to require the conveyance of land by accurate
legal description. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
8-1-3: JURISDICTION:
   A.   Regulated: The following regulations shall apply to the subdividing of
all land within the corporate limits of the City including property within one
mile of the corporate limits, as required under section 50-1306 of the Idaho
Code, and shall include the following:
      1.   The division of land into two (2) or more tracts, lot or parcels for
transfer of ownership or for change of use, or for the development of said
property;
      2.   The dedication of any street or alley through or along any tract of
land;
      3.   The resubdivision of an original parcel of land into two (2) or more
parcels except as provided in the exceptions listed below;
      4.   The development of condominium projects. In condominium projects, as
permitted by Idaho Code, the City Planning and Zoning Commission and City
Council may regulate and attach conditions to the design and location of
buildings, the creation, shape and size of condominium units, the provisions
and maintenance of open space and off-street parking. Unless excepted pursuant
to the provisions of this Title, the Planning Commission and City Council shall
require the installation of public improvements and utilities for condominium
projects as required under the provisions of this Title;
      5.   Any projected use of land which requires the construction of
multiple buildings or structures thereon for human habitation or occupancy,
roadways for access thereto, or utilities for service to more than one
structure for human habitation or occupancy upon said property, whether said
property remains under single ownership or is transferred to another person;
For purposes of the administration of zoning and subdivision regulations, the
Planning and Zoning Commission may consider a condominium development as a
single building, requiring one front yard, two (2) side yards, a rear yard, and
other regulations pertinent to a given lot, and may grant such exceptions as
are necessary to the zoning and subdivision regulations to permit such
development.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   A readjustment of lot lines which does not reduce the area,
frontage, width, depth or building setback lines below the minimum required.
      2.   A subdivision of an original parcel of land into parcels of five (5)
acres or more designated for agricultural purposes, and which does not involve
any new street dedication.
      3.   One division of any original parcel into not more than two (2)
parcels; provided, that each parcel resulting from such subdivision shall front
upon a public street.
      4.   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate or a court
decree for the distribution of property thereunder.
      5.   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as
defined and allowed in the Idaho Code. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Generally
8-2-1: GENERALLY:
For the purpose of this Title certain words, terms and phrases are defined as
follows in this Chapter:
ALLEY: A public service way used to provide secondary vehicular access to
properties otherwise abutting upon a street.
ARTERIAL ROUTE: A general term including expressways and arterial streets and
interstate, State or County highways having regional continuity.
BLOCK: A piece or parcel of land or group of lots entirely surrounded by public
streets, streams, railroads or parks, or a combination thereof.
CITY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A Comprehensive Plan, or parts thereof, providing for
the future growth and improvement of the City and for the general location and
coordination of streets and highways, schools and recreation areas, public
building sites and other physical development, which shall have been duly
adopted by the City Council (sometimes referred to as "Regional Plan").
CITY MAJOR STREET AND HIGHWAY PLAN: Part of the City Comprehensive Plan which
provides for the development of a system of major streets and highways which
may include the location and alignment of existing and proposed thoroughfares.
CITY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION: The City Planning and Zoning Commission,
hereinafter referred to as the Commission.
COLLECTOR STREET: Provides for traffic movement within neighborhoods of the
City and between major streets and local streets and for direct access to
abutting property.
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL: An affirmative action by the Commission, indicating that
approval will be forthcoming upon satisfaction of certain specified
stipulations.
CONSULTING ENGINEER: An engineer of the City's choice.
CORNER LOT: A lot abutting on two (2) or more intersection streets where the
interior angle or intersection does not exceed one hundred thirty five degrees
(135°). A corner lot shall be considered to be in that block in which the lot
fronts.
CUL-DE-SAC STREET: A short local street having one end permanently terminated
in vehicular turnaround.
DEVELOPMENT MASTER PLAN (DMP): A preliminary master plan for the development of
a large, unusual or complicated land area, the platting of which is expected in
the progressive stages. A DMP may be designed by the subdivider, planner and
engineer and shall be subject to approval of the Commission.
EASEMENT: A grant by the owner of the use of a parcel of land by the public,
corporation, or persons for specified use and purposes and so designated on a
plat.
ENGINEERING PLANS: Plans, profiles, cross sections and other required details
for the construction of public improvements, prepared by a registered engineer
in accordance with the approved preliminary plat and in compliance with
existing standards of design and construction approved by the Council.
FINAL APPROVAL: Unconditional approval of the final plat by the Council, as
evidenced by certification on the plat by the Mayor of the City constitutes
authorization to record a plat.
FINAL PLAT: A map of all or part of a subdivision providing substantial
conformance to an approved preliminary plat, prepared by a registered
professional engineer or a registered land surveyor in accordance with this
Title and the Idaho Code.
FRONTAGE OR MARGINAL ACCESS STREET: A minor street parallel and adjacent to an
arterial route which provides access to abutting property and intercepts local
streets and controls access to an arterial route.
HILLSIDE SUBDIVISION: Any subdivision or that portion of a subdivision located
in terrain having a slope exceeding ten percent (10%).
INTERIOR LOT: A lot having but one side abutting on a street.
IRRIGATION FACILITIES: "Irrigation facilities" includes canals, laterals,
ditches, conduits, gates, pumps, and allied equipment necessary for the supply,
delivery and drainage or irrigation water.
KEY LOT: An interior lot, one side of which is contiguous to the rear line of a
corner lot.
LAND EXCEPTION: Any parcel of land which is within the boundaries of the
subdivision which is not owned by the subdivider.
LOCAL STREET: Provides for direct access to residential, commercial, industrial
or other abutting land and for local traffic movements and connects to
collector and/or major streets.
LOT: A piece or parcel of land separated from other pieces or parcels by
description, as in a subdivision or on a record survey map, or by metes and
bounds, for purposes of sale, lease, or separate use.
LOT WIDTH: The width of a lot shall be:
   A.   If the side property lines are parallel, the shortest distance between
these side lines.
   B.   If the side property lines are not parallel, the width of the lot shall
be the length of a line at right angles to the axis of the lot a distance equal
to the front setback required for the district in which the lot is located. The
axis of a lot shall be a line joining the midpoints of the front and rear
property lines.
MARGINAL ACCESS OR FRONTAGE STREET: See definition of Frontage Or Marginal
Access Street.
MOBILE HOME: A vehicle or structure constructed with wheels for transportation
or use on public streets or highways, and which may have sleeping, cooking and
plumbing facilities, and intended for human occupancy as a residence or as an
office or business building.
The term "mobile home" includes all types of mobile homes or "house trailers",
including, but not limited to, "double wide" or other oversized structures.
The term "mobile home" shall not apply to residence or business buildings
constructed in prefabricated sections and moved from factory or place of
construction to a location within the City to become affixed to and a part of
the real property by erection upon a concrete or other permanent foundation in
the same manner as on-site built structures. (See Title 7, Chapter 14 of this
Code.)
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed and intended for residential
use where residence is in mobile homes exclusively.
NEIGHBORHOOD PLAN: A plan to guide the platting of remaining vacant parcels in
a partially built up neighborhood, so as to make reasonable use of all land,
correlated street patterns, and achieve the best possible land use
relationships.
OWNER: The person or persons holding title by deed to land, or holding title as
grantee/buyer under land contract, or holding any other title of record.
PEDESTRIANWAY: A public way dedicated entirely through a block from street to
street and/or providing access to a school, park, recreation area, or shopping
center.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A use or combination of uses planned for a tract of
land to be developed as a unit.
PLAT: A map of a subdivision.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: A preliminary map, including supporting data, indicating a
proposed subdivision development, prepared in accordance with this Title and
the Idaho Code.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS: A set of regulations setting forth the details,
specifications and instructions to be followed in the planning, design and
construction of certain public improvements in the City formulated by the
consulting engineer, the appropriate health authority and other City
departments.
RECORDED PLAT: A final plat bearing all of the certificates of approval
required in this Title and duly recorded in the County Recorder's office.
STREET: Any street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane, parkway, place, viaduct,
easement for access or other way which is an existing State, County or
Municipal roadway; or a street or way shown in a plat heretofore approved
pursuant to law or approved by official action; or a street or way in a plat
duly filed and recorded in the County Recorder's office. A "street" includes
the land between the right-of-way lines, whether improved or unimproved, and
may comprise pavement, shoulder, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, parking areas and
lawns.
SUBDIVIDER: The individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
syndication, trust or other legal entity that titles the application and
initiates proceedings for the subdivision of land in accordance with the
provisions of this Title; and said subdivider need not be the owner of the
property as defined by this Title.
SUBDIVISION COMMITTEE: A Committee established to review preliminary
subdivision plats.
THROUGH LOT: A lot abutting two (2) parallel or approximately parallel streets.
USABLE LOT AREA: That portion of a lot usable for or adaptable to the normal
uses made of any property as zoned, excluding any areas which may be covered by
water, excessively steep, or included in certain types of easements.
UTILITIES: Installations of facilities, underground or overhead, furnishing for
the use of the public electricity, gas, steam, communications, water drainage,
sewage disposal or flood control, owned and operated by any person, firm,
corporation, Municipal department or board duly authorized by State or
Municipal regulations. Utility or "utilities" as used herein may also refer to
such person, firms, corporations, departments or boards as applicable herein.
UTILITY COMMITTEE: An individual or group of individuals designated by the
several utilities as their representative(s) in subdivision matters. (Ord.
2000-1, 4-4-2000)
CHAPTER 3
PREAPPLICATION PROCEDURE
SECTION:
8-3-1: Required
8-3-2: Review
8-3-1: REQUIRED:
Prior to the filing of a preliminary plat, the subdivider shall submit to the
City the plans and data as required in Chapter 4 of this Title for a
preliminary plat; provided however, that such plans may be generalized in
content and that such submission shall not require the official filing of a
subdivision application and fee. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
8-3-2: REVIEW:
The City shall review said plans and data as submitted and within ten (10) days
advise the subdivider in writing as to the general conformance or
nonconformance of the plans with this Title. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
CHAPTER 4
PRELIMINARY PLAT
SECTION:
8-4-1: Application
8-4-2: Form Of Presentation
8-4-3: Identification And Descriptive Data
8-4-4: Existing Conditions Data
8-4-5: Proposed Conditions Data
8-4-6: Proposed Utility Methods
8-4-7: Reviewing Fee
8-4-8: Certification
8-4-9: City Council Action
8-4-10: Significance Of Preliminary Approval
8-4-11: Agency Review
8-4-12: Commission Action
8-4-1: APPLICATION:
Upon completion of the preapplication, the subdivider shall file with the City
copies of the completed subdivision application form and four (4) copies of the
preliminary plat with data as required in this Chapter. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
8-4-2: FORM OF PRESENTATION:
The information required in this Chapter as part of the preliminary plat
submittal shall be shown graphically or by note on plans, or by letter, and may
comprise several sheets showing various elements of required data. All mapped
data for the same plat shall be drawn at the same standard engineering scale,
said scale having not more than one hundred feet (100') to an inch. Whenever
practical, scales shall be adjusted to produce an overall drawing measuring
twenty two inches by thirty six inches (22" x 36"), not exceeding forty three
inches by sixty inches (43" x 60"). (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
8-4-3: IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTIVE DATA:
Required identification and descriptive data shall be:
   A.   Proposed name of subdivision and its location by dimension, section,
township, and range; reference by dimension and bearing to a section corner or
quarter section corner;
   B.   Name, address and phone number of subdivider;
   C.   Name, address and phone number of engineer, surveyor, landscape
architect or land planner preparing the plat;
   D.   Scale, north point and date of preparation including dates of any
subsequent revisions;
   E.   Vicinity map clearly showing proposed division in relationship to
adjacent subdivisions, main arterial routes, collector streets, etc. (Ord.
2000-1, 4-4-2000)
8-4-4: EXISTING CONDITIONS DATA:
Required data regarding existing conditions shall be:
   A.   Topography by contours related to USGS survey, datum or other datum
approved by the consulting engineer, shown on the same map as the proposed
subdivision layout. Contour interval shall be such as to adequately reflect the
character and drainage of the land;
   B.   Location of water wells, streams, canals, irrigation laterals, private
ditches, washes, lakes or other water features; directional flow, location and
extent of areas subject to inundation whether such inundation is frequent,
periodic or occasional;
   C.   Location, widths, and names of all platted streets, railroads,
utilities right of way of public record, public areas, permanent structures to
remain, including water wells, and Municipal corporation lines within or
adjacent to the tract;
   D.   Name, book and page numbers of any recorded adjacent subdivision having
common boundary with the tract;
   E.   By note, the existing zoning classification of the tract;
   F.   Boundaries of the tract to be subdivided shall be fully dimensioned.
(Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
8-4-5: PROPOSED CONDITIONS DATA:
Required data regarding proposed conditions shall be:
   A.   Street layout, including location, width and proposed names of public
streets, alleys, crosswalks and easements, connections to adjoining platted
tract;
   B.   Typical lot dimensions (scaled); dimensions of all corner lots and lots
of curvilinear sections of streets, each lot numbered individually; total
number of lots;
   C.   Location, width and use of easements;
   D.   Designation of all land to be dedicated or reserved for public use with
use indicated;
   E.   If plat includes land for which multi-family, commercial, or industrial
use is proposed, such areas shall be clearly designated together with existing
zoning classification and status of zoning change, if any. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-
2000)
8-4-6: PROPOSED UTILITY METHODS:
   A.   Sewage Disposal: It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to
furnish the appropriate health authority such evidence as that department may
require to its satisfaction as to the design and operation of sanitary sewage
facilities proposed. A statement as to the type of facilities proposed shall
appear on the preliminary plat. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
   B.   Water Supply: One water hookup or line is required per deeded single-
or multi-family rental structure. The size of the line will be determined by
using the city's current formula. (Ord., 3-1-2007)
   C.   Storm Water Disposal: Preliminary calculations and layout of proposed
system and locations of outlets shall be provided, subject to approval of the
consulting engineer. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
8-4-7: REVIEWING FEE:
The subdivider shall, at the time of submitting a preliminary plat, pay to the
city clerk a reviewing fee according to the city council.
The reviewing fee paid shall also cover a review of a subsequent submittal of
an amended or revised preliminary plat of the same project. If preliminary
approval expires prior to application for final approval, the plat shall be
resubmitted for preliminary approval as a new case and the subdivider shall pay
the required fee. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
8-4-8: CERTIFICATION:
Upon receipt of the preliminary plat, all required data as provided in this
chapter and the payment of the appropriate reviewing fee, the city shall
certify the application as complete and shall affix the data of application
acceptance thereon. Thereafter, the preliminary plat shall be placed on the
commission agenda for consideration at the next regular meeting of the
commission. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
8-4-9: CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
The city council shall act upon the report of the commission within ten (10)
days, or at its next regular meeting following receipt of the report. At the
hearing of the city council, the council may hear testimony of representatives
of the commission, and any witnesses in its behalf including interested
citizens affected by the proposed subdivision.
Upon conclusion of the hearing, the city council shall base its findings upon
the testimony presented before it and within seven (7) days declare its
findings. It may sustain, modify or reject the recommendations of the
commission, and make such findings as are not inconsistent with the provisions
of this title and the Idaho Code.
The time limits for acting on the preliminary plat as herein specified may be
extended by mutual consent of the subdivider and the planning commission and/or
the city council. If no action is taken within the time limits, the preliminary
plat as filed shall be deemed approved.
Subdivisions shall be designed to meet the specific requirements for the zoning
district within which it is located. However, in the event that a variance of
zoning is necessary, said action shall be initiated by the property owner or
his authorized agent.
The commission shall not proceed with the processing of the preliminary plat
until determination has been made regarding any proposed zoning change. In any
event, any such zoning change affecting the preliminary plat shall have been
adopted prior to preliminary plat approval. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
8-4-10: SIGNIFICANCE OF PRELIMINARY APPROVAL:
Preliminary approval constitutes authorization for the subdivider to proceed
with preparation of the final plat and engineering plans and specifications for
public improvements. Preliminary approval is based upon the following terms:
   A.   The basic conditions under which preliminary plat is granted will not
be changed prior to its expiration date.
   B.   Approval is valid for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of
original Council approval unless an extension is granted by the City Council.
   C.   Preliminary approval, in itself, does not assure final acceptance of
the streets or public areas for dedication or continuation of existing zoning
requirements for the tract or its environs. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
8-4-11: AGENCY REVIEW:
The City shall transmit one copy of the application to the City departments and
such other consultants or agencies that have jurisdiction or an interest in the
proposed subdivision for their review and recommendations.
If no written reply is received from any of the various consultants,
departments or interested agencies within ten (10) days from the date of
notification, approval of the preliminary plat by such consultant, department
or agency will be considered to be granted.
Some of the departments and agencies which shall receive copies of the
preliminary plat may be as follows:
   A.   Subdivision Committee;
   B.   City Parks and Recreation Department;
   C.   Appropriate health authority;
   D.   Superintendent of Public Works;
   E.   State Highway Department if the subdivision abuts a State highway;
   F.   Utilities companies;
   G.   Other departments or agencies as determined by the City;
   H.   Staff review by the City staff. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
8-4-12: COMMISSION ACTION:
The Commission shall approve conditionally or disapprove the preliminary plat
within thirty (30) days after the date of the regular meeting at which the plat
is first considered. If the preliminary plat is disapproved or approved
conditionally, the reasons for such action shall be stated in writing, a copy
of which, signed by the chairman of the Commission, shall be attached to one
copy of the plat and returned to the subdivider.
If no action is taken by the Commission within thirty (30) days, the plat shall
be deemed to have been approved unless additional time is agreed to by the
subdivider.
Upon approval or disapproval by the Commission, the plat, together with a
complete copy of the Commission's findings and report of action, shall be
transmitted to the City Council. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
CHAPTER 5
FINAL PLAT
SECTION:
8-5-1: Generally
8-5-2: Method And Medium Of Presentation
8-5-3: Identification Data Required
8-5-4: Survey Data Required
8-5-5: Descriptive Data Required
8-5-6: Dedication And Acknowledgment
8-5-7: Certifications
8-5-8: Time Limitations
8-5-9: Acceptance Of Final Plat
8-5-10: Agency Review
8-5-11: City Council Action
8-5-1: GENERALLY:
After approval or conditional approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider
shall cause the subdivision, or part thereof, to be surveyed and a final plat
prepared in accordance with the preliminary plat as approved. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-
4-2000)
8-5-2: METHOD AND MEDIUM OF PRESENTATION:
   A.   The record plat shall be drawn in permanent ink on linen, plastic, or
other nonshrinking material, on a sheet of eighteen inches by twenty four
inches (18" x 24") proportions with tracing according to Idaho law.
   B.   Copies of the record plat shall be reproduced in the form of blueline
or blackline prints on a white background.
   C.   The plat shall be drawn to an accurate scale having not more than one
hundred feet (100') to an inch unless otherwise approved as to scale. (Ord.
2000-1, 4-4-2000)
8-5-3: IDENTIFICATION DATA REQUIRED:
The required identification data shall be:
   A.   A title which includes the name of the subdivision and its location by
number of section, township, range and county;
   B.   Name, address and registration number of seal of the registered
professional engineer or registered land surveyor preparing the plat;
   C.   Scale north arrow and date of plat preparation. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
8-5-4: SURVEY DATA REQUIRED:
   A.   Boundaries of the tract shall be subdivided, fully balanced and closed,
showing all bearings and distances, determined by an accurate survey in the
field. All dimensions shall be expressed in feet and decimals thereof.
   B.   Any excepted parcel(s) within the plat boundaries shall show all
bearings and distances, determined by an accurate survey in the field. All
dimensions shall be expressed in feet and decimals thereof.
   C.   Locations and description of cardinal points to which all dimensions,
angles, bearings and similar data on the plat shall be referenced; each of two
(2) corners of the subdivision traverse shall be tied by course and distance to
separate section corners or quarter section corners.
   D.   Location of all physical encroachments upon the boundaries of the
tract. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
8-5-5: DESCRIPTIVE DATA REQUIRED:
Required descriptive data shall be:
   A.   Name, right-of-way lines, bearings, lengths; widths of all public
streets, alleys, crosswalks and utility easements, radii, points of tangency
and central angles of all curvilinear streets and alleys, radii of all rounded
street line intersections;
   B.   All drainageways shall be shown on the plat. The right of way of all
major drainageways, as designated by the City's Tract Engineer and Consulting
Engineer shall be dedicated to the public.
   C.   All easements for rights of way provide for public services or
utilities and any limitations of the easements.
   D.   Location and all dimensions of all residential lots.
   E.   All residential lots shall be numbered by consecutive numbers
throughout the plat. Exceptions, tracts and "private parks" shall be so
designated, lettered or named and clearly dimensioned.
   F.   Location, dimensions, bearings, radii arcs and central angles of all
sites to be dedicated to the public will be clearly indicated and intended use
specified.
   G.   Location of all adjoining subdivisions with date, book, and page number
of recordation noted, or if unrecorded, so marked.
   H.   Any proposed private deed restrictions to be imposed upon the plat or
any part or parts thereof pertaining to the intended use of the land shall be
typewritten and attached to the plat and to each copy submitted. (Ord. 2000-1,
4-4-2000)
8-5-6: DEDICATION AND ACKNOWLEDGMENT:
   A.   Dedication: Statement of dedication of all streets, alleys, crosswalks,
drainageways, pedestrianways and other easements for public use by the person
holding title or record, by persons holding title as vendees under land
contract, and by wives of said parties shall be required. If lands dedicated
are mortgaged, the mortgagee shall also sign the plat.
Dedication shall include a written location by section, township and range of
the tract. If the plat contains private streets, public utilities shall reserve
the right to install and maintain utilities in the street right of way.
   B.   Acknowledgment Of Dedication: Execution of dedication acknowledged and
certified by a notary public shall be required. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
8-5-7: CERTIFICATIONS:
Required certifications shall be:
   A.   Certification by the registered professional engineer or registered
land surveyor making the plat that the plat is correct and accurate, and that
the monuments described in it have been located as described;
   B.   Certificate of plat approval by City consulting engineer;
   C.   Certificate of plat approval by the City Council;
   D.   Certificate of recordation by the County Recorder.
The final plat, prepared in accordance with title 50, chapter 13, of the Idaho
Code and the provisions set forth in this Chapter shall be filed with the City
Council.
In the event the final plat does not conform to the approved preliminary plat,
the City Council shall so inform the subdivider to proceed to assign the final
plat to the Commission agenda for its reverting to a preliminary plat status.
Final plat submission shall include all prints thereof as required, two (2)
sets of prints of the plans and specifications for all proposed improvements as
required by this Title, and a current title report or other evidence acceptable
to the City showing proof of ownership of the tract of land being platted.
The final plat, when submitted to the City, shall bear all required
certificates and acknowledgments and the signatures of the engineer, owners,
notary public and County engineer. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
8-5-8: TIME LIMITATIONS:
Failure to file and obtain certification of the acceptance of the final plat
application by the City within one year after action by the City Council shall
cause approval of a preliminary plat to be null and void unless an extension of
time is applied for and granted by the City Council.
In the event that the development of the preliminary plat is made in successive
contiguous segments in an orderly and reasonable manner, and conforms
substantially to the approved preliminary plat, such segments, if submitted
within successive intervals of twelve (12) months may be considered for final
plat approval. In the event a longer period elapses, the subdivision must be
reviewed by the Commission.
The final plat shall be filed with the County Recorder within one year after
approval of the City Council; otherwise such approval shall become null and
void unless an extension time is applied for and granted by the City Council.
(Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
8-5-9: ACCEPTANCE OF FINAL PLAT:
Upon receipt of the final plat, and all other data as required herein, the City
Council shall certify the application as complete and shall affix the date of
acceptance on the agenda for consideration at the regular meeting. (Ord. 2000-
1, 4-4-2000)
8-5-10: AGENCY REVIEW:
The City Council shall transmit one copy of the final plat for review to each
of the same departments and agencies, or others as it may deem necessary, to
ensure compliance with the approval of the preliminary plat.
If no written replies are received from any of the various departments or
interested agencies within ten (10) days from the date of notification,
approval of the final plat by such department or agency will be considered
granted. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
8-5-11: CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
The City Council at its next meeting following receipt of the final plat, shall
consider said plat and any changes from the preliminary plat approved by the
Commission. If the plat conforms to the requirements of this Title and the
Idaho Code, the City Council shall approve the plat.
At the time of approval and recording of the final plat, the City Council shall
accept the dedications shown thereon and shall, as condition precedent to the
acceptance of any streets, require the subdivider either to improve or agree to
improve the streets by furnishing a surety agreement, in accordance with
standards approved for the preliminary plat. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
CHAPTER 6
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Generally
8-6-2: Streets
8-6-3: Block Requirements
8-6-4: Lot Requirements
8-6-5: Drawings
8-6-1: GENERALLY:
Subdivisions shall conform to the standards of the City Comprehensive Plan, the
Zoning Ordinance and other ordinances and regulations of the City.
Land which the Commission has determined to be unsuitable for subdivision
because of periodic flooding, poor drainage, excessively steep slopes or other
features likely to be harmful to the safety and general health and welfare of
the future residents, shall not be subdivided unless adequate methods are
utilized to overcome these conditions. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
8-6-2: STREETS:
   A.   The arrangements, character, extent, width, grade and location of all
streets shall conform to the City Comprehensive Plan and shall be constructed
in relation to existing and planned streets, to topographical conditions, to
public convenience and safety, and in their relation to the proposed uses of
the land to be served by such streets.
   B.   Local or minor residential streets shall be so designed as to
discourage their use by through traffic. Reverse strips controlling access to
public streets may be permitted; provided however, that the control and
disposition of land comprising such strips is placed within the jurisdiction of
the City.
   C.   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial
street, railroad, or limited access highway, the City may require frontage
streets, reverse frontage streets or such other treatment for the appropriate
use of the tract.
   D.   Half-street dedications shall be discouraged; provided however, the
City may accept a partial street dedication when such street forms the boundary
of the proposed subdivision and is deemed to be necessary for the orderly
development of the neighborhood, and provided the City finds it will be
appropriate to require the dedication of the remainder of the right of way when
the adjoining property is developed. When a partial street exists adjoining a
proposed subdivision, the remainder of the right of way shall be dedicated.
   E.   There shall be provided right of way of such width as provided for in
the City Comprehensive Plan; provided however, that the width of said right of
way shall in no case be less than the following:
   MINIMUM
 
Type Of Street Right-Of-Way Width
   Arterial 99 feet
   Collector61 feet
   Local    53 feet
 
 
Local     53 feet R/W with 40 feet back of curb to back of curb
Collector 61 feet with 48 feet back of curb to back of curb
Arterial  99 feet with 70 feet back of curb to back of curb
 
   F.   Cul-de-sac streets shall terminate in a circular turnaround with a
right-of-way radius of at least forty five feet (45'). The City Council may
approve an equally convenient form of turning space where extreme conditions
justify. The maximum length shall be five hundred feet (500') from the entrance
to the center of a turnaround and not less than two hundred feet (200').
   G.   Dead-end streets will not be approved except in locations designated by
the City Council as necessary to future extensions in development of adjacent
lands. In any case, a dead-end street serving more than four (4) lots shall
provide by easement a temporary turning circle with a forty foot (40') radius
or other acceptable design to accomplish adequate access.
   H.   Loop streets shall be limited to a maximum length of one thousand two
hundred feet (1,200').
   I.   Streets shall be planned to intersect as nearly as possible as right
angles, but in no event at less than seventy degrees (70°). Streets
intersecting an arterial shall do so at a ninety degree (90°) angle.
   J.   Where any street deflects at an angle of ten degrees (10°) or more, a
connection curve shall be required having a minimum center line radius of three
hundred feet (300') for arterial and collector streets and one hundred twenty
five feet (125') for local streets.
   K.   Streets with center line offsets of less than one hundred twenty five
feet (125') shall be avoided.
   L.   A tangent at least one hundred fifty feet (150') long shall be provided
between reverse curves on arterial and collector streets.
   M.   At street intersections, property line corners shall be as per
configuration on Drawing 12 in Section
8-6-5 of this Chapter.
   N.   Street intersections with more than four (4) legs and Y-type
intersections where legs meet at acute angles shall be avoided.
   O.   Maximum and minimum grades for all streets shall be as determined by
the consulting engineer.
   P.   Alley width of twenty feet (20'), when single-family residence units
abut both sides; twenty four feet (24') if abutting multiple-family, commercial
or industrial districts. Dead-end alleys shall be avoided. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-
2000)
8-6-3: BLOCK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Length: Block lengths shall not exceed seven hundred feet (700') nor
shall they be less than four hundred feet (400'); except when the average lot
size is one-half (1/2) acre or more, in which case the maximum block length may
be exceeded.
   B.   Design: Block design shall provide for two (2) tiers of lots except
under special conditions where this is not feasible or practical.
   C.   Pedestrianways: Pedestrianways with a right-of-way width of eight feet
(8') or greater may be required where essential for circulation, or access to
schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation and other community
facilities. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
8-6-4: LOT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The lot size, width, depth shape and orientation and minimum setback
lines shall comply with the maximum requirements of the Zoning Ordinance.
   B.   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial to
street lines, except where other treatment may be justified.
   C.   Every lot shall have access to a public street, except in estate
developments where lots may abut upon a private street furnishing satisfactory
access to public streets.
   D.   Double frontage lots shall be avoided wherever possible. (Ord. 2000-1,
4-4-2000)
8-6-5: DRAWINGS:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/226bad5336480f31712400158001105f6bfada44/
IMAGES/0-0-0-843.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/226bad5336480f31712400158001105f6bfada44/
IMAGES/0-0-0-845.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/226bad5336480f31712400158001105f6bfada44/
IMAGES/0-0-0-847.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/226bad5336480f31712400158001105f6bfada44/
IMAGES/0-0-0-849.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/226bad5336480f31712400158001105f6bfada44/
IMAGES/0-0-0-851.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/226bad5336480f31712400158001105f6bfada44/
IMAGES/0-0-0-853.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/226bad5336480f31712400158001105f6bfada44/
IMAGES/0-0-0-855.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/226bad5336480f31712400158001105f6bfada44/
IMAGES/0-0-0-857.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/226bad5336480f31712400158001105f6bfada44/
IMAGES/0-0-0-859.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/226bad5336480f31712400158001105f6bfada44/
IMAGES/0-0-0-861.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/226bad5336480f31712400158001105f6bfada44/
IMAGES/0-0-0-863.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/226bad5336480f31712400158001105f6bfada44/
IMAGES/0-0-0-865.gif]
 
(Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
CHAPTER 7
IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
8-7-1: Generally
8-7-2: Required Improvements
8-7-3: Division Of Cost
8-7-1: GENERALLY:
All improvements of streets, alleys, or easements which are required as a
condition to plat approval shall be the responsibility of the subdivider;
provided however, that he may be allowed to meet the requirements by
participation in an improvement district approved by the City.
Plans for the improvements herein required shall be prepared by an engineer
registered in the State of Idaho.
Prior to the time of recording of the final plat, the subdivider shall file
with the consulting engineer construction drawings for all improvements
required in the portion of the subdivision contained in the final plat.
At the time of recording the final plat, the subdivider shall have previously
constructed all required improvements and secured a certificate of completion
from the engineer, or filed with the City Clerk a surety bond, or other
acceptable guarantee, to ensure the actual construction of such improvements as
previously submitted and approved. The improvements shall be constructed within
one year from the date of approval of the final plat; provided however, the
City Council may extend the period one year upon the showing of just cause by
the subdivider. Such surety bond or other guarantee shall be in the amount of
one hundred ten percent (110%) of the estimated cost of the improvements as
determined by the City's consulting engineer.
Prior to acceptance by the City of any improvements installed by the
subdivider, two (2) sets of prints of the "as-built" plans and specifications
shall be certified by the subdivider's engineer and filed with the City's
consulting engineer.
Within ten (10) days after completion of improvements and submission of "as-
built" plans, the consulting engineer shall certify the completion and
acceptance of the construction and shall transmit a copy of said certification
to the subdivider. If a surety agreement has been executed by the subdivider,
the same shall be forwarded to the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall thereafter
release said surety or guarantee upon application by the subdivider.
New electric, communication and television lines shall be installed underground
in accordance with the standards of the current edition of National Electrical
Safety Code. When facilities are installed in public right of way, the location
shall be approved by the City's consulting engineer. When overhead utility
lines exist within the property being platted, said existing overhead utility
lines and any additions or replacements needed to increase the capacity or
improve service reliability may remain overhead; provided however, that any
service drops into the platted area from said peripheral overhead lines shall
be underground. When overhead utility lines exist on the periphery of the
property of five (5) acres or less being platted, then the utility lines within
the platted area may be overhead. When, as a result of the subdivision
development, it is necessary to relocate, renew or expand existing facilities
within the platted area, the subdivider shall make the necessary arrangements
with the serving utility for these installations to be placed underground. The
subdivider shall arrange with the serving utility for, and be responsible for,
the cost of underground service lines to approved streetlight locations, as
required. Those electric lines of greater than 3,000 kVA (kilovolt amperes)
capacity as rated by the American Standards Association are excluded from the
requirement of this Section.
All underground utilities to be installed in new streets shall be constructed
prior to the surfacing of such streets. Service stubs to platted lots within
the subdivision for underground utilities shall be placed at such length as not
to necessitate the disturbance of street improvements when service connections
are made. If connected to a City-owned system, application and fee shall be the
responsibility of the developer in accordance with City requirements. (Ord.
2000-1, 4-4-2000)
8-7-2: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
Standard or match existing curb and gutters and asphalt plant pavement shall be
required on all streets in a proposed subdivision or dedication; except the
City Council may waive the requirements for curb and gutter for minor streets
in a subdivision composed on one acre lots or larger.
   A.   Concrete Walks Shall Be Provided: Where installation of sidewalks is
not considered necessary by the city, the requirement may be waived.
   B.   Disposal Of Stormwater: Proper and adequate provision shall be made for
disposal of stormwater. The type, extent, location and capacity of drainage
facilities shall be determined for the individual subdivision by the
subdivision engineer and approved by the city's consulting engineer.
   C.   Sewer System Installed: Central sanitary sewer systems shall be
installed in all subdivisions where they are within the service area of an
existing public system and can be reached by a reasonable extension and said
public system. Construction plans and specifications for central sanitary sewer
extension shall be approved by the agency controlling the system and the
appropriate health authority.
In a subdivision where central water is proposed but a central sanitary sewer
system is not available, such subdivision may make alternate provisions for
sewage disposal in accordance with the requirements of the appropriate health
authority and the city council.
   D.   Monuments: Monuments shall be installed in accordance with current city
standards at all corners, angle points, curves and all street intersections.
   E.   Dedication Of Public Lands May Be Required: In proposed subdivision of
twenty (20) or more lots, the council may additionally require a dedication to
a public of an open area or areas for public parks and playgrounds of
approximately one-tenth (1/10) of the area platted. Such public open areas
shall be graded with due consideration for drainage. Landscaping and other
improvements following final approval of the plat shall be the responsibility
of the city. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
   F.   Asphalt Road Surfaces:
      1.   All newly constructed or reconstructed asphalt road surfaces
required for subdivision approval pursuant to this title, whether within a
subdivision or as required off site improvements, shall be warranted for a
period of one year from completion of the installation of the asphalt surface
course and preliminary approval of said surface by the city.
      2.   Following the one year warranty period, the developer shall apply a
chip seal coating on the asphalt road surface as approved by the city engineer
and according to the specifications outlined in the then current edition of the
Idaho standards of public works construction (ISPWC) section 808.4.1.A.1, chip
seal - class 2 or 3 with CRS-2R oil or the then current city specifications.
      3.   Following the acceptance of the proper installation of the chip seal
coat, the city shall accept the dedication of the newly constructed or
reconstructed road(s) and include said road(s) on its official road inventory.
(Ord. 2012-3-14, 3-14-2012)
All improvements required by this title shall be in accordance with the city's
current standard specifications for street, sanitation sewer, and domestic
water improvements for development of subdivisions. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
8-7-3: DIVISION OF COST:
Cost of improvements which are required under the provisions of this chapter,
as well as the cost of other improvements which the developer may install,
shall be the responsibility of the developer. The city shall in no way share in
the cost of any improvements. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
CHAPTER 8
MODIFICATIONS AND WAIVERS
SECTION:
8-8-1: Procedure For Granting
8-8-1: PROCEDURE FOR GRANTING:
Where the City Council finds extraordinary hardships may result from the strict
compliance with these regulations, it may waive the regulations so that
substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured; provided that
such waiver will not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of
the City Comprehensive Plan or these regulations.
The fact that an owner could realize a greater financial return by a use of his
property that is contrary to these regulations is not sufficient reason for
change. Hardship cannot be proven where it can be shown that property was
purchased with the knowledge of existing restrictions, nor can hardship be
claimed in terms of prospective sales or potential customers.
The standards and requirements of these regulations may be modified by the City
Council after recommendation by the Planning Commission in the case of a plan
and program for a complete community or neighborhood unit, which in the
judgment of the City Council provides adequate public spaces and improvements
for the circulation, recreation, light, air, and service needs of the tract
when fully developed and populated.
In granting a modification and waiver, the City Council may require such
conditions as will secure substantially the objectives of the standards or
requirements so waived or modified. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
CHAPTER 9
PENALTIES
SECTION:
8-9-1: Designated
8-9-1: DESIGNATED:
Any person, firm or corporation using an unapproved and unrecorded plat in the
sale of subdivided land or violating any of the terms or provisions of these
subdivision regulations shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) or
imprisonment for not more than six (6) months or both such fine and
imprisonment. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist may constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-4-2000)
