CITY CODE
OF
FRUITLAND, IDAHO
2014
Code current through:
Ord. 717, passed 6-23-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Fruitland, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 717, passed June 23, 2025. Ordinances
of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code
to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code
has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
ORDINANCE NO. 719
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF FRUITLAND, PAYETTE COUNTY, IDAHO, AMENDING TITLE
10, CHAPTER 15(D), SECTION 3(H) OF THE FRUITLAND CITY CODE RELATING TO DRIVEWAY
REGULATIONS; PROVIDING FOR A MINIMUM DRIVEWAY LENGTH TO PREVENT VEHICLE
OVERHANG ONTO SIDEWALKS OR PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY; ADOPTING A FAVORABLE
RECOMMENDATION FROM THE PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION; PROVIDING FOR
SEVERABILITY; REPEAL OF COMFLICTING PROVISIONS; AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE
DATE.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FRUITLAND, IDAHO:
SECTION 1. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE
WHEREAS, the Fruitland Planning and Zoning Commission has reviewed and
forwarded a favorable recommendation for the proposed amendment to Title 10,
Chapter 15(D), Section 3(H) of the Fruitland City Code; and
WHEREAS, the Mayor and City Council find that it is in the best interest of the
public health, safety, and welfare to adopt said recommendation and amend the
driveway requirements to prevent vehicle overhang onto sidewalks or public
rights-of-way;
NOW, THEREFORE, the Fruitland City Code is hereby amended as follows:
SECTION 2. AMENDMENT
Title 10, Chapter 15(D), Section 3(H) is hereby amended to read:
H. Driveways:
Driveway curb cuts and driveway approaches shall be made in accordance with the
latest edition of the Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction (ISPWC).
The centerline of driveway curb cuts located at intersections shall be a
minimum of fifty feet (50’) from the property line in residential zones and one
hundred fifty feet (150’) in commercial or industrial zones.
1.   Minimum Driveway Length:
a.   The minimum driveway length in all new residential developments, including
single-family and multi-family units, shall be twenty-two feet (22’), measured
from the back of sidewalk, or from the edge of the public right-of-way if no
sidewalk exists, to the face of the garage to prevent vehicle overhang onto
sidewalks or public rights-of-way.
 
b.   For driveways that do not lead to a garage, the minimum length shall also
be twenty-two feet (22’) to prevent vehicle overhang onto sidewalks or public
rights-of-way.
SECTION 3. SEVERABILITY
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance is
declared to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions.
SECTION 4. REPEALER
All ordinances, resolutions, orders, or parts thereof in conflict herewith are
hereby repealed, rescinded, and superseded.
SECTION 5. EFFECTIVE DATE
This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval, and publication as required by law.
PASSED by the City Council and APPROVED by the Mayor of Fruitland on this 22nd
day of September 2025. cc. Kari Peterson, Mayor Attest: Suzanne Pearcy, City
Clerk
 
                     
 
 
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
FRUITLAND CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of Fruitland. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the FRUITLAND CITY CODE, and it is
hereby published by authority of the city council and shall be kept up to date
as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter under the direction of the city clerk, acting for said
city council. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein shall
be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its appropriate
chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto,
as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to this code by title
in any legal document. (1984 Code §
1-1-1)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1984 Code § 1-1-2)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute a
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(1984 Code § 1-1-3)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the city clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of this code shall make every
effort to maintain this code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the city clerk.
Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to
the office of the city clerk when directed so to do by order of the city
council. (1984 Code § 1-1-4)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (1984 Code § 1-2-1)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be replaced by virtue of the preceding section, excepting as
this code may contain provisions for such matters, in which case this code
shall be considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such
provisions only. (1984 Code § 1-2-2)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that proceedings thereafter shall conform to
the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable.
If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
   B.   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city
herein repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (1984 Code § 1-2-3)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code, or any part thereof, is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1984 Code § 1-2-4)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the city council may be fully carried out.
   B.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of any provision
of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare. Where any provision
of this code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the
general provision imposed by this code, the provision imposing the greater
restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
   C.   Additional Interpretations:
      1.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
      2.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
      3.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and
be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
      4.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
      5.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
      6.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be
construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but
technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such
meaning.
      7.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
      8.   Officers Generally: Whenever any officer is referred by title, such
as "clerk", "treasurer", etc., such reference shall be construed as if followed
by the words "of the city of Fruitland, Idaho".
      9.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present. (2014 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY CODE: The city code of Fruitland, Idaho, and amendments thereto.
CITY COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of
Fruitland, Idaho.
COUNTY: The county of Payette, state of Idaho.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation or other activity subject to city regulation,
authorization or limitation.
HIGHWAY, ROAD: Includes public alleys, public bridges, and may be equivalent to
the words "county way", "county road", "common road" and "state road".
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
LOCATION: Whenever any act, conduct or offense is prohibited or required and no
reference is made to location, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the act, conduct or offense prohibited or required shall be within
the boundaries of the city.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense not defined as a felony or infraction under state law.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PROPERTY: Includes both real and personal property.
REASONABLE TIME: In all cases where any ordinance requires that an act be done
in a reasonable time or that reasonable notice be given, such reasonable time
for such notice shall be deemed to mean such time as may be necessary for the
expeditious performance of such duty or compliance with such notice.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of a roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
TIME, HOW COMPUTED: The time within which an act is to be done as provided in
any ordinance or in any resolution or order of the city, when expressed in
days, shall be determined by excluding the first day and including the last
day, except if the last day be a Sunday or a legal holiday, then the last day
shall be the day next following such Sunday or legal holiday which is not a
Sunday or legal holiday. When time is expressed in hours, Sunday and all legal
holidays shall be excluded.
WEEK: Any seven (7) day period.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: Includes paperclip or other form of media storage, and may
include printing and any other mode of representing words and letters, but when
the written signature of any person is required by law to any official or
public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper handwriting of such person,
or in case such person is unable to write, by such person's proper mark. (1984
Code § 1-3-2; amd. 2014 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (1984
Code § 1-3-3)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Penalties Imposed
1-4-2: Applicability Of Penalty
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: PENALTIES IMPOSED:
   Fees for services, permits, licenses, and other charges as required by this
Chapter shall be established by resolution of the City Council and may be
amended from time to time.
(1984 Code § 1-4-1; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 675, 11-23-2020; Ord. 712, 2-10-2025)
1-4-2: APPLICABILITY OF PENALTY:
   The penalty herein provided shall be applicable to every ordinance of the
city the same as though it were a part of each and every separate ordinance.
Any person convicted of a violation of any ordinance of this city shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
for each day during on or which a violation occurs or continues.
(1984 Code § 1-4-2)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
   No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty.
(1984 Code § 1-4-3)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: City Council Meetings
1-5-2: Salaries
1-5-3: Public Hearings, Rules Of Procedure
1-5-4: Offices Created
1-5-5: Appointment Of Officers
1-5-6: Responsibilities Of Appointed Officers
1-5-1: CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on
the second and fourth Mondays of each month in the Council Room of the City
Hall at Fruitland, Idaho, at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
   B.   Special Meetings: One-half (1/2) plus one (1) of the members of the
full Council or the Mayor shall have the power to call special meetings of the
City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to the City Council in
writing; the call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be
entered upon the journal of the City Clerk.
   C.   Quorum: At all meetings of the City Council, a majority of the full
Council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and unless
otherwise provided by law, a question before the City Council shall be decided
by a majority of the members present.
   D.   Compel Attendance: For the purpose of holding regular or special
meetings, a number less than a majority of the City Council may compel the
attendance of absent members in such a manner and under such penalties as the
City Council may, by ordinance, have previously prescribed.
   E.   Open To Public: All meetings of the City Council shall be open to the
public and all persons shall be permitted to attend any meeting except as
otherwise provided by this section. The City Council shall not hold a meeting
at any place where discrimination on the basis of race, religion, color, sex,
age, disability or national origin is practiced. The exceptions for public
meetings are for:
      1.   Collective negotiating matters between the City and its employees.
      2.   Meetings where the acquisition of real property is being considered.
      3.   Meetings where a pending or prospective court proceeding against or
on behalf of the City is being considered.
      4.   Meetings to consider information regarding appointment, employment
or dismissal of an employee or officer; provided, that no final action may be
taken at a closed session. (1984 Code § 1-5-1; amd. 2014 Code)
1-5-2: SALARIES:
Commencing January 1, 2018, the salaries of the Mayor and of the members of the
City Council shall be as follows:
   A.   The Mayor shall receive an annual salary in the sum of twelve thousand
dollars ($12,000.00), payable in equal monthly installments of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) each.
   B.   Each member of the Council shall receive an annual salary in the sum of
six thousand six hundred dollars ($6,600.00), payable in equal monthly
installments of five hundred fifty dollars ($550.00) each. (Ord. 626, 7-10-
2017)
1-5-3: PUBLIC HEARINGS, RULES OF PROCEDURE:
The following rules are hereby established, shall be observed in the conduct of
any public hearing before the City Council, and shall be known as the Fruitland
rules of procedure:
   A.   No person shall be permitted to testify or speak before the City
Council at a public hearing unless such person has signed his or her name and
written his/her residential address thereafter on sign up sheets to be provided
by the City. This rule shall not apply to staff or technical witnesses directed
by the Mayor, the Hearing Officer, the City Council or their designee to give
evidence or information to the City Council.
   B.   No person shall be permitted to speak before the City Council at a
public hearing until such person has been recognized by the Mayor or the
Hearing Officer or their designee.
   C.   All public hearing proceedings shall be recorded electronically or
stenographically and all persons speaking at such public hearings shall speak
before a microphone in such a manner as will assure that recorded testimony or
remarks will be accurate and trustworthy.
   D.   At the commencement of the public hearing, the City Council may
establish a time limit to be observed by all speakers. If a time limit is
established, it shall be done on the basis of the number of speakers who sign
up for each public hearing and shall apply only to the speaker's comments.
   E.   The speaker shall not be interrupted by members of the City Council
until his time limit has been expended or until he has finished his statement.
   F.   At the conclusion of a speaker's comments, each City Council member,
when recognized by the Mayor, shall be allowed to question the speaker and the
speaker shall be limited to answers to the questions asked. The question and
answer period shall not be included in the speaker's time limit, as
established.
   G.   When the public hearing is quasi-judicial in nature or one after which
the City Council is required by law to make findings of fact, each speaker must
swear to affirm that his testimony will be true and correct.
   H.   The Mayor may appoint a presiding officer to conduct any public
hearing. Either the Mayor or the presiding officer may appoint a Sergeant at
Arms who shall have the authority, upon the direction of the Mayor, to remove
or evict any person who is disruptive or interfering with the due order of
business.
   I.   The City Council may suspend or amend any one or more of these rules by
vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the full City Council.
   J.   The Mayor shall have the authority to interpret and apply the foregoing
rules, subject to an appeal to the City Council, whose decision shall be
determined by a majority vote of the Council members present.
   K.   Any person who has knowledge of any time limit set at any public
hearing and who refuses to cease talking after reaching that time limit and
being requested to cease by the Hearing Officer, the Mayor, the City Council or
their designee, or any person who by loud, unruly, threatening or disruptive
behavior disrupts a public hearing, may be revoked by the Sergeant at Arms or
by any person appointed to act as a Sergeant at Arms by the Mayor, the Hearing
Officer or the City Council. (1984 Code §
1-5-3)
1-5-4: OFFICES CREATED:
Pursuant to Idaho Code section 50-204, the following offices are created for
the City:
   A.   City Administrator;
   B.   Chief of Police;
   C.   Public Works Supervisor;
   D.   City Engineer(s);
   E.   City Clerk;
   F.   City Treasurer;
   G.   Fire Chief;
   H.   Zoning Administrator;
   I.   Building official;
   J.   Ambulance Director; and
   K.   City Attorney. (Ord. 566, 7-29-2013)
1-5-5: APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS:
The positions created by section
1-5-4 of this chapter shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor and approval
of the City Council. The appointment to each position shall continue until the
officer is removed for cause in accordance with Idaho Code section 50-206.
(Ord. 632, 12-11-2017)
1-5-6: RESPONSIBILITIES OF APPOINTED OFFICERS:
Responsibilities of the officers appointed pursuant to section
1-5-4 of this chapter shall be prescribed by the Mayor and City Council. (1984
Code § 1-5-6)
CHAPTER 6
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election Precinct Established
1-6-2: Initiative And Referendum
1-6-3: Polls; Hours
1-6-1: ELECTION PRECINCT ESTABLISHED:
The city is hereby declared three (3) precincts, with three (3) voting places
for city elections as determined by the county clerk. (1984 Code §
1-6-1; amd. 2014 Code)
1-6-2: INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM:
For the purpose of regulating and governing the initiative and referendum for
the city, as set forth in Idaho Code title 50, chapter 5, and as the same may
hereafter be revised by the Idaho legislature, or amended by the governing
body, be and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as an ordinance of the
city as fully as though set forth at length herein. (1984 Code §
1-6-2; amd. 2014 Code)
1-6-3: POLLS; HOURS:
The polls for all city elections shall be open from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
to eight o'clock (8:00) P.M., on the day of any general or special city
election. (1984 Code §
1-6-3)
CHAPTER 7
ORDINANCES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Presentment
1-7-2: Procedures For Passage
1-7-3: Approval Or Disapproval Of Ordinance
1-7-4: Passage And Effective Dates
1-7-5: Preservation Of Ordinances
1-7-1: PRESENTMENT:
All ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be written or printed and
presented to the city council by a member at a regular or special meeting.
(1984 Code §
1-7-1)
1-7-2: PROCEDURES FOR PASSAGE:
Every such ordinance shall be read at meetings of the city council on three (3)
different days. At each reading of an ordinance, it shall be open for
discussion and amendment and may be referred to a committee and shall be passed
to the next reading unless, by a vote of the meeting, some other disposition is
made. After the second reading, the ordinance shall be engrossed by the city
clerk as amended. On final passage, the yeas and nays shall be called and
recorded and concurrence of a majority of the whole number elected to the city
council shall be required; provided, that three-fourths (3/4) of the whole
number of the members of the city council may, by yea and nay vote recorded in
the minutes, dispense with the three (3) readings of the ordinances and pass
the same at any meeting. (1984 Code §
1-7-2)
1-7-3: APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF ORDINANCE:
   A.   Approval Procedures: When any such ordinance is passed, it shall be
signed by the city clerk and the date of its passage by the city council shall
be added thereto, and it shall, within three (3) days thereafter, be presented
to the mayor, or, in case of his absence from the city, to the mayor pro tem of
the city council for his approval. If he approves the same he shall attach his
signature thereto.
   B.   Disapproval Procedures: Should the mayor not approve the ordinance, he
shall, before the next regular meeting after such ordinance is presented to him
for his approval, return the same to the city council with his objections to
the same in writing. When any ordinance is so returned by the mayor, it shall
be reconsidered by the city council at the first regular meeting thereafter.
If, on such reconsideration, two-thirds (2/3) of the members elected to the
city council shall vote in the affirmative, the ordinance shall become a law
notwithstanding the mayor's vote.
      1.   In case of veto, the city clerk shall annex a certificate to the
ordinance stating that the same was vetoed by the mayor and that on its
reconsideration it received the required majority of votes.
      2.   Should the mayor refuse or neglect to sign such ordinance and return
the same with his objections in writing at the next regular meeting after the
same has been presented to him, it shall become a law without his signature.
The city clerk shall affix to such ordinance a certificate to the effect that
the mayor has failed to sign or veto the same, and it has therefore become a
law without his signature. (1984 Code §
1-7-3)
1-7-4: PASSAGE AND EFFECTIVE DATES:
   A.   Passage Date: An ordinance shall be considered passed on the date of
its approval by the mayor; and in case of his vetoing an ordinance, on the date
of the passage of such ordinance over such veto; and in case of the failure of
the mayor to sign or veto an ordinance, on the date of the next regular meeting
after such ordinance shall be presented to him.
   B.   Effective Date; Publication: All ordinances shall take effect and be in
force from and after their passage, approval and publication. Publication shall
be made by written or printed handbill posted in at least three (3) public
places in the city, or by being inserted in one issue of some newspaper
published in the city, or if no paper be published within the city, then in
some paper having general circulation therein. (1984 Code §
1-7-4)
1-7-5: PRESERVATION OF ORDINANCES:
It shall be the duty of the city clerk to safely keep the original ordinances
as engrossed, and to copy the same in a book provided for that purpose, and
attach to each a certificate over the seal of the city that the same is a true
and correct copy of the original ordinance as passed. (1984 Code §
1-7-5)
CHAPTER 8
FRUITLAND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
(Rep. by Ord. 707, 12-11-2023)
CHAPTER 9
FEES, CHARGES, RECORDS, FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Fees For Documents And Copies
1-9-2: Depositories For City Funds
1-9-3: Fingerprinting Fee
1-9-4: Revenue Neutral Convenience Fees
1-9-5: Return Check Charge
1-9-1: FEES FOR DOCUMENTS AND COPIES:
   A.   There shall be no fee charged when providing documents pursuant to a
public records request, provided the request is for less than one hundred (100)
pages of paper records and less than two (2) person hours of staff time.
   B.   By resolution, the City will establish a fee schedule for charges when
a "requestor", as defined by Idaho Code title 9, asks for more than one hundred
(100) pages of paper records, or nonpublic information must be deleted, or the
actual labor time exceeds more than two (2) person hours.
   C.   When creating a fee schedule, labor costs for locating and/or copying
records shall be calculated based on the hourly rate of the lowest paid
employee or official who is necessary and qualified to process the request.
   D.   If redactions must be made by legal counsel, the maximum hourly rate
that may be charged shall be the full hourly rate of the contract attorney.
(1984 Code § 1-7-6)
1-9-2: DEPOSITORIES FOR CITY FUNDS:
The following institutions are designated as depositories for the monies
required to be kept by the City Treasurer: Keybank, Fruitland; Bank of the
Cascades, Fruitland; Intermountain Community Bank, Fruitland and Payette; U.S.
Bank, Payette; Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Payette; Bank of America, Payette; Zions
Bank, Fruitland and New Plymouth; State Treasurer Investment Pool, Boise. (1984
Code § 1-11-2; amd. 2014 Code)
1-9-3: FINGERPRINTING FEE:
Any person who requests fingerprinting from the Police Department shall first
pay to the City a fee in such amount as established by the City Council. This
fee requirement shall not apply to persons applying for employment with the
City or to City personnel applying for certification which may be required by
the City, or which may be requested or authorized by a supervisor or by a
department head. (1984 Code § 1-11-3; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 710, 10-28-2024)
1-9-4: REVENUE NEUTRAL CONVENIENCE FEES:
When any payment is made for any fee charged by the City in a medium other than
cash, check or money order, which is delivered in person or by the United
States Postal Service to City Hall, the City shall charge a revenue neutral
convenience fee of five percent (5%) of the gross transaction. This revenue
neutral convenience fee shall be charged on, but not necessarily limited to,
credit card payments, online payments, electronic transfer payments or on
payments made by telephone. The City Clerk is authorized to enter into an
agreement with a reputable agency that handles revenue neutral convenience fee
transactions for collection of the fee. In the event this fee is increased or
decreased, such change may be done by simple resolution. (1984 Code § 1-11-4)
1-9-5: RETURN CHECK CHARGE:
Fees for services, permits, licenses, and other charges as required by this
Chapter shall be established by resolution of the City Council and may be
amended from time to time. (Ord. 636, 3-12-2018; amd. Ord. 712, 2-10-2025)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Reserved
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Statutory Authority; Purpose
3-1-2: Definitions
3-1-3: License Required
3-1-4: Exemptions
3-1-5: Application For License
3-1-6: Mailing Of Application; Failure To File
3-1-7: Fee For License; Payment Provisions
3-1-8: Investigation Of Applicant; Determination
3-1-9: Contents Of License
3-1-10: Display Of License; Operation After Expiration; Transferability
3-1-11: Change In Location Or Ownership
3-1-12: Revocation Of License
3-1-13: Appeal Procedure
3-1-14: Request For Reconsideration By City Council
3-1-15: Fees And Penalties Declared Debt To City
3-1-16: Use Of Funds
3-1-17: Operation Without License Declared Nuisance; Injunction
3-1-18: Penalty
3-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORITY; PURPOSE:
The licensing of all wholesale and retail occupations and businesses within the
city and the levying of a license fee, uniform to all classes imposed, pursuant
to the statutory authority vested in the city by Idaho Code section 50-307, is
hereby declared to be justified and necessary for the purpose of protecting and
providing services to the citizens of the city and the businesses and
occupations doing business therein, and to ensure future businesses locate in
an area zoned for that particular business. (1984 Code §
3-1-1)
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
indicated, unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION: All activities, occupations, callings, trades, pursuits
or professions located or engaged in, within the city with the object of gain,
profit, benefit or advantage. Each business location shall be deemed a separate
business unless it is a specific annex to the main location of the business.
EMPLOYEE: Any person employed at any business location within the city, and any
person furnishing or performing services within the city. It shall include all
persons who are self- employed, and shall include part time employees.
ENGAGING IN BUSINESS: Commencing, conducting or continuing in any business or
occupation, the exercise of corporate and franchise powers, and the liquidating
of a business, where the liquidators hold themselves out to the public as
conducting such business when he does one act of:
   A.   Selling any goods or performing any services.
   B.   Soliciting business or offering or holding out goods or services for
sale or hire.
   C.   Acquiring or using any vehicle or any premises in the city for business
purposes.
   D.   Delivery of any goods, either at wholesale or retail, unless licensed
under another section of this code.
PERSON: Any person doing business in the city.
PREMISES: All lands, structures, places and equipment, and appurtenances
connected or used therewith in any business, and also any personal property,
including any vehicle which is either affixed to or is otherwise used in
connection with any such business conducted on said premises.
YEAR: The calendar year. (1984 Code §
3-1-2)
3-1-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in any business or activity in the city for which a
license fee is imposed by this chapter, without first having obtained and being
a holder of a valid and subsisting license to do so, to be known as a business
and occupation license, issued under the provisions of this chapter, and
without paying the license fee imposed by this chapter, which license fee shall
accompany the application for the license. (1984 Code §
3-1-5)
3-1-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Persons qualifying as nonprofit businesses or occupations, including
charitable activities, within the meaning of section 503 of the United States
internal revenue code. Possession of a certificate of tax exempt status from
the internal revenue service shall be required to qualify for this exemption,
except that the mayor and city council may waive the license fee for bona fide
charitable or civic groups within the city, including, but not necessarily
limited to, private schools, churches, fraternal organizations and lodges, with
respect to their educational, religious or fraternal activities, but this
exemption shall not apply to any business activity for profit engaged in by
such organization.
   B.   An agency of the United States government, any state of the United
States, any political subdivision of the state of Idaho, including, but not
necessarily limited to, counties, school districts, irrigation or sewer
districts or fire districts.
   C.   Domestic servants, newsboys, blind persons or casual labor not included
as temporary employees of a regularly conducted business. (1984 Code §
3-1-4; amd. 2014 Code)
3-1-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The application for a license shall be made to the city clerk on a form
provided by the city clerk. The application shall set forth the name of the
applicant, residence, place of business, the nature of the business, and the
amount of the license fee prescribed by this chapter, and shall be accompanied
by a deposit of the license fee by the applicant. Every application shall be
personally signed by the applicant or his agent. (1984 Code §
3-1-6; amd. 2014 Code)
3-1-6: MAILING OF APPLICATION; FAILURE TO FILE:
The city clerk is authorized, but not required, to mail to persons forms for
applications for licenses, but failure of any person to receive any such forms
shall not excuse the person from making application for and securing the
license required and payment of the license fee when and as due herein. If any
person fails, neglects or refuses to file his application and to pay the fee as
and when required herein, the city clerk is authorized to determine the amount
of fee payable and by mail to notify such person of the amount so determined.
The amount so fixed shall thereupon be immediately due and payable subject to
the person's right to appear before the city council and show cause why his fee
should not be altered or reduced. (1984 Code §
3-1-12)
3-1-7: FEE FOR LICENSE; PAYMENT PROVISIONS:
   A.   Levied: There is hereby levied upon and shall be collected from every
business or occupation within the city a license fee for the privilege of
engaging in business in an amount to be determined by the city council.
   B.   Effect Of Fee Levy: The license fee levied hereunder is not intended to
repeal any other license fee or license requirement provisions of this code or
any ordinance of the city. (1984 Code §
3-1-3; amd. 2014 Code)
3-1-8: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; DETERMINATION:
   A.   Required: The city clerk shall cause any applicant for a new business
license or the transfer of an existing business license to a new business
premises to be investigated for compliance with this chapter and the zoning
laws of the city.
   B.   Determination: The investigation shall be conducted as it is
appropriate or required by the zoning administrator or his designee. If the
zoning administrator and the city clerk are satisfied that the zoning requisite
and requirements of this chapter to the issuance of a license have been met,
the city clerk shall issue such license. If the zoning administrator and the
city clerk determine that the applicant is not in compliance with the
applicable zoning laws, the city clerk shall not issue such license, and shall
notify the applicant of such decision and cause the license fee to be refunded.
All required inspections shall be conducted within ten (10) working days of the
receipt of the license application. (1984 Code §
3-1-7; amd. 2014 Code)
3-1-9: CONTENTS OF LICENSE:
Each license issued hereunder shall state upon its face the following:
   A.   The name of the licensee and any other name under which business is to
be conducted.
   B.   The name and address of each business so licensed.
   C.   The amount of license fee therefor.
   D.   The date of issuance and expiration thereof.
   E.   Such other information as the city clerk shall determine to be
necessary.
   F.   The property zoning designation. (1984 Code §
3-1-9)
3-1-10: DISPLAY OF LICENSE; OPERATION AFTER EXPIRATION; TRANSFERABILITY:
Every licensee under this chapter shall display such license in a prominent
location upon the licensed premises and shall refrain from operating the
licensed business on such premises after expiration of his license. No licensee
shall allow any license to remain posted, displayed or used after the period
for which it was issued has expired, or when it has been suspended or revoked,
or for any other reason become ineffective. No licensee shall loan, sell, give
or assign to any other person or allow any other person to use or display, or
to destroy, damage or remove, or to have in his possession, any license which
has been issued to said licensee. (1984 Code §
3-1-10)
3-1-11: CHANGE IN LOCATION OR OWNERSHIP:
Any change of owner or owners or location shall automatically void an existing
license granted under this chapter and shall necessitate application and
issuance of a new license. (1984 Code §
3-1-11)
3-1-12: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by the city council
if the holder or any employee violates any law of the city applicable to the
business for which the license was issued. Such revocation must be preceded by
notice in writing to the licensee from the city clerk, informing the licensee
that the city council has ordered the holding of a public hearing at a date and
time certain, not less than ten (10) days from the date of such notice, at
which hearing the licensee will be required to appear personally and show cause
why the license should not be revoked. At such hearing, the licensee may be
represented by counsel, may testify personally, may call witnesses and may
cross examine any witnesses called by the city. Should the city council
determine that such license should be revoked, it shall pass a motion to that
effect, and such license shall thereupon be revoked; provided, however, that no
such motion shall be deemed passed without the affirmative vote of one-half (1/
2) plus one of the members of the full city council. (1984 Code §
3-1-17; amd. 2014 Code)
3-1-13: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
Any applicant aggrieved by any decision of the city clerk may appeal such
decision to the city council by filing a written notice of appeal with the city
clerk within ten (10) days of such decision by the city clerk. The city clerk
shall transmit said notice of appeal to the city council, which shall schedule
a public hearing on said appeal, to be held at any regular meeting or special
meeting of the city council, not later than fifteen (15) days after the filing
of such notice of appeal with the city clerk. At such hearing, the applicant
may appear and speak on his own behalf, be represented by counsel, call
witnesses and cross examine any witnesses of the city. The city council shall
proceed to determine said appeal, and, if it decides in favor of the applicant,
it shall pass a motion to that effect and the city clerk shall, on the next
business day thereafter, and upon receipt of the proper fee, issue such
license. The city council may defer action upon said appeal for not longer than
three (3) weeks from the date of the public hearing. (1984 Code §
3-1-8)
3-1-14: REQUEST FOR RECONSIDERATION BY CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Filing For Reconsideration: When any person shall be denied a request
for a business license, a request for relief under the zoning or subdivision
ordinances, or if a license has been revoked, withdrawn or amended by the city
council in such a manner that a person is adversely affected thereby, the
person may file a request asking the city council to reconsider its action.
(1984 Code § 3-8-1)
   B.   Time Limitation: A request asking the city council to reconsider a
decision shall be filed with the city clerk within fourteen (14) days of the
city council's decision. The fourteen (14) days shall be jurisdictional and
even in the event the city council is required to prepare findings or a
reasoned statement, those requirements shall not extend the time for filing the
request. After an issue has been reconsidered by the city council, it shall not
be subject to a second or subsequent request for reconsideration. (1984 Code §
3-8-2)
   C.   Contents Of Request: The request shall be in writing, shall identify
the decision which the person is seeking to modify, shall set forth the reasons
why the decision should be altered, amended or reversed and what relief is
being requested. (1984 Code § 3-8-3)
   D.   Placement On Agenda: The city clerk shall place the request for
reconsideration on the city council's agenda at the earliest convenient date.
(1984 Code § 3-8-4)
3-1-15: FEES AND PENALTIES DECLARED DEBT TO CITY:
Any license fee, including penalties thereon, shall constitute a debt to the
city and may be collected by court proceedings in the same manner as any other
debt in like amount. No civil action or judgment shall bar or prevent a
criminal prosecution for each and every violation of this chapter. (1984 Code §
3-1-14)
3-1-16: USE OF FUNDS:
All funds received by the city under the terms of this chapter shall be paid
into the general fund of the city. (1984 Code §
3-1-15)
3-1-17: OPERATION WITHOUT LICENSE DECLARED NUISANCE; INJUNCTION:
The operating or conducting of any business or occupation for which a license
is required by this chapter without having a valid license as provided herein
is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. In addition to any other remedy
provided by this chapter, the city may bring an action in any court of
competent jurisdiction to obtain an order enjoining any person from operating
or conducting any business or occupation in violation of this chapter. (1984
Code §
3-1-18)
3-1-18: PENALTY:
A person who violates any provision of this chapter or operates any business or
occupation for which a license is required by this chapter without having first
obtained a license as herein provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation of this chapter occurs shall be
deemed a separate offense. (1984 Code §
3-1-16; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Statutes Adopted By Reference
3-2-2: Drinking In Public Places Prohibited
3-2-1: STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of governing the licensing, sale and
use of alcoholic beverages within the city, the laws of the state, being
particularly Idaho Code title 23, as presently in effect or as may hereafter be
amended by the legislature or the city council. The same are hereby adopted and
incorporated as an ordinance of the city as fully as though set forth at length
herein. One copy of the Idaho liquor act, together with all amendments thereto,
all duly certified by the city clerk, shall be kept on file in the office of
the city clerk for use and examination of and by the public. (1984 Code §
3-4-1; amd. 2014 Code)
3-2-2: DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drink, or offer to others for drinking,
any beer, wine, liquor or other intoxicating beverages in any public place,
street, alley or public parking grounds within the corporate limits of the
city, except in those places duly licensed to sell such beverages by the drink,
and it shall be unlawful for any person to drink, or offer to others for
drinking, any beer, wine, liquor or other intoxicating beverages in any vehicle
while same is on any street, alley or public parking grounds within the
corporate limits of the city. (1984 Code §
3-4-2)
ARTICLE A. BEER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Exercise Of Police Power; Interpretation
3-2A-2: Beer Defined
3-2A-3: License Required; Right Of Refusal
3-2A-4: Investigation Of Applicants
3-2A-5: License Fees
3-2A-6: Prohibited Licenses
3-2A-7: Premises Requirements
3-2A-8: Conduct Of Business
3-2A-9: Sales To Minors
3-2A-10: Loud Music Prohibited
3-2A-11: Revocation Of Licenses
3-2A-12: Penalty
3-2A-1: EXERCISE OF POLICE POWER; INTERPRETATION:
This article shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the city for
the protection of the public health, peace and morals of the citizens of the
city, and all of its provisions shall be liberally construed for the attainment
of that purpose. (1984 Code § 3-4A-1)
3-2A-2: BEER DEFINED:
The word "beer", as used in this article, shall be as defined in Idaho Code
sections 23-1001 and 23-1002. (1984 Code § 3-4A-2; amd. 2014 Code)
3-2A-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; RIGHT OF REFUSAL:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, trade, barter or dispose
of "beer", as defined in section
3-2A-2 of this article, at retail within the corporate limits of the city, for
a consideration without first having obtained a license from the city council,
or its authorized designee, as herein provided.
   B.   The mayor and city council do hereby designate the city clerk to be
responsible for the issuance of licenses pursuant to this section. All licenses
shall be granted for a period of one year beginning January 1 and ending
December 31. A full year's license fee shall be collected after January 1. The
city clerk shall grant or deny the application within thirty (30) days of the
time same is filed with city clerk. Prior to any revocation or suspension, the
licensee shall be afforded a hearing according to Idaho Code section 23-1016.
Whenever the city clerk denies an application, he shall specify in writing:
      1.   The statutes, ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
      2.   The reason for the denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof.
   C.   Upon denial of the license, an applicant shall have the automatic right
of appeal. The city clerk shall provide the applicant with a form which shall
require nothing more than the signature of the applicant. Upon signing the form
and returning the form to the city clerk, the applicant shall have perfected an
appeal to the mayor and city council. The applicant shall then be placed on the
agenda and the notice of appeal shall be presented to the mayor and city
council by the city clerk. An appeal from a decision by the city clerk shall be
considered by the mayor and city council as an application of first impression.
The city clerk shall present information relevant to subsections B1, B2 and B3
of this section supporting his reasoning for denial. The applicant may present
any relevant information concerning the request for a license. The hearing may
be informal, but shall be subject to such rules of procedure as the mayor and
city council may impose. The mayor and city council shall examine the standards
as set forth in subsections B1, B2 and B3 of this section and shall grant or
deny the application within thirty (30) days of the time set for hearing.
   D.   In all cases where the city council is considering appeals,
applications for licenses, transfers or renewals thereof, a transcribable
verbatim record of the proceeding shall be made. If the applicant for a
license, transfer or renewal is denied, a transcribable, verbatim record of the
proceedings shall be kept for a period of not less than six (6) months after a
final decision on the matter. Upon written request and within the time period
provided for retention of the record, any person may have the record
transcribed at his expense. The city council shall also provide for the keeping
of the minutes of the proceedings. Minutes shall be retained indefinitely or as
otherwise provided by law. (1984 Code § 3-4A-3)
3-2A-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANTS:
No license shall be granted hereunder until there has been an investigation by
the police department of all applicants hereunder. After investigation, the
applications will be forwarded to the city council with a recommendation from
the chief of police. If the chief of police recommends that an application be
denied, he shall state in writing:
   A.   The statutes or ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
   B.   The reason for the denial; and
   C.   The action, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof. (1984 Code § 3-4A-4)
3-2A-5: LICENSE FEES:
The annual license fees for the retail sale of “beer”, as defined in section
3-2A-2 of this article, shall be established by resolution of the City Council
and may be amended from time to time.
All licenses issued under the terms of this article shall expire on December 31
of the year for which they are issued. (1984 Code § 3-4A-5; amd. Ord. 712, 2-
10-2025)
3-2A-6: PROHIBITED LICENSES:
No retailer's license to sell, trade, barter and/or dispose of "beer", as
defined by section
3-2A-2 of this article, shall be issued to any person holding a wholesaler's or
manufacturer's license. (1984 Code § 3-4A-6)
3-2A-7: PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Location: Any license issued hereunder shall be for use at a specific
location in an approved facility. Neither the location at which the license is
used nor the facility shall be changed without first notifying the city and
applying for a transfer permit. Failure to do so shall be grounds for a
suspension of the license and will be a misdemeanor offense punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Restriction Near Churches Or Schools: No license shall be issued for
any premises in any neighborhood which is predominantly residential or within
three hundred feet (300') of any public school, church or any other place of
worship, measured in a straight line to the nearest entrance to the licensed
premises, except with the permission of the city council. (1984 Code § 3-4A-7;
amd. 2014 Code)
3-2A-8: CONDUCT OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Every person to whom a license shall be granted hereunder, shall at all
times conduct a quiet and orderly place of business which shall be open at all
times to the inspection of any police officer or officer of the United States
treasury department, and said persons or either of them shall have the right at
any and all times to make an examination of the said licensed premises to
ascertain if the licensee of such premises is conforming to the provisions of
this article and/or the laws of the United States applicable thereto, and to
check the alcoholic content of any such beer being kept for the purpose of sale
and distribution on said premises.
   B.   All permits or licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises and kept so posted during the full period of time for which said
license is issued and said license shall not be sold, transferred or assigned
without the written consent of a majority vote of the mayor and city council at
a regular session thereof.
   C.   In case of receivership, assignment, bankruptcy or incompetency of the
licensee, business may be carried on under the permit by the duly appointed,
qualified and acting receiver, assignee, trustee in bankruptcy, guardian,
executor or administrator of the licensee; provided, that such receiver,
assignee, trustee, guardian, executor or administrator shall file with the city
clerk a duly certified copy of his appointment and secure the written consent
of the city council.
   D.   1. It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person at any place
licensed to sell beer or where beer is sold or dispensed to be consumed on the
premises, whether conducted for pleasure or profit, to sell, dispense or give
away beer between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M.
      2.   Any patron present on the licensed premises after the sale of beer
has stopped as provided in subsection D1 of this section shall have a
reasonable time, not to exceed thirty (30) minutes, to consume any beverage
already served. (1984 Code § 3-4A-8)
      3.   Any person who consumes or intentionally permits the consumption of
any alcoholic beverage upon the licensed premises after the time provided in
subsection D2 of this section, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 3-4A-8; amd. 2014 Code)
   E.   No person shall sell or serve any intoxicating beverage to any person
whom he knows to be under the influence of intoxicants and whose only means of
leaving the premises is by driving a motor vehicle. (1984 Code § 3-4A-8)
3-2A-9: SALES TO MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any retailer to suffer or permit any person under the
age of twenty one (21) years to consume any "beer", as defined in section
3-2A-2 of this article, in or upon his premises, or for any retailer to sell,
give away, or in any way dispose of any such beer to any person under the age
of twenty one (21) years. (1984 Code § 3-4A-9; amd. 2014 Code)
3-2A-10: LOUD MUSIC PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any retail dealer in beer within the city to have or
permit within the place where such business is conducted, music to be played in
such a loud and abusive manner so as to interfere with the private use and
enjoyment of adjacent property holders or residents. (1984 Code § 3-4A-10)
3-2A-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
The right shall be and at all times remain vested in the city council to revoke
or cancel any license for any violation of this article or any other ordinance
of the city, and upon complaint being filed with the city clerk, the city
council shall notify the offender, and shall call a hearing in a summary
manner, and if at the said hearing it shall appear to said city council that
cause exists for the cancellation or revocation of said license, said council
may do so without further process of law. (1984 Code § 3-4A-11)
3-2A-12: PENALTY:
Any person violating this article, or any part thereof, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine as set
out in section
1-4-1 of this code and, in addition thereto, the city council may, upon such
conviction, revoke the retail license. (1984 Code § 3-4A-12)
ARTICLE B. LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-2B-1: Definitions
3-2B-2: License Required
3-2B-3: Application For Licenses
3-2B-4: Investigation Of Application
3-2B-5: License Fees
3-2B-6: Form, Conditions Of License
3-2B-7: Persons Not Qualified To Be Licensed
3-2B-8: Restrictions On Licenses
3-2B-9: Sanitary Requirements
3-2B-10: Inspection
3-2B-11: Revocation And Cancellation Of License
3-2B-12: Violation; Penalty
3-2B-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this article shall be given the
following interpretations; all other words and phrases used in this article,
the definitions of which are not given, shall be given an ordinary and commonly
understood and accepted meaning.
BARTENDER: Any person, whether agent, servant, employee, licensee or in any
other capacity, who pours, mixes, prepares, serves or delivers any liquor by
the drink upon any licensed premises.
GAMING: Any and all gambling or games of chance defined in the Idaho Code,
whether said games are licensed or unlicensed.
INTERDICTED PERSON: A person to whom the sale of liquor is prohibited under the
laws of the state of Idaho.
LICENSE: A license issued by the city council to a qualified person, under
which it shall be lawful for the licensee to sell and dispense liquor by the
drink at retail, as provided by this article.
LICENSEE: The person to whom a license is issued under the provisions of this
article and/or as provided in Idaho Code title 23.
LIQUOR: All kinds of liquor sold by and in a state liquor store of the state of
Idaho.
PERSON: Every individual, partnership, corporation, organization or association
holding a retail liquor license, conducting the business singularly or
collectively.
PREMISES: The room in which the sale of liquor by the drink at retail is
authorized under the provisions of Idaho Code title 23 and under this article.
(1984 Code § 3-4B-1)
3-2B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   The city clerk is hereby designated to receive applications and issue
licenses pursuant to this section. The city clerk may issue licenses to
qualified applicants, as herein provided, whereby the licensee shall be
authorized and permitted in said city to sell liquor by the drink at retail
and, upon the issuance of such license, the licensee therein named shall be
authorized to sell liquor at retail by the drink in the city, but only in
accordance with the provisions of this article and Idaho Code title 23.
   B.   A licensee shall not change location where liquor by the drink is sold
until first having applied to the city and having received prior approval.
(1984 Code § 3-4B-2)
3-2B-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSES:
Each applicant for a license shall file with the city clerk an application in
writing verified by an affidavit setting forth the following facts:
   A.   He is the lawful holder of a license issued by the director of the
department of law enforcement of the state, pursuant to the provisions of Idaho
Code title 23;
   B.   A detailed description of the premises for which a license is sought
and its location, and the name of the owner of said premises;
   C.   The names and addresses of all persons who will have any financial
interest in any business to be carried on in and/or upon the licensed premises,
whether such interest results from open loans, mortgages, conditional sales
contracts, silent partnerships, trusts, or any other basis than open trade
accounts incurred in the ordinary course of business, and the amounts of such
interests;
   D.   If the premises to be licensed is not owned by the applicant, then a
certified copy of the lease by which he will occupy the premises showing that
the owner consents to the sale of liquor by the drink on such premises, shall
be filed with such application;
   E.   The names and addresses of the applicant, which shall include all
members of a partnership or association and the officers, members of the
governing board and ten (10) principal stockholders of the corporation;
   F.   A copy of the articles of incorporation and bylaws of any corporation,
the articles of association and bylaws of any association, or the articles of
partnership of any partnership;
   G.   If, during the period of any license issued hereunder, any change shall
take place in any of the requirements of subsection C, D, E or F of this
section, the licensee shall forthwith make a verified report of such change to
the city clerk. (1984 Code § 3-4B-3)
3-2B-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION:
   A.   Upon receipt of any application for a license under this article,
accompanied by the necessary license fee, the city clerk may make such
investigation of all matters pertaining thereto as it shall deem proper. If the
city clerk shall determine that the contents of the application are true, that
such applicant is qualified to receive a license, that his premises is suitable
for the carrying on of the intended business, and that the requirements of this
article have been met and complied with, a license shall issue. Otherwise, the
application shall be denied and the license fee returned.
   B.   Upon denial of the license, an applicant shall have the automatic right
of appeal. The city clerk shall provide the applicant with a form which shall
require nothing more than the signature of the applicant. Upon signing the form
and returning the form to the city clerk, the applicant shall have perfected an
appeal to the mayor and city council. The applicant shall then be placed on the
agenda and the notice of appeal shall be presented to the mayor and city
council by the city clerk. An appeal from a decision by the city clerk shall be
considered by the mayor and city council as an application of first impression.
The city clerk shall present information relevant to subsections 3-2A-3B1, B2
and B3 of this chapter, and supporting his reasoning for denial. The applicant
may present any relevant information concerning the request for a license. The
hearing may be informal, but shall be subject to such rules of procedure as the
mayor and city council may impose. The mayor and city council shall examine the
standards as set forth in subsections 3-2A-3B1, B2 and B3 of this chapter and
shall grant or deny the application within thirty (30) days of the time set for
hearing. (1984 Code § 3-4B-4)
3-2B-5: LICENSE FEES:
Each licensee licensed under the provisions of this article shall pay an annual
license fee in advance to the city in the sum as established by resolution of
the City Council and may be amended from time to time, regardless of when
during the calendar year such license is issued. Licenses issued under and
pursuant to the provisions of this article shall expire at one o’clock (1:00)
A.M. on January 1 of the following year for which issued. (1984 Code § 3-4B-5;
amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 712, 2-10-2025)
3-2B-6: FORM, CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Every license issued under this article shall set forth the name of the
person to whom issued, the location by street and number, or other definite
designation, of the premises; if issued to a partnership, the names of the
persons constituting the partnership shall be therein set forth; if it is
issued to a corporation or association, the names of the principal officers and
the governing boards shall be therein set forth. Such license shall be signed
by the licensee and shall be nontransferable. Every license issued under the
provisions of this article is separate and distinct and no person except the
licensee therein named shall exercise any of the privileges granted thereunder
and all licenses are applicable only to the premises in respect to which they
have been issued. Such licenses shall at all times be kept posted by the
licensee in a conspicuous place in the licensed premises.
   B.   No person shall be granted more than one license in any one year. No
partnership, association or corporation holding a license under this article
shall have as a member, officer or stockholder, any person who has any
financial interest of any kind in, or is a member of, another partnership or
association or an officer of another corporation holding a license in the city
for the same year. (1984 Code § 3-4B-6)
3-2B-7: PERSONS NOT QUALIFIED TO BE LICENSED:
No license shall be issued to:
   A.   An individual who is not a citizen of the United States or who has not
been a bona fide resident of the state for at least one year next preceding the
granting of such license; or to a partnership unless all members thereof are
citizens of the United States and have been residents of the state for at least
one year next preceding the granting of such license; or to a corporation or
association unless the same is organized under the laws of the state or
qualified under the laws of the state to do business in this state and unless
the principal officers and members of the governing board are citizens of the
United States and residents of the state for at least one year.
   B.   Any person, or any one of its members, officers or governing board, who
has been convicted of any violation of the laws of the United States, the state
or any other state of the United States, relating to the importation,
transportation, manufacture or sale of liquor, or who has been convicted of any
felony, or has paid any fine or completed any sentence of confinement for any
felony within five (5) years prior to the date of making application for
license.
   C.   A person who is engaged in the operation, or interested therein, of any
house or place for the purpose of prostitution or who has been convicted of any
crime or misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   D.   A person whose license issued under this article has been revoked; an
individual who was a member of a partnership or association which was a
licensee under this article and whose license has been revoked; an individual
who was an officer, member of the governing board or one of the ten (10)
principal stockholders of a corporation which was a licensee under this article
and whose license has been revoked; a partnership or association, one of whose
members was a licensee under this article and whose license was revoked; a
corporation, one of whose officers, member of the governing board or ten (10)
principal stockholders was a licensee under the provisions of this article and
whose license has been revoked; an association or partnership, one of whose
members was a member of a partnership or association licensed under the
provisions of this article and whose license has been revoked; a partnership or
association, one of whose members was an officer, a member of a governing
board, or one of the ten (10) principal stockholders of a corporation licensed
under the provisions of this article and whose license has been revoked; a
corporation, one of whose officers, members of the governing board, or ten (10)
principal stockholders was a member of a partnership or association under the
provisions of this article and whose license was revoked; a corporation, one of
whose officers, members of a governing board or ten (10) principal stockholders
was an officer, member of the governing board, or one of the ten (10) principal
stockholders of a corporation licensed under the provisions of this article and
whose license has been revoked.
   E.   Any officer or employee of the state, counties or municipalities of the
state.
   F.   Any officer, agent or employee of any distillery, winery, brewery, or
any wholesaler or jobber of liquor, or malt beverages.
   G.   A person who does not hold a retail liquor license issued under the
laws of the state.
   H.   A person licensed under this article as a bartender and whose permit as
bartender has been revoked.
   I.   Any license held by any licensee disqualified under the provisions of
this section from being issued a license, shall forthwith be revoked by the
city council.
   J.   A license shall not be issued to a person not of good moral character.
(1984 Code § 3-4B-7)
3-2B-8: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSES:
   A.   Hours Of Sale Of Liquor: No liquor shall be sold, offered for sale or
given away upon any licensed premises during the following hours:
      1.   Christmas Day.
      2.   On any other day between two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and ten o'clock
(10:00) A.M.
   B.   Premises:
      1.   Location: Any license issued hereunder shall be for use at a
specific location in an approved facility. Neither the location at which the
license is used nor the facility shall be changed without first notifying the
city and applying for a transfer permit. Failure to do so shall be grounds for
a suspension of the license and will be a misdemeanor offense punishable as
provided by section
1-4-1 of this code.
      2.   Restrictions Near Churches Or Schools: No license shall be issued
for any premises in any neighborhood which is predominantly residential or
within three hundred feet (300') of any public school, church or any other
place of worship, measured in a straight line to the nearest entrance to the
licensed premises, except with the permission of the city council.
      3.   Sales Only On Licensed Premises: It shall be unlawful for any
licensee to sell, give away, dispense, vend or deliver any liquor in any
fashion or manner or by any means or device, except in the licensed premises.
Said premises shall have entrance from the street only, and a fire exit leading
to an alley.
   C.   Prohibited Sales: No licensee or his employed agents, servants or
bartenders shall sell, deliver or give away, or cause or permit to be sold,
delivered or given away any liquor to: 1) any person under the age of twenty
one (21) years; 2) any person actually, apparently or obviously intoxicated; 3)
any habitual drunkard; or 4) an interdicted person.
   D.   Purchase By Unqualified Person: Any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years or a person who knowingly misrepresents his qualifications for the
purpose of obtaining liquor from such licensee shall be equally guilty with
such licensee and shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 3-4B-8; amd. 2014 Code)
3-2B-9: SANITARY REQUIREMENTS:
All licensed premises shall be maintained in sanitary condition according to
the requirements of Idaho Code title 39, as amended, and according to the
requirements of all existing ordinances of the city on sanitation, and
according to the requirements of all ordinances of the city which may hereafter
be passed by the city council relating to sanitation. (1984 Code § 3-4B-10;
amd. 2014 Code)
3-2B-10: INSPECTION:
Any duly authorized police officer of the city shall have the right at any time
to make an examination of the premises of any licensee to ascertain whether the
laws of the state and the ordinances of the city are being complied with, and
it shall be unlawful to refuse such officer the right of admittance or access
to such premises. (1984 Code § 3-4B-11)
3-2B-11: REVOCATION AND CANCELLATION OF LICENSE:
The right shall be, and at all times shall remain vested in the city council to
revoke or cancel the license of any person licensed hereunder for any violation
of this article and, upon verified complaint filed with the city council,
shall, by written notice, cause such alleged offender to appear before said
council, and be heard upon such complaint. A copy of such notice, and the day
and hour of the hearing, which shall be at least five (5) days thence, shall be
specified in such notice, and such hearing shall be had in the usual meeting
place of such city council, unless a different place shall be specified in such
notice; and if at said hearing upon the taking of evidence on behalf of the
city that cause exists for the cancellation or revocation of such license, the
same may be cancelled or revoked without further process of law and, upon such
cancellation or revocation, no refund of any unexpired portion of the license
fee shall be made to the licensee; and a certified copy of such revocation
shall immediately be forwarded to the director of the department of law
enforcement of the state by the city clerk. (1984 Code § 3-4B-12)
3-2B-12: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
Any violation of the provisions of this article, the penalty for which is not
by Idaho Code title 23, made an indictable misdemeanor or felony, shall be
unlawful, and any person so violating such provision shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor hereunder and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. The court in which a judgment of conviction against any
licensee has been had shall forthwith certify a copy thereof to the director of
the department of law enforcement of the state. (1984 Code § 3-4B-13; amd. 2014
Code)
ARTICLE C. WINE
SECTION:
3-2C-1: Definitions
3-2C-2: License Required; Application
3-2C-3: Qualifications
3-2C-4: License Fee
3-2C-5: Issuance Of License
3-2C-6: Conditions Of License
3-2C-7: Sales, Possession By Minors
3-2C-8: Revocation Of License
3-2C-9: Penalty
3-2C-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms as used in this article are hereby defined as follows:
DIRECTOR: The director of the department of law enforcement of the state of
Idaho.
PERSON: Includes an individual, firm, copartnership, association, corporation,
or any group or combination acting as a unit, and includes the plural as well
as the singular unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is disclosed
by the context in which it is used.
RETAIL WINE LICENSE: A license issued by the director, authorizing a person to
sell wine at retail.
RETAILER: A person to whom a retail wine license has been issued.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage containing not more than fourteen percent (14%)
alcohol by volume obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar content of
fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar. (1984 Code § 3-4C-1)
3-2C-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell wine at retail either by the drink
or for consumption off the premises within the corporate limits of the city
without having first procured a license therefor. Application for license shall
be in writing, signed and sworn to by the applicant upon application forms
furnished by the city clerk. Such application shall be filed with the city
clerk. The city clerk is hereby designated as the officer responsible for the
issuance of licenses pursuant to this article. (1984 Code § 3-4C-2)
3-2C-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
The applicant for a license shall possess all of the qualifications necessary
to obtain a license from the director of the department of law enforcement of
the state, as prescribed by the laws of the state, and maintain such
qualifications throughout the period for which such license is issued. The
possession of licenses regularly issued by the department of law enforcement
and the county in addition to a city beer license, shall be prima facie
evidence of the applicant's qualifications to receive a license hereunder.
(1984 Code § 3-4C-3)
3-2C-4: LICENSE FEE:
   The license fee imposed and collected shall be as established by resolution
of the City Council and may be amended from time to time. Such license year
shall be from one o’clock (1:00) A.M. January 1 through December 31; provided,
however, should a license be issued for less than a full calendar year, the
license fee shall be prorated in accordance with the actual months of issuance.
(1984 Code § 3-4C-4; amd. Ord. 712, 2-10-2025)
3-2C-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon filing the application for a license and production of evidence as
required by section
3-2C-3 of this article as to the qualifications of the applicant and by the
payment of the required license fee, the city clerk shall issue to the
applicant a license to sell at retail within the city for such calendar year or
the remainder thereof. Upon denial of the license, an applicant shall have the
automatic right of appeal. The city clerk shall provide the applicant with a
form which shall require nothing more than the signature of the applicant. Upon
signing the form and returning the form to the city clerk, the applicant shall
have perfected an appeal to the mayor and city council. The applicant shall
then be placed on the agenda and the notice of appeal shall be presented to the
mayor and city council by the city clerk. An appeal from a decision by the city
clerk shall be considered by the mayor and city council as an application of
first impression. The city clerk shall present information relevant to
subsections
3-2A-3B1, B2 and B3 of this chapter, supporting his reasoning for denial. The
applicant may present any relevant information concerning the request for a
license. The hearing may be informal, but shall be subject to such rules of
procedure as the mayor and city council may impose. The mayor and city council
shall examine the standards as set forth in subsections
3-2A-3B1, B2 and B3 of this chapter, and shall grant or deny the application
within thirty (30) days of the time set for hearing. (1984 Code § 3-4C-5)
3-2C-6: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Assignment Or Transfer: The assignment or transfer of a wine license
shall be the same as provided by section
3-2A-8 of this chapter for the assignment or transfer of a beer license.
   B.   Consumption On Premises: Retailers who do not possess a valid license
as set forth in subsections
3-2A-5A and B or section
3-2B-2 of this chapter and section
3-2C-2 of this article, shall not permit consumption of wine on the licensed
premises and may sell the wine only in its unbroken, sealed container. Wine
sold for consumption on the retailer's premises may be sold only during hours
that liquor by the drink may be sold pursuant to Idaho Code section 23-927.
Wine sold by retailer for consumption off the premises of the retailer may be
sold only during the hours that beer may be sold pursuant to Idaho Code section
23-927.
   C.   Possession: No person may, while operating or riding in or upon a motor
vehicle upon a public highway of this state, have in his possession any wine in
an open or unsealed container of any kind. (1984 Code § 3-4C-6)
3-2C-7: SALES, POSSESSION BY MINORS:
   A.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years may purchase, consume
or possess wine. (1984 Code § 3-4C-7; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   No person shall give, sell or deliver wine to any person under the age
of twenty one (21).
   C.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall by any means
represent to any retailer or distributor that he is twenty one (21) years or
more of age for the purpose of inducing such retailer or distributor, or his
agent or employee, to sell, serve or dispense wine to such person.
   D.   No person shall, by any means, represent to any retailer or distributor
or agent or employee of such retailer or distributor, that any other person is
twenty one (21) years or more of age, when in fact such other person is under
the age of twenty one (21) years, for the purpose of inducing such retailer or
distributor, or the agent or employee of such retailer or distributor, to sell,
serve or dispense wine to such other person. (1984 Code § 3-4C-7)
3-2C-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The right shall be and remain at all times vested in the mayor and city
council, and the mayor and city council may, as hereinafter provided, revoke or
cancel any license for fraud or misrepresentation in its procurement, or for a
violation of any of the provisions of this article, or for any conduct or act
of the licensee or his employees or any conduct or act permitted by him on the
premises where such a business is conducted, or in connection therewith or
adjacent thereto, tending to render such business or such premises where the
same is conducted as a public nuisance or a menace to the health, peace, safety
or general welfare of the city; provided, that revocation or suspension of the
state license by the director of the department of law enforcement shall be
deemed prima facie evidence for revocation or suspension of the license issued
herein. (1984 Code § 3-4C-8)
3-2C-9: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article or fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions of this article shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 3-4C-9; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 3
HOME OCCUPATIONS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Purpose; Intent
3-3-2: Applicability
3-3-3: Statutory Authority
3-3-4: Definitions
3-3-5: General Standards
3-3-6: Appeal Of Decision
3-3-7: Administrative Guidelines
3-3-8: Application
3-3-9: Issuance And Terms Of License
3-3-10: Fees
3-3-11: Contents Of License Application
3-3-12: Contents Of License
3-3-13: Revocation Of License
3-3-14: Operation Without License Declared Nuisance; Injunction
3-3-15: Notice To Cease Nonpermitted Activity
3-3-16: Sunset Clause
3-3-1: PURPOSE; INTENT:
It is recognized that an increasing number of new types of home occupations are
appearing daily and that many of these and some other more conventional uses
possess characteristics of such unique and special nature relative to location,
design, size, method of operation, circulation and public facilities that each
specific use must be considered individually. However, there is a need to
protect the integrity and character of residential areas. The home occupation
regulations seek to balance the need of some individuals to work at home with
rights of other individuals to enjoy the residential character of their
neighborhood and their private property. Further, the purpose of the home
occupation regulations is to protect the health, safety and welfare of
neighborhood residents and the preservation of the neighborhood as a
comfortable place for the people who live there. (1984 Code § 3-9-1)
3-3-2: APPLICABILITY:
The regulations set forth for home occupations shall apply to all residential
dwelling units or residential accessory structures, irrespective of the zoning
district. Should a residential use in the commercial zoning district fail to
meet the conditions necessary to qualify as a home occupation, it is then
considered a full commercial business and must comply with all regulations
covering commercial establishments. These regulations do not apply to land uses
which require conditional use permits in residential zones, which must go
through a separate conditional use permit process. (1984 Code § 3-9-2)
3-3-3: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
The licensing of all wholesale and retail occupations and businesses within the
city and the levying of a license fee, uniform to all classes imposed, pursuant
to the statutory authority vested in the city by Idaho Code section 50-307, is
hereby declared to be justified and necessary for the purpose of protecting and
providing services to the citizens of the city and the businesses and
occupations doing business herein, and to ensure the future businesses locate
in an area zoned for that particular business. (1984 Code § 3-9-3)
3-3-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
indicated unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION: All activities, occupations, callings, trades, pursuits
or professions located or engaged in within the city with the object of gain,
profit, benefit or advantage. Each business location shall be deemed a separate
business unless it is a specific annex to the main location of the business.
EMPLOYEE: Any person employed at any business location within the city, and any
person furnishing or performing services within the city. It shall include all
persons who are self- employed, and shall include part time employees.
ENGAGING IN BUSINESS: Commencing, conducting or continuing in any business or
occupation, the exercise of corporate and franchise powers, and the liquidating
of a business, where the liquidators hold themselves out to the public as
conducting such business when he does one act of:
   A.   Selling any goods or performing any services.
   B.   Soliciting business or offering or holding out goods or services for
sale or hire.
   C.   Acquiring or using any vehicle or any premises in the city for business
purposes.
   D.   Delivery of any goods, either at wholesale or retail, unless licensed
under another section of this code.
HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation customarily incidental to the use of the
premises as a dwelling place and not one in which the use of the premises as a
dwelling place is largely incidental to the occupation carried on; provided,
such occupation is carried on by a member of the family residing within the
dwelling place.
PERSON: Any person doing business in the city.
PREMISES: All lands, structures, places and equipment, and appurtenances
connected or used therewith in any business, and also any personal property,
including any vehicle which is either affixed to or is otherwise used in
connection with any such business conducted on said premises.
YEAR: The calendar year. (1984 Code § 3-9-4)
3-3-5: GENERAL STANDARDS:
Home occupations where permitted shall be subject to the following general
standards:
   A.   Occupation shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling; provided,
that inside storage and/or minor assembly associated with the home occupation
may also occur within a bona fide garage. There shall be no commercial on
premises sales in connection with such home occupation unless approved by the
city clerk.
   B.   Such use does not involve construction features not customary or
incidental in a dwelling.
   C.   The entrance to the area used for the home occupation shall be only
from an entrance customary to a residential use and not exceeding four feet
(4') in width at its opening.
   D.   There shall be no signs related to the home occupation or other
exterior evidence of the occupation being conducted within the dwelling,
including functional evidence.
   E.   Motor vehicle operations are prohibited.
   F.   If a rental property, written permission from the property owner to
conduct the specific home occupation.
   G.   More than one home occupation may be permitted at the residence,
provided the total effect of all occupations shall not exceed the general
standards for home occupations.
   H.   No more than thirty five percent (35%) of the gross floor area of the
principal dwelling unit may be used for home occupations. There is no
restriction placed upon the usable area within an accessory structure, provided
no other activity besides inside storage and/or minor assembly activity is
occurring and general standards relating to maintaining residential character
can still be met.
   I.   A home occupation must be conducted by persons who reside in the
dwelling unit. No person who does not reside on the premises shall engage in
the business and be located on the premises.
   J.   No toxic, explosive, flammable, combustible, corrosive, etiologic,
radioactive or otherwise restricted materials in excess of those levels allowed
by the current edition of the international fire code shall be used or stored
on the site.
   K.   The home occupation shall be conducted in a manner which will not alter
the normal residential character of the premises by exterior alteration of the
property, expansion of parking, construction, creation of a separate entrance,
the use of color, materials, lighting, signs (other than on the applicant's
vehicle), exterior storage of materials, garbage, goods or merchandise, or by
the emission of sound, electric interference, vibration, dust, glare, heat,
smoke, odors or liquids.
   L.   There shall be no signs other than those affixed to the applicant's
vehicle.
   M.   Vehicles associated with the home occupation which are rated by the
manufacturer for a maximum gross weight in excess of ten thousand (10,000)
pounds' gross vehicle weight may be operated out of the premises but shall not
be parked on city streets. No trailer shall be connected to the vehicle
exceeding the ten thousand (10,000) GVW. No more than one vehicle used in the
business may be parked on the premises or operated out of the premises.
   N.   The home occupation shall not displace or impede the use of required
parking spaces for the primary dwelling unit.
   O.   A home occupation is deemed personal in nature and cannot be
transferred with title to the property. Any change of owner or owners or
location shall automatically void an existing home occupation license granted
under this chapter and shall necessitate application and issuance of a new
permit. (1984 Code § 3-9-5)
3-3-6: APPEAL OF DECISION:
A home occupation is approved by the city clerk. The criteria for such approval
to be whether such home occupation will adversely affect the residential
qualities of the location in which it will operate. Without limitation, factors
for such decision may be size of building, parking, potential noise, potential
nuisance and potential traffic, etc. Any applicant aggrieved by any decision of
the city clerk may appeal such decision by filing a written notice of appeal
with the city council within ten (10) days of such decision and submitting a
fee, as established by resolution of the City Council and as may be amended
from time to time, to cover the advertising costs. The city clerk shall
transmit said notice of appeal to the city council and shall schedule a public
hearing on said appeal, to be held at any regular meeting or special meeting of
the city council not later than forty five (45) days after the filing of such
notice of appeal. The city clerk shall cause the notice to be published in the
official newspaper of the city and shall send notice to any landowner within
five hundred feet (500') of the property subject to the appeal. At such
hearing, the applicant may appear and speak on his own behalf, be represented
by counsel, call witnesses and cross examine any witnesses of the city. The
city council shall proceed to determine said appeal, and, if it decides in
favor of the applicant, it shall pass a motion to that effect and the city
clerk shall, on the next business day thereafter, and upon receipt of the
proper fee, issue such license. The city council may defer action upon said
appeal for not longer than three (3) weeks from the date of the public hearing.
If the city council upholds the city clerk’s decision, the applicant may appeal
such decision by filing an action with the district court. (1984 Code § 3-9-6;
amd. Ord. 712, 2-10-2025)
3-3-7: ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDELINES:
The general standards set out above lists several factors to be used by the
city clerk in approving home occupations, but does not provide clear guidelines
as to how the factors are to be consistently applied. In order to promote such
consistency and ensure that home occupations do not adversely affect the
residential qualities of the location in which they operate, the following
guidelines are to be used by the city in reviewing home occupation license
applications:
   A.   In order to minimize the impacts of parked vehicles, home occupations
which involve clients, customers or employees coming to the home shall have
sufficient parking on site and/or on the street immediately in front of the
site. In determining the availability of parking space, the city will consider
the number of vehicles existing on the site during the hours of business
operation in addition to those coming to the site. Also considered will be the
suitability of the site and/or street to safely accommodate parked vehicles.
   B.   In order to minimize traffic impacts, home occupations shall generally
have no more than eight (8) clients, customers, employees, noncommercial
deliveries, or combination thereof, coming to the site each day.
   C.   In order to minimize the intrusion of commercial vehicles into
residential neighborhoods, home occupations shall have no more than one
delivery per week by commercial vehicles.
   D.   Home occupations which will create nuisances such as noise, odors,
light or glare shall not be allowed. In instances where the city clerk
determines that such nuisances are unlikely but are potential, a home
occupation license may be granted on the condition that the licensee agree to
allow the city to conduct an unannounced inspection of the premises during the
time of any normal or suspected hours of business operation.
   E.   Should a home occupation be granted and should the nature of the
business thereafter acquire features that may have resulted in a denial of a
home occupation license in the first instance, the city clerk shall have the
authority to revoke the home occupation license. (1984 Code § 3-9-7)
3-3-8: APPLICATION:
All home occupations wishing to operate within the city limits shall complete
and submit a home occupation license application form. Approval of said
application form shall constitute as a home occupation license. (1984 Code § 3-
9-8)
3-3-9: ISSUANCE AND TERMS OF LICENSE:
The city clerk, or his designee, may issue a home occupation license that
complies with the provisions of this chapter, on forms prescribed by the city
clerk. Anyone applying for permission to operate a home occupation acknowledges
and agrees to operate the home occupation in accordance with the general
standards contained in this chapter. (1984 Code § 3-9-9)
3-3-10: FEES:
Fees for services, permits, licenses, and other charges as required by this
Chapter shall be established by resolution of the City Council and may be
amended from time to time. (1984 Code § 3-9-10; amd. Ord. 712, 2-10-2025)
3-3-11: CONTENTS OF LICENSE APPLICATION:
Each home occupation license issued hereunder shall state upon its face the
following:
   A.   The name of the licensee and any other name under which home occupation
is to be conducted.
   B.   The name, address and phone numbers of the home occupation so licensed.
   C.   The nature of the home occupation.
   D.   Whether the home occupation includes sales.
   E.   Home occupation business status and name, address and phone numbers of
officers.
   F.   Site information.
   G.   Date of application for home occupation license.
   H.   Plot plan of property.
   I.   Floor plan.
   J.   The date of issuance and expiration thereof.
   K.   Such other information as the city clerk shall determine to be
necessary. (1984 Code § 3-9-11)
3-3-12: CONTENTS OF LICENSE:
The license shall contain:
   A.   Name of the licensee.
   B.   Name and address of the home occupation.
   C.   The amount of license fee.
   D.   The date of issuance and expiration.
   E.   The property zoning designation.
   F.   Such other information as the city clerk shall determine to be
necessary. (1984 Code § 3-9-12)
3-3-13: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The city clerk may revoke a home occupation license for reasons including, but
not limited to:
   A.   Failure to comply with "notice to cease nonpermitted home occupation
activity".
   B.   Any change in use or any change in extent of use, area of the dwelling
unit being used, or mechanical or electrical equipment being used that is
different from that specified in the granted home occupation license form that
is not first cleared and approved by the city clerk.
   C.   Any change in use, or any change in extent of use, area of the dwelling
unit being used, or mechanical or electrical equipment being used which
violates any of the provisions of this chapter. (1984 Code § 3-9-13)
3-3-14: OPERATION WITHOUT LICENSE DECLARED NUISANCE; INJUNCTION:
The operating or conducting of a home occupation without having a valid license
as provided herein is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. In addition to
any other remedy provided by this chapter, the city may bring an action in any
court of competent jurisdiction to obtain an order enjoining any person from
operating or conducting any home occupation in violation of this chapter. (1984
Code § 3-9-14)
3-3-15: NOTICE TO CEASE NONPERMITTED ACTIVITY:
Should the city clerk, at any time during the period in which a home occupation
is in operation, receive a written complaint, and after conducting an
investigation, find that the operation, or a portion thereof of such home
occupation, is in violation of the provisions of this chapter and/or the terms
and conditions subject thereto, the city clerk shall serve a notice, by
certified mail, return receipt, to cease activities conducted in violation of
the home occupation regulations. Such notice shall be headed "Notice To Cease
Nonpermitted Home Occupation Activity", shall contain a description of the
property, shall describe the ordinance section violated, shall specify the
penalty provisions of this chapter, shall specify how they can remedy the
violation and shall specify the appeal process contained in this chapter. (1984
Code § 3-9-15)
3-3-16: SUNSET CLAUSE:
It is understood that all home occupations in existence prior to the adoption
date of this chapter are in violation of the zoning ordinance unless the home
occupation was granted by temporary use permit or conditional use permit. Those
home occupations operating without those specific permits are hereby required
to obtain the necessary home occupation license no later than June 30, 2009.
(1984 Code § 3-9-16)
CHAPTER 4
OPEN AIR MARKETS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Defined
3-4-2: License Or Permit Required; Fee
3-4-3: Requirements And Restrictions
3-4-4: Penalty; License Revocation
3-4-1: DEFINED:
An "open air market" is one that is open to the public, for both sellers and
buyers of commodities, and at which the sellers offer both new or used
commodities. Sellers who apply are assigned to a table, stall or specified
location for a limited time. The market is available to the public through the
continuing displays of various sellers for more than three (3) days per month.
An open air market is often commonly referred to as and is synonymous with a
"flea market". (1984 Code §
3-2-1)
3-4-2: LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
Any person who desires to organize, conduct, operate or present to the public
an open air market, shall first make application with the city council and
secure from the city clerk a license or permit to operate such a market. When
applying for a license or permit to conduct or organize an open air market, the
organizer must first pay to the city clerk a fee in such amount as established
by the city council. (1984 Code §
3-2-2; amd. 2014 Code)
3-4-3: REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Parking Spaces: Any person who organizes and offers to the public an
open air market shall ensure that both the sellers in the market and members of
the public who come to observe or buy at the market have adequate parking
space. In addition, the applicant shall ensure that the marketplace will not
create traffic hazards.
   B.   Signs: Signs advertising the market may be placed in conspicuous
places, provided said signs do not constitute a traffic hazard.
   C.   Public Nuisance, Condition Of Grounds: Any organizer shall ensure and
agree with the city that the open air market shall not become a public nuisance
and that after each day the open air market is conducted the grounds will be
left in a clean and orderly condition.
   D.   Restroom Facilities: The organizer will make available to members of
the public, separately to both males and females, adequate restroom facilities.
   E.   Enclosures: Open air markets shall be kept behind enclosures of
sufficient density and height to ensure that the market will not be visible
from the streets.
   F.   Dangerous Commodities: The organizer will ensure that no commodities
are sold which are dangerous to consume. (1984 Code § 3-2-3)
3-4-4: PENALTY; LICENSE REVOCATION:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition, any person who violates this chapter may have
his license or permit revoked immediately and without notice. In the event of
immediate revocation of the license or permit, the organizer may apply to the
city council for administrative review of the revocation. (1984 Code § 3-2-4;
amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 5
YARD, ESTATE AND GARAGE SALES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Defined
3-5-2: Permit Required
3-5-3: Written Permit
3-5-4: Permit Fees
3-5-5: Permit Conditions
3-5-6: Display Of Permit
3-5-7: Revocation And Refusal Of Permit
3-5-8: Hours Of Operation
3-5-9: Display Of Sale Property
3-5-10: Advertising Signs
3-5-11: Inspection
3-5-12: Appeals
3-5-13: Penalty
3-5-1: DEFINED:
"Yard sale", "estate sale" and "garage sale" shall mean and include all general
sales open to the public, conducted from or on any premises in any residential,
commercial, or industrial zone, as defined in title 10 of this Code, for the
purpose of disposing of personal property, including, but not limited to, all
sales entitled "garage", "lawn", "yard", "estate", "attic", "porch", "room",
"back yard", "patio" or "moving". This definition shall not include a sale
where no more than five (5) specific items are held out for sale and all
advertisement for such sale specifically names those items to be sold. For
purposes of this definition of "garage sale", "personal property" shall mean
property which is utilized, owned and maintained by an individual or by members
of his residence and acquired in the normal course of living in or maintaining
a residence. It does not include merchandise which was purchased for resale or
obtained on consignment. For sales in a commercial or industrial zone, the sale
must be sponsored and conducted by the business located on such property. (Ord.
644, 10-15-2018)
3-5-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No yard sale, estate or garage sale shall be conducted unless and until the
individual desiring to conduct said sale shall obtain a written permit therefor
from the City Clerk. Multiple resident garage or yard sales shall be allowed
under one permit, but shall be limited to or conducted only at the residence of
one resident named in the permit. (Ord. 577, 2-24-2014)
3-5-3: WRITTEN PERMIT:
Permits shall include the following information:
   A.   Full name and address of applicant.
   B.   The location/address at which the proposed garage sale is to be held.
   C.   The date or dates upon which the sale is to be held. (Ord. 577, 2-24-
2014)
   D.   An affirmative statement that the property to be sold was owned by the
applicant, was owned as applicant's personal property and was neither acquired
nor consigned for the purpose of resale. For sales in a commercial or
industrial zone, this statement shall contain information as to how the goods
to be sold were acquired. (Ord. 644, 10-15-2018)
   E.   A statement that all off yard advertising shall be cleaned up or
removed within the time limits set by this chapter. (Ord. 577, 2-24-2014)
3-5-4: PERMIT FEES:
A fee in such amount as established by the City Council shall be charged. (Ord.
577, 2-24-2014; amd. 2014 Code)
3-5-5: PERMIT CONDITIONS:
   A.   The permit shall set forth and restrict the time and location of such
sale. No more than three (3) such permits may be issued to one residence and/or
family household and/or business location during any calendar year. If members
of more than one residence join in requesting a permit, then such permit shall
be considered as having been issued for each and all of such residences. (Ord.
644, 10-15-2018)
   B.   No permit issued under this chapter may be used by a person other than
the one to whom the license is issued or a person named in the permit. (Ord.
577, 2-24-2014)
3-5-6: DISPLAY OF PERMIT:
Any permit issued pursuant to the terms and provisions of this chapter shall be
posted on the premises of the garage sale in a conspicuous place so as to be
seen by the public and officers of the police department. (Ord. 577, 2-24-2014)
3-5-7: REVOCATION AND REFUSAL OF PERMIT:
Any permit issued under this chapter may be revoked or any application for
issuance of a permit may be denied, refused or revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   A.   The application submitted by the applicant or permit holder contains
any incorrect, false, fraudulent or misleading information;
   B.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in the course of
carrying on the licensed activity;
   C.   Any violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor;
   D.   Conducting the licensed activity in an unlawful manner or in such a
manner as to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of
the public. (Ord. 577, 2-24-2014)
3-5-8: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Garage sales shall be limited in time to no more than three (3) consecutive
days which will be set out on the permit from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. until
six o'clock (6:00) P.M. (Ord. 577, 2-24-2014)
3-5-9: DISPLAY OF SALE PROPERTY:
Personal property offered for sale may be displayed within the residence, in a
garage, carport and/or in the yard of the residence, but only in such areas. No
property offered for sale shall be displayed on any public right of way,
including, but not limited to, sidewalks, streets, borrow pits, alleys or
drainage swales. (Ord. 577, 2-24-2014)
3-5-10: ADVERTISING SIGNS:
Only the following specified signs may be displayed in relation to a pending
garage sale:
   A.   Signs At Residence: Two (2) signs of not more than four (4) square feet
shall be permitted to be displayed on the property of the residence of the
garage sale. (Ord. 577, 2-24-2014)
   B.   Directional Signs: Four (4) directional signs of not more than two (2)
square feet each are permitted; provided, that permission to erect or post said
sign prior to posting any directional sign is received from the property owners
upon whose property such signs are to be placed. (Ord. 608, 4-25-2016)
   C.   Placement Of Signs: Signs shall not be attached to any utility pole,
power pole, telephone pole or street sign. Signs shall not be placed in or on
public rights of way.
   D.   Use Of Motor Vehicles Prohibited: There shall be no signs, advertising
or promotional information displayed from the bed, roof, grill or hood of a
motor vehicle while the vehicle is parked in a public or street right of way.
   E.   Placement Near Rights Of Way: The following placement of signs near
public rights of way will be allowed after the property owner has given
permission:
      1.   On streets without sidewalks, public walkways or bike paths, signs
shall be placed at least ten feet (10') behind the curb or behind the edge of
the pavement.
      2.   On streets with sidewalks, public walkways or bike paths, signs
shall be placed at least ten feet (10') behind the curb and shall be placed
behind any sidewalk, public walkway or bike path.
      3.   On U.S. Highway 95, which is also known as North and South Whitley
Drive and on U.S. Highway 30, which is also known as NW 16th Street and is west
of U.S. 95, signs shall be at least ten feet (10') behind the curb or ten feet
(10') behind the edge of the pavement if there is no curb.
      4.   At the junction U.S. Highway 95 and U.S. Highway 30, which is Gayway
Junction, signs shall be at least twenty feet (20') behind the curb, measured
at the radius.
   F.   Time Limitations: No sign or other form of advertisement shall be
exhibited for more than two (2) days prior to the day such sale is to commence.
Yard sales shall be limited to daylight hours only.
   G.   Removal Of Signs: All signs must be removed within twenty four (24)
hours of the termination of the garage sale. (Ord. 577, 2-24-2014)
3-5-11: INSPECTION:
Any police officer, ordinance officer or any other official designated by the
city to make inspections under the licensing or regulating provisions of the
city shall have the right of entry upon any premises showing evidence of a
yard, estate or garage sale for the purpose of enforcement or inspection and
may close the premises from such a sale or arrest any individual who violates
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 577, 2-24-2014)
3-5-12: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by the actions of the city clerk because of a denial of a
permit or in the revocation of a permit shall have the right of appeal to the
city council. Any such appeal shall be taken by filing with the city council,
within ten (10) days after notice of the action complained of, a written notice
setting forth fully the grounds for the appeal. The applicant shall be advised
of the time and place set for the hearing of the appeal by letter mailed to the
applicant at his/her last known address at least five (5) days prior to the
date set for hearing, or it shall be personally delivered at least three (3)
days prior to the date set for hearing. The city council shall act upon the
appeal within thirty (30) days after receipt of said notice of appeal, and its
action shall be final. (Ord. 577, 2-24-2014)
3-5-13: PENALTY:
Any person conducting any such yard, estate or garage sale without having the
proper permit therefor or who shall violate any of the terms or conditions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as
established by resolution of the City Council and as may be amended from time
to time. Provided, however, there shall be a minimum mandatory as established
by resolution of the City Council and as may be amended from time to time for
the first offense and a minimum mandatory fine as established by resolution of
the City Council and as may be amended from time to time for the second
offense. (Ord. 577, 2-24-2014; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 712, 2-10-2025)
CHAPTER 6
DOOR TO DOOR PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Applications
3-6-3: License Required
3-6-4: License Nontransferable
3-6-5: License Fees
3-6-6: Violation, License Seizure
3-6-7: Prohibited Acts
3-6-8: Investigation Of Applicant
3-6-9: Right To Cancel Purchases
3-6-10: Penalty
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
DOOR TO DOOR PEDDLER: Any person who goes from house to house, from business to
business, from street to street, without invitation, carrying, conveying,
selling or transporting any merchandise, wares, goods, services, products or
provisions, including any food products, offering and exposing them for sale,
or making sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or who, without
traveling from place to place, sells or offers the same from a motor vehicle or
a temporary or transportable platform. The word “peddler” shall include
itinerant merchant or itinerant peddler.
DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITOR: Any person who goes from place to place, from house to
house, from business to business, from street to street, taking or attempting
to take orders, without invitation, for sale of wares, merchandise or any
personal property of any nature whatsoever, for future delivery, or for
services, whether or not such individual has, carries or exposes for sale a
sample of the subject of such sales or whether he is collecting advance payment
on such sales or not.
The words peddler and solicitor include any agent, employee, trainee, or any
other person who acts on behalf of, either directly or indirectly, a person who
is a peddler or a solicitor. (Ord. 602, 8-10-2015; amd. Ord. 697, 2-27-2023)
3-6-2: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for licenses by solicitors and peddlers shall be made to the city
clerk or to his designee, and shall be sworn in writing and shall contain the
following information:
   A.   Name of applicant;
   B.   Permanent address of applicant;
   C.   Temporary address of applicant, if any;
   D.   A brief description of the nature of the business to be conducted and
the goods to be sold;
   E.   A statement as to whether the applicant is self-employed or working for
an employer and employer information, supervisor information including contact
phone number. Applicant must also provide a letter from the Employer or company
authorizing the applicant as an employee or agent;
   F.   If the applicant is selling goods for another, a statement as to whom
the owner of the goods are;
   G.   A statement that in the event that the product causes any damage to any
resident of the city, the applicant acknowledges the jurisdiction of the Idaho
courts to resolve any disputes;
   H.   The length of time for which the license requested shall be needed;
   I.   A photo and description of the vehicle to be used in the solicitation
or peddling, together with the license number thereof;
   J.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant or applicant’s employer
has been convicted of any crime in violation of any consumer protection laws or
of any peddler’s or solicitor’s ordinances.
   K.   A copy of the driver’s licenses or other acceptable form of
identification of the applicant and all employees, and any other information
that City staff determines will be necessary to process the permit.
   L.   Each applicant must file with his application one recent passport sized
photograph of himself, a copy of which shall be included on the license when
issued, the original being retained with the application filed with the city
clerk. Each licensee shall at all times have his license with him and shall
exhibit the same upon request;
   M.   Each applicant must request from the Idaho State Police, bureau of
criminal identification, a name based background check. The back ground check
results must be submitted with application. The Chief of Police shall have sole
discretion to determine how often such background check shall be renewed and
whether or not to grant a waiver for the background check requirements.
   N.   If a vehicle will be used by the applicant in relation to any of the
activities covered by this article, either directly or indirectly, and
including simply in transportation to and from an area where the applicant will
be traveling on foot, then satisfactory proof of registration and current
insurance on said vehicle must be shown at the time of application. Where
multiple applicants will be sharing a single vehicle, such fact should be
stated on the application, and at least one of the applicants must produce the
required documentation at the time of application;
   O.   If a motorized or non-motorized cart or unit is intended to be used in
any way by an individual as they engage in the activities licensed under this
chapter, a picture and description of said cart or unit shall be included with
the application;
   P.   Applicant will need to show proof of a State of Idaho resale number.
(Ord. 602, 8-10-2015; amd. Ord. 694, 7-11-2022; Ord. 697, 2-27-2023)
3-6-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in, prosecute or carry on any business, as defined by
section
3-6-1 of this chapter, either as a principal, an agent of, an employee of, a
trainee of, or either directly or indirectly on behalf of a person who is
defined as a “peddler” or “solicitor”, without first obtaining a license and
paying the required fee. The following organizations are exempt from payment of
license fees:
   A.   Nonprofit organizations soliciting funds on their own behalf wholly for
charitable or nonprofit purposes. Proof of 501(c)(3) is required.
   B.   Exemptions: The following shall be exempt from having to obtain a door
to door peddler/solicitor license:
      1.   Youth church groups soliciting for charitable or fundraising
purposes.
      2.   Youth school groups soliciting for charitable or fundraising
purposes. (Ord. 694, 7-11-2022)
3-6-4: LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
No license issued or granted by the city shall in any manner be assignable or
transferable or authorize any person other than the one therein named to do
business or authorize any other business than is therein mentioned to be done
or authorize the transaction of such business. (1984 Code § 3-6-5; amd. Ord.
694, 7-11-2022; Ord. 697, 2-27-2023)
3-6-5: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   A per person license will be issued for a period of twelve months
expiring 12 months from the date issued, and a license fee will be charged as
set in accordance with a fee schedule enacted by a resolution adopted by the
city council, as the same may be changed from time to time by future
resolutions of the city council. Payment for the licenses shall be made upon
filing of the application with the proper authority and shall be made in lawful
currency of the United States. Applicants shall be required to display the
approved permit and provide a copy upon the request of any member of the
public.
   B.   By accepting a fee and issuing a license, the city does not assume any
liability for any actions or any conduct engaged in by the licensee. The city,
nor any of its employees, shall endorse any products or services sold by any
licensees and the city, employees of the city and any licensees shall not
represent to any person that the city has any interest in any business carried
on by the licensee. (Ord. 602, 8-10-2015; amd. Ord. 694, 7-11-2022; Ord. 697,
2-27-2023)
3-6-6: VIOLATION, LICENSE SEIZURE:
In the event that the licensee shall violate any of the terms or conditions of
the license, or in the event that any product offered by the licensee is a
stolen item, or in the event that the licensee violates any municipal ordinance
in reference to the business, the city police shall be authorized to seize and
confiscate the license and hold the same pending a hearing before the city
council. No business shall be conducted without a license. (1984 Code §
3-6-6)
3-6-7: PROHIBITED ACTS:
A licensee, or any person acting on behalf of a licensee, or any agent of a
licensee, shall not:
   A.   Blow a horn, ring a bell or use any sound device or musical instrument,
including any sound amplifying system, on any of the streets, alleys, parks or
other public places of the city, or on any private premises within the city,
where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom, to be
capable of being plainly heard on the streets, avenues, alleys, parks or other
public places for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wares or
merchandise which such licensee proposes to sell.
   B.   Have any mechanical devices in human or animal form or otherwise
designed to create lights, sound or motion to attract passersby.
   C.   Have any exclusive right to any location in the public streets, shall
not be permitted a stationary location and shall not be permitted to operate in
any congested area where licensee’s operations might impede or inconvenience
the public. For purposes of enforcement of this chapter, the judgment of any
police officer, exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to
whether or not an area is congested or the public is impeded or inconvenienced
by the presence of the licensee.
   D.   Sell or offer for sale goods, wares or merchandise from vehicles on any
of the public streets, right-of-ways or sidewalks, of the city. Licensees shall
not be allowed to double park or in any way impede the normal flow of traffic
or create a hazard or a nuisance upon any public roadway.
   E.   Be allowed to solicit or peddle from eight o’clock (8:00) P.M. to nine
o’clock (9:00) A.M., or at any time when a sign has been clearly posted on a
fence, driveway, front, back or side yard, or doorway which clearly informs a
licensee that there shall be no solicitors or no peddlers, either using those
words or in words to that effect. Providing, however, that a licensee may call
upon the occupant of a residence at other times when he has expressed prior
permission from such occupant to do so.
   F.   Make any representation that he or she is soliciting or peddling for
any nonprofit organization or for charitable or religious purposes if he or she
in any way shall personally benefit by the funds or properties solicited.
   G.   Cast, throw, distribute, deposit, scatter, pass out, give away,
circulate or deliver any commercial or business handbills, or other advertising
materials or devices to any residents or businesses, or leave the same upon any
porch, doorstep, entryway, vestibule or in any yard or public hallway, or in
any vacant lot or upon other private property in the city, without first having
obtained the expressed consent of the owner or lessee, or without the written
or expressed request of any adult resident or occupant thereof.
   H.   Make any false statement or claims as to the quality, value, origin,
condition, durability, or purpose as to any product.
   I.   Make false representations as to any product which he is soliciting for
or peddling.
   J.   Continue efforts to solicit from a person once that person has informed
the solicitor that he does not wish to give anything or to buy anything from
that solicitor;
   K.   Represent the issuance of any license under this article as an
endorsement or recommendation of the solicitation;
   L.   No licensee shall engage in the sale of any weapons;
   M.   No licensee shall peddle or solicit on any federally recognized
holiday.
No licensee shall distribute, sell or hand out as a sample any consumable food
products which have not been properly approved by the state health district,
the Southwest health district, the federal trade commission or any other state
or federal agency which has jurisdiction as to the quality or wholesomeness of
any foodstuffs designed for human consumption. (1984 Code § 3-6-7; amd. Ord.
602, 8-10-2015)
3-6-8: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
Upon receipt of application, the city clerk shall review the application for
completeness and compliance with applicable City Code, then refer the
application to the Chief of Police for review of the criminal background check
and investigate complaints or allegations of any violation of this chapter or
other laws by the applicant.
No person shall be issued a license when that person:
   A.   Would not be of sufficient age to be considered lawfully employable
under title 44, chapter 13 of the Idaho Code, or other applicable state or
federal laws;
   B.   Is required to register as a sex offender, pursuant to the sexual
offender registration notification and community right-to-know act, Idaho Code
section 18-8301 et seq., and/or the juvenile sex offender registration
notification and community right-to-know act, Idaho Code section 18-8401 et
seq.;
   C.   Has ever been convicted of or pled guilty to any violent felony
offense, including, but not limited to, aggravated assault, aggravated battery,
robbery, homicide, aggravated arson, kidnapping, stalking, rape or any felony
of a sexual nature;
   D.   Has been, within ten (10) years prior to the date of making application
for such license, arrested for, charged with, convicted of, paid any fines,
been placed on probation, received a deferred sentence, received a withheld
judgment, completed any sentence of confinement, or suffered the forfeiture of
a bond for any felony, or for any misdemeanor which, if committed in the state
of Idaho, would have constituted a felony;
   E.   Has been, within five (5) years prior to the date of making application
for such license, arrested for, charged with, convicted of, paid any fine, been
placed on probation, received a deferred sentence, received a withheld
judgment, completed any sentence of confinement, or suffered the forfeiture of
a bond for any misdemeanor, involving:
      1.   The use of force against the persons or property of another;
      2.   The threat of force against the persons or property of another;
      3.   Theft or larceny;
      4.   The use, possession or sale of illicit drugs;
      5.   Possession of a concealed weapon;
      6.   Illicit sexual, lewd or obscene activity or materials, including,
but not limited to, violations of Idaho Code sections 18-919, 18-1515, 18-4103
through 4105, or 18-4116;
      7.   Stalking, telephone harassment, or violations of protection orders
or do not contact orders; or
      8.   Contributing to the delinquency of a minor.
   F.   Has, at the time of such application an outstanding warrant;
   G.   Has had a similar license revoked by the city or any other city of this
state or of the United States within the preceding five (5) years.
   H.   Has violated this article, or any similar ordinance in any other city
of this state or of the United States, within the preceding years, by acting as
a “peddler” or “door-to-door salesperson” without first obtaining the requisite
license.
   I.   If a person fails to qualify for a license for the sole reason that
they have been arrested for or charged with a felony or enumerated misdemeanor
under subsection (2)D or (2)E of this section, and the person can provide proof
to the satisfaction of the police chief that such arrest did not result in
charges or any charges filed were dismissed or resulted in acquittal, the city
shall issue a license if the person otherwise qualifies. (Ord. 697, 2-27-2023)
3-6-9: RIGHT TO CANCEL PURCHASES:
Any person purchasing from any solicitor or peddler or salesperson pursuant to
any home solicitation shall have three (3) business days from the day of sale
to cancel any sale or any security or any contract created during the
consummation of the sale. Any licensee, salesperson, solicitor or peddler shall
have an affirmative duty to inform any purchaser of that person’s right of
cancellation. In the event of cancellation, the purchaser must make the product
available to the seller at the purchaser’s residence in as good a condition as
the product was when it was received for a period of twenty (20) days after the
notice of cancellation. If the salesperson does not retrieve the product within
twenty (20) days from the date of notice of cancellation, the purchaser may
retain or dispose of the products without any further obligation. If, however,
the purchaser fails to make the goods available to the seller during regular
business hours, or if the purchaser agrees to return the goods to the seller at
an agreed upon location and fails to do so, then the purchaser will remain
liable for performance of all of the obligations under the contract. To cancel
any transaction pursuant to this section, a purchaser must mail or deliver a
signed and dated copy of the cancellation to the seller at the seller’s place
of business, not later than twelve o’clock (12:00) midnight of the third
business day following the consummation of the sale. “Business days” are
defined as Monday through Friday from nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. to five o’clock
(5:00) P.M. Notice of cancellation shall not be required to carry the specific
words “cancel or cancellation”, but shall simply be worded in such a manner
that any reasonable person would be on notice that the transaction has been
absolutely and unequivocally canceled. (1984 Code § 3-6-8; amd. Ord. 697, 2-27-
2023)
3-6-10: PENALTY:
Any person who shall do any act, or transact any business, exercise or engage
in or carry on, directly or indirectly as principal, agent or employee, within
the city limits, any trade, business, occupation, vocation or employment for
which a license is required to be paid, without first obtaining or procuring
said license, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
may be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 3-6-9; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 697, 2-27-2023)
CHAPTER 7
PAWNBROKERS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definition
3-7-2: License Required; Application And Procedure
3-7-3: Records
3-7-4: Minors And Intoxicated Persons
3-7-5: Forfeitures
3-7-6: Notice From Police Department
3-7-7: Hours Of Operation
3-7-8: Stolen Property
3-7-9: Violations And Penalty
3-7-1: DEFINITION:
PAWNBROKER: Every person, firm, association or corporation who makes it a
business to loan money on deposit or purchase personal property or other
valuable thing on condition of selling the same back again at a stipulated
price, or who loans money secured by a chattel mortgage, security or personal
property, while having possession of the property, or any portion or part
thereof mortgaged, or who advertises by the use of "three ball", or
pawnbroker's sign, or by advertising "unredeemed pledges", or by using the term
"uncle", or by any other expression intending to designate pawnbroker's
business, shall, for all intents and purposes under this chapter, be declared
to be a pawnbroker within the meaning of this chapter. (1984 Code § 9-6-1)
3-7-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of a
pawnbroker unless a valid license therefor has been issued as provided for in
this chapter and which is in full force and effect.
   B.   An application for such license shall be made to the city clerk in such
form and manner as the city clerk may prescribe.
   C.   Upon receipt of an application for a license, the city clerk shall
cause an investigation to be made of the applicant. Conviction of a felony or
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude within five (5) years shall be grounds
for denial of a license.
   D.   Upon completion of such investigation, the city clerk shall issue or
deny a license, which shall expire at the end of the calendar year, unless
sooner suspended, revoked or surrendered. Licenses shall not be transferable
either as to person or place. At the annual renewal of the license by the
holder thereof, after review by the chief of police, the city clerk shall be
authorized to renew or deny any existing license. In the event of denial, any
applicant aggrieved by any decision of the city clerk may appeal such decision
by filing a written notice of appeal with the city council within ten (10) days
of such decision and submitting a fee, as established by resolution of the City
Council and as may be amended from time to time, to cover the advertising
costs. The city clerk shall transmit said notice of appeal to the city council,
and shall schedule a public hearing on said appeal, to be held at any regular
meeting or special meeting of the city council not later than forty five (45)
days after the filing of such notice of appeal with the city clerk. The city
clerk shall cause the notice to be published in the official newspaper of the
city and shall send notice to any landowner within five hundred feet (500') of
the property subject to the appeal. At such hearing, the applicant may appear
and speak on his own behalf, be represented by counsel, call witnesses and
cross examine any witnesses of the city. The city council shall proceed to
determine said appeal, and, if it decides in favor of the applicant, it shall
pass a motion to that effect and the city clerk shall, on the next business day
thereafter, and upon receipt of the proper fee, issue such license. The city
council may defer action upon said appeal for not longer than three (3) weeks
from the date of the public hearing. If the city council upholds the city
clerk’s decision, the applicant may appeal such decision by filing an action
with the district court.
   E.   The city clerk shall collect, before the issuance of any license or
renewal thereof, an annual license fee in such amount as established by
resolution of the City Council and as may be amended from time to time.
   F.   No license shall be issued to any person who is not eighteen (18) years
of age or older. No license shall be issued to nor shall any renewal of a
license be approved, until the applicant has installed and can demonstrate that
it has a functioning electronic reporting program which is approved by the
chief of police, is compatible with the city computers, which can store and
electronically transmit to the city the information which is required by this
chapter.
   G.   The license issued under this chapter shall state the name of the
person to whom issued, the place of business and street number where such
business is located and the amount of capital employed. Such license shall
entitle the person receiving it only to do business at the place designated in
such license.
   H.   If a pawnbroker does not conduct said business for a period of ninety
(90) days, the license shall automatically terminate and shall be null and
void. Pawnbrokers' licenses shall not be transferable to any other person,
except by a majority vote of the city council, and the filing of an application
and a new bond by the person to whom such license is, or may be, transferred or
assigned. It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor crime for any person to do
business, or to attempt to do business, under a license transferred to him
without the approval of the city council.
   I.   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or transact a pawnbroker
business in the city unless he shall keep posted in a conspicuous place of
business the license certificate therefor, and a copy of this chapter relating
to pawnbrokers.
   J.   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or transact a pawnbroker
business in the city unless he/she shall have a functioning electronic
reporting program which is approved by the chief of police, is compatible with
police department computers, can store and electronically transmit to the city
the information which is required by this chapter and which program can be
accessed via the internet or online at any time by the police department. In
the event a licensed pawnbroker shall discontinue using the electronic
reporting program or the program becomes inaccessible to the police, that shall
be grounds for revocation of the pawnbroker's license.
   K.   Each pawnbroker shall furnish to the pledger a printed receipt clearly
showing the amount owed with a specific, detailed description of the pledged
property pawned or received, date of receipt thereof, time for redemption, and
the name of the pledgee. The pawnbroker shall affix to each article or thing a
tag upon which shall be inscribed a number, of legible characters which shall
correspond to the number on the pawn ticket and be entered in a book or record
required to be kept by the provisions of this chapter. The pawnbroker shall
furnish all information required to be given to borrowers by state and federal
law. The following information shall appear in bold print on the front of each
pawn ticket required to be given to the pledger:
   WARNING
If you have borrowed money from the pawnbroker, and if you fail to make any
payment when it is due, the pawnbroker, 10 days after default in making any
payment, may sell any property you have deposited, and you will lose your
rights to the property.
   L.   The holder of a pawnbroker's license shall be responsible for any and
all acts of his agents or employees, and for any violation by them of the
provisions of this chapter.
   M.   Every pawnbroker licensed under the provisions hereof shall provide a
safe place for the keeping of all goods or things received in the pawn, pledge
or for resale, and shall have sufficient insurance on the place of business to
insure contents, or post a ten thousand dollar ($10,000.00) bond.
   N.   The city council, upon notice and opportunity for hearing, may revoke
any pawnbroker's license for violation of any provision of this chapter.
   O.   No pawnbroker’s license shall be issued for any location in which such
business is not permitted by any ordinance or resolution of the city. (1984
Code § 9-6-2; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 712, 2-10-2025)
3-7-3: RECORDS:
Every pawnbroker shall keep a permanent record, in both electronic and written
form, of every article pledged with him or sold to him, and this record shall
be reported to the police department electronically on a daily basis in a
pawnbroker's report and shall be open to the inspection of the chief of police
or his designee at any time during the hours of business. Such record and
report shall be maintained in the English language and upon the form and in the
manner as may be required by the chief of police, and shall provide the
following information:
   A.   Name and address of the pawnbroker;
   B.   Name, address, age, sex, height, weight and complexion of the pledger
or seller, except for persons repawning items that were previously pawned by
that person;
   C.   The date and time of the transaction, the article pledged or sold,
together with its description, serial number or other identification, and the
amount and terms of the loan;
   D.   The pledger or seller's motor vehicle operator's license number and the
state of issue, a car license number or other legal identification;
   E.   Signatures by both pawnbroker and pledger or seller;
   F.   Every record shall be executed by the pawnbroker and the pledger or
seller at the time the transaction occurs;
   G.   Every pawnbroker is hereby required to ascertain true ownership or
title to any property or article pledged, pawned or sold to him. This section
shall apply to all secondhand purchases, but shall not apply to articles of new
merchandise purchased by the pawnbroker in the ordinary channels of trade;
   H.   All pawnbroker reports shall be made in duplicate, shall contain
accurate information, with one copy to be retained by the pawnbroker and one
copy to be made available to the police department on a weekly basis, or upon
request of the chief of police. This record shall include all voided and
deleted transactions;
   I.   All information required by this section shall be included in the
electronic reporting program used by the pawnbroker which information shall be
transmitted and made available through that program to the police within twenty
four (24) hours from the time of transaction and as set out in section
3-7-2 of this chapter;
   J.   All records described in this chapter shall be retained by the
pawnbroker at the licensed pawnshop for a minimum of one year; except that
records pertaining to firearms transactions shall be kept for a minimum of
twenty (20) years pursuant to federal regulations. (1984 Code § 9-6-3)
3-7-4: MINORS AND INTOXICATED PERSONS:
No pawnbroker shall:
   A.   Have any business dealings as a pawnbroker with any person less than
eighteen (18) years of age, except with the written consent of the parent or
guardian of the minor as to each particular transaction and in that event, the
parent or guardian must execute the record required by section
3-7-3 of this chapter and furnish proof of identification as any pledger or
seller of any article with such being recorded upon the aforesaid record.
Provided, however, this section shall not prevent sales to any person
regardless of age.
   B.   Have any business dealings as a pawnbroker with a person who is so
obviously under the influence of alcoholic beverages or drugs so as to impair
his business judgment to such a degree that a normal and reasonably prudent
person would not conduct such business with a person in such state or
condition. (1984 Code § 9-6-4)
3-7-5: FORFEITURES:
It shall be the duty of every "pawnbroker", as defined in section
3-7-1 of this chapter, to allow any person accepting a loan a period of forty
(40) days in which to pay before the same becomes forfeitable. (1984 Code § 9-
6-5)
3-7-6: NOTICE FROM POLICE DEPARTMENT:
Whenever the chief of police or any member of the police department, shall
notify any pawnbroker in writing not to sell any property so received,
deposited or purchased by him, or permit the same to be redeemed, such property
shall not be sold or be permitted to be redeemed for a period of sixty (60)
days from the date of such notice, but such notice may be renewed, by written
request, for an additional sixty (60) day period or periods. Further, a notice
may be terminated at any time in writing by the chief of police. (1984 Code §
9-6-6)
3-7-7: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Legal hours for pawnbrokers, as defined in section
3-7-1 of this chapter, to be open for business shall be from seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. each day. (1984 Code § 9-6-7)
3-7-8: STOLEN PROPERTY:
   A.   Any article pledged or sold to a pawnbroker which is subsequently
determined by the police department by serial number or positive identification
to have been stolen shall be physically transferred to the custody of the
police department upon a request by a police officer. The police will provide
the broker or his agent with a receipt showing the department to which this
property is delivered.
   B.   Upon the delivery of the stolen property to the true owner, either by
the pawnbroker or a law enforcement agency, the pawnbroker shall complete such
documentation as may be necessary or required to effect the transfer of the
property, including such documents pertaining to the registration of firearms
as may be required by local, state or federal authorities. (1984 Code § 9-6-8)
3-7-9: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use a false name, a fictitious
address, or any address other than the true address, or to furnish any false,
untrue or misleading information or statement relating to the information
required by section
3-7-3 of this chapter.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to pledge or sell any goods,
chattels or effects, or any personal property leased or let to him by any
instrument in writing under a contract of purchase not yet fulfilled. (1984
Code § 9-6-9)
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 9-6-9; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 8
PUBLIC DANCES
(Rep. by Ord. 694, 7-11-2022)
CHAPTER 9
FRANCHISES
ARTICLE A. CATV FRANCHISE
SECTION:
3-9A-1: Definitions
3-9A-2: Grant Of Authority
3-9A-3: Grantee Rules
3-9A-4: Effective Date And Duration
3-9A-5: Authority
3-9A-6: Standards Of Service
3-9A-7: Regulation By City
3-9A-8: Compliance And Monitoring
3-9A-9: Bonds And Other Surety
3-9A-10: Liability And Indemnification
3-9A-11: Termination And Technical Violations
3-9A-12: Miscellaneous Provisions
3-9A-13: Binding Effect
3-9A-14: Violation; Penalty
3-9A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following terms, phrases and words shall
have the meanings ascribed to them below. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future tense, words in the
plural include the singular and words used in the singular include the plural.
"Will" is permissive while the word "shall" is mandatory.
AFFILIATE: A condition of being united, being in close connection, allied or
attached as a member or branch.
BASIC CABLE: The tier of service regularly provided to all subscribers,
including the retransmission of local broadcast television signals.
CABLE ACT: Title VI of the communications act of 1934, as amended by the cable
television consumer protection and competition act of 1992, as amended by the
telecommunications act of 1996, and any subsequent amendments.
CABLE SERVICES: A. The one-way transmission to a subscriber of video
programming, other programming service or data communication by a subscriber;
   B.   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection by
the subscriber of such video programming; or
   C.   Any other programming service or data communication by a subscriber.
CABLE SYSTEM: A facility, consisting of a set of closed transmission paths and
associated signal generation, reception, and control equipment that is designed
to provide cable service and other service to subscribers.
CHANNEL: A single path or section of the spectrum which carries a cable
service.
CITY: The city of Fruitland, a municipal corporation of the state of Idaho.
COUNCIL: The present governing body of the city or any future board
constituting the legislative body of the city.
DISCONNECTION: The discontinuance of all cable service to a subscriber by a
cable operator.
FCC: The federal communications commission, a regulatory agency of the United
States government.
FRANCHISE: The nonexclusive, initial authorization, or renewal thereof, issued
by the city, whether such authorization is designated as a franchise, permit,
license, resolution, contract, certificate or otherwise, which authorizes
construction or operation of the cable system for the purpose of offering cable
service or other service to subscribers.
FRANCHISING AUTHORITY: The city of Fruitland, Idaho.
GRANTEE: Cable One Of Idaho.
HEADEND: The electronic equipment located at Cable One's system, usually
including antennas, preamplifiers, frequency converts, demodulator and related
equipment.
INSTALLATION: The connection of the cable system to the subscribers' terminals.
NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS: Those hours during which most similar businesses in the
city are open to the service of customers and shall include at least four (4)
consecutive hours per weekday.
NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS: Those service conditions, which are within the
control or are reasonably anticipated by the cable operator, including special
promotions, pay per view events, regular peak or seasonal demand periods and
maintenance or upgrade of the cable system.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, organization,
association or other legal entity.
PUBLIC WAY: The surface of, and the space above and below, any public street,
highway, freeway, bridge, land path, alley, curb, boulevard, sidewalk, parkway,
way, lane, drive, circle or other public right of way, including, but not
limited to, public utility easements, dedicated utility strips or rights of way
dedicated for compatible uses and any temporary or permanent fixtures or
improvements located thereon now or hereafter held by the city in the service
area which shall entitle the city and a franchisee to the use thereof for the
purpose of installing, operating, repairing and maintaining the cable system.
"Public way" shall also mean any easement now or hereafter held by the city
within the service area for the purpose of public travel, or for utility or
public service use dedicated for compatible uses, and shall include other
easements or rights of way as shall within their proper use and meaning entitle
the city and a franchisee to the use thereof for the purpose of installing or
transmitting franchisee's cable service or other service over poles, wires,
cables, conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers, compliances,
attachments and other property as may be ordinarily necessary and appurtenant
to the cable system.
SERVICE AREA: The present municipal boundaries of the city of Fruitland, and
includes any additions thereto by annexation.
SUBSCRIBER: A person or user of the cable system who lawfully receives cable
services or other services therefrom with the franchisee's permission.
VIDEO PROGRAMMING SERVICE: Programming, which is visually and audibly
comparable to programming provided by a television broadcast station. (1984
Code §
3-5-1)
3-9A-2: GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
The city hereby grants to the grantee a nonexclusive franchise which authorizes
the grantee to construct and operate a cable system in, along, among, upon,
across, above, over, under, in any manner connected with public ways within the
service area and for that purpose to erect, install, construct, repair,
replace, reconstruct, maintain on, over, under, upon, across or along any
public way and all extensions thereof and additions thereto, such pole, wires,
cables, conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, pedestals, amplifiers,
appliances, attachments, and other related property or equipment as may be
necessary or appurtenant to the cable system. Nothing in the franchise shall be
construed to prohibit the grantee from offering any service over its cable
system that is not prohibited by federal or state law. The grantee shall abide
by any existing or new ordinance or regulation of general applicability to the
operation of the cable system in the service area, adopted in the manner
provided by law, so long as such ordinance or regulation does not substantially
impair the rights granted by the franchise. (1984 Code §
3-5-2)
3-9A-3: GRANTEE RULES:
The grantee shall have the authority to promulgate such rules, regulations,
terms and conditions governing the conduct of its business as shall be
reasonably necessary to enable said grantee to exercise its rights and perform
its obligations under this franchise and to assure uninterrupted service to
each and all of its customers; provided, however, that such rules, regulations,
terms and conditions shall not be in conflict with provisions hereof, the rules
of the federal communications commission or the laws of the state. (1984 Code §
3-5-3)
3-9A-4: EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION:
The franchise granted hereunder shall be for a term of fifteen (15) years
commencing January 13, 2001, unless otherwise terminated in accordance with the
terms of the franchise agreement. (1984 Code §
3-5-4)
3-9A-5: AUTHORITY:
The franchise is granted pursuant to Idaho Code title 50, chapter 3, and the
cable act. (1984 Code §
3-5-5)
3-9A-6: STANDARDS OF SERVICE:
   A.   Restoration Of Public Ways: If, during the course of any construction,
operation or maintenance of the cable system, there occurs a disturbance in any
public way, the grantee shall, at its expense, replace and restore such public
way to a condition which is approved by the city.
   B.   Relocation At Request Of City: Upon its receipt of reasonable advance
notice, not to be less than five (5) business days, the grantee shall, at its
own expense, protect, support, temporarily disconnect, relocate in the public
way, or remove from the public way, any property of the grantee when required
by the city by reason of traffic conditions, public safety, street abandonment,
street construction, change or establishment of street grade, installation of
sewers, drains, utility pipes and any other structure or improvements by the
city. The grantee shall in all cases have the right of abandonment of its
property. If public funds are available to any similar facilities based utility
as the grantee, using such street, easement or right of way for the purpose of
defraying the cost of any of the foregoing, the city shall make available such
funds on behalf of the grantee.
   C.   Relocation At Request Of Third Party: The grantee shall, on the request
of any person holding a building moving permit issued by the city, temporarily
raise or lower its wires to permit the moving of such building, provided the
expense of such temporary raising or lowering of wires is paid by said person,
including, if required by the grantee, making such payment in advance and the
grantee is given not less than five (5) days' advance written notice.
   D.   System Upgrade/Channel Capacity And Adaptation To New Technology: At
the request of the city, the grantee shall inform the city at least quarterly
of planned, proposed and actual changes in the grantee's cable system and cable
services related to subscribers in the service area regarding technological
improvements, additional channel capacity and other matters related to services
available to subscribers.
   E.   Aerial And Underground Construction:
      1.   Service Area: In those areas of the service area where all of the
transmission or distribution facilities of the respective public service
utilities providing telephone communications and electrical services are
underground, the grantee shall likewise construct, operate and maintain all of
its transmission and distribution facilities underground. Nothing in this
section shall require the grantee to construct, operate and maintain
underground any ground mounted appurtenances, such as subscriber taps, line
extenders, system passive devices (splitters, directional couplers),
amplifiers, pedestals or other related equipment.
      2.   New Developments: The city will provide the grantee with written
notice of any application for new development within the incorporated areas of
the city.
      3.   Local Improvement District: If a subsequent ordinance is passed
creating a local improvement district which involves placing underground
certain utilities, including that of the grantee which are then located
overhead, the grantee shall participate in such underground project and shall
remove poles, cables and wires from the surface of public ways within such
district and shall place them underground in conformity with the requirements
of the city.
   F.   Required Extension Of Service: The cable system, as constructed as of
the date of passage and final adoption of the franchise, substantially complies
with the material provisions hereof. Whenever the grantee shall receive a
request for service from at least fifteen (15) residences within one thousand
three hundred twenty (1,320) cable bearing strand feet (1/4 cable mile) of its
trunk or distribution cable, it shall extend its cable system to such
subscribers at no cost to said subscribers for cable system extension, other
than the usual connection fees for all subscribers; provided, that such
extension is technically feasible.
   G.   Subscriber Charges For Extensions Of Service: No subscriber shall be
refused service arbitrarily. However, for unusual circumstances, such as a
subscriber's request to locate his cable drop underground, existence of more
than one hundred fifty feet (150') of distance from distribution cable to
connection of service to subscribers, or a density of less than fifteen (15)
subscribers per one thousand three hundred twenty (1,320) cable bearing strand
feet of trunk or distribution cable, service may be made available on the basis
of a capital contribution in aid of construction, including cost of material,
labor and easements. For the purpose of determining the amount of capital
contribution in aid of construction to be borne by the grantee and subscribers
in the area in which service may be expanded, the grantee will contribute an
amount equal to the construction and other costs per mile, multiplied by a
fraction whose numerator equals the number of residences per one thousand three
hundred twenty (1,320) cable bearing strand feet of its trunks or distribution
cable, and whose denominator equals fifteen (15) residences. Subscribers who
request service hereunder will bear the remainder of the construction and other
costs on a pro rata basis. The grantee may require that the payment of the
capital contribution in aid of construction borne by potential subscribers be
paid in advance.
   H.   Service To Public Buildings: The grantee shall, upon request, provide
without charge, one cable service to each of the city offices, buildings, fire
stations, police stations and to public school buildings that are passed by its
cable system, as well as other public buildings that may be constructed during
the term of the franchise agreement. The outlets of cable service provided
pursuant to this section shall not be used by the government entity to sell
cable services in or throughout such buildings. The grantee shall not be
required to provide a cable service outlet to buildings where the drop line
from the feeder cable to said building exceeds one hundred fifty (150) cable
feet, unless the governmental entity agrees to pay the incremental cost of such
drop line in excess of one hundred fifty (150) cable feet.
   I.   Emergency Use: In accordance with the provisions of federal
communications commission (FCC) regulations, the city shall maintain an
emergency alert system (EAS) for use in transmitting emergency act
notifications (EAN) and emergency act terminations (EAT) in local and statewide
situations as may be designated to be an emergency by the local primary, the
state primary and/or the state emergency operations center, as those
authorities are defined by the FCC.
   J.   Customer Service Standards: The grantee shall at all times be in
compliance with FCC regulations regarding customer service obligations, as they
now exist or as may be amended. The city reserves the right to enact or enforce
any customer protection law, containing more stringent customer service
obligations, to the extent not specifically preempted by FCC regulations.
   K.   Notice: Before entering upon any property for any of the reasons stated
in this section, the grantee shall first give written notice to the property
owners at least forty eight (48) hours in advance. (1984 Code §
3-5-6)
3-9A-7: REGULATION BY CITY:
   A.   Franchise Fee:
      1.   Quarterly Payments: The grantee shall pay to the city quarterly a
sum equal to three percent (3%) of the basic service and premium service level
revenues. Payment for each month's fee shall be no later than forty five (45)
days after the last day of the month for which payment is made.
      2.   Fee Increase; Public Hearing: At any time during the term of this
franchise, the city may initiate an increase with regards to the franchise fee
amount. However, prior to implementation of any increase in franchise fees, the
grantee may request a public hearing by the city to discuss said change in
franchise fee. Following such a hearing, the city may require the
implementation of the change in franchise fee.
      3.   Late Payment: All sums which become delinquent shall accumulate
interest at the statutory rate provided in Idaho Code title 28, chapter 22,
section 104(1). The accrual of interest is not intended to waive or in any
manner restrict the city's ability to elect any procedure or method of
collection permissible by law to enforce all the terms and conditions of the
franchise agreement.
      4.   Penalties For Failing To Pay Franchise Fees: Where the city
determines by audit, financial statement or other method that the grantee has
underpaid franchise fees or other charges owed to the city and where payment
was not received by the city within the quarter due, the grantee may be
required to pay, in addition to any other remedy sought by the city, all fees
and interest due, and an additional penalty of fifty percent (50%) of the total
amount owed. Acceptance of any franchise fee payment by the city shall not be
construed as an agreement that the fee paid is in fact the correct amount, nor
shall acceptance of payment be construed as a release or a waiver of any claim
by the city against the grantee.
      5.   Limitation On Franchise Fee Actions: The period of limitation for
recovery of any franchise fee payable hereunder shall be three (3) years from
the date on which payment by the grantee is due. Unless the city initiates a
lawsuit for recovery of unpaid franchise fees in a court of competent
jurisdiction within three (3) years after such payment is due, such recovery
shall be barred.
      6.   Taxes: Nothing herein shall limit the grantee's obligation to pay
applicable local, state or federal sales, property, ad valorem or other taxes.
   B.   Rates And Charges:
      1.   Nothing in the franchise agreement shall be construed to prohibit
the reduction or waiving of charges in conjunction with promotional campaigns
for the purpose of acquiring and/or retaining subscribers.
      2.   Grantee shall provide the city with a minimum of thirty (30) days'
advance written notice of changes in subscriber rates, if the change is within
the control of the grantee, including any changes in franchise fee amount and
external franchise related costs.
   C.   Customer Billing: All billing statements and charges to subscribers
shall:
      1.   Be clear, concise and understandable;
      2.   Be itemized as to basic cable charges, premium charges, equipment
charges, whether payments for purchase or rental, deposits, delinquent fees and
franchise fees; and
      3.   Show all activity during the billing period, including optional
charges, rebates and credits. Said billing period shall not exceed forty five
(45) days.
   D.   Renewal: Any proceeding undertaken by the city that relates to the
renewal of the grantee's franchise shall be governed by and comply with the
provisions of the cable act, as currently constituted or as may be hereafter
amended. (1984 Code §
3-5-7)
3-9A-8: COMPLIANCE AND MONITORING:
   A.   Communication With Regulatory Agencies: Copies of all petitions,
applications, communications and reports submitted by the grantee to the FCC or
any other federal or state regulatory commission or agency having jurisdiction
in respect to matters affecting construction, maintenance or operation of the
grantee's cable system or service, shall be made available to the city upon
reasonable request. Copies of responses or any other communications from the
regulatory agencies to the grantee shall also be made available to the city.
   B.   Technical Standards: The grantee shall be responsible for ensuring that
the cable system is designed, installed and operated in a manner that fully
complies with FCC rules and regulations in subpart K of part 76 of chapter 1 of
title 47 of the code of federal regulations as now constituted or as may be
amended. As provided in these rules and regulations, the city shall have, upon
request, the right to obtain a copy of tests and records required in accordance
with such rules and regulations, but has no authority to enforce compliance
with such standards. (1984 Code §
3-5-8)
3-9A-9: BONDS AND OTHER SURETY:
For the reason of the grantee's past performance and investment, no performance
bond or other surety is required under the terms of the franchise. If the city
determines, in its discretion, that a bond or a surety will be required of the
grantee during the term hereof, the city will give the grantee ninety (90)
days' written notice stating the reason for the requirement and amount of the
bond or surety. The grantee shall post said bond or surety, as required by the
city, within said ninety (90) day period. The grantee shall be required to
provide standard performance bonds and insurance requirements for encroachment
and/or right of way work permits. (1984 Code §
3-5-9)
3-9A-10: LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION:
The grantee shall maintain liability insurance at all times during the
existence of the agreement by acquiring a specific liability policy for the
agreement or by endorsement to a policy to provide separate limits, including
products and completed operations insurance, in an amount not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence, and one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) aggregate. The specific liability policy or the endorsement to
the policy to provide separate limits shall not be required to extend
exclusively to the city but, rather, the requirement created by this section
may be met if the specific liability policy or the endorsement provided for
herein includes all Cable One franchising authorities. The grantee shall at all
times during the existence of this agreement have in force automobile liability
insurance in an amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per accident. In
addition, the grantee shall carry workers' compensation insurance as required
by the state statutes. The grantee shall provide the city annually with a
certificate of insurance showing proof of insurance and naming the city as an
additional insured on all coverage except auto and workers' compensation. The
grantee shall provide the city with cancellation notice at least thirty (30)
days prior to any discontinuance of coverage. This insurance policy, including
renewal thereof, obtained by the grantee in compliance with this section, must
be with an insurer with a best rating of no less than "A-" and certificate of
such insurance policy, including renewals thereof, shall be filed and
maintained with the city clerk during the term of this franchise. (1984 Code §
3-5-10)
3-9A-11: TERMINATION AND TECHNICAL VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Default, Notice And Termination:
      1.   If the grantee wilfully violates or fails to comply with any of the
material provisions of the franchise agreement, the city shall give written
notice to the grantee of the alleged noncompliance of its franchise. The
grantee shall have thirty (30) days from the date of notice of noncompliance to
cure such alleged default or, if such default cannot be cured within thirty
(30) days, to present to the city a plan of action whereby such default can be
promptly cured. The grantee shall be entitled to attend the hearing, respond to
questions and explain why termination would not be justified.
      2.   If such default continues beyond the applicable dates set out in
said notice for such cure, the city shall give the grantee written notice that
all rights conferred under the franchise agreement may be revoked or terminated
by the council after a public hearing. The grantee shall be entitled to not
less than thirty (30) days' prior notice of the date, time and place of the
public hearing.
   B.   Termination For Noncompliance: Subject to state and federal law, in the
event that any franchise is terminated by the city by reason of the grantee's
noncompliance, the grantee shall have the right for six (6) months after the
final decision by the council to attempt to sell that part of the system under
such franchise to a third party. If the grantee is unable to find a buyer
within such period, the city may elect to acquire the property of the system
located in the streets and public property at a cost consistent with the
provisions of section 627(b)(1) of the cable act, as currently constituted or
as may be amended. If the city or a third party does not purchase the system,
the grantee shall, upon order of the city, remove the system from the public
ways of the city. In no case shall a termination for cause be considered as a
"taking".
   C.   Technical Violations: It is not the city's intention to subject the
grantee to penalties or termination for technical violations of the agreement.
Technical violations shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Instances where a violation or a breach by the grantee of the
franchise agreement was a good faith effort that resulted in no or minimal
negative impact on subscribers; or
      2.   Where there existed circumstances reasonably beyond the control of
the grantee and which precipitated a violation of the franchise agreement or
which were deemed to have prevented the grantee from strictly complying with
the terms of the franchise agreement. (1984 Code §
3-5-11)
3-9A-12: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Actions Of Parties: In any action by the city or the grantee that is
mandated or permitted under the terms of the franchise agreement, such party
shall act in good faith in a reasonable and timely manner. Furthermore, in any
instance where approval or consent is required under the terms hereof, such
approval or consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
   B.   Equal Protection: In the event the city grants another franchise to any
person or entity for the purpose of constructing or operating a cable system
within the service area, such additional franchise shall not present materially
better terms or lesser obligations for the new franchisee over the terms of the
franchise. Nevertheless, if such does take place, the city will immediately
modify this franchise so that it is in conformity with the language of the new
franchise.
   C.   Notices: Notice required pursuant to the franchise agreement shall be
in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given to the required party
upon actual receipt. Acceptable methods of delivery include hand delivery,
certified or registered mail and overnight express mail. Notice required
hereunder shall be addressed as follows:
City Of Fruitland
   Attn: Rick Watkins, City Clerk
   P.O. Box 324
   Fruitland, ID 83619
Cable One
   Attn: Vice President
   1314 North Third Street - 3rd Floor
   Phoenix, AZ 85004
With a copy to:
   Cable One
   Attn: General Manager
2101 East Karcher Road
   Nampa, ID 83687
   D.   Effective Date: The effective date of the franchise agreement shall be
January 13, 2001, and shall expire on January 13, 2016, unless otherwise
terminated for cause or extended by the mutual consent of the city and the
franchisee. (1984 Code §
3-5-12)
3-9A-13: BINDING EFFECT:
The franchise agreement shall be binding upon the assigns and successors of the
grantee. (1984 Code §
3-5-13)
3-9A-14: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any violation of this article shall be a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 3-5-14; amd. 2014 Code)
ARTICLE B. SOLID WASTE FRANCHISE
SECTION:
3-9B-1: Granting Exclusive Franchise
3-9B-2: Prohibiting Others From Hauling Solid Waste
3-9B-3: Duration
3-9B-4: Service For Residential And Commercial Customers
3-9B-5: Franchise Fee
3-9B-6: Examination Of Records
3-9B-7: Limitation Of Number Of Cans
3-9B-8: Point Of Pick Up
3-9B-9: Minimum Fees
3-9B-10: Fees For Customers
3-9B-11: Recycling
3-9B-12: Availability Of Grantee
3-9B-13: Complaints
3-9B-14: Responsibility Of Grantee
3-9B-15: Prohibition Against Spillage
3-9B-16: Burning Or Smoking Materials
3-9B-17: Maintenance Of Cans
3-9B-18: Annexation
3-9B-19: Apartment Complexes
3-9B-20: Responsibility Of Waste Generator
3-9B-21: Ingress And Egress
3-9B-22: Insurance
3-9B-23: Hold Harmless
3-9B-24: Cancellation In The Event Of Default
3-9B-25: Independent Contractor
3-9B-26: Change Of Ownership
3-9B-27: Binding Effect
3-9B-28: Cost Of Publication
3-9B-29: Penalty
3-9B-1: GRANTING EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE:
There is hereby granted and authorized by the city of Fruitland, Idaho
(hereinafter referred to as "city"), to Hardin Sanitation, Inc., an Idaho
corporation, whose principal place of business is Payette, Idaho (hereinafter
referred to as "grantee"), the exclusive right, and privilege and authority to
operate and maintain an exclusive franchise solid waste collection and transfer
system and any services that may be incident thereto, within the city limits of
the city of Fruitland, Idaho, thereby using the streets of the city for the
conduct of their business (hereinafter referred to as "franchise"). Such grant
of franchise shall include the exclusive right to place garbage receptacles,
dumpsters, garbage cans or other containers to pick up or collect garbage,
refuse or solid waste within appropriate portions of the right of way. This
grant of franchise shall also include the exclusive right to solicit for
business to haul, remove or recycle any and all garbage, solid waste or
recyclable material. (1984 Code §
3-7-1)
3-9B-2: PROHIBITING OTHERS FROM HAULING SOLID WASTE:
No person, firm, company, employee or other entity, other than the grantee,
shall enter the city and engage in, or attempt to engage in, the business of
solid waste collection, hauling or transfer of solid waste, removal of garbage,
or removal of solid waste from the residents or businesses of the city. No
person, firm, company, employee or other entity, other than the grantee, shall
solicit, offer to haul, enter into any contract to engage in the business of
solid waste collection, hauling or transfer of solid waste, removal of garbage,
removal of solid waste from the residents or businesses of the city. No person,
firm, company, employee or other entity, other than the grantee, shall place
garbage receptacles, dumpsters, garbage cans or other containers to pick up or
collect garbage, refuse or solid waste. No person, firm, company, employee or
other entity, other than the grantee, shall solicit for business to haul,
transfer, remove or recycle any garbage, solid waste or recyclable materials.
Such prohibitions shall take effect upon the first publication of the ordinance
codified herein in the city's official newspaper. (1984 Code §
3-7-2)
3-9B-3: DURATION:
This franchise and all rights and privileges and authority hereby granted shall
take effect immediately upon passage and publication as required by law. This
franchise shall remain in full force and effect for a period of fifteen (15)
years after the date it shall go into effect. (1984 Code §
3-7-3)
3-9B-4: SERVICE FOR RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL CUSTOMERS:
Grantee shall provide weekly pick up service in residential areas and, where
required, shall provide daily service during weekdays to commercial areas
within the city. Grantee shall not deposit solid waste except in solid waste
acceptance or disposal facilities approved by the state or its political
subdivisions in accordance with all applicable federal, state and local laws,
ordinances and regulations. Grantee shall not manage or dispose of any part of
the waste stream collected pursuant to this franchise within the city or in any
manner which results in violation of local, state or federal laws. (1984 Code §
3-7-4)
3-9B-5: FRANCHISE FEE:
The city reserves the right to collect three percent (3%) of the collected
gross receipts from residential and commercial billings as a franchise fee,
payable June 30 and December 31 of each year. The franchise fee shall not be
collected until such time as the city shall, by resolution adopted, implement
the franchise fee. When implemented, the franchise fee shall not include any
rental income generated from residential or commercial carts or containers.
After implementation, payment of the three percent (3%) fee shall extend to
collected gross receipts of the grantee within the city limits. After
implementation, the grantee shall provide a list of its accounts as of the
effective date of the implementing resolution. In addition, the city, as a
corporate entity, shall receive refuse collection service at no charge, but
only for refuse placed in the dumpster. (1984 Code §
3-7-5)
3-9B-6: EXAMINATION OF RECORDS:
The city shall have the right to examine records, including computer records,
maintained by grantee. The term "record" shall include, but is not limited to,
all customers or accounts of grantee within the city limits. The city shall be
allowed access at all reasonable times to inspect and copy at reasonable cost
all business records related to grantee's collection, transportation or
disposal of solid waste to the extent necessary to ensure compliance with this
franchise. (1984 Code §
3-7-6)
3-9B-7: LIMITATION OF NUMBER OF CANS:
Residential users shall be allowed to use at least three (3) 30-gallon cans (60
pound limit per can) per dwelling (hereinafter referred to as "limitation").
This limitation shall apply even if a residential dwelling is converted into a
multi-unit dwelling. Grantee may charge additional service fees for volumes of
solid waste in excess of this limit. At some time in the future the grantee may
be allowed to require the use of ninety five (95) gallon carts in place of the
three (3) 30-gallon cans. (1984 Code § 
3-7-7)
3-9B-8: POINT OF PICK UP:
Cans for pick up shall be placed at the edge of the street or alley by the
owner or resident where grantee shall be required to pick up the same. In the
event that a can or refuse disposal device which is to be picked up and emptied
by grantee is not at curbside on the day set for refuse collection, grantee
shall not be required to pick up the same. Garbage or refuse shall not be
placed upon the ground in sacks, garbage bags, boxes or other containers, which
containers are not capable of keeping animals from gaining access to the
garbage. (1984 Code §
3-7-8)
3-9B-9: MINIMUM FEES:
The fee charged for three (3) cans, the limitation, shall be considered a
minimum fee. In the event that a resident chooses to use in excess of three (3)
cans, grantee shall have the right to haul the excess can(s) and make
arrangements with the residential user to charge an additional fee. A copy of
the fee schedule is attached as exhibit A to ordinance 448 and incorporated by
reference. (1984 Code §
3-7-9; amd. 2014 Code)
3-9B-10: FEES FOR CUSTOMERS:
Fees for residential and commercial customers are hereby established at the
rate in effect at the time of adoption hereof. Any subsequent increase in rates
shall be subject to city approval. (1984 Code § 3-7-10)
3-9B-11: RECYCLING:
Grantee shall have the exclusive right for curbside recycling. No person or
organization shall salvage or recycle from any commercial container or
residential container, the user of which is a customer of grantee without the
permission of grantee. Businesses which are engaged in recycling at the time of
the enactment hereof are exempt from this section. (1984 Code § 3-7-11)
3-9B-12: AVAILABILITY OF GRANTEE:
Grantee shall be available to the public and shall have an office and telephone
open from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to four o'clock (4:00) P.M. Monday through
Friday. Grantee's business name and telephone number shall be printed or
painted in legible characters on both sides of all vehicles used to transport
solid waste in the city. Grantee's business name and telephone number shall be
printed by use of paint or decal in legible characters on the front of all
commercial containers used by grantee to store and collect solid waste in the
city. (1984 Code § 3-7-12)
3-9B-13: COMPLAINTS:
Grantee shall respond and attempt to rectify any complaints about grantee's
service. Collection crews shall take reasonable care to protect the property of
customers being served. Any damage or spillage of materials, occurring as a
result of the fault of grantee, its employees or agents, shall be grantee's
responsibility. Grantee shall maintain a record of complaints and the
resolution thereof. (1984 Code § 3-7-13)
3-9B-14: RESPONSIBILITY OF GRANTEE:
Grantee shall be responsible to ensure that its vehicles are watertight,
readily emptied, cleaned with sufficient frequency to prevent insect breeding
or odors or other nuisances. The vehicles shall be maintained in good repair
and in a safe condition and all waste must be secured to the vehicle or
container and enclosed or covered with secured tarpaulins to prevent leakage,
spillage, dust or litter. Such enclosures and tarpaulins must remain in place
until arrival at the designated unloading or uncovering areas. Grantee shall
not cause solid waste, except recyclables, to remain or to be stored in any
collection or haulage vehicle. In case of inclement weather, act of God, or
emergency such as equipment breakdown or accident, no solid waste shall be
allowed to remain or to be stored in any collection or haulage vehicle in
excess of twenty four (24) hours. If an emergency arises or inclement weather
occurs, grantee is responsible for having the material removed to its intended
destination in a timely manner. All vehicles operated by grantee shall comply
with all state and federal safety standards while operating within the city.
(1984 Code § 3-7-14)
3-9B-15: PROHIBITION AGAINST SPILLAGE:
Grantee shall not cause a vehicle to be used for the collection or haulage of
solid waste if the design of the vehicle is such that any material will be
allowed to spill onto any roadway. Grantee shall not cause a vehicle used for
hauling solid waste to be used beyond its design capabilities. (1984 Code § 3-
7-15)
3-9B-16: BURNING OR SMOKING MATERIALS:
Grantee shall not collect, transfer, transport or deliver to any disposal
facility any material that is smoking or showing evidence of smoking,
smoldering or burning. In the event grantee must dump materials in transit in
an emergency due to smoking, smoldering or burning, grantee shall be
responsible for immediately notifying the police and fire departments having
jurisdiction and shall be responsible for cleanup of materials dumped during
the emergency. Cleanup shall be accomplished promptly, but in no event later
than twenty four (24) hours after dumping and the dumped material shall then be
properly disposed of. (1984 Code § 3-7-16)
3-9B-17: MAINTENANCE OF CANS:
All residential customers shall maintain garbage cans or containers with lids
to protect against spillage or access by animals. Cans or containers, which
become a health hazard, may be disposed of by the grantee after notice to the
customer. (1984 Code § 3-7-17)
3-9B-18: ANNEXATION:
The franchise shall apply to any real property annexed into the city after the
first publication of this article, subject to existing contracts for solid
waste hauling in effect at the time of annexation. (1984 Code § 3-7-18)
3-9B-19: APARTMENT COMPLEXES:
All apartment complexes with three (3) or more units shall have a commercial
container. (1984 Code § 3-7-19)
3-9B-20: RESPONSIBILITY OF WASTE GENERATOR:
A residential or commercial generator of solid waste shall bear the
responsibility for maintaining waste cans and containers and shall be
responsible for maintaining the area around such cans and containers in a
clean, sanitary and odor free condition. In the event the producer/generator of
waste refuses or neglects to maintain such cans or keep such cans or containers
in a clean or sanitary condition, grantee shall notify the city of the
condition. The city shall then notify the generator. The generator of waste
shall clean the cans, containers or clean the area within forty eight (48)
hours. If the area, cans or containers are not cleaned within forty eight (48)
hours, grantee may assume responsibility for cleanup and present its costs and
expenses incurred in the cleanup to the city clerk. The city clerk shall then
bill grantee's costs and expenses to the generator. Generator shall be
responsible for paying the city for any cleanup that is necessitated as a
result of that generator's not complying with the notice from the city. (1984
Code § 3-7-20)
3-9B-21: INGRESS AND EGRESS:
This franchise grants to grantee the right of ingress and egress, to cross all
public streets, alleys and rights of way in the city. It shall be unlawful for
any person to deny reasonable access to grantee to collect solid waste or
recyclables from a commercial premises or residential unit, or to fail to place
solid waste where it can be accessed from an appropriate public right of way.
Grantee shall follow the traveled portion of streets, alleys and roadways, or
the regular walks for pedestrians while on private property, and shall take
care in loading of such waste so that the material to be collected is not left
upon the private property or the streets, alleys or roadways. Grantee shall
return the containers with all properly prepared and legal contents removed and
replace the lid thereon. Grantee shall not place any obstructions to traffic in
any street or alley while carrying out this franchise. Collections shall be
made on the streets and rights of way of the city in a manner of least delay
and inconvenience to the public. Grantee will use backways and alleys wherever
possible. (1984 Code § 3-7-21)
3-9B-22: INSURANCE:
Grantee shall obtain and submit certificates of insurance issued by insurers
duly licensed by the state providing the following coverage: a) general
liability coverage in the amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for
bodily injury and/or property damage per occurrence, with a two million dollar
($2,000,000.00) aggregate; and b) automobile liability coverage in the amounts
of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) bodily injury and/or property damage.
The city shall be named as an additional insured and shall be defended and
indemnified regarding all activities carried out pursuant to the franchise. All
policies and certificates shall be endorsed to require that the insurer provide
at least a sixty (60) day written notice to city prior to the effective date of
policy cancellation, nonrenewal or material adverse change in coverage terms.
Grantee shall maintain insurance in compliance with this section throughout the
term of the franchise and provide evidence of such coverage to city upon
request. (1984 Code § 3-7-22)
3-9B-23: HOLD HARMLESS:
Grantee shall take all reasonable precautions necessary to protect the public
from injury and shall defend, indemnify and save the city harmless from any
liability, claims, damages, costs, judgments, expenses and claims of damages
that may arise by reason of any tort claim for bodily or personal injury,
disease, death or damage to property resulting directly or indirectly from an
act or omission of grantee, its agents, employees or independent contractors.
(1984 Code § 3-7-23)
3-9B-24: CANCELLATION IN THE EVENT OF DEFAULT:
Either the city or the grantee may cancel or terminate the franchise if the
other is in substantial and material violation or default of the franchise and
the defaulting party fails to cure the default within ninety (90) days of any
notification of violation. In the event of an emergency, a default shall be
remedied forthwith. Notification shall be in writing, sent by registered mail.
(1984 Code § 3-7-24)
3-9B-25: INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR:
Both the city and the grantee acknowledge that grantee is an independent
contractor and neither party shall make any contrary representations to any
other person or entity. (1984 Code § 3-7-25)
3-9B-26: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP:
At least ninety (90) days prior to the effective date of a change of ownership,
grantee shall notify the city in writing. In the event the present owners of
grantee sell Hardin Sanitation, Inc., the city shall have the right to examine
the financial and business background of any proposed transferee of the
grantee. For good cause, the city shall have the right to deny any proposed
franchise transfer. Grantee shall also inform the city of any change in the
location of its office, or in the number of vehicles it operates within the
city. (1984 Code § 3-7-26)
3-9B-27: BINDING EFFECT:
This franchise shall be binding upon the heirs, assigns and successors of the
grantee. All terms of this article shall be binding upon any service provider
so long as that provider engages in solid waste disposal within the city
limits. (1984 Code § 3-7-27)
3-9B-28: COST OF PUBLICATION:
The grantee shall bear the cost of publication of this franchise ordinance as
such publication is required by the laws of the state. (1984 Code § 3-7-28)
3-9B-29: PENALTY:
Any violation of this article shall be a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of noncompliance shall constitute a separate
violation. In addition to using the criminal process for any violation thereof,
the city shall have the right to enforce any provision herein using a civil
suit for abatement or for monetary damages. (1984 Code § 3-7-29; amd. 2014
Code)
ARTICLE C. GAS FRANCHISE
SECTION:
3-9C-1: Grant Of Authority
3-9C-2: Use Of Streets And Rules Governing Same
3-9C-3: Grantee Subject To All Powers Of City Rules Governing Repair And
Reconstruction Of Streets
3-9C-4: Term Of Franchise And Grant
3-9C-5: City Right To Inspection Of Grantee's Plans, Accounts And Books;
Grantee To Furnish Certain Maps
3-9C-6: Payment To City And Filing Of Annual Written Report With The City
3-9C-7: Grantee Liability; Indemnification
3-9C-8: Insurance
3-9C-9: Safety Regulation Compliance
3-9C-10: Agreement Not To Compete; Reserve To City Power Of Eminent Domain
3-9C-11: Surrender Of Franchise
3-9C-12: Written Acceptance
3-9C-13: Sale Or Assignment Of Franchise
3-9C-14: Publication Costs
3-9C-15: Forfeiture
3-9C-1: GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
There is hereby granted to Intermountain Gas Company, a corporation, its
successors and assigns (hereinafter collectively referred to as "grantee") a
thirty (30) year extension to the right and authority to construct, install,
maintain and operate a gas transmission and distribution system, including
mains, pipes, conduits, services and other necessary structures and appliances
appertaining in, under, upon, over, across and along the streets, alleys,
bridges and public places within the present and future corporate limits of the
city of Fruitland, Idaho (hereinafter referred to as "city"), for the
furnishing, transmission, distribution and sale of gas, whether artificial,
natural, mixed or otherwise, for heating, domestic, industrial and other
purposes and for transmitting gas into, through and beyond said city. The city
represents that it has the sole power and authority to make this grant of
authority and agrees to notify grantee in writing if the city should cease to
have this power. (1984 Code § 3-10-1)
3-9C-2: USE OF STREETS AND RULES GOVERNING SAME:
Grantee shall secure a permit for any opening it shall make in the streets,
alleys and public places in the city and shall be subject to all applicable
ordinances, but no fee shall be required of grantee for any such permit. The
location or relocation of all facilities shall be made under the supervision
and with the approval of such representatives as the governing body of the city
may designate for such purpose, but not so as unreasonably to interfere with
the proper operating of grantee's facilities and service. Whenever the city
shall pave or repave any street or shall change the grade or line of any street
or public place, or shall construct or reconstruct any conduit, water main,
sewer or water connection or other city public works or city utility, it shall
be the duty of the grantee when so ordered by the city to change its mains,
services and other property in the streets or public places at its own expense
so as to conform to the established grade or line of such street or public
place and so as not to interfere with the conduits, sewers and other mains of
the city as constructed or reconstructed; however, the grantee shall not be
required to relocate pipes, mains and appurtenances when the street, alley or
public ground in which they are located is vacated for the convenience of
abutting property owners and not as an incident to the public improvement,
unless the reasonable cost of such relocation and the loss and expenses
resulting therefrom is first paid to grantee. The city will keep such moving or
changing to a minimum. In the event federal, state or other funds are available
in whole or in part for utility relocating purposes, the city shall apply for
such funds and the grantee will be reimbursed to the extent any such funds are
actually obtained. If the city ever grants a permit for an excavation in a
street, alley or other public ground and the work contemplated by the permit
may expose gas pipes, mains and appurtenances of the grantee, the city shall
furnish a copy of the permit to grantee at least forty eight (48) hours prior
to such work. (1984 Code § 3-10-2)
3-9C-3: GRANTEE SUBJECT TO ALL POWERS OF CITY RULES GOVERNING REPAIR AND
RECONSTRUCTION OF STREETS:
The exercise of privileges herein granted shall be subject at all times to all
of the powers of the city and all regulatory ordinances adopted pursuant
thereto. The grantee shall not unnecessarily or unreasonably obstruct the use
of or damage any street or alley, and shall within a reasonable time and as
early as practicable upon completion of any construction or repair work,
restore all city streets and alleys to the same order and condition as they
were before the excavation was made insofar as reasonably possible. The grantee
shall maintain, repair and keep in good condition for a period of one year from
the date of acceptance by the city, all portions of streets and alleys
disturbed by it or its agents. The grantee shall be responsible for any
obstruction in any street, alley or other public place caused by it in the
operation and maintenance of its properties occurring at any time and shall
promptly remove such obstruction. Any such obstruction which, after proper
notice to grantee demanding removal is not promptly removed by the grantee may
be taken care of by the city and the costs thereof shall be charged against
grantee and may be enforced as a lien upon any of its properties or assets.
(1984 Code § 3-10-3)
3-9C-4: TERM OF FRANCHISE AND GRANT:
The franchise herein and hereby granted to franchisee is granted for five (5)
years beginning June 25, 1998. Furthermore, franchisee is hereby granted a
series of five (5) successive five (5) year options to exercise the rights and
authority granted above, subject, however, to renegotiation of the franchise
fee provided herein, but not any other term, at the commencement of each new
option term exercised. Each five (5) year extension shall automatically be
considered exercised unless franchisee affirmatively states that it does not
want to exercise the option within ninety (90) days prior to the end of each
five (5) year period. Both the city and franchisee have the option, within
ninety (90) days prior to the end of each period of five (5) years, to notify
the other party to this agreement in writing of its desire to renegotiate the
franchise fee. (1984 Code § 3-10-4)
3-9C-5: CITY RIGHT TO INSPECTION OF GRANTEE'S PLANS, ACCOUNTS AND BOOKS;
GRANTEE TO FURNISH CERTAIN MAPS:
The city shall have access at all reasonable hours to all of the grantee's
plans, contracts and engineering, accounting, finance, statistical, customer
and service records relating to the property and operations of grantee within
the city. The grantee shall furnish, upon request, the city with a complete set
of maps, including plans and profile of the distribution system of the grantee
and any future extensions. (1984 Code § 3-10-5)
3-9C-6: PAYMENT TO CITY AND FILING OF ANNUAL WRITTEN REPORT WITH THE CITY:
As consideration for this franchise and grant, said grantee, its successors and
assigns, during the franchise period, shall pay to the city three percent (3%)
of the gross annual receipts received from all sales of gas by grantee within
the corporate limits of the city through use, operation or possession of this
franchise and grant.
Such annual payments shall be in lieu of taxes, fees or charges, including, but
not limited to, licenses or taxes (other than ad valorem taxes) related to
easements, franchises, rights of way, utility lines and equipment installation,
maintenance and removal during the term of the public service provider's
franchise with the city, which the city may impose for the rights and
privileges herein granted or for the privilege of doing business within the
city.
The grantee shall file thirty (30) days after the end of each calendar year
with the city a report for the preceding calendar year, which report shall
contain a statement of all the gross receipts arising from all sales of gas by
said grantee within the city for the calendar year preceding such report, and
at the same time the grantee shall pay to the city the stipulated percentage of
the gross annual receipts due for the year for which said report is made and
filed. (1984 Code § 3-10-6)
3-9C-7: GRANTEE LIABILITY; INDEMNIFICATION:
It is expressly understood and agreed by and between the grantee and the city
that the grantee shall save the city harmless from all loss sustained by the
city on account of any suit, judgment, execution, claim or demand whatsoever,
resulting from negligence on the part of the grantee in the construction,
operation or maintenance of its gas system in the city. The city shall notify
the grantee's representative in the city within ten (10) days after the
presentation of any claim or demand, either by suit or otherwise, made against
the city on account of any negligence as aforesaid on the part of the grantee.
(1984 Code § 3-10-7)
3-9C-8: INSURANCE:
Upon acceptance of this franchise by grantee and before grantee shall have any
rights hereunder, grantee shall file with the city clerk a certificate
evidencing the insurance of the grantee against property damage in an amount
not less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) and bodily injury
with limits of not less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) per
person and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) total for each occurrence.
Provided, however, the minimum limits of insurance as set forth herein shall be
automatically increased at any time the liability limits of the city are
increased pursuant to the Idaho tort claims act 1  or any similar legislation.
(1984 Code § 3-10-8)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 6-901 et seq.
3-9C-9: SAFETY REGULATION COMPLIANCE:
Grantee shall comply with and conform to all safety regulations promulgated by
the United States, the state or city, or any regulatory body having
jurisdiction thereof. (1984 Code § 3-10-9)
3-9C-10: AGREEMENT NOT TO COMPETE; RESERVE TO CITY POWER OF EMINENT DOMAIN:
In consideration of grantee's undertaking hereunder as evidenced by its
acceptance hereof, the city agrees not to engage in the business of
distributing and selling gas during the life of this franchise or any extension
thereof in competition with the grantee, its successor and assigns; but nothing
herein contained shall be construed or deemed to prevent the city from
exercising at any time any power of eminent domain granted to it under the laws
of the state. (1984 Code § 3-10-10)
3-9C-11: SURRENDER OF FRANCHISE:
In the event natural gas at any time shall cease to be available to grantee for
the distribution and sale hereunder, grantee reserves the right to surrender
this franchise and in the event of such surrender prior to any expiration or
termination of this franchise, or in any of such events, grantee reserves the
right to salvage all of its plant, works and facilities, and will restore the
city streets and alleys damaged by such salvage operation. (1984 Code § 3-10-
11)
3-9C-12: WRITTEN ACCEPTANCE:
The grantee shall within thirty (30) days after the passage and publication of
this article, file with the city clerk its acceptance of this franchise in
writing, signed by its proper officers and attested by its corporate seal.
(1984 Code § 3-10-12)
3-9C-13: SALE OR ASSIGNMENT OF FRANCHISE:
No sale or assignment of this franchise shall be effective until it is approved
by the city; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be
construed as to require consent or to prevent the grantee of this franchise and
grant from including it in a mortgage or trust deed executed for the purpose of
obtaining money for corporate objects. (1984 Code § 3-10-13)
3-9C-14: PUBLICATION COSTS:
The grantee shall assume the cost of publication of this franchise as such
publication is required by law. (1984 Code § 3-10-14)
3-9C-15: FORFEITURE:
Any violation by the grantee, its vendee, lessee or successors of the
provisions of this article, franchise and grant, or any material portions
thereof or the failure promptly to perform any of the provisions thereof, shall
be cause for the forfeiture of this franchise and grant and all rights
hereunder by the city after sixty (60) days' written notice to the grantee and
the continuance of such violation, failure or default; however, this provision
shall not prevent the grantee from submitting such question of forfeiture to
proper court determination. (1984 Code § 3-10-15)
ARTICLE D. ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
SECTION:
3-9D-1: Franchise Granted
3-9D-2: Property And Facilities Maintained
3-9D-3: Relocation Of Facilities
3-9D-4: Restoration Regulations
3-9D-5: City Service Communication
3-9D-6: Indemnification Of City
3-9D-7: Certificate Of Insurance
3-9D-8: Service Regulations
3-9D-9: Gross Revenues
3-9D-10: Franchise Fee
3-9D-11: Books Of Account
3-9D-12: Franchise Fees As Payment
3-9D-13: Interference Of Trees
3-9D-14: Power Of Eminent Domain
3-9D-15: Terms Of Franchise
3-9D-16: Violation
3-9D-17: Sale Prohibited
3-9D-18: Cost Of Publication
3-9D-19: Acceptance Of Franchise
3-9D-20: Existing Franchise Agreement
3-9D-1: FRANCHISE GRANTED:
The city of Fruitland, Idaho (hereinafter called the "city"), hereby grants to
Idaho Power Company, a corporation, and to its successors and assigns
(hereinafter called the "grantee") the right (subject to the rights of the city
set forth in section
3-9D-14 of this article), privilege and franchise for a period of thirty five
(35) years from and after January 1, 2001, however, with the right to amend by
mutual agreement in accordance with section
3-9D-15 of this article, to construct, maintain and operate in and upon the
present and future streets, alleys, highways and other public places within the
corporate limits of the city, electric utility property and facilities for
supplying electricity to the city, and the inhabitants thereof, and to persons
and corporations beyond the limits of the city, including the nonexclusive
right to physically locate and maintain telephone, cable, fiber optics or other
communications facilities of the grantee or other parties (provided, that
grantee shall comply with the city's requirements for cable system franchises),
all subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter specified. In the case of
annexation of property to the corporate limit, such area will be considered
under this agreement, upon effective date of the annexation, subject to section
3-9D-9 of this article. All such electric utility property and facilities now
maintained by the grantee within the streets, alleys, highways and other public
places within the corporate limits of the city shall be deemed covered by this
article as provided herein. (1984 Code § 3-11-1)
3-9D-2: PROPERTY AND FACILITIES MAINTAINED:
All of the grantee's electric property and facilities in and upon the present
and future streets, alleys, highways and public places within the corporate
limits of the city shall be constructed and at all times maintained in good
order and condition and in accordance with standard engineering practices, and
all applicable safety codes and lawful governmental regulations, including all
applicable state and federal regulations and all construction standards
presently in effect by the Idaho public utilities commission or adopted by that
commission during the term of this franchise agreement. (1984 Code § 3-11-2)
3-9D-3: RELOCATION OF FACILITIES:
Upon request of the city, the grantee shall relocate its facilities as
necessary within the present and future streets, alleys, highways and other
public places owned by the city. The city shall have no responsibility for the
costs of such relocations. The grantee shall bear the cost of relocating its
facilities at the city request, unless the facilities are to be relocated for
the benefit of a third party, in which case the third party shall pay the costs
of relocation. In the event federal, state or other funds are available in
whole or in part for utility relocating purposes, the city shall apply for such
funds and the grantee will be reimbursed to the extent any such funds are
actually obtained. (1984 Code § 3-11-3)
3-9D-4: RESTORATION REGULATIONS:
It shall be lawful for the grantee to make all needful or convenient
excavations and/or installations in any of the present and future streets,
alleys, highways and other public places within the corporate limits of the
city for the purpose of erecting and maintaining the posts, poles, towers or
other supports for its wires, or for the purpose of laying, maintaining and
operating conduits, vaults and wires and other conductors underground for the
purpose aforesaid, or to repair and improve such electric power and light
system and to extend the same; provided, that when the grantee or any person or
corporation under the authority of this franchise, shall disturb any of said
streets, alleys, highways or other public places for the purposes aforesaid,
he, it or they shall restore the same to good order and condition as soon as
practicable and without unnecessary delay and failing to do so after five (5)
days' notice from the city, or its duly authorized officer or officers, then
the city may place said street, alley, highway or public place in such
condition at the cost and expense of the grantee, and said grantee will
forthwith pay the full cost and expense thereof upon demand of the city. All
facilities constructed under this article shall be placed and maintained at
such places and positions in or upon such public ways and public places as
shall not interfere with the passage of traffic and shall conform to all
applicable laws, rules and regulations. (1984 Code § 3-11-4)
3-9D-5: CITY SERVICE COMMUNICATION:
The city shall have the right and privilege to string and maintain wires for
its internal communications for its fire, police, airport and other services
upon the poles and other facilities erected and maintained by the grantee
hereunder, subject to the rules and regulations of the Idaho public utilities
commission. The city shall string, maintain and operate such wires at its own
expense, risk and responsibility, and in accordance with all legal requirements
and good engineering practices and in such manner as not to impose any
additional expense upon grantee of its said poles and facilities. Any such
wires of the city shall be subject to interference by the grantee only when
necessary in the maintenance, operation or repair of the grantee's own
fixtures, wires, facilities and appurtenances. (1984 Code § 3-11-5)
3-9D-6: INDEMNIFICATION OF CITY:
The grantee shall at all times indemnify and hold the city, its officers,
employees and agents, harmless from any and all expenses or liability arising
from or by reason of any negligent act or omission of the grantee, its
representatives or employees, in the construction, operation or maintenance of
any of the grantee's electric utility property or facilities. (1984 Code § 3-
11-6)
3-9D-7: CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE:
Upon acceptance of this franchise by grantee and before grantee shall have any
rights hereunder, grantee shall file with the city clerk a certificate of
insurance evidencing general liability insurance which covers claims for bodily
injury, property damage and personal injury. Such insurance shall have minimum
limits of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence. The city shall be
named as an "additional named insured" under grantee's insurance policy. Should
the minimum limits of insurance as set forth herein be increased above one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00), pursuant to the Idaho tort claims act 1  or
any similar legislation, the grantee shall be required to provide the city with
a new certificate of insurance evidencing the higher limits upon the city's
request. (1984 Code § 3-11-7)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 6-901 et seq.
3-9D-8: SERVICE REGULATIONS:
The electric service to be furnished to the public hereunder, and all rates and
charges therefor, and all regulation of the grantee hereunder, shall at all
times be subject to all rules, regulations and orders that may be lawfully
prescribed by the Idaho public utilities commission or by any other
governmental authority now or hereafter having jurisdiction over such matters.
During the term of this franchise, grantee shall at all times assure that
customers within the city have access to customer service from the grantee as
required by the Idaho public utilities commission. (1984 Code § 3-11-8)
3-9D-9: GROSS REVENUES:
As compensation for the right, privilege and franchise hereby granted, grantee
agrees to pay to the city on or before January 30, April 30, July 30 and
October 30, an amount equivalent to one percent (1%) of grantee's "gross
revenues" for the preceding calendar quarter. For purposes of this section,
"gross revenues" shall mean the amount of money billed by the grantee for the
electricity it sells within the corporate limits of the city to customers, less
uncollectibles. The city shall provide appropriate information to the grantee
to allow the grantee to identify which of its customers are located within the
corporate limits of the city for purposes of paying franchise fees. Grantee
shall not be responsible for any failure to pay franchise fees which results
from deficiencies in such information provided by the city. In the event the
city annexes a new area into its corporate limits, the terms of this section
regarding franchise fees shall not apply to the annexed area until sixty (60)
days after the city has supplied the grantee with appropriate information for
the identification of the grantee's customers within the annexed area.
The grantee's franchise fee payment obligations hereunder shall commence with
the start of the grantee's first full billing cycle following the effective
date hereof; provided, that the grantee must first receive approval from the
Idaho public utilities commission for the collection of the franchise fee in
the rates charged by grantee. (1984 Code § 3-11-9)
3-9D-10: FRANCHISE FEE:
The city shall have the right during the term of this franchise agreement to
increase the franchise fee hereunder up to three percent (3%), by obtaining the
consent of the grantee or the approval of a majority of voters of the city
voting on the question at an election held in accordance with Idaho Code title
50, chapter 4. Any such vote to increase the franchise fee hereunder shall
provide that the increased franchise fee will apply to any electric service
provider (other than the city) who utilizes the city streets, alleys or other
public places to provide electrical service within the city, during the term of
this franchise agreement. (1984 Code § 3-11-10)
3-9D-11: BOOKS OF ACCOUNT:
The grantee shall keep accurate books of account for the collection of the
franchise fees hereunder and the city shall have the right to inspect the same
at all times during business hours, and from time to time audit the same for
the purpose of determining gross revenues under section
3-9D-9 of this article. (1984 Code § 3-11-11)
3-9D-12: FRANCHISE FEES AS PAYMENT:
The franchise fees paid by the grantee hereunder will be in lieu of and as
payment for any tax or fee imposed by the city on the grantee by virtue of its
status as a public utility including, but not limited to, taxes, fees or
charges related to easements, franchises, rights of way, utility lines and
equipment installation, maintenance and removal during the term of this
franchise agreement. (1984 Code § 3-11-12)
3-9D-13: INTERFERENCE OF TREES:
The grantee shall have the right and privilege, insofar as the city is able to
grant the same, in accordance with National Arborist Association standards, of
the pruning of all trees which overhang the present and future streets, alleys,
highways and other public places within the corporate limits of the city, in
such a manner and to such extent as will prevent the branches or limbs or other
parts of such trees from touching or interfering with its wires, poles and
other fixtures and equipment. However, except in an emergency, no pruning shall
be undertaken without giving the occupant of the adjacent property written or
oral notice that such pruning will be performed. (1984 Code § 3-11-13)
3-9D-14: POWER OF EMINENT DOMAIN:
In consideration of grantee's undertaking hereunder as evidenced by its
acceptance hereof, the city agrees not to engage in the business of providing
electrical service during the life of this franchise or any extension thereof
in competition with the grantee, its successors and assigns; but nothing herein
contained shall be construed or deemed to prevent the city from exercising at
any time any power of eminent domain granted to it under the laws of the state.
The city shall not grant a franchise to another electric service provider
during the term of this franchise agreement unless the electric service
provider has received approval to provide electrical service within the city
from the Idaho public utilities commission, and the city has imposed the same
franchise fee on the electric service provider as paid by the grantee. (1984
Code § 3-11-14)
3-9D-15: TERMS OF FRANCHISE:
In the event of an amendment to the laws, rules or regulations of the city, the
state or the public utilities commission of Idaho applicable to this franchise,
or for periodic review of any section of this agreement, the terms of this
franchise and the rights and privileges hereby conferred may be changed,
altered, amended or modified upon mutual agreement between the city and the
grantee. In all cases, sixty (60) days' notice shall be required on the part of
city or grantee to reopen the agreement pursuant to this section. (1984 Code §
3-11-15)
3-9D-16: VIOLATION:
Any violation by the grantee of the provisions of this article, franchise and
grant or any material portions thereof or the failure promptly to perform any
of the provisions thereof shall be cause for the forfeiture of this franchise
and grant and all rights hereunder by the city after sixty (60) days' written
notice to the grantee and the continuance of such violation, failure or
default; however, this provision shall not prevent the grantee from submitting
such question of violation or forfeiture to the appropriate forum (which may
include the district court having jurisdiction or the Idaho public utilities
commission) for determination. (1984 Code § 3-11-16)
3-9D-17: SALE PROHIBITED:
Sale, assignment or lease of this franchise is prohibited without notification
to the city. (1984 Code § 3-11-17)
3-9D-18: COST OF PUBLICATION:
The grantee shall assume the cost of publication of this franchise as such
publication is required by law. (1984 Code § 3-11-18)
3-9D-19: ACCEPTANCE OF FRANCHISE:
The grantee shall within thirty (30) days after final passage of this article,
file with the city clerk its acceptance of this franchise in writing signed by
its proper officers and attested by its corporate seal. (1984 Code § 3-11-19)
3-9D-20: EXISTING FRANCHISE AGREEMENT:
The existing franchise agreement between the city and grantee set forth in
ordinance 22 dated April 6, 1950, shall terminate upon the adoption and
acceptance of this article. (1984 Code § 3-11-20)
ARTICLE E. TELEPHONE FRANCHISE
SECTION:
3-9E-1: Franchise Granted
3-9E-2: Property And Facilities Maintained
3-9E-3: Relocation Of Facilities
3-9E-4: Restoration Regulations
3-9E-5: Trimming And Removal Of Trees
3-9E-6: Indemnification Of City
3-9E-7: Certificate Of Insurance
3-9E-8: FCC Regulations
3-9E-9: Building Statements And Charges
3-9E-10: Sale Prohibited
3-9E-11: Cost Of Publication
3-9E-12: Acceptance Of Franchise
3-9E-13: Existing Franchise Agreement
3-9E-1: FRANCHISE GRANTED:
The city of Fruitland, Idaho (hereinafter called the "city"), hereby grants to
Farmers Mutual Telephone Company, a nonprofit corporation, and to its
successors and assigns (hereinafter called the "grantee") the right, privilege
or franchise for a period of twenty five (25) years from and after January 1,
2010, however, with the right to amend by mutual agreement, to construct,
maintain and operate in, upon and under the present and future streets, alleys,
highways and other public places within the corporate limits of the city,
telephone poles and service lines, together with all the necessary and
desirable appurtenances (including underground conduits and wires, poles,
towers, wires, transmission lines and telegraph and telephone lines for its
use), or other communications facilities, for the purpose of supplying
communication services to the city, and the inhabitants thereof, and to persons
and corporations beyond the limits of the city, including the nonexclusive
right to physically locate and maintain telephone and other communications
facilities of the grantee or other parties (provided, that the grantee shall
comply with the city's requirements for communication system franchises), all
subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter specified. (1984 Code § 3-12-1)
3-9E-2: PROPERTY AND FACILITIES MAINTAINED:
All of the grantee's communications property and facilities in, upon and under
the present and future streets, alleys, highways and public places within the
corporate limits of the city shall be constructed and at all times maintained
in good order and condition, and shall be so erected as to interfere as little
as possible with traffic over streets and alleys and the location of the poles
and pole attachments shall be in accordance with standard engineering practices
and all applicable safety codes and lawful government regulations, including
all applicable state and federal regulations and all construction standards
presently in effect. (1984 Code § 3-12-2)
3-9E-3: RELOCATION OF FACILITIES:
Upon a reasonable request of the city, the grantee shall relocate its
facilities as necessary within the present and future streets, alleys, highways
and other public places. Grantee shall bear the cost of relocating its
facilities at the city's request, unless the facilities are to be relocated for
the benefit of a third party, in which case the third party shall pay the costs
of relocation. In the event federal, state or other funds are available in
whole or in part for communication services relocating purposes, the city shall
apply for such funds and the grantee will be reimbursed to the extent any such
funds are actually obtained. (1984 Code § 3-12-3)
3-9E-4: RESTORATION REGULATIONS:
It shall be lawful for the grantee to make all needful or convenient
excavations and/or installations in any of the present and future streets,
alleys, highways and other public places within the corporate limits of the
city for the purpose of erecting and maintaining the posts, poles, towers or
other supports for its wires or for the purpose of laying, maintaining and
operating underground communication systems for the purpose aforesaid, or to
repair and improve or extend communication systems; provided, that when the
grantee or any person or corporation under the authority of this franchise,
shall disturb any of said streets, alleys, highways or other public places for
the purpose aforesaid, he, it or they shall restore the same to good order and
condition as soon as possible. Grantee shall obtain any permits required by the
city prior to commencement of any excavation. (1984 Code § 3-12-4)
3-9E-5: TRIMMING AND REMOVAL OF TREES:
The city grants grantee right, permission and authority to trim and remove
trees and other plantings upon, over, across, under and along all of said
streets, alleys, highways or other public places for the purpose of erecting or
maintaining the communication systems. (1984 Code § 3-12-5)
3-9E-6: INDEMNIFICATION OF CITY:
The grantee shall at all times indemnify and hold the city, its officers,
employees and agents, harmless from any and all expense or liability arising
from or by reason of any act or omission of the grantee, its representatives or
employees, in the construction, operation or maintenance of any of the
grantee's communications systems hereunder. (1984 Code § 3-12-6)
3-9E-7: CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE:
Upon acceptance of this franchise by the grantee and before grantee shall have
any rights hereunder, grantee shall file with the city clerk a certificate of
insurance evidencing general liability insurance which covers claims for bodily
injury, property damage and personal injury. Such insurance shall have a
minimum limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence. The city
shall be named as an "additional named insured" under grantee's insurance
policy. Should the minimum limits of insurance set forth herein be increased
above one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) pursuant to the Idaho tort claims act
or any similar legislation, the grantee shall be required to provide the city
with a new certificate of insurance evidencing the higher limits upon the
city's request. (1984 Code § 3-12-7)
3-9E-8: FCC REGULATIONS:
The grantee shall at all times be in compliance with FCC regulations regarding
customer service obligations, as they now exist or may be amended. (1984 Code §
3-12-8)
3-9E-9: BUILDING STATEMENTS AND CHARGES:
The grantee shall at all times provide clear, concise and understandable
billing statements and charges to subscribers. (1984 Code § 3-12-9)
3-9E-10: SALE PROHIBITED:
Sale, assignment or lease of this franchise is prohibited without notification
to the city. (1984 Code § 3-12-10)
3-9E-11: COST OF PUBLICATION:
The grantee shall assume the cost of publication of this franchise as such
publication is required by law. (1984 Code § 3-12-11)
3-9E-12: ACCEPTANCE OF FRANCHISE:
The grantee shall, within thirty (30) days after final passage of this article,
file with the city clerk its acceptance of this franchise in writing signed and
attested to by its proper officers. (1984 Code § 3-12-12)
3-9E-13: EXISTING FRANCHISE AGREEMENT:
The existing franchise agreement between the city and the grantee set forth in
ordinance 30 dated July 6, 1954, shall terminate upon the adoption and
acceptance of this article. (1984 Code § 3-12-13)
CHAPTER 10
SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS
SECTION:
3-10-1: Permit Required
3-10-2: Definition
3-10-3: Exemption
3-10-4: Fees
3-10-5: Reservations
3-10-6: Deposit Required
3-10-7: Submittal Of Application
3-10-8: Alcoholic Beverages
3-10-9: Attendance Estimation
3-10-10: Traffic Control
3-10-11: Sanitary And Refuse Disposal
3-10-12: Parking
3-10-13: Vendor Management
3-10-14: Insurance
3-10-15: Site Plan
3-10-16: Extraordinary Resources
3-10-17: Departments To Review Applications
3-10-18: Approval Of Applications
3-10-19: Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit
3-10-20: Violations
3-10-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall stage, promote or conduct any “special event”, as herein
defined, in the City of Fruitland without first obtaining a special event
permit from the City Clerk’s Office. (Ord. 697,2-27-2023)
3-10-2: DEFINITION:
 
               A preplanned event or series of related consecutive daily
               gatherings or events of an entertainment, cultural,
               recreational, educational, political, religious or sporting
               nature, or of any other nature, such as concerts, dances, art
               shows, fundraising events, amusement attractions, processions,
SPECIAL EVENT: parades, circuses, fairs, festivals, community events, farmers
               markets, mass participation sports (such as marathons and
               running events, fun run/walks, bicycle races or tours, sports
               tournaments), or other organized activity conducted for a common
               or collective use and community involved events that includes
               multiple vendor/merchant participation or street closures. (Ord.
               697,2-27-2023)
 
3-10-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The following shall be exempt from having to obtain a special event permit:
   A.   Funeral processions;
   B.   Spontaneous events for the purpose of expressive activity that occur in
response to breaking or emerging news;
   C.   Lawful picketing on sidewalks;
   D.   Special events wholly held on private property not involving the
public. (Ord. 697,2-27-2023)
3-10-4: FEES:
The applicant shall submit the applicable special event fee with the
application as established by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 697,2-27-
2023)
3-10-5: RESERVATIONS:
The applicant shall make reservations for the subject park through the City
Clerk’s Office, prior to submitting the special event application to the City
Clerk’s Office. (Ord. 697,2-27-2023)
3-10-6: DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
If the applicant will be using any city owned facilities, damages and cleaning
deposit must accompany the submission of the special event application to the
City Clerk’s Office. Any clean up after an event that has to be performed by
the City to return the site to its normal state shall be charged at an hourly
rate. Deposit and clean up fees are as established by resolution of the City
Council. (Ord. 697,2-27-2023)
3-10-7: SUBMITTAL OF APPLICATION:
The special event permit application shall be obtained from the City Clerk’s
Office and completed, signed and submitted to said department, along with all
required attachments as listed on the application. All applicants for a special
event permit should submit an application for the permit no later than thirty
(30) days and no earlier than one year prior to the date of commencement of the
special event. (Ord. 697,2-27-2023)
3-10-8: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
Separate application is required for licenses and permits related to, or
necessary for, the special event, including licenses or permits to sell
alcoholic beverages, as required by Idaho Code. All sales and consumption of
alcoholic beverages must be contained in a roped off designated area not
accessible to minors. Alcoholic beverages cannot be sold or consumed on City
owned property. (Ord. 697,2-27-2023)
3-10-9: ATTENDANCE ESTIMATION:
A good faith estimate for attendance and participation shall be provided by the
applicant, promoter, or sponsor and shall be noted on the special event
application. (Ord. 697,2-27-2023)
3-10-10: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
The City of Fruitland Police Department may provide traffic control personnel
for special events that require road closures. The cost of this provision shall
be as determined by said Police Department and shall be payable prior to the
onset of the event. All traffic control measures, including any required
signage or advance road closure notifications, shall be under the direction and
supervision of the City of Fruitland Police Department. Should additional
traffic control personnel be necessary over and above whatever City of
Fruitland Police Department can provide, the applicant shall be responsible for
employing and paying said personnel, which personnel shall be approved by the
City of Fruitland Police Department and under the direct supervision of the
City of Fruitland Police Department. The City of Fruitland Police Department
shall reserve the right to reject proposed agencies or personnel for required
traffic control. (Ord. 697,2-27-2023)
3-10-11: SANITARY AND REFUSE DISPOSAL:
All special events shall designate an individual or individuals who shall be
responsible for monitoring restroom supplies, restroom cleanup and refuse
disposal. At the discretion of the City, any sanitary or refuse disposal item
may be required to be provided, at the expense of the special event, to
accommodate the event including, but not limited to, portable toilets,
additional restroom supplies, additional trash bins, etc. Such additional
requirements shall be listed on the conditions of approval of the special event
permit. Failure to provide additional requirements may result in revocation of
the permit. (Ord. 697,2-27-2023)
3-10-12: PARKING:
All special events shall designate an individual or individuals to monitor
restricted and designated parking areas for the event. Failure to provide
parking monitoring may result in revocation of the permit. (Ord. 697,2-27-2023)
3-10-13: VENDOR MANAGEMENT:
During special events the applicant or event coordinator will be responsible
for the overall supervision and management of vendors invited by the applicant
or event coordinator to participate in the event. Community event such as the
Fruitland Spring Fair, Fruitland Fire Department fund raising events, Fruitland
Family Fun Days, Santa in the Park, Fruitland Trunk or Treat, National Night
Out, and any Fruitland Chamber of Commerce sponsored event, etc., will require
a Special Event Permit. Any and all street stand merchant facility, or mobile
food units wanting to participate is those events must apply directly with the
event coordinator of said event. The City will not issue individual licenses
for participation in Special Events. (Ord. 697,2-27-2023)
3-10-14: INSURANCE:
Application shall be accompanied by a certificate of public liability and
property-casualty insurance in the amount of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) for personal injury and property damage. Applicant shall
provide a certificate of insurance at the time of application submittal
indicating the City of Fruitland as the certificate holder and the additional
insured with respect to the special event. The applicant will also provide
proof of Worker’s Compensation Insurance coverage for all event sponsored
employees working at the special event. (Ord. 697,2-27-2023)
3-10-15: SITE PLAN:
The following information is required, at a minimum on the site plan:
   A.   An outline of the entire event venue including the names of street or
areas that are part of the venue. If the event involves a moving route of any
kind, indicate the direction of travel and all streets, alleys or lane
closures, including starting and stopping point of closures.
   B.   Location of fencing, barriers and/or barricades. Indicate any removable
fencing for emergency access.
   C.   The location of all stages, platforms, scaffolding, bleachers,
grandstands, canopies, tents, portable toilets, hand washing stations, booths,
cooking areas, first aid facilities, drinking water fountains, trash
containers, additional lighting, waste grease containers, gray water containers
and other temporary structures.
   D.   The location and size of all signs and/or banners displayed as part of
the event
   E.   A detailed or close-up of the food booths and cooking area
configuration including booth identification of all vendors cooking with
flammable gasses or barbeque grills, and whether food vendors will be located
in vans/trucks or set up in open air;
      1.   All food vendors will need to coordinate with Southwest District
Health regarding food requirement/permits.
      2.   Food vendors cannot dump waste in streets or city owned dumpster/
trash containers. Vendors must provide for their own disposal needs.
      3.   All vendors are subject to fire inspections.
   F.   A detailed or close-up of any booths selling alcoholic beverages;
      1.   All vendors serving alcohol at the event MUST contact the City
Clerk’s office before the event, to obtain an Alcohol Beverage Catering Permit.
      2.   Attach a diagram of the event site with the specific locations to be
assigned to each vendor for the sale and distribution of any alcoholic
beverages, all sales and consumption of alcoholic beverages must be contained
in a roped off designated area not accessible to minors. Alcohol cannot be sold
or consumed on City owned property including parks.
   G.   Generator locations and/or sources of electricity.
   H.   Exit locations for outdoor events that are fenced and/or locations
within tents and tent structures.
   I.   Parking for all patrons, vendors, service providers, and event staff.
Use of all parking lots driveways, and street parking must be identified on
your site plan.
      1.   Use of private property including driveways is prohibited unless
written permission from the property owner is attached to the application.
      2.   All fire lanes and fire hydrants must be kept clear of any parked
vehicles and any other obstructions for the entire course of the event,
including set-up and take-down time. (Ord. 697,2-27-2023)
3-10-16: EXTRAORDINARY RESOURCES:
Special event applicants, promoters and sponsors whose special events require
the use of extraordinary City resources as a result of their anticipated
attendance or heightened security and safety concerns shall be required to pay
for those extraordinary resources as determined by that City department. Full
cost recovery for extraordinary resources shall be required no later than sixty
(60) days following the conclusion of the special event. Any extraordinary
resources for which there are additional costs shall be solely dedicated to the
special event. If after the special event permit application is submitted, a
determination by City staff is made that extraordinary City resources may be
required for the event, an extraordinary resources deposit may also be required
as part of the approval process for the special event permit application. The
amount of the deposit will be determined by City staff, subject to evaluation
of anticipated extra resources that may be required. (Ord. 697,2-27-2023)
3-10-17: DEPARTMENTS TO REVIEW APPLICATIONS:
The City Clerk’s Office shall send all special event applications to the
following departments, at a minimum, for review and recommendation to City
Council:
   A.   The City Police Department;
   B.   The City Fire Department;
   C.   The City Public Works Department;
   D.   The City Building Department;
   E.   The City Zoning Department;
   F.   Any other local agencies, City Attorney, City Engineers, City Staff,
City, State or Federal agency or department as may be deemed necessary by the
City Clerk. (Ord. 697,2-27-2023)
3-10-18: APPROVAL OF APPLICATIONS:
Upon review and recommendation of City Staff the City Council will make final
decision regarding approval or denial of permit. (Ord. 697,2-27-2023)
3-10-19: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
A special event permit may be summarily suspended or revoked by the City
Clerk’s Office for violation of any provision of this article, for violation by
the applicant of any Federal, State or local laws or ordinances during the
special event, for violation of any of the conditions of the permit, or for
making any false, material representation in an application for a permit. (Ord.
697,2-27-2023)
3-10-20: VIOLATIONS:
At all special events, it shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Conduct, present, stage or promote a special event without a permit;
   B.   Violate any provision of this section;
   C.   Serve or cause to be served alcohol in violation of Idaho Code or this
Code;
   D.   Violate any condition of a special events permit. (Ord. 697,2-27-2023)
CHAPTER 11
STREET STAND MERCHANTS AND MOBILE FOOD UNITS
SECTION:
3-11-1: Purpose And Intent
3-11-2: Definitions
3-11-3: Conditions And Regulations
3-11-4: Inspection And Qualifications For License
3-11-5: Exemptions
3-11-6: Expiration Of License
3-11-7: Penalties
3-11-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this section is to protect the health, safety, and welfare of
the City of Fruitland and its residents. This section is intended to regulate
specific activities which are commercial in nature. (Ord. 697,2-27-2023)
3-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this section, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
BARBECUE GRILL/RANGE: An appliance intended and approved for the commercial
preparation of food using a solid fuel or gas fuel, said prepared food to be
sold. Solid fuels could include wood, charcoal, or similar products. Gas fuel
appliances would use propane or natural gas. Required safety precautions could
include hoods, ducting, exhaust fans, grease extractors, fire extinguisher(s)
and/or fire extinguishing systems or any combination thereof.
MOBILE FOOD UNIT: A vehicle, trailer or readily portable structure solely for
the purpose of the preparation and sale of food and beverages. As an accessory
use located on the same lot and in conjunction with an allowed use; or located
on a lot independent of another use. Mobile food units shall be subject to all
provisions set forth in this section.
STREET STAND MERCHANT: Any person who engages in a temporary business, not to
exceed six (6) months, of selling, trading, offering for sale or trade, or
displaying for the purpose of sale, trade, or giveaway any goods, wares,
merchandise, produce, or services within City limits and who in the furtherance
of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any premises, including any
parking lot, within the City for the purposes of conducting said temporary
transient merchant business.
STREET STAND MERCHANT FACILITY: Any tangible structure including, but not
limited to, a stall, booth, tent, platform, box, table, rack, pallet, trailer,
cart, vehicle, container, or other form of offering, displaying, or storing
goods and/or services used in conjunction with a street stand merchant. No food
preparation is permitted in a street stand merchant facility. (Ord. 697,2-27-
2023)
3-11-3: CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS:
Street Stand Merchant Facilities, And Mobile Food Unit Regulations: All street
stand merchant, mobile food units and associated facilities shall be subject to
the following conditions and regulations:
   A.   No person shall engage in the temporary use of land or construct,
place, or set up a street stand merchant facility, or mobile food unit, as
defined herein, without first procuring a license for said use.
   B.   The license shall not allow for placement of any street stand merchant
facility, mobile food unit, or sign within a street, public right-of-way,
vision triangle, required setback area, dedicated trash dumpster location,
sidewalk, publicly owned parking lot, any park or other property owned by the
city or any other public agency, street landscape buffer area, or any other
position on a lot which may substantially interfere with vehicle or pedestrian
circulation, emergency access or the normal functions of other uses on the
property, or be potentially hazardous to the public. Placement of any and all
facilities and signage associated with street stand merchant and mobile food
units must be on private property, outside of any street landscape buffer
areas. Street stand merchants and mobile food unit are only allowed in
commercial or industrial zones.
   C.   Community events such as the, Fruitland Spring Fair, Fruitland Fire
Department Fund Raising Events, Fruitland Family Fun Days, Santa in the Park,
Fruitland Trunk or Treat, National Night out, and any Fruitland Chamber of
Commerce sponsored event, etc., will require a Special Event Permit. Any and
all street stand merchant facility, or mobile food units wanting to participate
is those event must apply directly with the event coordinator of said event.
The City will not issue individual licenses for participation in Special
Events.
   D.   The written permission of and indemnification by the property owner or
owners shall be required in order to operate a street stand merchant facility,
or mobile food unit on property within the City.
   E.   The proposed street stand merchant facility, or mobile food unit shall
be commercial in nature and in conformance with the zoning codes within which
it is to be located except commercial uses may be located in industrial zones.
   F.   A street stand merchant facility, or mobile food unit license shall not
exempt or otherwise excuse the applicant from complying with all other
applicable city, county, state or federal regulations pertaining to the type of
activity the applicant will be conducting under such license. Applicants who
will serve food or beverages shall first procure a permit from the Southwest
District Health Department to ensure compliance with applicable health
regulations.
   G.   Every person who receives a street stand merchant facility, or mobile
food unit license shall clean up all garbage or debris caused by his or her
street stand merchant facility, or mobile food unit, and shall clean up within
a twenty foot (20') radius of the facility or unit both daily and immediately
upon cessation of such use. Every street stand merchant facility, and mobile
food unit must include trash receptacle and regular trash service or must
receive written permission from the applicable property owner to use the trash
facilities located upon the property on which the use is being conducted. The
site plan shall show the location of trash receptacles or method of trash
disposal.
   H.   All street stand merchant facilities, and mobile food units shall be
maintained and remain in compliance with all applicable city, county, state,
and federal regulations, including, without limitation, fire, building, and
electrical codes as well as health regulations, during the life of the license.
   I.   No license issued or granted by the city shall in any manner be
assignable or transferable or authorize any person other than the one therein
named to do business or authorize any other business than is therein mentioned
to be done or authorize the transaction of such business.
   J.   Street stand merchant facilities, and mobile food units shall comply
with the following:
      1.   No structure shall exceed twelve feet (12') in height.
      2.   No structure shall exceed thirty feet (30') in length.
      3.   No structure shall exceed nine feet (9') in width.
      4.   No street stand merchant facility, or mobile food unit shall consist
of more than one cart, stall, booth, tent, platform, box, table, rack, pallet,
container, trailer, recreational vehicle, motor vehicle, or any other form of
offering, displaying, or storing goods and/or services, per vendor.
      5.   No street stand merchant facility, or mobile food unit shall connect
to any electrical outlets or sources of power without having first received
written permission from the property owner on which said outlets or sources of
power are located.
      6.   If the street stand merchant facility, or mobile food unit is a
vehicle, a copy of the current registration, current insurance, a clear picture
of the vehicle and any applicable driver’s licenses shall be submitted with the
application.
      7.   None of the businesses regulated by this section shall engage in the
sale of any weapons.
   K.   Anyone operating a street stand merchant facility, or mobile food unit
shall do so in a manner that does not create excessive noise, light, dust,
nuisance or other detriment to the quiet enjoyment of property in the vicinity.
   L.    Any barbecue grill/range associated with a mobile food unit must be
enclosed and permanently built into the facility or unit. A range/hood fire
suppression system must be utilized, unless alternate mitigation is approved by
the fire inspector. Food preparation is not allowed in a street stand merchant
facility.
   M.   Unsecured menu boards or sidewalk signs in public right of way, street
buffer landscape areas, and vision triangle areas are prohibited. All signage
must be affixed to the street stand merchant facility, or mobile food unit or
located immediately adjacent to the facility or unit on private property with
the permission of the property owner.
   N.   Street stand merchant facilities, and mobile food units shall have a
clean appearance at all times.
   O.   Street stand merchant facilities, and mobile food units must at all
times be parked in a legal manner. Vending operations shall be conducted only
to pedestrians. Drive-thru operations shall not be permitted.
   P.   Street stand merchant facilities, and mobile food units must provide a
sanitary sewage treatment plan. Wastewater may not be dumped or discharged on
the premises, adjacent properties, or public right-of-way. If the applicant
proposes the use of any sanitary sewage facilities located on private property,
written permission from the property owner must be obtained.
   Q.   Street stand merchant facilities and mobile food units are subject to
scheduled or unscheduled inspections at any time by applicable City, State or
Federal agencies. Mobile food units and street stand merchants who desire to
leave their licensed location as identified on the issued license and set up in
a new location must notify the City Clerk’s Office and Zoning Department during
business hours, 48 hrs. before relocation. The licensee must provide written
approval from the new location’s property owner, with dates allowed, recorded
warranty deed or updated county records for the subject property, and provide a
site plan for the subject property. Approval of the new location must be
granted prior to relocation.
   R.   Street stand merchant facilities and mobile food units shall not be
left vacant or not in operation for more than 7 consecutive days. Street stand
merchant facilities and mobile food units must be removed from location. (Ord.
697,2-27-2023)
3-11-4: INSPECTION AND QUALIFICATIONS FOR LICENSE:
   A.   At the time of filing an original application, an adult applicant shall
pay the application fee to the City Clerk’s Office. The application fee for any
street stand merchant use or mobile food unit shall be set by resolution of the
Council. Applicant shall also bear the actual costs of necessary inspections.
   B.   The applicant shall complete an application obtained from the City
Clerk’s Office and attach a location set up diagram, a photograph of the street
stand merchant facility or mobile food unit, any other attachments deemed
necessary by the City Clerk for application processing, and a sanitary sewage
treatment plan with the application at the time it is filed. Filing an
application does not constitute approval nor does it authorize the applicant to
open for business. Staff may reject any application that does not contain the
required application attachments as listed on the application.
   C.   The City Clerk or his/her designee shall review the application for
completeness and compliance with applicable City codes and shall distribute the
application to the Chief of Police for review of criminal background. The Chief
of Police will then distribute the application to the Zoning Administrator to
review and approve proposed locations for appropriate zoning, they will then
distribute the application to the Fire Inspector for purposes of reviewing or
scheduling a fire safety inspection. When the fire safety inspection has been
passed, all other required attachments have been received, reviewed and
approved, and the suitability of the applicant, and each person who will be
employed “on site” and interacting with members of the public at the locations
of the street stand merchant facility, or mobile food unit, has been
demonstrated (as set forth in subsection D. below), the City Clerk’s office
shall issue a license that the applicant must display on the street stand
merchant facility, or mobile food unit, so as to allow the license to be facing
a public street and easily observable by the public, throughout the duration of
the license’s life.
   D.   To determine the suitability of prospective applicants for a license
under this article, pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-3008, each applicant
shall, for himself, and for each person who will be employed “on site” and
interacting with members of the public at the location of the street stand
merchant facility, or mobile food unit, request from the Idaho state police,
bureau of criminal identification, a name based criminal background check.
Provided, however, that any applicant who is under the age of eighteen (18) at
the time of application, shall not be required to request said background
check, but, rather, shall be subjected to a locally administered background
check to be conducted by the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall have
sole discretion to determine how often any background check shall be renewed
and whether or not to grant a waiver for the background check requirements.
   E.   No applicant shall be issued a license when that person, or any other
person who will be employed “on site” and interacting with members of the
public at the location of the street stand merchant facility, or mobile food
unit:
      1.   Would not be of sufficient age to be considered lawfully employable
under title 44, chapter 13 of the Idaho Code, or other applicable state or
federal laws;
      2.   Is required to register as a sex offender, pursuant to the sexual
offender registration notification and community right-to-know act, Idaho Code
section 18-8301 et seq., and/or the juvenile sex offender registration
notification and community right-to-know act, Idaho Code section 18-8401 et
seq.;
      3.   Has ever been convicted of or pled guilty to any violent felony
offense, including, but not limited to, aggravated assault, aggravated battery,
robbery, homicide, aggravated arson, kidnapping, stalking, rape or any felony
of a sexual nature;
      4.   Has been, within ten (10) years prior to the date of making
application for such certificate, arrested for, charged with, convicted of,
paid any fines, been placed on probation, received a deferred sentence,
received a withheld judgment, completed any sentence of confinement, or
suffered the forfeiture of a bond for any felony, or for any misdemeanor which,
if committed in the state of Idaho, would have constituted a felony;
      5.   Has been, within five (5) years prior to the date of making
application for such license, arrested for, charged with, convicted of, paid
any fine, been placed on probation, received a deferred sentence, received a
withheld judgment, completed any sentence of confinement, or suffered the
forfeiture of a bond for any misdemeanor, involving:
         a.   The use of force against the persons or property of another;
         b.   The threat of force against the persons or property of another;
         c.   Theft or larceny;
         d.   The use, possession or sale of illicit drugs;
         e.   Possession of a concealed weapon;
         f.   Illicit sexual, lewd or obscene activity or materials, including,
but not limited to, violations of Idaho Code sections 18-919, 18-1515, 18-4103
through 4105, or 18-4116;
         g.   Stalking, telephone harassment, or violations of protection
orders or do not contact orders; or
         h.   Contributing to the delinquency of a minor.
If an applicant fails to qualify for a license for the sole reason that they,
or any other person who will be employed “on site” and interacting with members
of the public at the location of the street stand merchant facility, or mobile
food unit, have been arrested for or charged with a felony or enumerated
misdemeanor, and the applicant can provide proof to the satisfaction of the
Chief of Police that such arrest did not result in charges or any charges filed
were dismissed or resulted in acquittal, the city shall issue a license if the
applicant or other person otherwise qualifies.
Prior to allowing any person to be employed “on site” and to interact with
members of the public at the location of a street stand merchant facility, or
mobile food unit, the applicant shall have the continuing obligation to ensure
the suitability of that person has been demonstrated to the city in accordance
with the requirements of this subsection and subsection D., above. Further, the
applicant shall immediately notify the City Clerk and Chief of Police upon
learning of any circumstances that would render him or her, or any other person
employed “on site” and interacting with members of the public at the location
of the street stand merchant facility, or mobile food unit, no longer suitable
hereunder. (Ord. 697,2-27-2023)
3-11-5: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
   A.   The sale of a newspaper subscription in which the seller is a person
engaged in both the delivery and sale of the newspaper;
   B.   The occasional sale of admission by local school students to a function
of their school; or fundraising sales by local service clubs or groups such as
Elks, Kiwanis, Lions, Boy or Girl Scouts;
   C.   Any political group seeking funds or membership;
   D.   Youth lemonade stands;
   E.   Charitable car wash;
   F.   Idaho Youth Games;
   G.   Any uses similar to those listed above that are approved by the City
Clerk or his/her authorized designee. (Ord. 697,2-27-2023)
3-11-6: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
All licenses issued under the provisions of this section shall expire on the
date specified in the license, which shall be calculated based on the
limitations set forth below:
   A.   No street stand merchant facility certificate shall be issued for a
period longer than 6 months.
   B.   No certificate for a mobile food unit may be issued for a period longer
than one (1) year.
   C.   Once a street stand merchant facility or mobile food unit license has
expired, the facility or unit must be removed from the property on which it
operated and shall not be replaced or relocated within the City, unless a new
application has been submitted and approved by city staff. (Ord. 697,2-27-2023)
3-11-7: PENALTIES:
Failure to comply with the provisions of this section will result in the
suspension of any license issued under this section until such time as the
facility or unit in question has been brought into compliance, and an
administrative fee, as established by resolution of the City Council and as may
be amended from time to time, has been paid to the City Clerk’s Office. Should
the same facility or unit, including any owner and employee associated
therewith, cause the unit or facility to be in violation of the provisions of
this section within one (1) year of a previous suspension, said facility’s or
unit’s license shall be revoked, and said facility or unit shall be ineligible
for issuance of a new license within the City of Fruitland for a period of
three hundred sixty five (365) days from the date of revocation. Should the
same facility or unit be found to be in violation of the provisions of this
section for a third time within three (3) years from the most recent license
suspension or revocation, said facility or unit, together with its primary
owner or operator, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as set out in
Fruitland City Code. (Ord. 697, 2-27-2023; amd. Ord. 712, 2-10-2025)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Public Nuisance Defined
4-1-2: Nuisances Specifically Defined
4-1-3: Abatement; Penalty
4-1-1: PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED:
A public nuisance is a thing, act, failure to act, occupation or use of real or
personal property which shall:
   A.   Annoy, injure or endanger the safety, health, comfort or repose of any
considerable number of persons.
   B.   Offend the public decency.
   C.   In any way render any considerable number of persons insecure in life
or in use of property. (1984 Code §
8-2-1)
4-1-2: NUISANCES SPECIFICALLY DEFINED:
The following specific acts, omissions, places, conditions and things are
hereby declared to be nuisances:
   A.   Accumulations of manure, rubbish or garbage which are breeding places
for flies, mosquitoes or vermin.
   B.   All loud or unusual noises and annoying vibrations which offend the
peace and quiet of persons of ordinary sensibilities.
   C.   1. All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over the
streets or sidewalks so situated or constructed as to endanger public safety.
      2.   Any billboard or sign on any vacant lot or portion of a lot within
the city which might be in any way a fire hazard or which might be or become a
nuisance therein.
   D.   Filthy, littered or trash covered cellars, house yards, factory yards,
vacant areas in the rear of stores, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises
containing trash, litter, rags, old household appliances, accumulation of empty
barrels, boxes, crates, packing cases, lumber or firewood not neatly piled,
scrap iron, tin and other metal not neatly piled or anything whatsoever in
which flies or rats may breed or multiply or which may be a fire danger.
   E.   To throw, deposit or discard any bottles, cans or rubbish on any
street, alley, parking lot or other public place within the corporate limits of
the city.
   F.   All weeds 1 , grass, growth, overhanging branches of trees interfering
with travel, and rubbish, as far as the curb lines on any street fronting or
adjoining any property.
   G.   All junk and junked machinery and junked motor vehicles 2  on any
property within the city.
   H.   Any unsightly building, billboard or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure, or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, or any abandoned well or excavation
not properly protected and which may attract children and endanger them in the
course of play.
   I.   Allowing horses, mules, cattle, sheep, goats, swine or domestic fowl to
run or be at large or to be on or enter the premises of another person, or
public parks, by the owners or keepers thereof.
   J.   Allowing animals to become a nuisance to surrounding property owners,
tenants or occupants, by the owners or keepers thereof. (1984 Code §
8-2-2)
   K.   Allowing odor from fire, feces, manufacturing processes, commercial
processing, waste treatment or from any other source to travel beyond property
boundaries or travel into the city limits, which odor annoys, injures or
endangers the health, safety or well being of any number of persons. (1984 Code
§
8-2-2; amd. 2014 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See article A of this chapter.
2 2. See article B of this chapter.
4-1-3: ABATEMENT; PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who shall knowingly cause or create any public nuisance, or
permit any public nuisances to be created or to be placed upon any premises
owned or occupied by him, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code §
8-2-3; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not permit it to
continue, and all such persons shall be required to correct or hereby remedy
such violations or defects within five (5) days; and when otherwise not
specified, each five (5) days that prohibited conditions are maintained shall
constitute a separate offense.
   C.   Each day's or part of day's continuance of anything prohibited by this
chapter shall be a separate offense. (1984 Code §
8-2-3)
ARTICLE A. WEEDS 1
SECTION:
4-1A-1: Nuisance Declared
4-1A-2: Removal Required
4-1A-3: Notice To Remove; Noncompliance
4-1A-4: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  4-1-2F of this chapter.
4-1A-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
   A.   Within City Limits: It shall be a nuisance and is unlawful for the
owner, agent of such owner, tenant and/or occupant of any real property within
the city to permit or allow upon said real property, or upon any sidewalk
abutting same, or upon the alleys abutting the same to the center thereof, any
noxious, deleterious, harmful and/or unhealthy growths of weeds which exceed
eight inches (8") in height; and/or rubbish, trash, litter, debris, garbage or
other waste substances.
   B.   Within Three Miles Of City Limits: It shall be a nuisance and is
unlawful for the owner, agent of such owner, tenant and/or occupant of any real
property outside the city limits, but within three (3) miles thereof, to permit
or allow upon said real property any noxious, deleterious, harmful and/or
unhealthy growth of weeds which exceed eight inches (8") in height and which
are located within ten feet (10') of any building. (1984 Code § 8-2A-1)
4-1A-2: REMOVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Within City Limits: All occupants, tenants, owners and agents of such
owners of real property within the municipality are required to remove all
rubbish, trash, litter, debris, garbage or other waste substances and to remove
and/or cut and chop into small pieces any noxious, deleterious, harmful and/or
unhealthy growths of weeds which exceed eight inches (8") in height and are
located on said real property.
   B.   Within Three Miles Of City Limits: All occupants, tenants, owners and
agents of such owners of real property outside the city limits, but within
three (3) miles thereof, are required to remove or cut and chop into small
pieces any noxious, deleterious, harmful and/or unhealthy growths of weeds
which exceed eight inches (8") in height and are located on said real property
and are within ten feet (10') of any building. (1984 Code § 8-2A-2)
4-1A-3: NOTICE TO REMOVE; NONCOMPLIANCE:
   A.   The city clerk, or other duly authorized representative, is authorized
and empowered to give actual notice to the owner, agent of such owner, tenant
or occupant of real property to comply with sections
4-1A-1 and
4-1A-2 of this article; provided, however, if actual notice is not possible,
the city clerk shall give written notice by registered mail, addressed to said
owner, agent of owner, tenant or occupant at his last known address.
   B.   Upon failure, neglect or refusal of any such owner, agent of owner,
tenant or occupant to comply with this article, the designated official is
authorized and empowered to pay for and employ labor for the removal of the
waste substances and/or the cutting and chopping of the weeds mentioned in this
article. The reasonable value of the services rendered in removing the waste
substances and/or the cutting and chopping of the weeds, plus accrued interest
computed thereon at the legal rate from the date of completion of said work, if
not paid by the owner, agent of such owner, tenant or occupant of said real
property within thirty (30) days after completion, shall be assessed against
the real property; and, if not paid within thirty (30) days thereafter, and
within thirty (30) days after mailing a notice of assessment, the amount shall
be declared delinquent and shall be certified to the tax collector of the
county by the city clerk, and shall be, by said tax collector, placed upon the
tax roll and collected in the same manner and subject to the same penalties as
other city taxes. (1984 Code § 8-2A-3)
4-1A-4: PENALTY:
   A.   The failure, neglect or refusal of a tenant, occupant, owner or agent
of such owner to comply with sections
4-1A-1 and
4-1A-2 of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 8-2A-4; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Each and every ten (10) days any such owner, agent of owner, tenant or
occupant fails, refuses or neglects to comply with provisions of said sections
4-1A-1 and
4-1A-2 of this article shall constitute a separate and distinct offense, and
each of such separate offenses shall be punishable as a misdemeanor. (1984 Code
§ 8-2A-4)
ARTICLE B. ABANDONED, WRECKED VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-1B-1: Definition
4-1B-2: Nuisances Declared
4-1B-3: Exemptions
4-1B-4: Removal Procedures
4-1B-1: DEFINITION:
A "wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle", or part thereof, hereinafter
called a junk motor vehicle, shall be defined as an unsightly motor vehicle or
a part or parts therefrom, or one that does not have a current valid state
registration and license plate, or one that is not currently covered by minimum
liability insurance in an amount required by the state, or one that cannot be
safely operated under its own power, or one that does not have any one of the
following: foot brakes, hand brakes, headlights, taillights, horn, muffler,
rearview mirrors, windshield wipers or adequate fenders. (1984 Code § 8-2B-1)
4-1B-2: NUISANCES DECLARED:
   A.   The accumulation and storage of junk vehicles or parts on private or
public property is hereby found to create a condition tending to reduce the
value of private property, to promote blight and deterioration, to invite
plundering, to create fire hazards, to constitute an attractive nuisance
creating a hazard to health and safety to minors, to create a harborage for
rodents and insects and to be injurious to the health, safety and general
welfare. Therefore, the presence of a wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicle, or parts thereof, on private or public property, except as expressly
hereinafter permitted, is declared to constitute a public nuisance, which may
be abated as such in accordance with the provisions of this article 1 .
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain a junk motor vehicle,
vehicles, or parts thereof, on residential property or business property for a
period of more than thirty (30) days. (1984 Code § 8-2B-2)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  4-1-2G of this chapter.
4-1B-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The following exemptions are applicable to the provisions of this article:
   A.   A vehicle, or part thereof, which is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other
public or private property; or
   B.   A vehicle, or part thereof, which is stored or parked in a lawful
manner on private property in connection with the business of a licensed
dismantler, licensed vehicle dealer, a junk dealer, or when such storage or
parking is necessary to the operation of a lawfully conducted business or
commercial enterprise; or
   C.   Any motor vehicle used on a regular seasonal basis for off street
racing or other recreational purposes; or
   D.   Any vehicle owned by a person serving on active duty outside the state
in the armed services of the United States Of America, provided, such vehicle
did not qualify as a junk vehicle prior to the owner thereof becoming so
engaged in such active service. (1984 Code § 8-2B-3)
4-1B-4: REMOVAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Removal By City: The police chief, fire chief or building inspector, or
their authorized representatives, may order any junk motor vehicle, vehicles,
or parts thereof, removed within ten (10) days.
      1.   Notice of such order shall be placed upon said junk motor vehicle,
vehicles, or parts thereof. Copies of said notices shall be served upon any
adult occupying the real estate on which the junk motor vehicle, vehicles, or
parts thereof, are located and upon the owner of the junk, if known. If no
occupant of the real estate or owner of the junk vehicle, vehicles, or parts
thereof, can be found, a notice affixed to any building on the real estate
shall constitute notice to the owner or occupant of the real estate and to the
owners of the junk motor vehicle, vehicles, or parts thereof. If there is no
building on the real estate, said notice may be affixed elsewhere on the real
estate.
      2.   If said junk vehicle, vehicles, or parts thereof, are not removed
within the time so fixed, the police chief, fire chief or building inspector,
or their authorized representatives, may cause said junk vehicle, vehicles, or
parts thereof, to be removed and the actual cost of removal or tow in charge
and a storage charge for so long as the same is in possession or custody of the
city shall be charged to the owner. In the event said junk motor vehicle,
vehicles, or parts thereof, are not claimed by the lawful owner, then and in
that event the same shall be sold. To defray the expense of removal of junk
motor vehicle, vehicles, or parts thereof, the city may levy a special
assessment on the land or premises whereon the same were maintained, as
provided under Idaho Code section 50-334. (1984 Code § 8-2B-4)
   B.   Refusal To Remove: It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to fail or refuse to remove a wrecked, junk
motor vehicle, vehicles, or parts thereof, or refuse to abate such nuisance
when ordered to do so in accordance with the provisions of this article.
   C.   Interference With Removal: It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, to interfere with, hinder or refuse to allow any authorized
city officer or employee to enter upon private or public property to enforce
the provisions of this article. (1984 Code § 8-2B-4; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 2
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-2-1: Adoption Of Open Burning Regulations
4-2-2: City Restrictions And Regulations
4-2-3: Penalty
4-2-1: ADOPTION OF OPEN BURNING REGULATIONS:
For the purpose of regulating and governing conditions causing a polluted
atmosphere which causes an unreasonable interference with human, plant or
animal life, or the reasonable use of property, the regulation for control of
open burning adopted by the Idaho air pollution control commission on July 23,
1970, pursuant to authority granted by Idaho Code section 50-901, are and the
same are hereby adopted by reference. Said regulations for control of open
burning, one copy of which shall be on file at all times in the office of the
city clerk, shall be made a part of this code as if set out at length herein.
(1984 Code §
8-3-1; amd. 2014 Code)
4-2-2: CITY RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS:
Except as permitted herein, there shall be no open burning within the city
limits. Burning shall be allowed from six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until two o'clock
(2:00) P.M. seven (7) days per week from June 1 until September 30. Burning
shall be allowed from ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. until four o'clock (4:00) P.M.
seven (7) days per week from October 1 until May 31; provided, that nothing
shall be burned except paper, wood and dry vegetation. There shall be no
burning of garbage, mattresses, tires, plastics or any other thing, object or
commodity which omits offensive, noxious or poisonous smoke. Immediately upon
notice of a thermal inversion or any atmospheric condition which creates poor
air quality, said fires shall be immediately extinguished. (1984 Code §
8-3-2)
4-2-3: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition thereto, such persons may be enjoined from
continuing such violations. Each day upon which such a violation occurs
constitutes a separate violation. (1984 Code §
8-3-3; amd. 2014 Code)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
RESERVED
(Ord. 619, 3-13-2017)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Cruelty To Animals
5-2-3: Nondomestic And Farm Animals
5-2-4: Dog Licenses
5-2-5: License Tags
5-2-6: Rabies Control
5-2-7: Kennel License
5-2-8: Offenses And Conditions
5-2-9: Animals Presenting Immediate Danger
5-2-10: Police Authority
5-2-11: Impoundment Procedures
5-2-12: Habitual Violator
5-2-13: Designation As Dangerous Or Potentially Dangerous Dog
5-2-14: Consequences Of A Dangerous Or Potentially Dangerous Dog Determination
5-2-15: Dangerous Dog And Potentially Dangerous Dog Registration Requirements
5-2-16: Dangerous Dog And Potentially Dangerous Dog Owner Responsibilities
5-2-17: Responsibility
5-2-18: Action For Damages
5-2-19: Penalties
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the present tense shall include the past and
future tense, and the future the present. Each gender shall include all
genders. The singular number shall include the plural, and the plural the
singular.
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates, the following
words shall be defined to mean:
ABANDON: To leave an animal unattended for more than twenty four (24) hours
without making arrangements for its proper care, sustenance and shelter, or
releasing the animal upon public highways or public or private lands.
ABATEMENT: The termination of any violation of this chapter by lawful and
reasonable means as determined by the animal control personnel in order that a
person or persons presumed to be the owner of an animal comply with this
chapter.
ANIMAL: Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as part of the animal kingdom.
Animals shall be classified as follows:
Domestic Animals: Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated household
pets that have traditionally, through a long association with humans, lived in
a state of dependence upon humans or have been traditionally kept as a
household pet. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall include dogs, cats,
ferrets, caged birds, pigeons, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated
rabbits, chinchillas, fish, nonpoisonous, nonvenomous and nonconstricting
reptiles or amphibians, and other similar animals.
Farm Animals: Those animals commonly associated with a farm or performing work
in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall
include members of the equine family (horses, mules), bovine family (cows,
bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese), swine
(including Vietnamese potbellied pigs), goats, bees, llamas, alpacas, and other
animals associated with a farm, ranch, or stable.
Nondomestic Animals: Those animals commonly considered to be naturally wild and
not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly considered to be
inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of people. Unless
otherwise defined, such animals shall include:
   A.   Any member of the large cat family (family Felidae) including cougars,
bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly accepted domesticated
house cats.
   B.   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family Canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs.
   C.   Any crossbreeds between naturally wild animals and domestic animals,
such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog.
   D.   Any member or relative of the rodent family including squirrels, not
otherwise identified as a domestic animal.
   E.   Any skunk (whether or not descented), or raccoon, and other members of
the weasel family (Mustelidae) and raccoon family (Procyonidae), but excluding
those members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets.
   F.   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous member
of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa constrictors,
pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators.
   G.   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which can be
reasonably defined by the terms of this definition, including, but not limited
to, bears, deer, and monkeys.
ANIMAL CONTROL AGENCY: Any organization(s) authorized by the city council to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Any individual authorized by the city council to
enforce the provisions of this chapter, and including any state or local law
enforcement officer whose duties in whole or in part include assignments that
involve seizure and impoundment of any animal.
ANIMAL CONTROL SHELTER: That animal control facility authorized by the city
council as the place for the impounding of animals and other operations of the
animal control agency.
AT LARGE: Off or away from the premises of the owner; and not under the control
of such owner or other person either by leash, cord or chain (not to exceed 8
feet), or confined.
ATTACK: Any aggressive physical contact by an animal which a reasonable person
would conclude places a person or domestic animal in reasonable apprehension of
imminent and substantial bodily harm.
BARKING: Any audible vocal sound produced by a dog or dogs.
COMMERCIAL DOG KENNEL: The ownership, possession, keeping or harboring of one
or more dogs, over the age of four (4) months, for the purposes of boarding,
breeding, feeding, buying or selling or raising of such animals, or any of said
purposes, or permitting four (4) or more dogs over the age of four (4) months,
to be or to remain upon his or her premises. Commercial dog kennels will not be
licensed in any residential area.
CONFINED: Keeping an animal within an enclosure that cannot be opened by any
person other than the owner or with the owner's assistance or consent and from
which an animal cannot escape.
   A.   A potentially dangerous dog is "confined" as the term is used in this
chapter if such dog is securely confined indoors or confined within a securely
enclosed fence or structure upon the premises of the person in possession of
such dog in a manner that prevents contact with dog from humans and other
domestic animals with sufficient locking mechanisms to prevent unauthorized
persons from releasing the enclosed animal. Said fence or structure shall also
be sufficiently secure to keep the animal from releasing itself.
   B.   A dangerous dog is "confined" as the term is used in this chapter if
such dog is securely confined indoors or confined in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure upon the premises of the person in possession of such
dog in a manner described in this definition. At a minimum, such pen or
structure must have secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has
no bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be embedded in the ground no
less than two feet (2') (0.6096 m). Said pen or structure shall be sufficiently
secured with redundant locking mechanisms to prevent unauthorized persons from
releasing the enclosed animal. Said pen shall also be sufficiently secure to
keep the animal from releasing itself. A list of approved building materials
for such structures will be maintained by the chief of police and made
available upon request. All such structures shall be constructed in such a
manner, and of such materials, as approved by the Fruitland city building
inspector and the chief of police, or his appointed representative. A
certificate of inspection of the structures shall be made a part of that dog's
file at the Fruitland police department.
CURRENT VACCINATION: An animal that has received a primary rabies vaccine at
least thirty (30) days ago, and no more than one year ago, or has received a
booster vaccine administered according to the manufacturer's written
instructions. The rabies vaccine shall be licensed by the United States
department of agriculture for use in that species (a list of the currently
licensed vaccines can be found in the current "Compendium Of Animal Rabies
Vaccines" prepared and updated annually by the National Association Of State
Public Health Veterinarians). Rabies vaccinations must be performed by or under
the direct supervision of a veterinarian who is licensed or legally permitted
to practice veterinary medicine in the state.
DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Any animal, other than a dog, that without intentional
provocation, bites or attacks humans or other animals; or in a dangerous,
vicious or terrorizing manner approaches any person in an apparent attitude of
attack, whether or not the attack is consummated or is capable of being
consummated.
DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog that:
   A.   Without justified provocation has inflicted serious injury on a person
while on public or private property;
   B.   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation while on public or
private property;
   C.   Has been previously found to be a potentially dangerous dog where the
owner has received notice of such determination and the animal subsequently
meets the definition of a "potentially dangerous dog" for a second time within
a six (6) month period.
   D.   Has been kept with the intention of using its size, manner,
disposition, training or breeding to instill fear in others; or
   E.   Has been bred, trained, owned, possessed, or kept for the purpose of
dogfighting.
EUTHANASIA: The procedure in which an animal is humanely killed by a method
that is painless to such animal, either causing instant painless
unconsciousness and subsequent death or immediate death, performed by a
certified euthanasia technician or licensed veterinarian in accordance with
Idaho Code title 54.
GUARD DOG: Any dog trained or used to protect persons or property by attacking
or threatening to attack any person found within the area patrolled by the dog
and that is either securely enclosed within that area at all times or under the
continuous control of a trained handler.
HARBORING: Allowing any animal to remain, or to be lodged, fed, or sheltered on
the property one owns, occupies or controls for twenty four (24) consecutive
hours, or for one or more hours per day for three (3) consecutive days.
JUSTIFIED PROVOCATION: To perform any act or omission that a reasonable person
with common knowledge of dog behavior would conclude is likely to precipitate a
bite or attack by an ordinary dog.
NONBITE EXPOSURE: Saliva from an animal has come in contact with an open wound
or mucus membrane.
NONCOMMERCIAL DOG KENNEL: The ownership, keeping or harboring of more than
three (3) dogs, over the age of four (4) months, not used for boarding,
breeding, buying, selling or raising other than as domesticated pets in a
residential district. All of said dogs shall be kept confined to the residence
of the premises.
OWN: To keep, harbor, or have control, charge or custody of an animal. Animals
in the custody of a minor, or incapacitated person shall be deemed to be owned
by the minor's parent(s), guardian or head of the household where the minor or
incapacitated person resides.
OWNER: Any person who owns, possesses, keeps, exercises control over,
maintains, harbors, feeds, waters, transports, or sells an animal, or one who
assists another in possession, sale, transport, harboring, feeding, watering or
maintenance thereof. An owner need not have any pecuniary, proprietary or
economic interest in a dog.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, society, copartnership, limited
partnership, limited liability company, association, or any other legal or
business entity.
POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG: A dog that may reasonably be assumed to pose a
threat to public safety as demonstrated by the following behaviors:
   A.   Chasing or approaching a person or domestic animal upon the streets,
sidewalks, or any other public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent
attitude of attack;
   B.   Acting in a highly aggressive manner on private property with an
apparent ability to escape the private property or enclosure;
   C.   Causing injury to a human or domestic animal or otherwise threatening
the safety of a human or domestic animal;
   D.   Inflicts a bite upon a human or domestic animal either on public or
private property;
   E.   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
unprovoked, to cause injury, or otherwise to threaten the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
PROVOKE: To perform an act or omission that an ordinary and reasonable person
would conclude is likely to precipitate the bite or attack by an animal.
QUARANTINE: The strict confinement of an animal in a manner which precludes
direct contact with other animals not concurrently in quarantine or persons
other than the owner or caretaker. The quarantine shall be conducted under an
order issued by the animal control agency designating the specific place,
manner and provisions of the quarantine.
RABIES SUSPECT ANIMAL: Any animal which has bitten, scratched, or broken the
skin of a human being; been in contact with or been bitten, scratched or has
had its skin broken by a rabid animal; or any animal which shows symptoms
suggestive of rabies.
RESTRAINT: A. A potentially dangerous dog shall be considered under restraint
if it is: 1) within the real property limits of its owner and "confined" as
defined in this chapter; or 2) when off of the owner's real property secured by
a leash or lead no more than eight feet (8') in length being held by a person
capable of controlling that dog. A dog that frees itself from its owner's real
property limits, a leash or lead, and a dog that is in a vehicle in a manner
that would not prevent escape or contact with other persons or animals shall be
considered to be not under restraint and in violation of this chapter subject
to general misdemeanor penalties.
   B.   A dangerous dog shall be maintained exclusively on the owner's property
except for medical treatment or examination. A dangerous dog shall be
considered under restraint when removed from the owner's property for medical
treatment or examination if the dangerous dog shall be caged in a vehicle and
otherwise within the control of a responsible person, muzzled, and restrained
with a chain or leash, not exceeding four feet (4') in length. The muzzle shall
be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the dangerous dog or
interfere with its vision or respiration, but shall prevent it from biting any
human being or animal.
SANITIZE: To make physically clean and to remove and destroy, to the maximum
degree that is practical, agents injurious to animal or human health.
SECURE ENCLOSURE: An enclosure that shall not allow the egress of the animal in
any manner without human assistance.
SERIOUS INJURY: Any physical injury that results in broken bones, piercing of
the hypodermis or tearing of the muscles, veins or arteries, or disfiguring
lacerations that would cause a reasonably prudent person to seek treatment from
a medical professional without regard to whether the person actually sought
medical treatment.
SERVICE ANIMAL: Any animal which is trained or being trained to aid humans as
defined by the Americans with disabilities act. (Ord. 617, 12-12-2016)
5-2-2: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   A.   Standard Of Care: All animals shall receive from their owners or
keepers the minimum standard of care set forth in this section. Any person not
treating their pet in such a humane manner will be subject to the penalties
provided in this chapter. It shall be unlawful to leave an animal within the
city without providing for the animal's control, supervision or restraint. It
shall be unlawful to leave any animal within the city limits with the intent of
having the city care for or dispose of the animal. It shall be unlawful for any
person to leave any animal within the city without wholesome food, water,
shelter or access to any of those necessities, the minimum standards of which
are as follows:
      1.   Sufficient Food: All animals shall be provided, at intervals not to
exceed twenty four (24) hours, a quantity of wholesome foodstuff suitable for
the animal's specific species and age and which maintains an adequate level of
nutrition to sustain the good health of the animal.
      2.   Sufficient Water: Constant access to a supply of clean, fresh water
provided at intervals not to exceed twenty four (24) hours.
      3.   Sanitary Keeping Of Animals: Every owner or caregiver of animals
shall keep all animals in a clean, sanitary and healthy manner and not confined
so as to be forced to stand, sit or lie in their own excrement.
      4.   Shelter: Every owner or caregiver shall provide all domestic animals
with a shelter that shall be a structure having at least four (4) walls, a
roof, a floor which is raised off the ground, a door opening properly shielded
from wind and rain and which is ventilated and protected from excessive heat
and cold and of sufficient size commensurate to the size of the inhabiting
animal to permit the animal to move about freely.
      5.   Tethering: Any owner shall not tether a dog by use of a choke collar
or tether or confine an animal in such manner that it can become entangled so
that it cannot move freely, cannot reach shelter or water, or such that it can
become entangled with another animal. The area where the animal is tethered or
confined must be free of extraneous material that may cause it injury (such as,
but not limited to, glass, sharp metal, nails, etc.). A dog tether must be a
minimum length of three (3) times the length of the dog, measured from the tip
of its nose to the base of its tail. No animal may be kept continuously
tethered for more than twelve (12) hours in any twenty four (24) hour period.
      6.   Exercise: Any confined animal must periodically be provided with
physical activity appropriate to their species, age and condition sufficient to
maintain health.
      7.   Veterinary Care: The owner or caregiver of a diseased or injured
animal shall promptly provide the animal with appropriate veterinary care and
shall segregate the diseased animal from other animals, if appropriate, to
prevent the transmittal of disease.
   B.   Torture Or Neglect: It shall be unlawful for any person to suffer or
permit any animal to be tortured, neglected, tormented, overloaded, overworked,
cruelly beaten or mutilated, or cruelly killed; and whoever having charge or
custody of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, inflicts or allows the
infliction of unnecessary suffering or pain upon the same shall be guilty of
violating this section.
   C.   Animal Fights Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to cause,
instigate, or permit any dogfight, cockfight, bullfight, or other such combat
between animals or between animals and humans. Anyone who permits such conduct
on premises under his control, and any person present at such an exhibition,
shall also be deemed a violator of this subsection and subject to punishment
thereof.
   D.   Fighting Equipment: It shall be unlawful to possess cockspurs,
slashers, gaffs, or other tools, equipment, devices or training facilities for
the purpose of training or engaging an animal in combat with another animal.
   E.   Leg Hold Traps: It shall be illegal to set out any leg hold traps in
the city unless approved by the animal control agency.
   F.   Animal Exhibition, Circus: It shall be unlawful for an animal
exhibition or circus to perform acts or exhibits in which animals are induced
or encouraged to perform through the use of chemical, mechanical, electrical,
or manual devices in a manner which will cause, or is likely to cause, physical
injury or suffering.
   G.   Confinement Without Food And Water; Intervention: Anyone observing a
domestic animal confined without necessary food for more than thirty six (36)
consecutive hours, or water for more than twenty four (24) hours, should
contact the animal control agency immediately.
   H.   Unsafe Containment Of Animal In Motor Vehicle: No person shall permit
an animal to be within or on a motor vehicle at any location under such
conditions that may endanger the health, safety or well being of the animal,
including, but not limited to, dangerous temperatures, lack of air, food, water
or proper care. In order to protect the health and safety of such animal, an
animal control officer/police officer who has probable cause to believe that
this subsection is being violated shall have the authority to enter such motor
vehicle by any reasonable means under the circumstances after making a
reasonable effort to locate the owner.
   I.   Abandonment: It shall be unlawful to abandon an animal intentionally,
knowingly, recklessly, or, with criminal negligence, leave an animal at a
location without providing for the animal's continued care unless allowed by
state law. It is no defense to abandonment if a person abandons an animal at or
near an animal shelter, veterinary clinic or other place of shelter if
reasonable arrangements for the care of the animal were not made by the person
abandoning the animal.
   J.   Violation; Animal Impoundment: Any person violating this section shall
be guilty of a general misdemeanor. Any animal found in violation of this
section may be impounded by the animal control officer. (Ord. 617, 12-12-2016)
5-2-3: NONDOMESTIC AND FARM ANIMALS:
   A.   Commercial Purposes Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
keep, maintain or raise for commercial purposes within the city any poultry,
horses, cattle, sheep, hogs, livestock, or dogs. Any person violating any of
the provisions of this section shall be subject to a penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Keeping Of Nondomestic Animals Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to possess, keep, or harbor a nondomestic animal. This prohibition does
not apply to zoological parks, properly licensed transient animal exhibitions,
circuses, or licensed veterinarians, or those possessing valid and current
state and/or federal permits to keep such animals. (Ord. 617, 12-12-2016)
5-2-4: DOG LICENSES:
   A.   License Required; Exceptions: It shall be unlawful for any person to
own, harbor, keep or possess a dog which is older than four (4) months of age
within the city without first procuring a license as required by this chapter,
except:
      1.   Dogs whose owners are nonresidents, temporarily within the city for
thirty (30) days or less.
      2.   Dogs brought into the city for the purpose of participating in
shows, exhibits, or competitions.
      3.   Dogs which are specially trained to assist visually impaired,
hearing impaired or otherwise physically disabled persons, if the dog is in
training or is actually serving as a guide or service dog.
      4.   Dogs kept and intended for sale by licensed pet stores.
   B.   License Required For Potentially Dangerous Or Dangerous Dogs: It shall
be unlawful for any person to own, harbor, keep, or possess a potentially
dangerous dog or a dangerous dog within the city limits prior to the issuance
of an applicable dog license. No license shall be issued to the owner of a
potentially dangerous or dangerous dog prior to complete compliance with all
sections of this chapter. Compliance with this chapter shall be verified by the
mayor or his designee.
   C.   Nondangerous Dog Annual License Fees; Term:
      1.   The city clerk, or a designee, is hereby authorized to issue a
license to any person who presents a completed dog license application along
with veterinary certification of rabies vaccination and upon payment of a fee
as established by resolution of the City Council and as may be amended from
time to time, per head for each nondangerous dog. Owners presenting veterinary
certification that the dog has been spayed or neutered will pay a fee as
established by resolution of the City Council and as may be amended from time
to time, per head for each nondangerous dog. Owners will certify on their
license application as to their name, address, and birth date and may be
required to provide government issued identification as proof of same.
      2.   Persons who are at least sixty two (62) years of age as of January 1
will pay a fee as established by resolution of the City Council and as may be
amended from time to time, per head to license a single nondangerous and
spayed/neutered dog as a companion animal. Additional dogs will be licensed
subject to the standard fee schedule. Potentially dangerous and dangerous dogs
and dogs which have not been spayed or neutered are not eligible for this
reduced license fee. All licenses issued will be valid from the date of issue
and will expire on December 31 of each year.
   D.   Potentially Dangerous Dog/Dangerous Dog Annual License Fees; Term:
      1.   The city clerk, or a designee, is hereby authorized to issue a
license to any person who presents a completed potentially dangerous dog or
dangerous dog license application along with veterinary certification of rabies
vaccination, compliance with all requirements of this chapter, and upon payment
of the current fee as established by resolution of the city council per head
for each potentially dangerous or dangerous dog. A list of specific dogs, which
have been declared or adjudicated as potentially dangerous or dangerous, will
be maintained by the chief of police and such list will be provided to the city
clerk's office. Owners presenting veterinary certification that the dangerous
dog has been spayed or neutered will pay the current fee as established by
resolution of the council. All licenses issued will be valid from the date of
issue and will expire on December 31 of each year.
      2.   The owner of a potentially dangerous or dangerous dog shall keep the
current license for such dog through annual renewal. Such license is not
transferable and shall be renewable only by the holder of the license or by a
member of the immediate family of such licensee.
   E.   Due Date: Such license fees shall be due and payable on January 1 of
each year, except as hereinafter provided.
   F.   Penalty And Exceptions: If any license fee is not paid on or before
January 31 of each year, the city clerk shall collect a penalty in addition to
said license fee in the sum established by resolution of the City Council and
as may be amended from time to time; provided, however, that any dog born
subsequent to January 31 of any year shall be licensed by the payment of the
appropriate license fee, without penalty, within four (4) months after its
birth, and thereafter the penalty shall be added as hereinbefore set forth, and
any dog brought into the city subsequent to January 31 of any year shall be
licensed by the payment of the appropriate license fee, without penalty, within
thirty (30) days after being brought into the city, and thereafter the penalty
shall be added as hereinbefore set forth.
   G.   Use Of Improper Or Imitation Dog License: It shall be unlawful for any
person to allow any dog owned, kept or harbored by him/her to wear a license
tag issued for another dog, or to wear any imitation of the license tag
required by the city for that year, or any tag marked on plate or collar
similar to that required by the city at any time and calculated to deceive.
(Ord. 617, 12-12-2016; amd. Ord. 712, 2-10-2025)
5-2-5: LICENSE TAGS:
   A.   Tag To Be Worn: Every owner shall be required to provide each dog,
potentially dangerous dog or dangerous dog a collar or harness to which the
license tag must be securely affixed, and shall ensure that the collar and the
tag are constantly worn. A special license tag of such color and design that
will allow clear and easy visual identification of the animal as a potentially
dangerous or dangerous dog will be issued to the owner at the time the license
is issued. This tag shall be worn at all times by the dog. Show dogs, during
showing, are exempted from wearing the collar and tag.
   B.   Lost Tag: A replacement regular license tag shall be issued by the city
clerk upon payment of the current fee as established by resolution of the
council for each tag so issued to replace the original tag which was lost or
destroyed. Replacement dangerous dog license tags shall be issued upon
certification that the original tag was lost or destroyed and upon payment of
the current fee as established by resolution of the council for each tag.
   C.   Unlawful To Remove: No person shall remove or cause to be removed the
collar or tag from any licensed dog without consent of the owner, keeper or
harborer thereof. (Ord. 617, 12-12-2016)
5-2-6: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Rabies Vaccination Required:
      1.   Vaccination Requirement: The owner or person having charge of any
dog, cat, or ferret over sixteen (16) weeks of age within the city shall be
required to have them vaccinated for rabies with a rabies vaccine by a licensed
veterinarian and to keep such vaccinations current, or shall have a waiver of
this requirement issued by a licensed veterinarian.
      2.   Waiver Of Vaccination: Waiver of the rabies vaccination requirement
shall only be obtained by providing a written statement from a licensed
veterinarian stating the medical reason for waiver.
      3.   Revaccination: The owner of every dog, cat, or ferret shall have the
animal revaccinated twelve (12) months after the initial vaccination and then
every three (3) years thereafter using a vaccine labeled by the manufacturer
for triennial use, or every year using a vaccine labeled by the manufacturer
for annual use.
      4.   Rabies Certificate: A certificate of rabies vaccination issued by a
licensed veterinarian must be kept by the owner, upon which is stated the date
of vaccination, owner's name and address, the animal's name (if applicable),
sex, description and weight, the type of vaccine, the vaccine producer and
product name, and the veterinarian's identity.
   B.   Reporting Suspected Case Of Rabies: Any person having care or custody
of an animal which shows symptoms of rabies or which acts in a manner which
would lead to a reasonable suspicion that it may have rabies, shall notify the
animal control agency.
   C.   Keeping Of Rabid Animals Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for a person,
other than a licensed veterinarian, or the animal control agency, to own, keep
or harbor any animal afflicted with rabies or reasonably suspected of having
rabies.
   D.   Reporting Of Bites: Any person owning or having custody or control of a
species subject to rabies which bites a person, shall notify the animal control
agency as soon as possible thereafter.
   E.   Payment Of Fees And Expenses: The owner of any animal which is
quarantined under the provisions of this section shall pay all fees and
expenses related to the quarantine including, but not limited to, the
impoundment, confinement, board, examination, laboratory testing and release of
the animal from quarantine, and any other deposit or fee required by this
chapter.
   F.   Violation: Violation of any provision of this section shall be a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 617, 12-12-2016)
5-2-7: KENNEL LICENSE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to keep, maintain, harbor or possess upon any one
premises more than three (3) dogs, unless the owner or person in charge thereof
has first obtained a noncommercial kennel license. Application for a kennel
license shall be made to the city clerk and shall be accompanied by an
application fee as established by resolution of the City Council and as may be
amended from time to time. The kennel license shall not become effective until
it is reviewed and approved by the city clerk. At the annual renewal of the
license by the holder thereof, after review by the chief of police, the city
clerk shall be authorized to renew or deny any existing license. In the event
of denial, any applicant aggrieved by any decision of the city clerk may appeal
such decision by filing a written notice of appeal with the city council within
ten (10) days of such decision and submitting a fee as established by
resolution of the City Council and as may be amended from time to time to cover
the advertising costs. The city clerk shall transmit said notice of appeal to
the city council, and shall schedule a public hearing on said appeal, to be
held at any regular meeting or special meeting of the city council not later
than forty five (45) days after the filing of such notice of appeal with the
city clerk. The city clerk shall cause the notice to be published in the
official newspaper of the city and shall send notice to any landowner within
five hundred feet (500') of the property subject to the appeal. At such
hearing, the applicant may appear and speak on his own behalf, be represented
by counsel, call witnesses and cross examine any witnesses of the city. The
city council shall proceed to determine said appeal, and, if it decides in
favor of the applicant, it shall pass a motion to that effect and the city
clerk shall, on the next business day thereafter, and upon receipt of the
proper fee, issue such license. The city council may defer action upon said
appeal for not longer than three (3) weeks from the date of the public hearing.
If the city council upholds the city clerk’s decision, the applicant may appeal
such decision by filing an action with the district court.
   B.   Dog kennels shall be maintained in accordance with this section. The
kennels shall be sufficiently soundproofed so that noises from within cannot be
heard by adjoining landowners. No kennel shall be built or constructed, nor
shall any building be remodeled into a kennel until all required building
permits are obtained and written consent is obtained from the property owner.
   C.   All kennels will be maintained in such a manner that there shall be no
odor emanating from the kennels that can be detected by any adjoining
landowners. Sanitation shall be such that the kennel shall not become a
breeding area for flies, vermin or insects. All animals kept within the kennel
shall be properly fed and sanitarily housed. No animal kept in a kennel shall
be mistreated.
   D.   The license issued by the city clerk may be revoked upon a showing that
any requirement of this chapter is not being fulfilled. It shall be in effect
from the date of issuance and shall expire on December 31 of each year. A
kennel license must be renewed each year.
   E.   Whenever any kennel is maintained in such manner as to be offensive on
account of noise or odors, or otherwise, any person may make a complaint to the
city council. Upon filing of such complaint, the city council shall immediately
notify the owner or keeper of such kennel to appear before the council to show
cause why the kennel license should not be revoked. Such hearing shall not be
less than five (5) days nor more than twenty eight (28) days from the date of
filing such complaint, and the notice shall be served not less than five (5)
days before hearing. After hearing, the council will have the following
options: 1) revoke or cancel the license; 2) put the licensee on probation and
subject the license to immediate revocation in the event of any additional
violations, subject to the terms and conditions as the city council may deem
appropriate; 3) dismiss the complaint. (Ord. 617, 12-12-2016; amd. Ord. 712, 2-
10-2025)
5-2-8: OFFENSES AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Dogs Running At Large: It shall be unlawful for any owner, or the
parents or the guardians of any such person under eighteen (18) years of age,
to allow a dog(s) to run at large unless: 1) upon the private premises of
another with the consent of the person in possession of such premises; or 2)
such dog be under the direct and immediate care and control of a person and
controlled by a leash not exceeding eight feet (8') in length; or 3) such dog
be safely confined in a motor vehicle. No dog shall be left inside a vehicle
when the temperature and/or humidity are high or when temperatures are near or
below freezing. Dogs secured in the bed of a pickup or cargo area of any truck
must be secured in such a manner as to prevent any part of their body from
extending past the edge of the platform or bed.
   B.   Confined To The Premises: A dog shall be confined upon the premises of
the owner, possessor or keeper, in such a way as to keep the dog out of all
public rights of way.
   C.   Impoundment: Any dog found running at large or otherwise in violation
of this chapter as expressed herein may be immediately seized, captured or
taken up and impounded and such dog may be so taken without the necessity of
filing a complaint. Such dog shall be impounded and disposed of in accordance
with provisions in this chapter.
   D.   Habitual Barking Or Noisemaking:
      1.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to exercise
proper care and control of his animal that frequently, excessively, or untimely
barks, yelps, howls, whines, cries or makes other noises that are audible off
the owner's property. When none of the residents who reside at the place where
the offending dog is being kept are at home at the time a dog is making such
noises which give rise to a complaint, such absence shall create a rebuttable
presumption that the dog's barking, howling, whining or yelping was unlawful.
      2.   Impoundment: Any such animal in violation of this section may be
seized and impounded if such disturbance reoccurs after the person in control
of the premises has received two (2) prior warnings or citations within a
period of six (6) months from the animal control agency. It is not a defense
that prior warnings or citations involved different animals.
      3.   Exception, Livestock: This section shall not apply to such noises
made by livestock, whether from commercial or noncommercial activities on land
which is properly zoned to allow keeping of livestock, and such sounds made in
facilities licensed under and in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
      4.   Affirmative Defense: It shall be an affirmative defense under this
section that the animal was intentionally provoked to make such noise.
   E.   Sanitary Conditions: Every person who shall keep, maintain or harbor a
dog shall maintain his premises, including, but not limited to, dog pens or
runs, in a clean and sanitary condition so that they shall not be offensive, a
harborage for vermin or a health hazard.
   F.   Inspection: Whenever any person applies for and is granted a license to
maintain a dangerous dog, the application is permission from the applicant for
the chief of police, or his designee, to make whatever inquiry is deemed
necessary, including, but not limited to, entry onto the applicant's property
to ensure ongoing compliance with all provisions of this chapter. Any entry
shall be limited to the purpose of compliance inspections of the licensed
premises and the licensed animal, and will be made in the presence of the owner
whenever practical.
   G.   Damage To Property; Liability: It shall be unlawful for any person's
dog or other animal to damage or destroy any property, including a lawn or
garden, or other thing of value upon the private property of another, or upon
any public property. In the event that the owner of the animal is a minor, or
incapacitated person, the parent or guardian of such minor or incapacitated
person shall be liable for all injuries, property damage, fines and impoundment
fees caused or incurred by said animal.
   H.   Cleaning Up Litter: The owner of any animal or person having the
custody or control of any animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces
of the animal and disposing of such feces in a sanitary manner whether on the
property of others, or on public property before the owner leaves the
aforementioned property. Animal owners shall be responsible for maintaining
sanitary conditions on their own property. Any violation of this section is an
infraction. Any animals kept contrary to this section are subject to
impoundment.
   I.   Keeping In Nauseous Manner: It shall be unlawful for any person to
keep, harbor or maintain any animal or fowl, or any pen, kennel, yard,
enclosure or building in which animals are kept, in such a manner as to be
nauseous, foul or offensive to an ordinary and reasonable person. Any violation
of this section is an infraction. Any animals kept contrary to this section are
subject to impoundment at the expense of the owner.
   J.   Animal In Heat: Every female dog or female cat in heat shall be
confined in a building or other enclosure in such manner that it cannot come in
contact with another dog or cat, except for a planned breeding. Any dog or cat
not so confined when in heat, whether or not such animal is licensed, may be
seized and impounded. Violation of this section shall be an infraction. (Ord.
617, 12-12-2016)
5-2-9: ANIMALS PRESENTING IMMEDIATE DANGER:
If, in the reasonable belief of any person, animal control agency/officer,
peace officer, police officer, or other public officer an animal presents an
immediate danger to the health and safety of any person, or the animal is
threatening imminent harm to any person, or the animal is in the process of
attacking any person, the person, animal control agency/officer, or police
officer may destroy the animal by whatever means necessary to prevent further
injury to the victim. Otherwise, the officer or animal control agency may
apprehend the animal and impound it. Any action taken by a police officer,
ordinance officer or other designated city employee, in the performance of his
duties, that requires the death, injury or destruction of a dog found running
at large, shall not be considered to be cruel or inhumane treatment of the
animal. (Ord. 617, 12-12-2016)
5-2-10: POLICE AUTHORITY:
   A.   Fresh Pursuit: In the enforcement of any provision of this chapter, any
animal control officer, peace officer, police officer, ordinance officer or
other public officer, is authorized to enter the curtilage surrounding the
premises of any person to take possession of licensed or unlicensed roaming,
fierce or dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs when in pursuit of any such
dog at the time the dog goes onto private property.
   B.   Exhibit License: It shall be unlawful for any owner or person keeping
or harboring a dog for which a license is required by this chapter to fail or
refuse to exhibit the license or tag upon demand by a police officer, ordinance
officer or other designated city official.
   C.   Interference With Police: Any person who shall molest, interrupt,
hinder or prevent an animal control officer, peace officer, police officer,
ordinance officer or other public officer, in the discharge of his duty herein
prescribed, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   D.   Authority To Enter Premises: In the enforcement of any provision of
this chapter, any animal control officer, peace officer, police officer,
ordinance officer or other public officer is authorized to enter the curtilage
surrounding the premises of any person to take possession of any unlicensed or
licensed, roaming, or dangerous dogs, whether or not in pursuit of any such
dog, if the dog is in plain view of the officer from a public area. (Ord. 617,
12-12-2016)
5-2-11: IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Authority To Impound: The chief of police, his designee, or other
animal control officer having probable cause to believe that any person has
violated any provision of this chapter for which an animal may be impounded
including, but not limited to, a determination that a dog is potentially
dangerous or dangerous, may impound such an animal; provided, however, that if
any dog so found at large or determined to be potentially dangerous or
dangerous that cannot be safely taken up and impounded, such dog may be
destroyed forthwith if the officer determines that the dog poses a threat to
public safety. If a dog is found to be in need of shelter or care when an owner
is arrested or detained, the dog shall be impounded. Any action taken by a
police officer, ordinance officer or other designated city employee, in the
performance of his duties, that requires the death, injury or destruction of a
potentially dangerous dog or dangerous dog found running at large, shall not be
considered to be cruel or inhumane treatment of the animal.
   B.   Biting Dogs Or Dogs With Rabies: Any dog which bites any person and
causes a break in the skin of that person, regardless if the bite is provoked
or unprovoked, or is suspected of having rabies, shall be seized and impounded
for a period of ten (10) days as required by state law. The chief of police and
health department shall be so notified and the animal disposed of only under
their direction. A complete registry shall be kept of every dog so impounded,
entering the breed, color and sex of such dog, whether licensed, and time and
place of taking. If licensed, the name and address of the owner and the number
of the license tag shall be entered.
   C.   Impoundment Fees:
      1.   Any person who owns, possesses, keeps, is in charge of the care of
or who is responsible for a dog, shall be liable for all impound and quarantine
fees provided for in this chapter. The impound or quarantine fees for any dog
which is impounded for running at large, for biting, for being suspected of
being infected with rabies, or for any other reason shall be as established by
resolution of the City Council and as may be amended from time to time. Said
fees shall be paid to the city clerk’s office and are in addition to any fines
or restitution ordered by the court. In addition to the fees set forth above,
in the event a dog is impounded or quarantined for biting or being suspected of
having rabies, a fee as established by resolution of the City Council and as
may be amended from time to time shall be paid for each day the dog is in the
possession of the city.
      2.   Prior to the release of any dog impounded where the owner is a
resident of the city, the owner shall provide proof that he has possession of a
current city license tag for said dog.
   D.   Care Of Impounded Animals: Any animal impounded under the provisions of
this chapter shall be provided with proper care, food and water while so
confined.
   E.   Additional Fees For Care: All dogs impounded and held for more than
three (3) days as required by state law, or this chapter, will require the
owner to pay a fee as established by resolution of the City Council and as may
be amended from time to time, per day for each twenty four (24) hour period, or
portion thereof, that the dog is impounded.
   F.   Disposition Of Unclaimed Dogs: All dogs impounded shall be kept for a
minimum period of three (3) days. If possession of any dog is not recovered as
above set forth, the dog may be disposed of by delivery to any person who will
pay the license fee and costs herein provided, by delivery to a third party
humane shelter, or the dog may be destroyed in a humane manner.
   G.   Owners To Pay Costs: The owner or representative of the owner of any
dog which may be taken up and impounded under the provisions of this chapter,
may recover possession of such dog upon payment to the city the impoundment
fees, license fee and other costs herein provided, together with payment to the
appropriate animal shelter, if any, unless such dog is of a prohibited class of
dog or subject to a court order to the contrary. (Ord. 617, 12-12-2016; amd.
Ord. 712, 2-10-2025)
5-2-12: HABITUAL VIOLATOR:
   A.   Order Of Abatement; Appeal: In addition to any legal remedy available
under the provisions of this chapter, the city will notify and direct, in
writing, the owner of any animal which is guilty of three (3) convictions of a
violation of this chapter in any twelve (12) month period to abate and remove
said animal from the city within five (5) calendar days from the date of said
notice; or, in the alternative, to abate and transfer ownership and possession
of the animal to another person not living at the same place of residence. Such
notice to abate shall state the method of appealing the order, except that any
appeal must be filed within five (5) calendar days following service of the
notice.
   B.   Request Hearing Before City Council: The owner of any animal that has
been served with an order of abatement, pursuant to subsection A of this
section, may appeal such order by requesting a hearing before the city council
by submitting a written request to the city clerk. Any appeal must be filed
within five (5) calendar days following service of the notice.
   C.   Request Judicial Review Before Magistrate: If the city council affirms
the order of abatement, the owner of any animal may appeal such order by
requesting a hearing before the magistrate court by submitting a written
request to the clerk of the court. Any appeal must be filed within five (5)
calendar days following service of the notice.
   D.   Failure To Abate; Impoundment Of Animal: If said owner of such animal
is found in violation of the abatement notice after five (5) calendar days have
elapsed from the date of notice and no timely appeal is filed, said animal
shall be removed and impounded by the animal control agency, subject to all
impound procedures; provided, however, that the animal may not be returned to
the same residence or property from which it resided or was impounded. (Ord.
617, 12-12-2016)
5-2-13: DESIGNATION AS DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG:
   A.   Declaration Of A Dog As Dangerous Or Potentially Dangerous: The animal
control officer or chief of police, or his designee may find and declare a dog
potentially dangerous or dangerous if he has probable cause to believe the
animal falls within the definitions as set forth in this chapter. The finding
shall be based upon:
      1.   A written complaint of a citizen who is willing to testify that the
animal has acted in a manner which causes such animal to fall within the
definition of either a potentially dangerous or dangerous dog; or
      2.   Actions of the dog witnessed by any law enforcement officer; or
      3.   Other substantial evidence admissible in court under the Idaho rules
of evidence.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   No dog may be declared to be a dangerous or potentially dangerous
dog when at the time of the dangerous or potentially dangerous behavior, the
precipitating cause constituted justified provocation. Justified provocation
includes, but is not limited to, the following:
         a.   The dog was protecting or defending a person within the immediate
vicinity of the dog from an attack or assault;
         b.   The person was committing a crime or offense upon the property of
the owner or custodian of the dog;
         c.   The person was at the time, or had in the past, wilfully
tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog;
         d.   The dog was responding to pain or injury or protecting its
offspring;
         e.   The dog was working as a hunting dog, herding dog or predator
control dog on the property of, or under the control of, its owner or keeper,
and the damage or injury sustained was to a person who was interfering with the
dog while the dog was working in a place where it was lawfully engaged in such
activity, including public lands;
         f.   The dog was a service animal individually trained to do work or
perform tasks for a person with a disability; or
         g.   The person was intervening between two (2) or more animals
engaged in aggressive behavior or fighting.
      2.   The burden of proof on establishing that the dog falls into one of
the exceptions described in subsection B1 of this section is on the owner/
possessor of the dog.
   C.   Determination: At the conclusion of the investigation, the chief of
police may:
      1.   Determine that the dog is not dangerous or potentially dangerous
and, if the dog is impounded, may waive any impoundment fees incurred and,
afterward, release the dog to its owner; or
      2.   Determine that the dog is either potentially dangerous or dangerous
and order the owner to comply with all requirements of this chapter for keeping
a potentially dangerous or dangerous dog, and if the dog is impounded, release
the dog to its owner only after the owner has paid all fees incurred for the
impoundment and licensing of the dog. Fees must be paid within ten (10) days
after final determination that the dog is either potentially dangerous or
dangerous or the chief of police may cause the dog to be humanely destroyed; or
      3.   Determine that the dog is dangerous and order the destruction of the
dog pursuant to this chapter.
   D.   Notification Of Dangerous Dog Declaration: Within five (5) business
days after declaring a dog potentially dangerous or dangerous, the chief of
police or his designee shall serve written notice on the owner or possessor of
the dog of its designation as a potentially dangerous or dangerous dog in one
of the following methods:
      1.   Certified mail to the owner's or possessor's last known address, if
known; or
      2.   Personally served to the owner or to another person eighteen (18)
years of age or older and mentally competent residing at the owner or
possessor's residence; or
      3.   Posting a notice at the owner or possessor's last known address.
   E.   Owner Not Found: If the chief of police cannot, with due diligence,
locate the owner of a dog that has been declared potentially dangerous or
dangerous, or if the owner of such dog shall fail or refuse to accept service
of the required notice, the chief of police shall cause the dog to be impounded
for not less than ten (10) business days. If, after ten (10) business days, the
owner fails to claim the dog or accept service of the required notice, the
chief of police may cause the dog to be humanely destroyed.
   F.   Contents Of Declaration: The declaration shall state at least:
      1.   A description of the dog.
      2.   The name and address of the owner or possessor of the dog, if known.
      3.   The whereabouts of the dog, if known, if such dog is not in the
custody of the owner.
      4.   A summary of the facts upon which the declaration that the dog is
potentially dangerous or dangerous is based.
      5.   The availability of a hearing before the city council in case the
person objects to the declaration if a request is made within five (5) calendar
days; that the owner can be represented by an attorney at all stages of the
hearing; and that the owner can appeal an adverse decision by the city council
to the district court in accordance with subsection H of this section.
      6.   The restrictions and conditions placed on the animal as a result of
the declaration that the dog is a potentially dangerous or dangerous dog and
the date upon which the owner shall be required to have complied with such
restrictions.
      7.   With regard to a declaration of a dangerous dog that is determined
to be a threat to public safety, an order for euthanasia of the dog within five
(5) days unless an appeal is filed in the interim.
      8.   The penalties for violation of the restrictions, including the
possibility of destruction of the animal, and imprisonment or fining of the
owner.
   G.   Objection By Owner; Hearing Before The City Council: If the owner of
the animal wishes to object to the declaration of a potentially dangerous or
dangerous dog by the chief of police:
      1.   The owner may, within five (5) days of receipt of the declaration,
request a hearing before the city council by submitting a written request to
the city clerk.
      2.   Any facts which the petitioner wishes to be considered shall be
submitted under oath or affirmation either in writing or orally at the hearing.
The person seeking to have the dog declared potentially dangerous or dangerous
bears the burden of persuasion by a preponderance of the evidence. The formal
rules of evidence shall not be applied but both parties shall have the right to
present testimony, ask questions, be represented at their own expense and
appeal an adverse ruling. After the hearing, the city council shall make a
final determination whether the dog is or is not a potentially dangerous or
"dangerous dog", as defined in this chapter.
      3.   At the conclusion of a hearing conducted under this section, that
decision shall be final unless the dog owner applies to a court of competent
jurisdiction for any remedies that may be available.
   H.   Appeal: The owner of the animal has the right to appeal the city
council's determination that a dog is potentially dangerous or dangerous.
      1.   The owner may, within five (5) days of receipt of the city council's
written finding, request a hearing before the district court by submitting a
written request to the clerk of the court.
      2.   If the court finds that there is insufficient evidence to support
the declaration, it shall be rescinded and the restrictions imposed thereby
annulled, and the animal, if impounded, shall be released into the owner's
custody without payment of the impound fees.
      3.   If the court finds sufficient evidence to support the declaration,
it may impose court costs on the appellant, and may impose additional
restrictions or penalties on the animal or owner as provided herein.
      4.   In the event the court finds that the animal is not a potentially
dangerous dog, no court costs shall be assessed against the city or the animal
control agency or officer.
      5.   Following service of a declaration of potentially dangerous or
dangerous dog, the chief of police, if circumstances require as a matter of
public safety, impound the animal at the owner's expense, pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, until a court orders either its redemption or
destruction. (Ord. 617, 12-12-2016)
5-2-14: CONSEQUENCES OF A DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG DETERMINATION:
   A.   If the chief of police, his designee, or animal control officer
determines that a dog is a potentially dangerous or dangerous dog, or affirmed
after appeal, the owner shall comply with the requirements within this chapter.
   B.   If the chief of police, his designee, or animal control officer has
probable cause to believe a dog is a potentially dangerous or dangerous dog and
may pose an immediate threat to public safety, he may impound the dog pending
final disposition of the case.
   C.   If a potentially dangerous or dangerous dog has been impounded and
determined to pose a threat to public safety, the chief of police may only
return the dog to its owner if the owner has:
      1.   Met the registration requirements of sections
5-2-15 and
5-2-16 of this chapter or, where applicable, agreed to comply with the
aforementioned requirements;
      2.   Met or agreed to comply with any additional security or care
requirements established by the chief of police, city council, or court.
   D.   The chief of police may humanely destroy a dog if:
      1.   The dog has been determined to be a threat to public safety if it is
returned to the owner;
      2.   The owner fails to comply with the registration requirements of
section
5-2-15 of this chapter, the requirements of section
5-2-16 of this chapter; or any special requirements imposed by the chief of
police, city council, or court of law;
      3.   The owner fails to reimburse the city/animal control agency for the
costs and expenses of the dog's impoundment; or
      4.   The owner forfeits the dog for humane destruction. (Ord. 617, 12-12-
2016)
5-2-15: DANGEROUS DOG AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Requirements For Registration Of Potentially Dangerous Dog: The chief
of police shall issue a certificate of registration to the owner of a
potentially dangerous dog if the owner established that:
      1.   The owner of the dog is eighteen (18) years of age or older;
      2.   A valid license has been issued for the potentially dangerous dog as
provided herein;
      3.   The dog has current vaccinations;
      4.   The owner has paid an annual fee in an amount to be determined by
resolution of the city council, in addition to regular dog licensing fees, to
register the potentially dangerous dog;
      5.   The potentially dangerous dog has been spayed or neutered;
      6.   The potentially dangerous dog has been implanted with a microchip
containing owner identification information; and
      7.   Upon the real property of the owner, the owner demonstrates that he/
she is able to keep the potentially dangerous dog "confined" as defined in this
chapter.
      8.   When outside the real property of the owner, the owner is able to
keep the potentially dangerous dog under "restraint" at all times as defined in
this chapter;
      9.   Photographic identification of the dog for purpose of
identification. All owners, keepers or harborers of a potentially dangerous dog
must, within ten (10) days of the effective date of this section, provide to
the city clerk two (2) color photographs of the registered animal clearly
showing the color and approximate size of the animal.
   B.   Requirements For Registration Of Dangerous Dog: The chief of police
shall issue a certificate of registration to the owner of a dangerous dog if
the owner, in addition to satisfying all of the requirements for registration
of a potentially dangerous dog pursuant to subsection A of this section
(applicable to dangerous dogs), establishes that:
      1.   The owner of the dangerous dog has posted on the premises a clearly
visible, printed warning sign, in type that is readable from not less than
fifty feet (50'), that there is a dangerous dog on the property, and that
includes a conspicuous warning symbol that informs children of the presence of
a dangerous dog.
      2.   The dangerous dog will be maintained and confined exclusively on the
owner's property except for medical treatment or examination;
      3.   When the dangerous dog is removed from the owner's property for
treatment or examination, the dog shall be restrained as defined in this
chapter and under complete control at all times;
      4.   When the dangerous dog is indoors within the owner's property, the
dog must be confined such that the dangerous dog will not escape or gain access
to any person or animal outside of the home, for example, pedestrians, mail
personnel, and other persons that might be within the vicinity of the real
property should the owner open a door or window.
      5.   The dangerous dog will not be transported in a vehicle that might
allow the dog to escape or gain access to any person or animal outside the
vehicle.
   C.   Insurance For Dangerous Dogs: All owners of dangerous dogs shall,
within ten (10) days of the effective date of this chapter, provide proof to
the city clerk of public liability insurance in a single incident amount of no
less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for bodily injury to or death of
any person or persons or for damage to property owned by any persons which may
result from the ownership, keeping or maintenance of such animal. This policy
shall include the city as an additional named insured, with minimum limits of
coverage of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00), and shall have the effect of
saving harmless and defending the city and its officers, agents and employees
from all suits, claims, demands or actions at law or in equity arising directly
or indirectly as the result of injury to persons or damage to property
occasioned by the maintenance of the dangerous dog by the owner. The policy
shall contain a provision requiring the insurance company to provide written
notice to the chief of police not less than fifteen (15) days prior to any
cancellation, termination or expiration of the policy.
   D.   Failure To Abide By Registration Conditions: The chief of police may
order the immediate impoundment or humane destruction of a dog previously
determined to be a dangerous dog if the owner fails to abide by the conditions
for registration as set forth in this chapter.
   E.   Authority Of Chief Of Police, Inspection: As a condition of
registration and during the any licensure period, the chief of police shall be
authorized to and the owner shall permit inspection of the dog and medium of
confinement/restraint, and to produce upon demand, proof of compliance with all
requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 617, 12-12-2016)
5-2-16: DANGEROUS DOG AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG OWNER RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to:
      1.   Keep a potentially dangerous or dangerous dog without a valid
certificate of registration, license, and license tags issued under this
chapter;
      2.   Permit a potentially dangerous dog to be outside proper confinement
unless the potentially dangerous dog is properly restrained;
      3.   Fail to properly confine a dangerous dog exclusively on the owner's
property except for medical treatment or examination wherein the dangerous dog
must be properly restrained;
      4.   Fail to notify the chief of police within twenty four (24) hours if
a potentially dangerous or dangerous dog is on the loose, is unconfined, has
attacked another domestic animal, has attacked a human being, has died, has
been sold, or has been given away. If the potentially dangerous or dangerous
dog has been sold or given away, the owner shall also provide the chief of
police with the name, address, and telephone number of the new owner of the
potentially dangerous or dangerous dog;
      5.   Fail to surrender a potentially dangerous or dangerous dog to the
chief of police or his designee for safe confinement pending disposition of the
case when there is a reason to believe that the potentially dangerous or
dangerous dog poses a threat to public safety;
      6.   Fail to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter or order
of a court of competent jurisdiction;
      7.   Remove a dangerous dog from the city without written permission from
the chief of police. (Ord. 617, 12-12-2016)
5-2-17: RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Owners of dogs shall be liable for any damage done by their dogs to any
person, domestic animal, livestock or property, or for any costs incident to
taking up and keeping their dog. Additionally, the owners of any dog which
shall bite any person while such person is on or in a private place, including
the property of the owner, shall be liable for such damages as may be suffered
by persons bitten, regardless of the former dangerousness of such dog or the
owner's knowledge of such dangerousness.
   B.   A person is lawfully upon private property of such owner within the
meaning of this chapter when he or she is on such property in the performance
of any duty imposed upon him by the laws of this state or by the laws of postal
regulations of the United States, or when he or she is on such property upon
invitation, expressed or implied, of the owner thereof; or when he or she is on
such property in the performance of a duty relative to public safety, which
shall include police officers, firefighters or other authorized members of
boards or agencies of city government; provided, however, no owner of any dog
shall be liable for any damages to any person or his property when such person
shall mischievously or carelessly provoke or aggravate the dog inflicting such
damage. (Ord. 617, 12-12-2016)
5-2-18: ACTION FOR DAMAGES:
If any dangerous animal shall, when unprovoked, kill or wound, or assist in
killing or wounding any sheep, goat, lamb, cattle, horse, hog, swine, fowl, or
other domestic animal, belonging to or in the possession of any person, or
shall, when unprovoked, attack, assault, bite or otherwise injure any human
being or assist in attacking, assaulting, biting or otherwise injuring any
human being while out of or within the enclosure of the owner or keeper of such
dangerous animal, or while otherwise, on or off the property of the owner
whether or not such dangerous animal was on a leash and securely muzzled or
whether the dangerous animal escaped without fault of the owner or keeper, the
owner or keeper of such animal shall be liable to the person aggrieved as
aforesaid, for all damage sustained, to be recovered in a civil action, with
costs of suit. It is rebuttably presumed as a matter of law that the owning,
keeping or harboring of a dangerous animal in violation of this chapter is a
nuisance. It shall not be necessary, in order to sustain any such action, to
prove that the owner of such dangerous animal knew that such dangerous animal
possessed the propensity to cause such damage or that the dangerous animal had
a dangerous nature. Upon such attack or assault, the chief of police or his
designee is hereby empowered to confiscate and destroy such dangerous animal,
if the conduct of such dangerous animal or its owner constituted a violation of
the provisions of this chapter, punishable by the confiscation and destruction
of the animal. (Ord. 617, 12-12-2016)
5-2-19: PENALTIES:
   A.   Except as provided herein, any person who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense.
   B.   A first offense conviction of allowing a dog to run at large in
violation of subsection
5-2-8A of this chapter or a first offense of harboring a barking dog in
violation of subsection
5-2-8D of this chapter, shall be deemed an infraction. A second or subsequent
offense of allowing a dog to run at large in violation of subsection
5-2-8A of this chapter or a second or subsequent offense of harboring a barking
dog in violation of subsection
5-2-8D of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense.
   C.   In addition to what is expressed herein, any dog which attacks a human
being, any domestic animal, or any livestock, may be ordered destroyed when, in
the court's judgment, such dog represents a continuing threat of harm to human
beings, domestic animals, or livestock. In addition, after a hearing, the judge
may order any dog destroyed which habitually creates a nuisance to any
neighborhood or person. The conviction of an owner for a second or subsequent
offense of allowing a dog to bark or create noise which is a nuisance to the
neighborhood or another person, shall be sufficient to establish that a dog
habitually creates a nuisance.
   D.   Any person found guilty of violating this chapter shall pay all
expenses, including shelter, food, any veterinary expenses necessitated by the
seizure of the dog for the protection of the public, and such other expenses as
may be required for the care or destruction of any such dog. (Ord. 617, 12-12-
2016)
CHAPTER 3
CRIMES AND OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Criminal Code Adopted By Reference
5-3-2: Firearms And Other Weapons
5-3-3: Riding Vehicles On Sidewalks
5-3-4: Refusal To Vacate Premises
5-3-5: Window Peeping Prohibited
5-3-6: Snake River And Payette River Bridges
5-3-7: Sniffing Or Inhaling Certain Substances Unlawful
5-3-1: CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, penalties,
provisions and sections of the Idaho criminal code, Idaho Code title 18, as
amended, with a corresponding penalty of infraction or misdemeanor, are hereby
adopted by the city. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered
violations of this section and each such violation shall be subject to the
penalties provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2014 Code)
5-3-2: FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS:
   A.   Definitions: Wherever the term “firearms” is used in this section, the
term shall mean any instrument used in the propulsion of shot, shell or bullets
or other harmful objects, including arrows or darts, by the action of gunpowder
exploded within it, or by the action of compressed air within it, or by the
power of springs and including what are commonly known as air rifles, BB guns,
sparrow gun, a flipper, crossbows, bows and arrows, blow guns, slingshot or
other similar device.
   B.   Discharge Of Firearms Prohibited; Exceptions: Except as otherwise
provided by state law, and as provided in this section, it shall be unlawful
for any person to discharge firearms of any kind or description within the
limits of the municipality. Exceptions: the prohibitions in this section shall
not apply to: police officers in the discharge of their duties; persons acting
in defense of himself/herself or acting in defense of others or acting in
defense of that person’s property; persons participating in officially
sanctioned or permitted events approved by the city council; or to persons
lawfully at or upon facilities or ranges permitted and approved for such
activities by the city council.
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Any violation of subsections A through C of this
section shall be a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as set out in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 587, 9-8-2014; amd. Ord. 677, 12-14-2020)
5-3-3: RIDING VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride any motor vehicle on any sidewalk
or sidewalks within the corporate limits of the city. Any person violating the
provisions of this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a
fine as set out in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 9-3-7)
5-3-4: REFUSAL TO VACATE PREMISES:
Any person, except under a landlord-tenant relationship, who, being first
notified either verbally or in writing, by the owner, agent or a designee
thereof, to immediately depart from certain real property and who: a) refuses
to depart after being so notified; or b) returns to the property within thirty
(30) days after expulsion without the owner's, agent's or designee's
permission, is guilty of a misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 9-3-7; amd. 2014 Code)
5-3-5: WINDOW PEEPING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, without first obtaining permission of the
person or persons in lawful possession of any premises upon which a residential
dwelling is located, to enter upon the premises of another for the purpose of
looking, peeking, staring or peeping in the windows of said residence. A
violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 9-3-7; amd. 2014 Code)
5-3-6: SNAKE RIVER AND PAYETTE RIVER BRIDGES:
   A.   Hours Prohibited: That area under and within one hundred (100) yards
north and south of the Snake River Bridge on NW 16th Street, in Fruitland,
Idaho, and that area under and within the public right of way to the east and
one hundred (100) yards to the west of the Payette River Bridge on Highway 95,
shall be closed to the public between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and
sunrise the following day for each and every day of the year. Unless a permit
is first obtained from the chief of police, at any time when the area is
closed, it shall be unlawful to be under either the Snake River Bridge or the
Payette River Bridge or on either side of the bridges in the closed area which
is described herein.
   B.   Prohibited Acts And Activities: It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Camp, live or sleep overnight.
      2.   Have an open container of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage of any
kind, or to use, drink or consume the same.
      3.   Use threatening or abusive language.
      4.   Fight or threaten to fight.
      5.   Create any nuisance or disturbance. (Ord. 558, 10-22-2012)
5-3-7: SNIFFING OR INHALING CERTAIN SUBSTANCES UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to sniff, smell, inhale,
huff or ingest in any manner, any fumes emanating from gasoline, paint, rubber
cement, glue or any other substance obtained without a prescription, for the
purpose of inducing a euphoric state, to experience a mind altering effect, to
cause a hallucination, to induce a mind altering effect, for the purpose of
getting high, or to cause inebriation, intoxication, excitement, stupefaction
or the dulling of the brain or nervous system. Any person found guilty of
violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 9-3-11; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GANG ACTIVITY
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Gang Affiliation Displays
5-4-3: Gang Recruitment Displays
5-4-4: Display To Incite Violence
5-4-5: Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   For the purpose of this chapter, the definitions of Idaho Code section
18-8502 are adopted by reference and incorporated herein by the city as if set
out in full verbatim.
   B.   For purposes of this chapter, a "public place" means the public way or
any other location open to the public, whether publicly or privately owned,
including, but not limited to, any street, sidewalk, avenue, highway, road,
curb area, alley, park, playground or other public ground or public building,
any common area of a school, hospital, apartment house, office building,
transport facility, shop, privately owned place of business to which the public
is invited, including any place of amusement, entertainment, or eating place.
Any "public area" also includes the front yard area, driveway and walkway of
any private residence, business, or apartment house. (1984 Code § 9-9-1)
5-4-2: GANG AFFILIATION DISPLAYS:
It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to use, display or wear
colors, emblems or insignia on or about their person in any public place, with
the intent of communicating membership in, support of, affiliation,
association, identification with any gang. (1984 Code § 9-9-2)
5-4-3: GANG RECRUITMENT DISPLAYS:
It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to use, display or wear
colors, emblems or insignia on or about their person in any public place, with
the intent to recruit any other person into any gang. (1984 Code § 9-9-3)
5-4-4: DISPLAY TO INCITE VIOLENCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to use, display or wear
colors, emblems or insignia on or about their person in any public place, with
the intent to threaten, insult, incite, challenge to fight or invite others to
fight. (1984 Code § 9-9-4)
5-4-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and shall be responsible for the city cost of prosecution,
including attorney fees incurred by the city. Each day that a violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. (1984 Code § 9-9-5; amd. 2014
Code)
CHAPTER 5
MINORS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Curfew
5-5-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Prohibited Hours Of Minors: It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for
any child under the age of sixteen (16) years to be in or upon the public
streets, alleys, roads, highways, or thoroughfares, or to be in or upon any
public places, whether the same is publicly or privately owned or controlled,
within the corporate limits of the City, between the hours of eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.; and for any person between the ages
of sixteen (16) and eighteen (18) to be in or upon the public streets, alleys,
roads, highways or thoroughfares, or to be in or upon any public place, whether
the same is publicly or privately owned or controlled, within the corporate
limits of the City, between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and
five o'clock (5:00) A.M., unless said child is accompanied by one of his
parents, guardian, or one having the legal custody of said child, or
accompanied by an adult with the permission of at least one of said child's
parents, guardian, or one having legal custody of said child, or unless said
child is engaged in a lawful occupation, business or employment at said period
of time or en route to engage in said lawful business, occupation or
employment, or unless said child has the written consent of his parents,
guardian, or person having legal custody of said child. Said written consent
shall be explicit as to time, date, places and reasons; otherwise, it will be
of no force and effect. (Ord. 582, 7-28-2014)
   B.   Presumption Of Presence: The presence of a person under the age of
sixteen (16) years upon the public streets, alleys, roads, highways, public
thoroughfares, or to be in or upon any public place, whether the same is
publicly or privately owned or controlled, within the corporate limits of the
City between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00)
A.M. without the written consent of or not being accompanied by his parents,
guardian, or person having legal custody of said child, shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section. The presence of a person between the
ages of sixteen (16) years and eighteen (18) years upon the public streets,
alleys, roads, highways, public thoroughfares, or in or upon any public place,
whether the same is publicly or privately owned or controlled, within the
corporate limits of the City between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. without the written consent of, and not
being accompanied by his parents, guardian, or person having legal custody of
said child, shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section. (Ord.
643, 8-13-2018)
   C.   Responsibility Of Parents Or Guardian: It shall be unlawful and a
misdemeanor for any parent, guardian, or other person having the legal care and
custody of any minor child, to allow, permit, or encourage said child to
conduct himself in any manner which would constitute a violation of this
section.
   D.   Jurisdiction Of Magistrate Court: A violation of this section by a
minor shall subject said child to the jurisdiction of the Payette County
Magistrate Court and said child shall be dealt with according to the Youth
Rehabilitation Act of the State. (Ord. 582, 7-28-2014)
CHAPTER 6
ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Short Title And Purpose
5-6-2: Definitions
5-6-3: Allocation Of Revenues
5-6-4: Alarm Procedures And Regulations
5-6-5: Intentional Falsification Prohibited
5-6-6: False Alarm, Special Service Fee
5-6-7: Enforcement And Penalties
5-6-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the CITY OF FRUITLAND ALARM ORDINANCE.
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the law enforcement and emergency
services of the city from misuse. (1984 Code § 9-8-1)
5-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
All words and phrases used in this chapter, the definitions of which are not
herein given, shall be given their ordinary, commonly understood and accepted
meanings.
ALARM SYSTEM: Any assembly of equipment, mechanical or electrical, arranged to
signal the occurrence and illegal entry or other activity requiring urgent
attention, and to which law enforcement officers, firefighters, ambulance
personnel or any other emergency service workers are expected to respond,
provided this chapter is not applicable to audible alarms affixed to motor
vehicles, nor to fire alarm systems, nor to audible smoke detectors, fire
detectors or carbon monoxide detectors where there is no dialer attached.
ALARM USER: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind in control of any residence, building, structure or
facility wherein an alarm system is installed.
AUDIBLE ALARM: Any device designed for the detection of an unauthorized entry
on the premises, and which, when activated, generates an audible sound on the
premises.
AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE: Any device which is interconnected to a telephone
line and is programmed to select a predetermined telephone number, and transmit
by voice, message, or code signal, an emergency message indicating a need for
emergency response.
FALSE ALARM: Any alarm signal eliciting a response by a law enforcement agency,
the fire department, the ambulance or any other emergency service agency, when
a situation requiring such response does not, in fact, exist, but does not
include an alarm signal caused by violent conditions of nature, power surges
and outages or other extraordinary circumstances not reasonably subject to
control by the alarm user.
INTERCONNECT: Any connection to an alarm system, including an automatic dialing
device to a telephone line, either directly or through a mechanical device that
utilizes a telephone line to transmit a message upon the activation of the
alarm system.
PRIMARY TRUNK LINE: A telephone line connected to the Payette County law
enforcement building housing the sheriff's department, Fruitland police
department and Payette County Jail, or to any law enforcement agency designated
to receive emergency calls.
SHERIFF: The sheriff of Payette County, Idaho, or his designated
representative. (1984 Code § 9-8-2)
5-6-3: ALLOCATION OF REVENUES:
All service fees collected pursuant to this chapter shall be paid to the city
clerk. (1984 Code § 9-8-3)
5-6-4: ALARM PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to install or maintain any audible
alarm system, which creates a sound similar to that of a civil defense warning
system.
   B.   Every person maintaining an alarm system shall provide to the Payette
County 911 communications center at the Payette County sheriff's department,
Payette County Courthouse, Payette, ID 83661, information containing the names
and telephone numbers of persons to be notified in order to render repairs or
service the premises during any hour of the day or night that the alarm system
is actuated within fifteen (15) days of installation of the alarm system.
   C.   Every person maintaining an alarm system shall make readily visible
either on or immediately adjacent to the exterior of the device emitting the
alarm, the name and telephone number of the responsible party to be notified in
order to render repairs and service and secure the premises during any hour of
the day or night that the alarm system is activated.
   D.   Every audible alarm system shall have a timing device, which
automatically shuts off the alarm within thirty (30) minutes after it has been
activated.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for an alarm user or his representative to fail to
respond to the alarm location within sixty (60) minutes after being requested
to do so by a representative of the police department or the county sheriff's
office. Such person responding to the alarm location shall take whatever action
necessary to secure the property from further intrusion, or take whatever
action is necessary to render service to the alarm or to provide response by
another person who is able to render the necessary action after the responding
law enforcement agency has rendered the area safe from possible entry by an
intruder. Unless specifically requested, no law enforcement officer responding
shall be under any obligation to remain at the location of the alarm for a
period in excess of fifteen (15) minutes while waiting for the responding party
to arrive unless illegal entry has occurred. (1984 Code § 9-8-4)
5-6-5: INTENTIONAL FALSIFICATION PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to activate an alarm system for the purpose
of summoning police except in the event of what is reasonably believed to be an
unauthorized entry on the premises for the purposes of carrying out a robbery
or burglary therein, or for other criminal activity or for fire reporting
purposes affecting said premises. (1984 Code § 9-8-5)
5-6-6: FALSE ALARM, SPECIAL SERVICE FEE:
   A.   An alarm user whose alarm has elicited two (2) responses within one
calendar year, which were subsequently shown to be false, will be assessed a
service fee for each additional false alarm that occurs within that period of
time.
   B.   If two (2) false alarms within one calendar year are received from any
alarm system:
      1.   The chief of police shall notify the alarm user by certified mail of
such fact.
      2.   The chief of police will advise the alarm user that any additional
false alarms within the calendar year will result in the assessment of a
service fee for each additional false alarm that has been responded to, as
established by resolution of the City Council and as may be amended from time
to time.
   C.   A fifteen (15) day grace period will be extended to all alarm users
after the initial installation of an alarm system. The official recording of
false alarms will not commence until after the expiration of the fifteen (15)
day grace period.
   D.   To avoid burdening the judicial system with false alarm violations and
for the convenience of the public, each person receiving a notice of assessment
of a service fee under this chapter shall:
      1.   Within seventy two (72) hours of the date the notice was sent, pay
to the city clerk, in full satisfaction the so stated service fee assessment.
      2.   Within ten (10) days from the date the notice of assessment was
sent, if the service fee has not been paid within the seventy two (72) hours
prescribed above, pay to the city clerk an additional twenty five dollars
($25.00) for each assessment, the additional twenty five dollars ($25.00) for
each assessment being deemed necessary to defray administrative and clerical
expenses.
The failure of any person receiving an assessment of the service fee notice to
make the above described payments to the city clerk within the designated times
shall be subject to the penalties provided by section
5-6-7 of this chapter. (1984 Code § 9-8-6; amd. Ord. 712, 2-10-2025)
5-6-7: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement of this chapter may be by civil action or by criminal
prosecution or by both civil action or criminal prosecution. (1984 Code § 9-8-
7)
   B.   Any violation of this section or the failure or omission to comply with
any section of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 9-8-7; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 7
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-7-1: Definitions
5-7-2: Prohibition Against The Sale Of Fireworks
5-7-3: Penalty
5-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the city adopts those definitions set out in
Idaho Code section 39-2602. (1984 Code §
9-5-1)
5-7-2: PROHIBITION AGAINST THE SALE OF FIREWORKS:
No person shall sell any fireworks, nonaerial fireworks, nonaerial common
fireworks, firecrackers, bottle rockets, cherry bombs, special fireworks or
aerial fireworks either at wholesale or retail within the city limits. (1984
Code §
9-5-2)
5-7-3: PENALTY:
Any person who sells, attempts to sell or distributes any products listed in
section
5-7-2 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person convicted of
violating the prohibition set forth in section
5-7-2 of this chapter shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 9-5-3; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 8
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
5-8-1: Definitions
5-8-2: Violation Criteria
5-8-3: Public Nuisance And Disturbance Noises
5-8-4: Noises Exempt
5-8-5: Criminal Punishment For Violations And Crimes
5-8-6: Evidence In Criminal Proceedings
5-8-7: Provisions Not Exclusive
5-8-8: Prohibited Uses And Activities
5-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
AMBIENT SOUND: The all-encompassing sound associated with a given environment
at a specific time. Usually it is a composite of sounds from many sources and
directions, but not including any contribution from specific noise sources
under investigation.
AUTHORIZED PUBLIC EVENTS: Onetime, special outdoor events, conducted pursuant
to and in accordance with, a City issued permit or authorization. For the
purposes of the exemption from the provisions of this chapter, all events thus
authorized shall begin no earlier than seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and terminate
no later than ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on weekdays and eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M. on weekends.
COMMERCIAL AREA: Any area zoned and/or utilized for commercial purposes.
COMMERCIAL PROPERTY: Any premises, property or facility located in a commercial
area.
DAYTIME: The period of day from 0700 hours (7:00 A.M.) until 1900 hours (7:00
P.M.).
ELECTRONICALLY AMPLIFIED SOUND: Any sound which has been amplified, enlarged,
manipulated or produced by any electronic process or means, e.g., loudspeaker
system, public address system, sound amplification equipment, or any such
similar device.
EMERGENCY: Any occurrence or circumstance involving physical trauma, property
damage, actual or potential loss and/or endangerment of the public, which
demands immediate attention.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Any police, fire or other public service vehicle or
conveyance which is actively engaged in emergency work, emergency
transportation, firefighting or law enforcement activities.
EMERGENCY WORK: Any activities, performed by authorized individuals or
organizations, in the course of or pursuant to an emergency situation. This
includes firefighting, law enforcement, infrastructure repair, delivery of
essential services, and activities necessary to prevent a potential emergency
from occurring.
EVENING: The period of day from 1900 hours (7:00 P.M.) until 2200 hours (10:00
P.M.).
INDUSTRIAL AREA: Any area zoned and/or utilized for industrial purposes.
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY: Any premises, property, facility or equipment located in
an industrial area.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any nonagricultural land vehicle with mechanized (nonhuman)
propulsion, including, but not limited to, automobiles, trucks, buses,
recreational vehicles, motorcycles, motorized bicycles, off road vehicles, high
performance, racing and/or competition vehicles, trucks and tractors modified
for non-highway use or snowmobiles.
NIGHTTIME: The period of day from 2200 hours (10:00 P.M.) until 0700 hours (7:
00 A.M.).
NOISE/SOUND SOURCE: Any building, structure, property, equipment, operation,
process, action, person or phenomenon which generates and/or propagates a sound
or noise.
PERSON: Any individual, group of individuals, corporation, company,
association, society, firm or partnership, or the State or any political
subdivision, agency or instrumentality of the State. Any entity, as described
in the preceding sentence, which produces or creates electronically amplified
sound, which owns and/or operates any facility where electronically amplified
sound is created or produced, or which is responsible for planning, promoting
or scheduling any event that produces or creates electronically amplified
sound.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any real property, or structures thereon, that is leased,
owned or controlled by a public or governmental entity, or privately owned
property open to the public.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY: Any street, avenue, boulevard, road, alley, highway,
freeway or sidewalk that is leased, owned or controlled by a public or
governmental entity.
RECEIVER/RECEIVING PROPERTY: Any person who hears, or any property or location
which is subject to and/or affected by, a noise source.
RESIDENTIAL AREA: Any area zoned and/or utilized for residential purposes.
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY: Any premises or property located in a residential area.
SCHOOL SPONSORED ACTIVITIES: Any outdoor activity or event which is authorized
by a legitimate school or educational authority.
SOUND: A pressure fluctuation in the air that is capable of being detected by
the human ear.
WEEKDAY: Any time after 1800 hours (6:00 P.M.) Sunday night and before 1800
hours (6:00 P.M.) Friday night.
WEEKEND: Any time after 1800 hours (6:00 P.M.) Friday night and before 1800
hours (6:00 P.M.) Sunday night. (Ord. 631, 10-23-2017)
5-8-2: VIOLATION CRITERIA:
   A.   Electronically Amplified Sound: No person shall cause, suffer, allow,
or permit the operation of any source of electronically amplified sound on or
in any property, public space, or right-of-way, in such a manner that the sound
therefrom is:
      1.   Plainly audible within any place of residence not the source of the
sound, or,
      2.   Plainly audible upon a public right-of-way or street at a distance
of one hundred feet (100') or more from the source of such sound. (Ord. 631,
10-23-2017)
5-8-3: PUBLIC NUISANCE AND DISTURBANCE NOISES:
   A.   Defined: The following sources of sound are hereby defined to be public
nuisances, except to the extent that they may be specifically exempted by other
provisions of this chapter:
      1.   Frequent, repetitive or continuous noise made by any animal which
unreasonably disturbs or interferes with peace, comfort and repose of property
owners or possessors, except that such sounds shall be exempt when originating
from lawfully operated veterinary clinics.
      2.   The frequent, repetitive or continuous sounding of any horn or siren
attached to a motor vehicle, except as a warning of danger or as specifically
permitted or required by law.
      3.   The creation of frequent, repetitive or continuous noise in
connection with the starting, operation, repair, rebuilding or testing of any
motor vehicle, motorcycle, off highway vehicle or internal combustion engine
within a residential zone, so as to unreasonably disturb or interfere with the
peace, comfort and repose of owners or possessors of real property.
      4.   Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing on or near the
public streets, particularly between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., or at any time and place so as to unreasonably
disturb or interfere with the peace, comfort and repose of owners or possessors
of real property.
      5.   The use of a sound amplifier or other device capable of producing or
reproducing amplified sound on public streets for the purpose of commercial
advertising or sales or for attracting the attention of the public to any
vehicle, structure or property of the contents therein.
      6.   The making of any loud and raucous noise which unreasonably
interferes with the use of any school, church, hospital, sanatorium, nursing or
convalescent facility.
      7.   The creation of frequent, repetitive or continuous sounds which
emanate from any building, structure, apartment or condominium which
unreasonably interferes with the peace, comfort and repose of owners or
possessors of real property, such as sounds from musical instruments, audio
sound systems, band sessions or social gatherings.
      8.   Sound from audio equipment, such as, but not limited to, boom boxes,
tape players, radios and compact disc players, operated at such a volume that
the sounds emanating therefrom are audible at a distance greater than one
hundred feet (100') from the source. (Ord. 631, 10-23-2017)
   B.   Violations: It is unlawful for any person to cause or allow to
originate, or for any person in possession of property to allow to originate
from said property, sound that is a public nuisance. (1984 Code § 9-7-4)
5-8-4: NOISES EXEMPT:
   A.   At All Times: The following noises are exempt from the provisions of
this chapter at all times; provided, that nothing in these exemptions is
intended to preclude the City from requiring installation of the best available
noise abatement technology consistent with economic feasibility:
      1.   Noise originating from aircraft in flight.
      2.   Noise created by safety and protective devices, such as relief
valves where noise suppression would defeat the safety release intent of the
device.
      3.   Noise created by fire alarms.
      4.   Noise created by emergency equipment, including, but not limited to,
emergency standby or backup equipment; emergency work necessary in the interest
of law enforcement or of the health, safety or welfare of the community,
including, but not limited to, any emergency work necessary to replace or
repair essential utility services.
      5.   Noise created by auxiliary equipment on motor vehicles used for
highway maintenance.
      6.   Noise originating from officially sanctioned parades, sporting
events and other public events.
      7.   Noise created by warning devices not operated continuously for more
than thirty (30) minutes per incident.
      8.   Noise originating from existing natural gas transmission facilities,
subject to any requirements that may be established by appropriate State or
Federal agencies.
      9.   Noise created by existing stationary equipment used in the
conveyance of water by utility and noise created by existing electrical
substations.
      10.   Noise created by the operation of equipment of facilities by a
railroad in interstate commerce.
      11.   Noise emanating from temporary construction sites, except between
the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on
weekdays, and except between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. on Saturdays, Sundays and State recognized holidays. (1984
Code § 9-7-5)
   B.   Daytime Hours: The following noises shall be exempt from the provisions
of this chapter between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. on weekdays and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. on weekends:
      1.   Noise created by powered equipment used in temporary or periodic
maintenance or repair of residential property, including, but not limited to,
grounds and appurtenances, such as lawn mowers, powered hand tools and
composters.
      2.   Noise created by the discharge of firearms on Police Department
authorized shooting ranges.
      3.   Noise created by the installation or repair of essential utility
services.
      4.   Noise created by blasting.
      5.   Noise created by bells, chimes or carillons not operating for more
than five (5) minutes in any one hour. (1984 Code § 9-7-6)
5-8-5: CRIMINAL PUNISHMENT FOR VIOLATIONS AND CRIMES:
Every offense defined by this chapter or conduct made unlawful hereby shall
also constitute a misdemeanor under the Criminal Code, and any person convicted
of such an offense shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1984 Code § 9-7-7; amd. 2014 Code)
5-8-6: EVIDENCE IN CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS:
In any criminal prosecution under this chapter, evidence of sound level through
the use of a sound level meter reading shall not be necessary to establish the
commission of the offense. Nor shall it be necessary for any peace officer or
witness to understand and interpret the technical information set forth herein.
(1984 Code § 9-7-8)
5-8-7: PROVISIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative and nonexclusive, and shall
not effect any other claim, cause of action or remedy, nor, unless specifically
provided, shall this chapter be deemed to repeal, amend or modify any law,
ordinance or regulation relating to noise, but shall be deemed additional to
existing legislation and common law on noise. (1984 Code § 9-7-9)
5-8-8: PROHIBITED USES AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Noise Exceeding Limits: No person shall produce, cause to be produced,
or allow to be produced, by any means, any sound within any property which,
when measured inside or at the property line of the property receiving said
noise, exceeds the applicable sound level limits set forth in section
5-8-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Adjacent To Specific Facilities: No person shall produce, cause to be
produced, or allow to be produced, by any means, any sound on any street
adjacent to any school, church, institution of learning, court while in
session, or hospital which, when measured inside or at the property line of
said school, church, institution of learning, court while in session, or
hospital receiving said noise, exceeds the applicable sound level limits set
forth in section
5-8-2 of this chapter; provided, however, that streets adjacent to those
properties shall be clearly marked by conspicuous signs identifying those
areas. (1984 Code § 9-7-10)
   C.   Residential Areas: Within any residential area of the City, it shall be
unlawful:
      1.   For any person to make, create or maintain any unreasonably loud,
disturbing and unnecessary noise within the City. Noise of such character,
intensity or duration as to be detrimental to the life, health, comfort or
repose of an individual is prohibited.
      2.   To play any radio, phonograph or any musical instrument or operate a
sound amplifying device within the City in such a manner or with such volume,
especially during the hours between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M., as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in
any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence, except as more specifically set
forth herein. (1984 Code § 9-7-11)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC LAWS GENERALLY
SECTION:
6-1-1: Traffic Code Adopted By Reference
6-1-2: Rear Lighting
6-1-3: Exhaust Brakes
6-1-4: Rules Of The Road
6-1-4-1: Parking Restrictions
6-1-4-2: Traffic Control Signs
6-1-4-3: Restriction As To Speed
6-1-5: Temporary Traffic Regulations
6-1-6: Vehicular Travel In Playground Areas
6-1-7: Penalty
6-1-1: TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, penalties,
provisions and sections of the Idaho traffic code, Idaho Code title 49, as
amended, with a corresponding penalty of infraction or misdemeanor, are hereby
adopted by the city. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered
violations of this section and each such violation shall be subject to the
penalties provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2014 Code)
6-1-2: REAR LIGHTING:
A motor vehicle or any trailer attached thereto shall have attached to the rear
of such vehicle or trailer not less than one light casting white rays of
sufficient strength on the rear number plate thereof, so that such number plate
may be easily read at a distance of at least fifty feet (50'). (1984 Code §
10-1-3; amd. 2014 Code)
6-1-3: EXHAUST BRAKES:
   A.   Defined: The term "exhaust brakes" shall include, but not be limited
to, exhaust brakes commonly known as jake brakes.
   B.   Use Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any diesel powered motor
vehicle exceeding ten thousand (10,000) pounds' total gross vehicular weight,
while operating over and along the streets and highways of the city, to make
use of exhaust brakes for the purpose of slowing or stopping. (1984 Code §
10-1-3)
6-1-4: RULES OF THE ROAD:
6-1-4-1: PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Vehicles, Exceptions: It is unlawful for any person to park
any tractor, truck, recreational vehicle, camper, camper trailer, utility
trailer, watercraft trailer, toy hauler, mobile home, motor home, doublewide,
trailer house or semitrailer on the streets or street right of way. Temporary
parking will be allowed, but only during such time as the vehicle is being
loaded or unloaded and in no event to exceed twenty four (24) hours. In the
event loading is going to exceed twenty four (24) hours, the driver shall
notify the city clerk or the chief of police and will park the vehicle in such
a manner as to minimize the impact on the flow of traffic. In the event any law
enforcement officer determines that the parked vehicle constitutes a hazard to
persons or property, the officer has the authority to order the driver to
remove the truck from that location and refusal to do so shall be a violation
of this subsection.
   B.   SW 3rd Street: There shall be no parking on SW 3rd Street from two
thirty o'clock (2:30) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. Any vehicle in violation
of this subsection will be subject to immediate tow at the owner's expense
without the person towing said vehicle incurring any liability of any kind.
   C.   Interference With Sweeping Or Snow Removal: It is unlawful for any
person to hinder, interfere with, delay or obstruct any person engaged in
street sweeping or snow removal for the city. It shall be unlawful for any
person to park a motor vehicle of any description, any trailer or boat,
recreational vehicle, utility trailer, watercraft trailer, toy hauler or leave
any other obstruction adjacent to, upon, in or on a right of way, in such a
manner as to interfere with the street sweeping or snow removal by the city.
   D.   Parking When Supported: It is unlawful for any person to park any
tractor, truck, recreational vehicle, camper, camper trailer, utility trailer,
watercraft trailer, toy hauler, mobile home, motor home, doublewide, trailer
house or semitrailer on the paved portion of any street or street right of way,
when that unit is supported by a jack, footing, prop, brace, lever or other
support that causes steel to rest directly upon the pavement.
   E.   Driving Through Parking Areas: It is unlawful for any person to drive
through or cross any privately owned parking lot which is open to the public
for the purpose of avoiding a red light, a stop sign or any other traffic
control device, or for the purpose of taking a shortcut to an adjoining
property when the public roadway provides access. (Ord. 572, 10-14-2013)
   F.   Parking After Notification To Remove: It is unlawful for any person to
leave any tractor, truck, recreational vehicle, camper, camper trailer, utility
trailer, watercraft trailer, toy hauler, doublewide, trailer house or
semitrailer on any street or street right of way after the owner, driver or
person in control thereof shall be notified orally or in writing by the chief
of police or his designee to remove the vehicle from that location. (Ord. 604,
9-28-2015)
   G.   School Area On South Iowa Avenue: Parking in that portion of South Iowa
Avenue located between the north and south entrances to the high school
gymnasium parking lot shall be and is hereby restricted to school bus parking
only. No other vehicles shall be permitted to park in that area and any person
who parks a motor vehicle in that location shall be guilty of a parking
infraction. The chief of police or his designee is hereby authorized and
directed to erect signs at the north and south entrances which signs shall read
"School Bus Parking Only". The school bus parking only signs shall be notice to
all persons of the parking restriction. (Ord. 572, 10-14-2013)
6-1-4-2: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS:
When authorized by resolution and directed by the city council, the chief of
police or his designee shall be authorized to erect traffic control signs,
including, but not limited to, establishing such traffic regulations, parking
restrictions or traffic direction signs within the city limits. Any violation
of those signs when properly erected shall be an infraction and shall be
punishable in accordance with the laws of the state. (Ord. 572, 10-14-2013)
6-1-4-3: RESTRICTION AS TO SPEED:
Except in those instances where a higher or lower speed is specified by
ordinance, it shall be prima facie lawful for the driver of a vehicle to drive
the same at a speed not exceeding the following, but in any case when such
speed would be unsafe, it shall not be lawful:
   A.   Unposted Streets: Unless otherwise posted, the speed limit on non-U.S.
routes within the city limits shall be twenty five (25) miles per hour.
   B.   School Zones: Unless otherwise posted, the maximum speed limit in any
school zone shall be twenty five (25) miles per hour.
   C.   Newly Constructed Roads: The posted speed limit for any newly
constructed, local, public road under the city jurisdiction shall be
established by engineering analysis performed by the city engineer. The posted
speed limits recommended in the city engineer's analysis shall become effective
when approved by resolution of the city council.
   D.   Citizen Request For Modification: A citizen may file a written citizen
request for modification of any posted speed limit. After receiving the
request, the city council may authorize the city transportation engineer to
perform an engineering analysis of the road subject to the request, provided
the road is a local, public road within the city jurisdiction. Any change to
the existing posted speed limit recommended in the engineer's analysis shall
become effective when approved by resolution of the city council.
   E.   Records Maintained: The city clerk shall maintain a written record of
all resolutions approving speed limit changes. (1984 Code § 10-1-5-13)
6-1-5: TEMPORARY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
The city council may, at any time deemed necessary for the welfare and safety
of the residents of the city, order placed in use on any intersection, street
or alley within the corporate limits of the city temporary regulatory traffic
signs. Such signs shall have the full force and effect during the time they are
on the streets or alleys of any regulatory signs the same as though they were
permanently installed signs. (1984 Code § 10-1-9)
6-1-6: VEHICULAR TRAVEL IN PLAYGROUND AREAS:
   A.   Mesa Park Subdivision: Vehicular travel in all unimproved portions of
the Mesa Park Subdivision, except in those areas specifically designated for
vehicular travel, is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Signage: The city clerk is hereby authorized to direct the appropriate
city department to place and establish signs, notifying the public that
vehicular travel in the unimproved areas, except in those areas specifically
designated for vehicular travel, is prohibited.
   C.   Areas Designated: The chief of police, together with the city clerk or
the mayor, may designate appropriate parking areas for motor vehicles in and
around the unimproved areas and may designate areas which are off limits to
motor vehicles of any and all description.
   D.   Included Vehicles: Motorcycles, motorbikes, three-wheelers and four-
wheelers, as well as any and all motor vehicles defined by Idaho Code, are
included within the definition of motor vehicle as the same is used within this
section.
   E.   Penalty: Any person who operates a motor vehicle in an area which has
been designated as off limits for a motor vehicle shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 10-1-11; amd. 2014 Code)
6-1-7: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided by Idaho Code or any ordinance of the city, any
person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine as set out in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 10-1-10; amd. 2014 Code)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Dedication Of Public Ways
7-1-2: Grade And Width Requirements
7-1-3: Applicability To New Subdivisions And Additions
7-1-4: Encumbrances And Obstructions Prohibited
7-1-1: DEDICATION OF PUBLIC WAYS:
Any person opening up any street or alley within the corporate limits of the
city for public use must cause same to be dedicated to the city, either by plat
or deed, before said street or alley can become a public thoroughfare. (1984
Code §
7-1-1)
7-1-2: GRADE AND WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The city council shall require the grading of any street or alley to
the level specified, and shall specify the minimum width of such street or
alley before accepting such street or alley into the city street system.
   B.   The city council shall not order grading, surfacing or maintenance
work, or shall not construct any water or sewer lines on any street or alley,
which has not been dedicated or prepared as required by this chapter. (1984
Code §
7-1-2)
7-1-3: APPLICABILITY TO NEW SUBDIVISIONS AND ADDITIONS:
Before being taken into the corporate limits of the city, any subdivision or
addition must meet all requirements for new streets and alleys as herein
outlined. (1984 Code §
7-1-3)
7-1-4: ENCUMBRANCES AND OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   All new streets or alleys must be free of any encumbrance for its full
length from its junction or extension with existing street or alley before
being opened.
   B.   All new streets or alleys dedicated to the city for public use must be
cleared of all fences, ditches, buildings, trees or other obstructions for its
full width and length by the person so dedicating such street before request
can be made to the city for the grading, surfacing and maintaining such street
or alley, or for the laying of water lines, sewer lines or other utilities.
(1984 Code §
7-1-4)
ARTICLE A. USE AND OCCUPATION OF STREETS
SECTION:
7-1A-1: Definitions
7-1A-2: Permits
7-1A-3: Application For Permit
7-1A-4: Filing Of Application
7-1A-5: Fee Schedule
7-1A-6: Form Of Permit
7-1A-7: Indemnification
7-1A-8: Construction Standards
7-1A-9: Relocation And Protection Of Existing Facilities, Features And
Structures
7-1A-10: Protection Of Adjoining Property
7-1A-11: Preservation Of Monuments And Property Markers
7-1A-12: Repair Of Damage To Street
7-1A-13: Warranty
7-1A-14: Work Stoppage
7-1A-15: Modification Or Revocation Of Permit
7-1A-16: Enforcement
7-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
CITY: City of Fruitland, Idaho.
CITY ENGINEER: Engineer for the city of Fruitland or his authorized
representative.
COUNCIL: City council of the city of Fruitland, Idaho.
ENCROACH OR ENCROACHMENT: The placement in, on, under or over a public street,
alley or right of way.
MUTCD: The current "Manual Of Uniform Traffic Control Devices".
PERMIT: A construction permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this
article, and shall include all attachments thereto.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, government
agency, or other entity.
SPW: Superintendent of public works for the city of Fruitland, Idaho, or his
authorized representative.
STREETS: Any developed or undeveloped public roadway, alley or public right of
way within the city limits of Fruitland.
WORK: Any construction activity proposed or undertaken by a person not acting
as an employee, contractor or agent for the city of Fruitland in, on, under or
over a street. (1984 Code §
7-1A-1)
7-1A-2: PERMITS:
Any person who desires to perform any work on a street or encroach on a city
street, shall first apply for and obtain a permit in the manner set forth in
this article.
   A.   Exception: No permit shall be required in the following circumstances:
      1.   Work undertaken by the city, or by contractors or agents for or on
behalf of the city;
      2.   Repair, replacement or maintenance activities for overhead utilities
and streetlights which are undertaken within the outer portion of the street
right of way outside of all traffic lanes and with no resulting obstruction of
said traffic lanes. Routine maintenance activities within the traffic lanes,
provided the work can be accomplished in less than one hour, proper traffic
control is provided in conformance with the MUTCD, and peak hour traffic is not
impaired;
      3.   Work covered under a building permit.
   B.   Emergencies: Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent any
person maintaining any pipe, conduit or cable in or under any street, by virtue
of any statute, ordinance, this article or a permit, from making such
excavation or street obstruction as may be necessary for the preservation of
life or property when an emergency exists; provided, that the person making the
excavation or obstruction shall notify the SPW within one working day following
the commencement of the emergency and obtain a permit. (1984 Code §
7-1A-2)
7-1A-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Any person required to obtain a permit shall, before commencing work, submit an
application to the city clerk's office on a form prescribed and provided by the
city consistent with this article, together with the required fee. (1984 Code §
7-1A-3)
7-1A-4: FILING OF APPLICATION:
Upon the filing of a completed application with the city clerk's office,
together with the required fees and supporting information, the SPW shall
evaluate the application for conformance with the provisions of this article
and all other applicable ordinances, specifications, standards and policies of
the city and, within two (2) working days thereafter, shall either approve the
application and issue a permit in accordance with this article, or disapprove
the application or request a conference with the applicant. If the application
is disapproved, the SPW shall provide the applicant with a written statement of
such disapproval, setting forth the reasons therefor. (1984 Code §
7-1A-4)
7-1A-5: FEE SCHEDULE:
The city, by resolution, may establish fees for the items covered by this
article. (1984 Code §
7-1A-5)
7-1A-6: FORM OF PERMIT:
   A.   Issuance Of Permit: A permit, if approved by the SPW, shall be issued
on a form consistent with this article as prescribed by the city.
   B.   Right Conferred: The issuance of such a permit shall confer to the
permittee the privilege of performing the work authorized in the permit,
obligating the permittee to satisfactorily complete such authorized work within
the time set forth in the permit and in compliance with the terms and
conditions stated in the permit, and in accordance with this article, and all
applicable ordinances, specifications, standards and policies of the city.
(1984 Code §
7-1A-6)
7-1A-7: INDEMNIFICATION:
As a condition of the permit, permittee shall indemnify and save and hold the
city and its employees and consultants harmless from and against all claims,
demands, actions or judgments, for damages, injury or death, mechanics' and
other liens, arising out of the failure or neglect of permittee, permittee's
employees, contractors and agents, to properly and reasonably perform work, or
that otherwise results from the use and occupation of the street by the
permittee, and including any attorney fees and costs that may be incurred by
the city and its employees and consultants in defense of such claims or any
appeals therefrom. (1984 Code §
7-1A-7)
7-1A-8: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
All work undertaken pursuant to a permit shall conform to the city standard
specifications and drawings set forth in the "Idaho Standards For Public Works
Construction", current edition with amendments thereto, and according to the
plans, specifications and construction details approved by the SPW, and any
other conditions or requirements set forth in the permit, and shall further
conform to the following:
   A.   Traffic Control Requirements: During the course of all work, the
permittee shall be responsible to provide, erect, and maintain all traffic
control devices, including, but not limited to, signs, temporary striping,
barricades, arrow boards, and lighting, in conformance with the latest edition
of the MUTCD in effect as of the date of issuance of the permit, or as is
necessary to provide for the safety of the public and for the protection of
private and public property as may be required by the SPW.
   B.   Highway Closures: No street shall be closed to public use by reason of
any work except by the express written permission of the SPW.
   C.   Alignment Of Facilities: Facilities to be placed in the street shall be
laid to the extent reasonably possible in a straight line either parallel to
adjacent property lines or perpendicular to the adjacent property lines in
order to minimize the risk of damage to any such facility from any future work
in the street. The location and depth shall follow city and state standards.
   D.   Cleanup And Restoration: During the course of the performance of all
work, the street shall be maintained reasonably clear of all refuse, rubbish,
excess earth, rock, unused material and other debris as may be reasonably
ordered by the SPW. Upon completion of any work, or when directed by the SPW,
the permittee shall immediately clean up and remove from the street all refuse,
rubbish, excess earth, rock, unused material and other debris of any kind
resulting from said work and restore the surface of the street so as to leave
the project area in a condition as good as or better than that prior to the
commencement of the work, to the reasonable satisfaction of the SPW. No refuse,
rubbish, excess earth, rock, unused materials or other debris shall be flushed
into storm drains nor placed or maintained on a street during the performance
of any work in such a manner as to constitute a hazard to the traveling public,
pedestrians, or the city.
   E.   Avoidance Of Nuisance: All work shall be conducted and carried out in
such manner as to avoid unnecessary inconvenience, annoyance or nuisance to the
general public and occupants of neighboring property. Appropriate measures
shall be taken to reduce noise, dust, mud and unsightly debris. No tool,
appliance, or equipment producing noise of sufficient volume to disturb the
peace or repose of occupants of neighboring property shall be used in the
performance of any work between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., except with the express written permission of the
SPW, or in the case of an emergency.
   F.   Street Cuts: Any pavement, curb, sidewalk or other structure on a
street, which is removed or damaged during the course of any work, shall be
restored to its original condition. In the event an improved street is cut and
trenched in the performance of permitted work and if it cannot immediately be
permanently repaired, the trench and cut shall be backfilled and at least a
temporary surface repair provided as follows: 1) for residential streets, a
temporary patch for a crosscut shall be made within three (3) days; 2) for
collector streets, a temporary patch for a crosscut shall be made within two
(2) days; 3) for arterial streets, a temporary patch for a crosscut and long
cuts shall be made the same day. Any such cut or trench shall, after the
backfilling thereof, be restored to a condition suitable for the passage of
vehicles, pedestrians or other public uses in such a manner that it will not
pose a hazard or cause damage thereto, provided the location and existence of
such surface conditions shall be posted with signs in accordance with the
provisions of the MUTCD or as otherwise required by the SPW. Permanent surface
repairs shall be provided within thirty (30) calendar days of opening such
cuts, unless otherwise authorized in writing by the SPW. During the winter
months or during periods of weather conditions which prevent the making of
permanent surface repairs to street cut areas, the SPW may require that
temporary patches or surface repairs be placed as may be necessary to restore
the traveled way until such time as permanent repairs can be made. Temporary
patches or surface repairs shall be made by the use of any material which is
not permeable to water, does not become unstable as a result of the common use
of the particular area, provides a surface smoothness consistent with posted
vehicle speed, and does not constitute a hazard to the public. Notwithstanding
anything contained herein to the contrary, any permanent repair to street cuts
must be restored by a paving machine approved by the SPW.
   G.   Installation Of Facilities Under New Street Surfaces: Where an improved
street surface has been in service for five (5) years or less, any facility to
be installed thereunder shall be bored and no cutting thereof shall be
permitted, except with the written approval of the SPW. Any person who is
aggrieved by a decision of the said SPW may take an appeal thereof to the city
council.
   H.   Other Requirements: The SPW may impose such different or additional
requirements on any work as may be reasonable under the circumstances. In the
performance of any work, permittee shall comply with all applicable laws,
ordinances and regulations of any government agency with jurisdiction thereof.
(1984 Code §
7-1A-8)
7-1A-9: RELOCATION AND PROTECTION OF EXISTING FACILITIES, FEATURES AND
STRUCTURES:
All existing facilities, features and structures, including, but not limited
to, landscaping, signage, utilities, pipes, conduits, poles, wires or other
apparatus which may in any way be affected by any work shall be protected
against damage. In the event any unidentified facilities, features or other
structures are encountered or damaged during the course of performing the work,
the permittee shall promptly notify the owner thereof and provide the owner
reasonable opportunity to inspect the same and set out the reasonable
requirements for the support, protection and repair, if necessary. Any damaged
facilities, features and structures shall be repaired to condition as good as
or better than that prior to the commencement of the work. All costs incurred
in the protection, relocation or repair of any existing facilities, features or
structures shall be borne by the permittee and the permittee shall be liable
for any and all damage or injury arising out of or resulting from any and all
acts or omissions under or pursuant to this article. (1984 Code §
7-1A-9)
7-1A-10: PROTECTION OF ADJOINING PROPERTY:
Adjoining property shall be protected during the work. Any property which shall
be damaged as a result of any work, shall be repaired and restored to its
original condition or better. No trees, shrubs or other landscaping feature or
structures shall be removed, even temporarily, without obtaining the prior
written consent of the owner thereof. All costs and expenses incurred in the
repair or restoration of adjoining property shall be borne by the permittee.
(1984 Code §
7-1A-10)
7-1A-11: PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS AND PROPERTY MARKERS:
All monuments or property markers shall be protected from damage and
disturbance during the performance of any work. Any such monument or property
marker that is damaged or disturbed shall be replaced by an Idaho licensed land
surveyor. Permittee shall bear all costs associated with resetting monuments or
property markers. (1984 Code §
7-1A-11)
7-1A-12: REPAIR OF DAMAGE TO STREET:
   A.   Repair Of Damage By Permittee: Any damage done during the performance
of any work to any street, bridge, storm drain, signalization or any other
device or structure owned or administered by the city shall be repaired by the
permittee within such time period as may be set by the SPW in the permit. In
the event the existence of any such damage shall, in the opinion of the SPW,
constitute a public hazard in the nature of an emergency, the SPW may require
the permittee to take immediate remedial action as may be necessary in order to
protect the public health and safety.
   B.   Repair Of Damage By City: In the event the permittee shall fail or
refuse to repair any damage done during the performance of any permitted work
or fail or refuse to undertake any remedial action ordered by the SPW, the city
may undertake or cause to be undertaken the necessary repair or remedial work
and charge the cost thereof to the permittee. The cost shall include
administrative, inspection and testing expenses. The cost of any such repair or
remedial work may be recovered by the city by making claim against the
permittee. (1984 Code §
7-1A-12)
7-1A-13: WARRANTY:
All work shall be warranted to be free from defects in workmanship or materials
for a period of one year from the date the work is accepted by the city, and
the permittee shall be responsible for any necessary maintenance or repair of
any such work during the warranty period. (1984 Code §
7-1A-13)
7-1A-14: WORK STOPPAGE:
The SPW shall be entitled to order any work to be stopped in the event any
inspection or testing reveals that the work is not being performed in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications therefor, the
requirements of the permit, the city standard specifications and drawings, and
the provisions of this article, or in the event the permittee fails or refuses
to provide the SPW with access to the work or such information as the SPW shall
reasonably require. Any such work stoppage shall remain in effect until such
time as arrangements satisfactory to the SPW are made to bring the permitted
work into compliance with the requirements of this article. (1984 Code §
7-1A-14)
7-1A-15: MODIFICATION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
Any permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this article may be modified or
revoked by order of the SPW in the event the circumstances under which the
permit was originally issued shall have changed to such an extent that it would
be in the best interests of the public and the city or if the permit has been
violated. (1984 Code §
7-1A-15)
7-1A-16: ENFORCEMENT:
Whenever it appears that any person has engaged or is about to engage in any
act or practice violating any provision of this article or any permit or order
issued hereunder, the city council may cause the city to institute a civil
action in the district court to enforce compliance with this article or any
such permit or order, seeking a permanent or temporary injunction, restraining
order, or such other relief as the city council deems appropriate. In the event
any such violation arises out of the refusal or failure or neglect to obtain a
required permit or to enter into a license, easement or other agreement
required by this article, then, in addition to the foregoing relief, the city
shall be entitled to assess additional permit fees. In addition to the
foregoing, the city shall be entitled to take any other action and seek any
other remedy as may be permitted by law or in equity. (1984 Code §
7-1A-16)
CHAPTER 2
PUBLIC PARKS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Prohibited Acts
7-2-3: Enforcement
7-2-4: Hours Of Operation
7-2-5: Emergency Closure
7-2-6: Park Use
7-2-7: Admission Fees For Special Events
7-2-8: Special Provisions For Dogs In Parks
7-2-9: Penalty
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, each of the terms defined has the meaning given in
this section unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context. The
word "shall" is mandatory.
AT LARGE: Any animal, including, but not limited to, a dog, which is off the
premises of the owner and not under control by leash.
CAMP: To remain overnight, to attempt to remain overnight, to set up or erect a
tent or other shelter, or to use sleeping equipment, a vehicle, or a trailer
camper, for the purpose of remaining overnight.
CITY PARK: A park located on property owned, operated or controlled by the city
of Fruitland.
CONCESSIONS: Any vendor offering food or nonconsumables for sale.
FIREWORKS: Any combustible or explosive composition, or any substance or
combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation.
Fireworks include items classified as common or special fireworks by the state
of Idaho or by the United States bureau of explosives or contained in the
regulations of the United States department of transportation and designated as
UN 0335 1.3G or UN 03361.4G. The term "fireworks" shall not include any
automotive safety flares, toy guns, toy cannons, caps or other items designed
for use with toy guns or toy cannons, party poppers, pop-its or other devices
which contain twenty-five hundredths (25/100) of a grain or less of explosive
substance.
PARK: All parks, lands, buildings, reserves, sports complexes, squares, drives,
trails, playgrounds, play fields, greenbelts, parking lots and other recreation
and open space areas and facilities comprising the parks system that are owned,
operated or maintained by the city of Fruitland, the Fruitland school district
or by the Payette County recreation district (PCRD).
PARK RULE: Those particular rules or codes of conduct the public works
supervisor, the Fruitland school district superintendent or the Payette County
recreation district director has adopted and which the city council or
recreation district commissioners or school district board of trustees have
designated by resolution or ordinance as those for which a violation may lead
to exclusion from a park or which may lead to some other penalty or sanction.
VIOLATION: An act or omission or combination thereof that is contrary to any
park rule or any civil or criminal provision of this code or the Idaho state
code. (Ord. 564, 8-26-2013)
7-2-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
The following activities shall be prohibited in all parks:
   A.   Motor Vehicles In Parks:
      1.   No cars, four-wheelers, three-wheelers, motorcycles or motor
vehicles of any kind shall be driven or parked upon the sidewalks or within the
boundaries of any park in the city, except in those areas which have been
surfaced for vehicular traffic or which have been designated by the city or the
Fruitland school district as an area for motorized transportation. This rule
shall not prohibit the use of ADA compliant wheelchairs that are motorized and
other similar accessibility enhancing devices by disabled individuals or park
maintenance vehicles.
      2.   It is unlawful to park or display "for sale vehicles" within the
boundaries of a park or a park parking lot. The parks department may have
vehicles which violate this section towed immediately, without notice, at
owner's expense. (Ord. 564, 8-26-2013)
   B.   Alcoholic Beverages; Tobacco: Except as provided in subsection L of
this section, no person shall consume any liquor, spirits, malt liquor, beer,
wine or any alcoholic beverage of any kind, or have in his possession any
opened containers or receptacles containing any liquor, spirits, malt liquor,
beer, wine or any alcoholic beverage while on any park grounds. In addition, no
person shall use any tobacco products on any park grounds owned by the
Fruitland school district. (Ord. 564, 8-26-2013; amd. 2014 Code)
   C.   Sale Of Food Or Goods: Except as permitted by the Fruitland school
district on school district property, no person shall sell any goods, food or
food products of any kind in any park, including adjacent rights of way such as
sidewalks or parking lots, without first obtaining a license as a solicitor's
license as required in title 3, chapter 6 of this code. Any person who wants to
operate a concession for any extended period of time, including, but not
limited to, athletic tournaments, in any park, must first enter into a written
agreement for such duration as the owner of the park may require and the
contract must first be approved by the property owner's governing body. In
addition, the person shall obtain such licenses and permits as may be required
by this code.
   D.   Camping: Overnight camping is prohibited in parks and on other property
unless an application has been filed with the city council and a permit has
been issued therefor. Camping permits for all events planned at Mesa Park that
could entail overnight stays in self-contained recreational vehicles must be
applied for by April 30 of each calendar year. For property owned by the
Fruitland school district, an application shall be first submitted to the
district.
   E.   Recreational Activities In All Parks:
      1.   Participating in any games involving dangerous objects, such as
stones, arrows, or javelins is prohibited. Golfing or driving balls shall be
prohibited. The use of firearms and/or fireworks shall be and is hereby
prohibited in parks.
      2.   Bicycle riding is prohibited in the interior area of softball and/or
baseball complexes within parks within the city, except in the event the park
area is owned or controlled by the Fruitland school district, bicycle riding is
prohibited on any track facility.
      3.   Skateboarding is prohibited in the interior areas of softball or
baseball complexes within parks.
   F.   Glass Containers Prohibited: It is prohibited for any person to throw,
carry or have in their possession any glass beverage container on park grounds.
The interior of athletic complexes is included in this prohibition. On property
owned or controlled by the Fruitland school district, glass containers can be
brought onto park property.
   G.   Advertising Or Signage In Parks:
      1.   No person shall paste, glue, tack or otherwise post any signs,
plaques, advertisements or inscriptions whatsoever in any park, including
adjacent rights of way (sidewalks, parking lots, etc.). Plaques, tablets or
signs, of a size, design and location approved by the public works supervisor
or by the PCRD director or a designated representative, or by the athletic
director of the Fruitland school district recognizing or acknowledging
donations or contributions to any park or to facilities therein may be exempt.
      2.   Individual teams may place team sponsor banners on their designated
dugout fence only for the duration of the game. Sponsor banners are required to
have the team name and will be allowed to list sponsors' names or logos on the
banner.
   H.   Destruction Of Park Property:
      1.   No person shall mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, or
displace or remove any building, bridges, tables, benches, athletic equipment,
school equipment, school district property, fixtures, fireplaces, railings,
playground equipment, paving or paving material, water lines or other utilities
or parts or appurtenances whatsoever, either real or personal, or have in his
possession any of the foregoing things or objects, or any part thereof.
      2.   No person shall despoil, litter, deface, or create an unsanitary
condition in a restroom or washroom. No person over the age of six (6) years
shall use the park restrooms and washrooms designated for the opposite sex.
Both sex and unisex bathrooms shall be excluded from this provision.
      3.   No person shall construct or erect any building or structure of
whatever kind, whether permanent or temporary in character, or run or string
any utility line onto, upon or across any park, or lands without first
obtaining written permission from the city.
      4.   No person shall damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove any tree
or plant, or injure the bark, or pick the flowers or seeds, of any tree, fruit
or plant. Nor shall any person attach any rope, wire or other contrivance to
any tree or plant. No person shall dig in or otherwise disturb grass areas or
in any other way injure or impair the natural beauty or usefulness of any area,
unless they have first received approval from the public works supervisor, PCRD
director or a designated representative.
   I.   Metal Detecting/Worm Gathering: Except on property owned by the
Fruitland school district, it is prohibited for any person to use, place or
attempt to place, an electric probe or any similar device, for the purpose of
detecting metal or collecting worms in any park. It shall be unlawful for any
person to use, place or attempt to place, an electric probe or any similar
device, for the purpose of detecting metal or collecting worms or any other
property belonging to the city or PCRD.
   J.   Obscene Language; Use Of Amplification Devices: While in a park, no
person shall use obscene, abusive or threatening language; use or threaten any
act of violence; use a radio, loudspeaker, CD player, tape player, or any other
amplification device which can be heard at a distance of more than fifty feet
(50') from the source of the amplified sound, without first having obtained a
permit issued by the city clerk or a designee thereof; engage in riotous or
disorderly conduct; remove or damage any structure, any item of park equipment,
any plant or natural feature; ride a bicycle, skateboard or other wheeled
implement, except on paved paths, or in such a manner as threatens other park
users or interferes with their peaceful enjoyment of the park.
   K.   Fire: No person shall start, ignite, maintain or assist in starting,
igniting or maintaining a fire, except in a grill or fireplace which is
attended at all times. All fires which are properly maintained shall be
extinguished upon leaving the park.
   L.   Consumption Of Alcohol: No person shall consume any alcoholic beverage,
except at a place specifically permitted by the city and properly licensed for
the sale of alcoholic beverages by the state.
   M.   Interference With Others: No person shall engage in any conduct, which
interferes with another person's reasonable use and quiet enjoyment of any
park.
   N.   Exiting Park: No person shall refuse to leave a park when directed to
do so by a police officer or a member of the public works department when that
person has engaged in any activity prohibited by this chapter. (Ord. 564, 8-26-
2013)
7-2-3: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Authority: A police officer, the public works supervisor or his
designee, PCRD director or his duly authorized representative, the Fruitland
school superintendent, a principal or a designee, shall have the authority to
eject from the park any person who violates any portion of this chapter or
title. Any person ejected from a park shall leave promptly and peaceably and
shall not return to the park for any reason on the same calendar day of his
ejection.
   B.   Unattended Vehicles: Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle
unattended in a park and the vehicle is parked in violation of this chapter,
such person may provide for the removal of such vehicle to the nearest
available garage or place of safety at the cost of the vehicle's owner. (Ord.
564, 8-26-2013)
7-2-4: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Parks shall be open to the public every day of the year from sunrise to eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. Except as provided herein, persons and vehicles shall be
excluded from the parks during the hours of closure. It shall be unlawful for
any person to refuse to leave a park or to return to a park before sunrise the
next day after having been requested to leave by a city or PCRD official, or a
Fruitland school district official. (Ord. 564, 8-26-2013; amd. 2014 Code)
7-2-5: EMERGENCY CLOSURE:
The public works supervisor, the chief of police, the city clerk, the building
official, the superintendent or a designated representative has the authority
to temporarily close a park, or any portion thereof, at any time deemed
necessary to protect the park or when it is in the best interest of the city,
the PCRD or the Fruitland school district. (Ord. 564, 8-26-2013)
7-2-6: PARK USE:
   A.   The use of any city park for special community events shall require
approval of the City Council. Requesting use of the park will not prohibit the
public from concurrent use of the park facilities. Reservations may be made
with the PCRD office for those facilities owned by Payette County recreation
district. Facilities owned or controlled by the Fruitland school district may
be used only with the prior permission of the school district.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave an unextinguished fire or
to leave any trash in the nature of boxes, papers, cans, garbage, food,
bottles, wrappers or other refuse or waste. All garbage shall be placed in
provided garbage or trash receptacles. If no trash receptacles are available,
then refuse and trash shall be carried away from the park area.
   C.   The terms of this section shall apply only to parks located on property
owned, operated or controlled by the city. (Ord. 564, 8-26-2013; amd. Ord. 692,
4-11-2022; Ord. 702, 7-24-2023)
7-2-7: ADMISSION FEES FOR SPECIAL EVENTS:
No group or event shall be allowed to charge fees of any sort for events held
within parks without first obtaining approval of the city council. Said
approval may be conditioned upon receipt of proof of adequate insurance
coverage, a release of liability of the city for the event or gathering and the
procurement of any required licenses. (Ord. 564, 8-26-2013)
7-2-8: SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR DOGS IN PARKS:
   A.   Dogs Running At Large Prohibited: Any person who owns, harbors or has
in his control a dog, whether the dog is licensed or not, in any park in the
city, is liable for the actions of the dog.
   B.   Dogs Prohibited Within Specified Locations And During Certain Community
Events: No dogs shall be permitted in the following areas:
      1.   The interior area of softball or baseball complexes within parks.
      2.   Any open area that is being utilized as a playing field for any
organized athletic or sporting event such as soccer, football, baseball,
softball or volleyball.
      3.   Community events generating large crowds, including, but not limited
to, the Fruitland Spring Fair, chamber events and similar gatherings.
      4.   These prohibitions shall not apply to certified seeing eye dogs or
dogs that are certified as service dogs and utilized by handicapped
individuals.
   C.   Cleaning After Dog: No person owning, harboring, controlling or keeping
any dog shall permit the dog to deposit fecal matter on any property without
the owner or custodian immediately bagging and removing the material and
disposing of it in the proper trash receptacles. (Ord. 564, 8-26-2013)
7-2-9: PENALTY:
Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor,
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 564, 8-26-2013; amd. 2014 Code)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION, FEES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Water And Sewer Rates And Fees
8-1-2: Delinquency And Disconnection
8-1-3: Applications For Water And Sewer Hookups
8-1-4: Level Pay
8-1-1: WATER AND SEWER RATES AND FEES:
   A.   Fees And Charges:
      1.   For the purposes of this section, “monthly water and sewer services”
shall be defined as the first day of one month through the last day of that
month. A partial billing which is for any period of time of less than a full
month shall be determined by the actual date service is discontinued.
      2.   Monthly water and sewer service charges and fees are established by
resolution of the City Council.
   B.   Definitions:
      SEWER USER: Any single-family dwelling, or each unit within a multiple-
family dwelling, or each apartment within an apartment complex, or each
manufactured home within a manufactured home park, or each separate business
within a multiple business complex, if dwelling unit(s) are included, or any
other business or sewer user. It is expressly provided that with regard to any
complex with multiple units (whether it be a multiple-unit dwelling complex or
a manufactured home park with less than 35 spaces) the service charges and fees
hereinabove provided for shall be billed to and collected from the said
property owner, subject to a vacancy factor of ten percent (10%) which shall be
allowed and not collected from the said property owner. With regard to a
manufactured home park consisting of thirty five (35) or more spaces, the
aforesaid service charges and fees shall be assessed to and be payable for
every occupied space therein in accordance with the provisions of this section.
Further, every office building with three (3) or fewer office spaces shall be
considered one unit, provided no kitchen, kitchenette, dishwashing facility,
laundry facility, bathing facilities or other water consuming appliances are
used within the building. Office buildings with more than three (3) office
spaces meeting the above criteria shall be considered as one unit per multiples
of one through three (3) office spaces.
      WATER USER: Any single-family dwelling, or each unit within a multiple-
family dwelling, or each apartment within an apartment complex, or each
manufactured home within a manufactured home park, or each separate business
within a multiple business complex if dwelling unit(s) are included, or any
other business or water user. It is expressly provided that with regard to any
complex with multiple units (whether it be a multiple- unit dwelling complex,
or a manufactured home park with less than 35 spaces) the service charges and
fees hereinabove provided for shall be billed to and collected from the
property owner, subject to a vacancy factor of ten percent (10%) which shall be
allowed and not collected from the said property owner. With regard to a
manufactured home park consisting of thirty five (35) or more spaces, the
aforesaid service charges and fees shall be assessed on a unit basis. Service
charges and fees shall be assessed to and be payable for every occupied space
therein in accordance with the provisions of this section. Further, every
office building with three (3) or fewer office spaces shall be considered one
unit, provided no kitchen, kitchenette, dishwashing facility, laundry facility,
bathing facilities or other water consuming appliances are located within the
building. Office buildings with more than three (3) office spaces meeting the
above criteria shall be considered as one unit per multiples of one to three
(3) office spaces. (Ord. 583, 8-11-2014)
   C.   Subsequent Changes: In the event any water or sewer user who constructs
an office with three (3) or fewer units which is billed as a single unit
because there are no kitchen, kitchenette, dishwashing, laundry, bathing or
other water consuming appliances located within the building and who later adds
any water consuming device to a unit, shall then pay the water and/or sewer
capacity fee as if the unit were a separate unit.
   D.   Sewer Only Accounts:
      1.   Definition: A “sewer only account” is a sewer user that does not
have a city water connection or is a property that is connected to the city
sewer system but not to the city water system.
      2.   Responsible Party: Sewer only accounts shall be in the name of the
landowner and the landowner shall be liable for payment thereof.
      3.   Reduced Rate: Properties receiving only sewer service and no water
service do not qualify. (1984 Code § 7-3D-2; amd. 578, 3-24-2014; Ord. 659, 9-
9-2019; Ord. 669, 8-10-2020; Ord. 676, 11-23-2020)
8-1-2: DELINQUENCY AND DISCONNECTION:
   A.   All fees become due and payable on the twentieth day of each month
following the billing period by the owner at the office of the city clerk. If
the owner feels there is a discrepancy in the bill, the owner may appeal to the
city clerk for an adjustment up to the twentieth day of the month. If bills are
not paid by the twentieth day following the first day of each month, the same
shall become delinquent. The owner should be notified of this delinquency with
their next month’s billing. A delinquency fee as required by this Chapter shall
be established by resolution of the City Council and as may be amended from
time to time, will be assessed if payment is not received by the 25th day of
the month in which payment is due. If the bill is not paid in full before the
twenty third of the month after service of this notification on the owner, any
right to receive water shall cease and be terminated.
   If it is determined by the city clerk that an error was made in calculation
of the bill or because of faulty equipment, he is authorized to make the
necessary adjustments to the account. He may use his discretion to make
adjustments in cases of long term shutoff of service by utilizing the reduced
rate format as described in subsection 8-1-2A of this chapter.
   The city shall require the owner to pay the delinquent water and sewer bills
attributable to their use, the current water and sewer bills, plus a turn on
charge, as established by resolution of the City Council and as may be amended
from time to time, as a condition of receiving water service again.
   B.   All arrangements for late payments will be made through and approved by
the city clerk. The city clerk is hereby authorized to collect delinquent
payments by any legal method as approved by the city attorney. At such time as
any delinquency shall become inactive for a period of time exceeding one year,
or in the case of bankruptcy proceedings, said debt may be deemed
uncollectible. The city clerk may prepare a request for write off of the
account for the city council’s consideration.
   C.   Writing off a delinquent account shall not act as a forgiveness of the
underlying obligation. Notwithstanding any other section of this code nor any
other remedy permitted by state statute or city ordinance, in the event an
owner should fail to pay a water or sewer bill and allows the bill to become
delinquent, in addition to any other remedies provided by law, the city shall
have the following remedies: 1) the city may turn the account over to a
collection agency for collection; 2) the city may attach the unpaid obligation
to a different water or sewer account in the owner’s name, whether the account
is in existence or subsequently created and continue to bill the original
account; 3) refuse to offer new water or sewer services to the ratepayer until
the account is paid in full.
   D.   In the event the owner of a property connected to the sewer system who
is not connected to the water system fails to pay when the sewer usage fee
becomes due and payable, the fee shall become delinquent. After the fee becomes
delinquent, the city may discontinue sewer services to the property. To
discontinue sewer services, the city may take whatever action is necessary to
keep waste from the property, which is subject to the delinquency from
accessing city lines or other city sewage facilities. This may be accomplished
by inserting inflatable bladders in appropriate locations, disconnecting sewer
lines where necessary or by taking whatever actions are deemed necessary to
discontinue the service. In addition, the city may file a lien against the
property using the service and may foreclose the lien in a judicial proceeding
or the city may assess the lien as a tax against the property.
   Any violation of this subsection is punishable as a misdemeanor by a fine as
provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 7-3D-3; amd. 2014 Code;
Ord. 591, 1-12-2015; Ord. 676, 11-23-2020; Ord. 712, 2-10-2025)
8-1-3: APPLICATIONS FOR WATER AND SEWER HOOKUPS:
No application for a water or sewer hookup shall be made available until a
building permit has been issued for a platted lot. All sewer and water hookup
permits shall be attached to a specific structure and shall not be sold for
speculative purposes. (1984 Code § 7-3D-4; amd. Ord. 676, 11-23-2020)
8-1-4: LEVEL PAY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of creating a level pay option for water and sewer
customers is to allow water and sewer customers to pay their average water and
sewer utility bills in twelve (12) equal monthly payments, balancing seasonal
high water usage months with low water usage months.
   B.   Eligibility: To be eligible a customer must be a homeowner or
commercial business property owner with a nondelinquent payment history with
the city of Fruitland for the previous twelve (12) months and have a minimum of
twelve (12) months of water and sewer service prior to the filing of the
application. The customer’s account balance must be zero at the time the
application is submitted.
   C.   Noneligibility: The level pay option shall not apply to or be available
to customers occupying industrial properties, or to any property owner who has
been delinquent on a water or sewer payment within the previous twelve (12)
months.
   D.   Program Details: To qualify for the program a customer must be eligible
and not disqualified by any reason set out in section
8-1-3 of this chapter. The customer must first complete an application
requesting participation in the level pay. The payment amount shall be computed
on the preceding twelve (12) month period from December 1 through November 30.
The payment shall be based upon the average of the monthly water consumption
and the monthly water and sewer base rate during that time period.
   E.   Rate Changes: Should the base rate or the water consumption increase or
decrease be adopted by the city during the level pay period, the monthly bill
will be adjusted immediately upon the effective date of the rate change and
will be reflected in future billings within that time period.
   F.   Annual Review: Every year the shortage or overage of the account at the
end of the twelve (12) month period from December to November will be factored
in to the twelve (12) month period to determine the new monthly payment. The
new monthly payment shall become effective December 1 of each year.
   G.   Termination: A person shall be terminated from the level pay program
for any of the following reasons: 1) failure to make any monthly payment, 2)
failure to make any monthly payment prior to the last day of the month in which
the payment is due, or 3) loss of eligibility as defined by section
8-1-1 or
8-1-2 of this chapter.
   H.   Required Payment: In the event the level pay program is terminated for
any reason, the account shall be paid in full when the service is terminated.
   I.   No Reason To Excuse Amount Owing: The failure to make any changes in
the monthly payment schedule pat the end of the twelve (12) month time period
shall not be a reason to excuse any amount due and owing. (Ord. 600, 6-8-2015;
amd. Ord. 676, 11-23-2020)
CHAPTER 2
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-2-1: Water System Established; Mandatory Connections
8-2-2: Water Connections
8-2-3: Service Charges And Fees
8-2-4: Turn On Procedures
8-2-5: Connection Specifications And Requirements
8-2-6: Meter Requirements
8-2-7: Resale Of City Water; Transfer Outside City Limits
8-2-8: Water Fund
8-2-9: Violations; Penalty
8-2-1: WATER SYSTEM ESTABLISHED; MANDATORY CONNECTIONS:
   A.   For the purpose of promoting health, safety and the general welfare of
the city, a water system, as defined by Idaho Code section 50-1029, shall be
constructed, extended, maintained, repaired, replaced, operated and removed
within the corporate limits of the city by which to provide an adequate public
waterworks and water supply system for domestic, commercial, industrial, fire
protection and other municipal purposes and uses.
   B.   Every building, structure or water user within the corporate limits of
the city shall be connected by a water service line to a public water line or
main where such water line or main adjoins the lot, tract or parcel of land on
which such building or structure stands. (1984 Code § 7-3B-1)
8-2-2: WATER CONNECTIONS:
   A.   A water system connection fee shall be made and imposed upon and
collected from every person, or other water user constructing a water service
line by which to attach to and connect the property to the public water system
of the city.
   B.   The charges provided by this section for connecting to the public water
system shall be made, imposed and collected as a separate charge and are hereby
declared to be separate and in addition to the fees and charges imposed and
collected pursuant to the provisions of section
8-1-2 of this title and are in addition to and separate from any other charge
or fee imposed by any other ordinance.
   C.   No connections with a water main shall be made without a receipt being
issued by the city clerk. Payment for such connections must be made to the city
clerk, and the fee provided by section
8-1-2 of this title shall be paid for each connection at the time of request.
(1984 Code § 7-3B-2)
8-2-3: SERVICE CHARGES AND FEES:
There is hereby established a system of periodic service charges and fees in
order to equitably impose upon all water users the cost and expenses of
maintenance, operation, replacement and repair of the city public water system.
The charges and fees imposed in section
8-1-2 of this title shall be reviewed from time to time by the city clerk, and
the charges and fees provided by this chapter are hereby levied and assessed
against each lot, parcel or tract of land, or on each building or structure or
other property having any water service connection to and with the city public
water system.
The monthly water service charges and fees for each water user served by the
city public water system shall be based upon the gallons of water as measured
by the water meter reading and meter records maintained by the city. (1984 Code
§ 7-3B-3)
If a structure receiving water service is vacant for a continuous period of
thirty (30) days, which thirty (30) days coincides with the city billing cycle,
the minimum charge to the structure shall be reduced to an amount set forth by
resolution of the City Council. Provided, however, that before qualifying for
the reduced fee, an applicant shall submit a request in writing to the city
clerk advising said city clerk that the applicant requests the reduced fee and
certifying under penalty of perjury that the structure will be vacant for the
thirty (30) day period. The thirty (30) day vacancy period must coincide with
the city billing cycle. Any vacancy which lasts for thirty (30) days but has a
portion of the vacancy in one billing cycle and a second portion of the vacancy
in a second billing cycle shall not qualify. (1984 Code § 7-3B-3; amd. 2014
Code; Ord. 676, 11-23-2020)
8-2-4: TURN ON PROCEDURES:
   A.   No water from the city water system shall be turned on for service into
any property or premises by any person except by the duly authorized personnel
of the city.
   B.   Application to have water turned on shall be made by contacting the
city clerk’s office.
   C.   No water shall be turned on for service to property or premises in
which the plumbing does not comply with the ordinances of the city and the
standard drawings and specifications of the city; provided, that water may be
turned on for construction work in unfinished buildings, subject to the
provisions of this chapter. (1984 Code § 7-3B-4; amd. Ord. 676, 11-23-2020)
8-2-5: CONNECTION SPECIFICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Installation Of Service Lines: All service lines from the mains to and
including the meter shall be installed by and at the expense of the city, and
shall remain city property. The service lines from the meter to the premises
served shall be installed by, and at the cost of, the owner of the property to
be served or the applicant for the service; however, such installation shall be
under the supervision and inspection of the Idaho State Plumbing Bureau.
Further, there shall be no physical connection between the herein referred to
municipal domestic water distribution system and any other pipes, pumps,
hydrants, private wells, tanks, or other irrigation systems.
   B.   Repairs: All repairs for service lines and plumbing systems of
buildings shall be made by and at the expense of the owner of the premises
served. The city may, in case of an emergency, repair any service lines and if
this is done, the cost of such repair work shall be repaid to the city by the
owner of the premises served. The city, acting by and through its authorized
representatives, may decide what, in its sole discretion, constitutes an
emergency. Nothing herein contained shall obligate the city to initiate repair
work to privately owned portions of the water system regardless of the
existence of emergency or not.
   The water may at any time be shut off from the mains without notice for the
purpose of making repairs, extensions or other necessary purposes, and persons
having boilers or other appliances or installations supplied by direct pressure
from the mains, are cautioned against danger of explosion or collapse and the
city shall not be responsible for the safety of boilers or other installations
or appliances on the premises of any water consumer.
   C.   Excavations: Excavations for installing service lines or repairing the
same shall be made in compliance with the ordinance provision relating to
making excavations in streets; provided, that it shall be unlawful to place any
service line in the same excavation with, or directly over, any drainpipe or
sewer pipe.
   D.   Meter Boxes: Shutoff meter boxes or service boxes shall be placed on
every service line, and shall be located as near the property line as is
practicable. Such boxes shall be so located that they are easily accessible and
shall be protected from frost. (1984 Code § 7-3B-5; amd. Ord. 676, 11-23-2020)
8-2-6: METER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Meters Required: All structures using the city water supply system must
be equipped with an adequate water meter furnished and paid for by the city;
provided, that such service may be supplied by the city at a flat rate of
charge until such meter may be installed. Meters shall be installed in a
location that will be of easy access.
   B.   Reading Meters: The city shall read or cause to be read every water
meter used in the city on or near the twentieth of each month so that the bills
may be sent out as close to the first of the month as possible. (1984 Code § 7-
3B-6 7-3B-5; amd. Ord. 676, 11-23-2020)
8-2-7: RESALE OF CITY WATER; TRANSFER OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
   A.   No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient thereof from
the city supply to any premises other than that for which application has been
made and the meter installed.
   B.   Connections to city water shall not be made to any building, lot,
property, structure or other improvements which lie outside the city limits
without a written agreement authorizing said connection signed by the property
owner and the City. Further, said agreement must be accompanied by a document
consenting to annexation of the property being served at such time as the
property becomes adjacent to the city limits. (1984 Code § 7-3B-7; amd. Ord.
676, 11-23-2020)
8-2-8: WATER FUND:
There is hereby created a special fund to be known and designated as the water
fund. All service charges and fees and all connection fees received and
collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be deposited to the
credit of the water fund and such monies are hereby set aside and perpetually
appropriated for, and shall be expended only for, the payment of:
   A.   Costs and expenses of maintenance, operation, replacement and repair of
the public water system;
   B.   Constructing, improving and extending the said public water system, as
the term "water system" is defined in Idaho Code section 50-1029; and
   C.   The principal and interest on revenue bonds duly issued and sold in
accordance with ordinances of the city and statutes of the state.
The city clerk shall bill and receive all service charges and fees and all
connection fees in the time and manner required by the city council or by
ordinance. (1984 Code § 7-3B-8)
8-2-9: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Violate any provision of this chapter;
      2.   Tamper with, alter or injure any part of the city waterworks or
water supply system, any meter or any shutoff box;
      3.   Use any water for irrigation purposes during the progress of any
fire in the city, and such irrigation use shall be immediately stopped when an
alarm of fire is sounded in any part of the city, and shall not be begun until
the fire has been extinguished;
      4.   Reconnect to the city water system after having been shut off for
any reason without first paying any required hookup fee, reconnection fees,
past due water bills or any other charges levied by the city.
   B.   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable as
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, any such person shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 7-3B-9; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 676, 11-23-2020)
CHAPTER 3
BACKFLOW AND CROSS CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Purpose And Scope
8-3-2: Definitions
8-3-3: Cross Connection Protection
8-3-4: Use Of Backflow Prevention Devices
8-3-5: Cross Connection Inspection
8-3-6: Installation Permits
8-3-7: Additional Remedies
8-3-8: Violations And Penalties
8-3-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health of water consumers
by the control of actual and/or potential loss. To effect that end, after
January 1, 1994, there shall be no private wells attached to any domestic water
system which is connected to the city domestic water supply. Any preexisting
private wells which are connected to any domestic water supply systems which
are connected to the city water system shall conform to the requirements of
this chapter, but shall be disconnected by January 1, 1996. (1984 Code § 7-3C-
1)
8-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
BACKFLOW: The flow, other than the intended direction of flow, of any foreign
liquids, gases or other substances into the distribution system of a public
water supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device to counteract back pressure or prevent
back siphonage.
CONTAMINATION: The entry into or presence on a public water supply of any
substance which may be deleterious to health and/or quality of the water.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical arrangement whereby a public water supply is
actually connected or potentially can be connected with any other water supply
system, sewer, drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture, or
other device which contains or may contain contaminated water, sewage, or other
waste or liquids of unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of
introducing contamination to the public water supply as a result of backflow.
HEALTH OFFICER: State of Idaho officer, or other authorized agent.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: Any system or water supply intended or used for human
consumption or other domestic uses, including source, treatment, storage,
transmission and distribution facilities, where water is furnished to any
collection or number of individuals, or is made available to the public for
consumption or domestic use.
PURVEYOR: The city of Fruitland or its authorized agent.
SUPERVISOR: The public works supervisor of the city of Fruitland or his
authorized agent. (1984 Code § 7-3C-2)
8-3-3: CROSS CONNECTION PROTECTION:
No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or continued in
use by the purveyor unless the water supply is protected by backflow prevention
devices as may be required by this chapter. This installation or maintenance of
a cross connection which will endanger the water quality of the potable water
supply of the city shall be unlawful and is prohibited. Any such cross
connection now existing or hereafter installed is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance and the same shall be abated. The control or elimination of
cross connections shall be in accordance with this chapter, together with the
latest edition of the uniform plumbing code pertaining to the cross connection
control approved by the state. The supervisor shall have the authority to
establish requirements more stringent than the state regulations if he deems
that the conditions so dictate. The purveyor shall adopt rules and regulations
as necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter. (1984 Code § 7-3C-3)
8-3-4: USE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   Backflow prevention devices shall be installed at the ties on the
premises or the materials used in connection with service connection or within
any premises where, in the judgment of the purveyor, the nature and extent of
the activities, or the materials stored on the premises, would present an
immediate and dangerous hazard to health and/or be deleterious to the quality
of the water should a cross connection occur; even though such cross connection
does not exist at the time the backflow prevention devices shall be installed
under circumstances, including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Premises having auxiliary water supply.
      2.   Premises having internal cross connections that are not correctable,
or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to ascertain
whether or not cross connections exist.
      3.   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure that cross connections do not exist.
      4.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
      5.   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply, or where a cross connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters.
      6.   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
in such a way that if back siphonage should occur, a serious health hazard
might result.
      7.   The following types of facilities will fall into one of the above
categories where a backflow prevention device is required to protect the public
water supply. A backflow prevention device shall be installed at these
facilities:
         a.   Chemical plants using a water process.
         b.   Food or beverage processing plants.
         c.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics.
         d.   Laboratories.
         e.   Metal plating industries.
         f.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
         g.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
         h.   Sewage treatment plants.
      8.   Other premises, as specified by the supervisor, where backflow
prevention devices are required to protect the public water supply.
   B.   The type of protective device required shall depend on the degree of
hazard which exists:
      1.   An air gap separation of a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed where the public water supply may be
contaminated with sewage, industrial waste of toxic nature, or other
contaminant which could cause a health or system hazard.
      2.   In the case of a substance which may be objectionable but not
hazardous to health, a double check valve assembly, air gap separation,
pressure vacuum breaker assembly, atmospheric vacuum breaker, or a reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed.
   C.   Backflow prevention devices required by this chapter shall be installed
at the meter, at the property line of the premises when meters are not used, or
at a location designated by the purveyor. The device shall be located so as to
be readily accessible for maintenance and testing, and furthermore, where no
part of the device will be submerged.
   D.   Backflow prevention devices required by this chapter shall be installed
under the supervision of and with the approval of the purveyor or the
supervisor.
   E.   Any protective device required by this chapter shall be a model
approved by the supervisor.
There shall be no connection between the distribution system and any pipes,
pumps, hydrants, water loading stations or tanks whereby unsafe water or other
contaminating materials may be discharged or drawn into a public water system.
The water purveyor is responsible through its cross connection control program
to take reasonable and prudent measures to protect the water system against
contamination and pollution from cross connections through premises isolation
or containment, internal or in plan isolation, fixture protection, or some
combination of premises isolation, internal isolation and fixture protection.
      1.   Testable Assemblies: All double check valve backflow prevention
assemblies, reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies, spill
resistant vacuum breakers, and pressure vacuum breakers used must pass a
performance test conducted by the University Of Southern California Foundation
For Cross Connection Control And Hydraulic Research. In addition, all double
check valve backflow prevention assemblies and reduced pressure principle
backflow prevention assemblies used shall meet American Water Works Association
(AWWA) standards C-510 or C-511, incorporated by reference into these rules at
subsection 002.01, or an equivalent standard approved by the department.
      2.   Atmospheric Vacuum Breakers: All atmospheric vacuum breakers used
shall be marked approved either by the International Association Of Plumbing
And Mechanical Officials (IAPMO) or by the American Society Of Sanitation
Engineers (ASSE).
      3.   Resilient Seated Shutoff Valves: Resilient seated shutoff valves
shall be used when double check valve backflow prevention assemblies, reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies and pressure vacuum breakers
are installed.
      4.   Expense: These devices shall be furnished and installed by and at
the expense of the customer.
   F.   Backflow prevention devices installed pursuant to this chapter, except
atmospheric vacuum breakers, shall be inspected and tested at least annually,
but more often if necessary. Inspections, tests and maintenance shall be at the
customer's expense. Whenever the devices are found to be defective, they shall
be repaired, overhauled or replaced at the customer's expense. Inspections,
tests, repairs and records thereof shall be accomplished by a tester licensed
by the Idaho bureau of occupational licenses.
   G.   No underground sprinkling device will be installed without adequate
backflow prevention devices at the point from which the water for irrigation is
taken from the public water supply. Refer to the uniform plumbing code for
approved devices in regards to underground sprinkling devices.
   H.   Failure of the customer to cooperate in the installation, maintenance,
testing or inspection of backflow prevention devices required by this chapter
shall be grounds for terminating water service to the premises, or, in the
alternative, the installation of an air gap separation at the customer's
expense. (1984 Code § 7-3C-4)
8-3-5: CROSS CONNECTION INSPECTION:
   A.   No water shall be delivered to any structure hereafter built within the
city or within areas served by city water until the same shall have been
inspected by the purveyor for possible cross connection and been approved as
being free of same.
   B.   Any construction for industrial or other purposes which is classified
as hazardous facilities pursuant to subsection
8-3-4A7 of this chapter, where it is reasonable to anticipate intermittent
cross connections, or as determined by the supervisor, shall be protected by
the installation of one or more backflow prevention devices at the point of
service from the public water supply or any other location designated by the
purveyor.
   C.   Inspections shall be made periodically of all buildings, structures or
improvements of any nature now receiving water through the city systems, for
the purpose of ascertaining whether cross connections exist. Such inspections
shall be made by the purveyor. (1984 Code § 7-3C-5)
8-3-6: INSTALLATION PERMITS:
If cross connection control devices are found to be necessary, the owner of the
property served must apply to the purveyor for a specific installation permit.
(1984 Code § 7-3C-6)
8-3-7: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
In the event an improper cross connection is not corrected within the time
limit set by the supervisor, or, in the event the purveyor is refused access to
any property for the purpose of determining whether or not cross connections
exist, delivery of water to the property shall cease until the deficiency is
corrected to the purveyor's satisfaction. In addition, the purveyor may effect
the necessary repairs or modifications at the expense of the property owner and
refuse delivery of water to the property until the cost thereof shall have been
paid. (1984 Code § 7-3C-7)
8-3-8: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with,
or resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter or the
rules and regulations as adopted by the purveyor, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall for each offense be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 7-3C-8; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SEWAGE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definitions
8-4-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-4-3: Building Sewers And Connections
8-4-4: Use Of Public Sewer
8-4-5: Industrial Users Cost
8-4-6: Penalty
8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of the terms
used in this chapter shall be as follows:
AVERAGE HOUSEHOLD BOD DISCHARGE: Said discharge shall be based on the most
recent U.S. census bureau data for the city, relating to population divided by
households. This average will be multiplied by two-tenths (0.2) pound BOD per
person per day multiplied by three hundred sixty five (365) days divided by
twelve (12) months.
BOD (Denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which received the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewers, beginning five
feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building walls.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES:
   A.   The liquid wastes from any nongovernmental user of publicly owned
treatment works identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual,
1972, office of management and budget, as amended and supplemented under the
following divisions:
      1. Division A - Agriculture, forestry and fishing;
      2. Division B - Mining;
      3. Division D - Manufacturing;
      4. Division E - Transportation, communications, electric, gas and
sanitary services;
      5. Division I - Services.
   B.   A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined that
it will introduce primary segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER MONITORING STATION: The monitoring station that may be
required by the city for determining the contribution of the industry to the
public sewer system. Monitoring equipment shall include composite refrigerated
sampler, recording pH meter and recording flowmeter. The city shall provide
plans and specifications for the construction of the station. Cost of the
construction of the station shall be at the industry's expense. Maintenance and
upkeep of the station shall be at the industry's expense.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 centimeters)
in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
SEPTIC TANK: A holding tank which receives either human excreta, liquid or
solid waste from one or more premises. Included within the scope of this
definition are privies or chemical type toilets.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm water as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of
sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SHALL/MAY: Shall is mandatory; may is permissive.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration
of any given constituent or in quality of flow exceeds for any period of
duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than four (4) times the average
twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Termed STORM SEWER): A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
SUPERINTENDENT: The public works supervisor and/or water pollution control of
the city, or his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
TC: A measurement of the total carbon content of the wastewater.
TOC: The measurement of the total organic carbon content of the wastewater.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (1984 Code § 7-3A-1; Ord. 676, 11-23-2020)
8-4-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage. In any property where septic tanks
presently exist, septic tanks shall not be connected into the city sewer system
and no septic tank waste will be discharged into the city sewer system.
   D.   The owner of any house, building or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or for any other purpose, situated within the city and
abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which sanitary or combined
sewer of the city has been constructed, is hereby required at his expense to
install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, and keep such facilities in proper repair at all times; provided, that
said public sewer is within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the property line.
(1984 Code § 7-3A-2; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 676, 11-23-2020)
8-4-3: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
   B.   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits:
      1.   For residential and commercial service; and
      2.   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application to the city. The
permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent by the city. Fees set out in section
8-1-2 of this title shall be paid to the city at the time the application is
filed.
   C.   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   D.   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, residential and commercial, except where one building stands at the
rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole shall be as two (2) building sewers. Industrial
wastes shall enter the public sewer at as many points as is required by the
industrial facility. Each point of entry may have an industrial monitor station
at that point.
   E.   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination or test by the city, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   F.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and WPCF manual of practice no. 9 shall apply.
   G.   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to
the building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   H.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF manual of practice no. 9.
All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from
the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the city before
installation. (1984 Code § 7-3A-3)
8-4-4: USE OF PUBLIC SEWER:
   A.   Contaminated Discharge Prohibited: No person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff,
subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial
process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   B.   Approved Discharge: Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall
be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designed as combined sewers or
storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the city. Industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the city to
a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   C.   Prohibited Discharge: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters and wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quality, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but
not limited to, cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter (2 mg/l) or CN
in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
      3.   Any water or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works, such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage,
entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground
by garbage grinders.
   D.   Harmful Discharge Prohibited: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged the following substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears
likely, in the opinion of the city, that such wastes can harm either the
sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or
constitute a nuisance. In forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the city will give consideration to such factors as to quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the
sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances described are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F).
      2.   Any water or waste containing fats, gas, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperature
between thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) and one hundred fifty degrees
Fahrenheit (150°F) (0° and 65°C).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
city.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated solutions whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the city for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the city as necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage,
to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies of
jurisdiction of such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations.
      8.   Any water or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      9.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids, such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues, or of
dissolved solids, such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate.
         b.   Excessive discoloration, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions.
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs", as defined in section
8-4-1 of this chapter.
      10.   Water or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   E.   Hazardous Waste: If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are
proposed to be discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the
substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in this section, and which
in the judgment of the City may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, process, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the City may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing sewer charges under the provisions of this
title. If the City permits the pretreatment of equalization of waste flows, the
design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the City and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   F.   Interceptors: Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be required for
all food service establishments, businesses that engage in food preparation and
other businesses where fats, oils or greases can be discharged into the
sanitary sewer system. This type of business includes but is not limited to
restaurants, cafeterias, cafes, fast food outlets, convenience stores,
bakeries, bars/clubs, schools, churches, hospitals, nursing homes/assisted
living facilities, hotels, and truck stops. Interceptors are also required for
facilities that have the potential to discharge petroleum based products, such
as fuels, solvents, oils and greases or for facilities discharging sand, grit
or solids that can be harmful to the sanitary sewer system. This type of
business includes, but is not limited to: vehicle and equipment wash racks,
maintenance and repair shops, car washes, and truck terminals.
      1.   Requirements for interceptors are:
         a.   All interceptors must be designed and installed in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions and requirements as defined in "Chapter 10
- Traps and Interceptors" of the current Idaho State Plumbing Code (ISPC).
         b.   Grease Interceptor Sizing Proposals must be submitted with the
building permit application. The calculated capacity of the interceptor volume
must be determined using ISPC table 1014.3.6 “Gravity Grease Interceptor
Sizing” and ISPC 1014.3.6 “Sizing Criteria”. The use of larger capacity
interceptors is encouraged whenever feasible, as it is more efficient and will
allow for less frequent cleaning/pumping.
         c.   Interceptors should be designed and located as to be readily and
safely accessible for cleaning, servicing and inspection as per ISPC 1014.3.4
"Location". It is recommended that a sample box be located at the outlet end of
all interceptors for sampling and testing purposes.
         d.   Every drain located in areas where grease containing materials
may exist must be connected to the interceptor. Fixtures to be connected
include, but are not limited to: scullery (wash) sinks, floor sinks, pot and
pan sinks, soup kettles, and floor drains, including mop sinks. Garbage
disposals and food grinders should not be connected as they fill the
interceptor with solids, resulting in more frequent cleaning.
         e.   Do not plumb sources of hot water resulting in water temperatures
exceeding ninety five degrees Fahrenheit (95°F) to the interceptor. Examples
include dishwashers and replenishing hot water baths.
         f.   Toilets, urinals, bathroom hand sinks, and other similar fixtures
must not drain through the interceptor as per ISPC 1014.3.2.1. Domestic
wastewater (black water) must be plumbed directly into the building sewer and
waste system and must not discharge to the grease interceptor.
         g.   Interceptors must be inspected, cleaned and repaired regularly
and as needed by the user at the user's expense. Most interceptors need to be
cleaned every 60 - 90 days. If it is determined that the interceptor is not
properly cleaned and maintained, an inspector may require installation of
additional equipment or increase maintenance/pumping schedule.
      2.   The discharge of grease to a sanitary sewer line in amounts which
will or may cause an obstruction is a violation of this Code and will result in
enforcement action including cost recovery, fines and/or penalties. (Ord. 640,
5-14-2018)
   G.   Treatment Facilities: Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing
facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his
expense.
   H.   Industrial Waste: When required by the City, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install an
industrial wastewater monitoring station, together with such necessary meters
and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation,
sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such stations, when required, shall be
accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with
plans approved by the City. The station shall be installed by the owner at his
expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
   I.   Testing Of Water: All measurements, tests and analyses of the
characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter
shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water and Wastewater", published by the American Public
Health Association, and shall be determined at the station provided. Sampling
shall be carried out by an approved composite sampling device. The composite
sample shall be used to determine BOD and suspended solids values. The pH
values shall be taken from a continuous recording pH meter. Total organic
carbon values may be substituted for BOD values if the City so desires. A
continuous recording flowmeter shall be provided to monitor the flow.
   J.   Industrial Users: No statement contained in this chapter shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the City
and an industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the City for treatment, subject to payment
therefor, by the industrial concern. All industrial users shall be under
contract with the City.
   K.   Connection Required: The owners of each and every piece or parcel of
real estate abutting upon any street, avenue or alley in the City shall connect
their several premises, whether vacant or not, with all water and gas mains,
sewer and other conduits in such street, avenue or alley, whenever said street,
avenue or alley is to be paved, and when required to do so, by the order of the
City Council and notice from the City Clerk, which order and notice shall be
served upon the owner of said property by any police officer of said City,
personally if a resident of said City and if a nonresident of said City, by
registered mail to the last known address of such owner. If said owner shall
fail, neglect or refuse within the time indicated in such order and notice to
comply with the requirements of such order, the City may contract for and make
connections aforesaid, at such distances, under such regulations and in
accordance with such specifications as may be prescribed by said City, and the
whole costs of such connections shall be assessed and collected against said
property in the same manner as other City taxes.
   L.   Supervision: The construction, repair and maintenance of all sewer
drains, whether public or private, shall be under the supervision and control
of the City. It shall be unlawful for any person to open or break any sewer
line of the City except in the presence and with the approval of the City. The
City may adopt such rules and regulations pertaining to such opening or
breaking and connection of such lines as it may deem necessary to protect the
City sewers and provide for proper connection.
   M.   No Sewer Connection Outside City: There shall be no sewer lines outside
the City connected to the City sewer lines without a written agreement
authorizing said connection signed by the property owner and the City. Further,
said agreement must be accompanied by a document consenting to annexation of
the property being served at such time as the property becomes adjacent to the
city limits.
   N.   Refilling: All trenches and refills shall be accomplished in accordance
with specifications provided by the City.
   O.   Valves And Size Drains: No drain and sewer pipe shall be less than four
inches (4") internal diameter, and all sewers and drains shall be of sufficient
size to accommodate any property they are intended to drain. The owners of each
and every parcel of real property within the City shall install backflow
preventers or check valves on the drains and sewers located on said owner's
property. Failure on the part of any owner to properly maintain the backflow
preventer or check valve or to cause such an installation to be made will
relieve the City from all responsibility for any and all damages suffered by
said owner as a result of a backflow of sewage onto said owner's real property
and appurtenant structures.
   P.   Separate Connections: Every building shall be separately and
independently connected with the sewer; provided, however, that when, in the
opinion of the City, it is deemed advisable to connect two (2) or more
buildings or lines of tenements with the main drain, each lateral to the main
drain shall be considered as a separate connection and shall terminate in a
lamp hole, not less than ten inches (10") in diameter of sound sewer pipe,
securely supported on a foundation of concrete, the joints to be properly
cemented and the top covered with a metal cap.
   Q.   Inspection: The City may adopt such rules as it may deem necessary to
provide for proper inspection of the work, and no work shall be covered until
it shall have been approved by the City, who will endorse a certificate of
final inspection upon the permit issued for that particular work or connection.
   R.   Sewer Service Rates: Owners of all premises now served by sanitary
sewer of the City and all premises to be furnished sewer service by sewage
collection system shall pay the rates specified by resolution of the City
Council.
   S.   Method Of Collection: Fees shall be carried on the water bills,
wherever applicable, and the Water Department is authorized and directed to
discontinue services to any premises where the entire water and sewer service
bill is not paid, in the same manner that services are discontinued for
nonpayment of water bills. Delinquency disconnections and liens shall be
collected as set forth in section
8-1-3 of this title.
   T.   Disposition Of Fees: All fees and charges herein provided for, when
collected, shall be placed in the Utility Fund of the City and paid into the
Sewer Fund of the City. All charges and expenses for operation and maintenance
of the sewage system and the sewage treatment and disposal plant, and all
payments required to be made, shall be made from said Sewer Fund of the City.
The City Council may, from time to time, hereafter establish within the Sewer
Fund a reserve for operation, maintenance, replacement and depreciation of such
works and reserve for improvements to such works and authorized expenditures
from such fund for such purposes. (1984 Code § 7-3A-4; amd. 2014 Code; Ord.
676, 11-23-2020)
8-4-5: INDUSTRIAL USERS COST:
   A.   Monthly sewer service rates and related charges for Significant
Industrial Users (SIUs) discharging to the City’s wastewater collection and
treatment system shall be established by resolution of the City Council,
consistent with the City’s Industrial Pretreatment Ordinance.
   B.   Such fees may include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Base rates for permitted flows and pollutant loadings (including
BOD, TSS, and Phosphorus),
      2.   Exceedance charges for discharges above permitted limits,
      3.   Recovery of analytical testing, monitoring, engineering, and
administrative costs associated with the SIU’s discharge.
   C.   The City may, at its discretion, enter into a contractual arrangement
with any SIU. Any such contract may establish specific discharge limits,
monitoring requirements, rate schedules, and terms of service, provided they
are consistent with the fee structure adopted by resolution. Contracts, where
used, shall be in effect for a minimum of one (1) year and reviewed at least
every six (6) months.
   D.   No industrial discharge shall be accepted into the City’s public sewer
system without full compliance with the City’s Industrial Pretreatment
Ordinance and any applicable resolutions or agreements governing such
discharge.
   E.   If any SIU becomes delinquent on sewer billing (including base rates,
exceedances, permit fines, or penalty assessments), the City may shut off
municipal water service until the account is brought current. Fire lines shall
not be affected. The City may also shut off municipal water service, in lieu of
installing a wastewater plug, when a temporary service interruption is
necessary as specified in the Discharge Permit.
   F.   The City may seek specific performance, injunctive relief, or other
remedies available under the Fruitland City Code or Idaho law for any material
violations.
(Ord. 717, 6-23-2025)
8-4-6: PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful and shall be a misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this Code, for any person to violate any section of this chapter or to
do any act which is prohibited or unauthorized. (1984 Code § 7-3A-6; amd. 2014
Code)
CHAPTER 5
INFRASTRUCTURE REIMBURSEMENT
SECTION:
8-5-1: Definitions
8-5-2: Type Of Improvements Subject To Reimbursement
8-5-3: Property Eligible For Inclusion
8-5-4: Basis For Reimbursement Determination
8-5-5: Reimbursement Terms
8-5-6: Collection Of Reimbursement
8-5-7: Contracts
8-5-8: Appeals
8-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
DEVELOPER: The legal or equitable owner of property who constructs and
dedicates public improvements to the city.
OWNER: The person in whom the recorded fee title is vested, although subject to
lien or encumbrance.
PROPERTY: All land, whether platted or unplatted, regardless of improvements
thereon and regardless of lot or land lines. (1984 Code § 7-4-1)
8-5-2: TYPE OF IMPROVEMENTS SUBJECT TO REIMBURSEMENT:
A developer who constructs and dedicates to the city a street, sidewalk, water
main, sewer main, bicycle trail, bridge, storm drainage facility, traffic
signal or other public improvement may apply to the city for the establishment
of reimbursement in order to be reimbursed for a portion of the cost of such
public improvement from the owners of other property that is specially
benefited by the improvements. (1984 Code § 7-4-2)
8-5-3: PROPERTY ELIGIBLE FOR INCLUSION:
   A.   Any property is eligible for inclusion in the reimbursement calculation
if it has been specially benefited by a street, sidewalk, bicycle trail, storm
drainage facility, bridge, water main, sewer main, traffic signal, or other
public improvement constructed by a developer and dedicated to the city.
   B.   Property located outside the city limits may be included in the
reimbursement calculation upon application by the developer. (1984 Code § 7-4-
3; amd. Ord. 708, 4-22-2024)
8-5-4: BASIS FOR REIMBURSEMENT DETERMINATION:
 
Reimbursement amount =
 actual construction cost x (total service area (acres) - total development
  area (acres))
 total service area (acres)
 
   A.   The total service area consists of all properties that are specifically
and specially benefited.
   B.   The total development area shall include all area within the
development and/or subdivision boundary, including, but not limited to, road
right of way, open area, common area or other jointly owned or utilized
property.
   C.   The actual construction cost is the reasonable cost of constructing the
improvement, together with any acquisition cost for any easements, or rights of
way upon which any such improvements are constructed, and together with any
incidental costs, but not including the cost of any part or portion that solely
benefits the development. Engineering costs incurred by the developer, not to
exceed ten percent (10%) of construction costs and any application or hearing
fees, may be included for determining the cost. The determination of whether a
cost is reasonable shall be made by the city engineer. Such determination is at
the sole discretion of the city engineer.
   D.   Except as hereinafter limited, the term "special benefit" means any
benefit conferred upon property that is greater than or different from that
conferred upon properties in the city as a whole by an improvement. Among the
facts to be considered in determining the existence of a special benefit are:
      1.   Increased market value;
      2.   Improvement in safety or convenience of access;
      3.   Improved drainage;
      4.   Alleviation of health or sanitation hazards;
      5.   Adaptability of the property to a superior or more profitable use;
      6.   Improved availability of public water or sewer services to the
property; and
      7.   In the case of undeveloped property, the installation of an
improvement which would otherwise be required for development of the property.
   E.   When a developer extends an improvement, such as a water or sewer main,
in order to make lateral connection to the developer's property, the
preexisting portion of the improvement shall not be deemed to specially benefit
that portion of the property served by the extension. (1984 Code § 7-4-4)
8-5-5: REIMBURSEMENT TERMS:
   A.   To qualify for reimbursement, the developer shall submit an
application, prior to construction, which details the infrastructure which is
eligible for reimbursement, the total dollar amount of costs eligible for
reimbursement and the properties subject to the payment of such reimbursement.
If an application is submitted after construction has commenced, the acceptance
of the application shall be at the sole discretion of the city.
   B.   After the application is approved by the city and construction is
completed, the developer shall then execute a reimbursement agreement with the
city. The final determination as to the amount of costs eligible for
reimbursement and the properties subject to payment of such reimbursement is at
the sole discretion of the city engineer. In the event the developer incurs
additional costs after executing a reimbursement agreement, the city may amend
the reimbursement agreement at its discretion.
   C.   Eligibility for reimbursement shall terminate no more than twenty one
(21) years from the date of the letter setting forth the amount of eligible
reimbursement unless an alternate time frame is provided in the reimbursement
agreement. Any property which is platted or connected to the improvement
thereafter shall not be subject to payment of the reimbursement.
   D.   The reimbursement agreement shall be recorded with the county recorder
and shall run with the land and shall bind all subsequent purchasers of the
land. (1984 Code § 7-4-5)
8-5-6: COLLECTION OF REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   All reimbursement fees shall be collected by the city at the time of
preliminary plat or final plat application, which may be directed by resolution
of the city council. Reimbursement fees may be further subdivided for
collection purposes on an individual basis as follows:
      1.   For commercial and/or industrial developments, the fees shall be
based upon the commercial lot area, plus a percentage of any right of way and/
or common area as applicable.
      2.   For residential developments, the fees shall be based upon a per
equivalent single-family dwelling basis based upon the total fee established on
the gross area of the subdivision divided by the number of equivalent single-
family dwellings.
   B.   The city, at its sole discretion, may defer collection of the
reimbursement fee to the time of application of a building permit. Such
deferral may toll the time period of eligibility for reimbursement.
   C.   The city specifically will not guarantee collection of the
reimbursement fee.
   D.   In the event that any reimbursement fee becomes due and remains
uncollected, the city may execute an assignment of the city's right to collect
any such unpaid reimbursement fee to the developer granted reimbursement.
   E.   The city will agree to notify the developer granted reimbursement when
the benefited property is platted, a building permit is issued, or the property
connects to the improvement. The developer shall meet with the city annually to
review the status and an accounting of the reimbursement agreement.
   F.   The developer granted reimbursement agrees to indemnify the city for,
and hold the city harmless from, any suit or action that is or may be brought
against the city as a result of the execution of the reimbursement agreement,
and the determination and/or collection of the reimbursement fee.
   G.   When the reimbursement fee is collected, the city will pay over the
reimbursement fee after first deducting therefrom a collection fee. The amount
of the collection fee shall be set by resolution of the city council.
   H.   It shall be the responsibility of the developer granted reimbursement
to keep the city apprised of the developer's current address. In the event of
the developer's death, it shall be the developer's personal representative's
responsibility to notify the city of the name and address of the person to
receive future reimbursements. In the case of a corporate recipient, a
successor shall be designated prior to dissolution.
   I.   Failure of the developer granted reimbursement to comply with any
provisions of the reimbursement agreement shall constitute abandonment of all
rights of reimbursement and shall be grounds for termination of the
reimbursement agreement and refund of any reimbursement fees received by the
city on behalf of the developer after the abandonment.
   J.   A developer is prohibited from collecting reimbursement in an amount
greater than the eligibility amount set forth in the reimbursement agreement.
(1984 Code § 7-4-6)
8-5-7: CONTRACTS:
   A.   In lieu of the procedure set forth herein, a developer may contract
with the owners of property for reimbursement for the construction of public
improvements otherwise eligible for reimbursement under this chapter. At the
request of the parties, the city will collect the reimbursement at the time of
connection, platting or as otherwise provided in the contract. The city shall
be entitled to a collection fee as set forth above.
   B.   In the event that a developer contracts with the owner of a portion of
the property that would otherwise be subject to a reimbursement fee, such
property may be excluded from further reimbursement fees; provided, however,
that no property remaining within the service area shall be assessed a
reimbursement fee in an amount proportionally greater than that provided in
such contract. (1984 Code § 7-4-7)
8-5-8: APPEALS:
The developer may appeal any decision or determination by city staff and/or the
city engineer, in regard to this chapter, to the city council. An appeal shall
be initiated by submitting a written request to the city clerk setting forth
the basis for the appeal within ten (10) business days of the decision or
determination being appealed. The city council shall hold a hearing on the
matter at the next available city council meeting. (1984 Code § 7-4-8)
CHAPTER 6
INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
8-6-1: General Provisions
8-6-1-1: Purpose And Policy
8-6-1-2: Administration
8-6-1-3: Abbreviations
8-6-1-4: Definitions
8-6-2 General Sewer Use Requirements
8-6-2-1: Prohibited Discharge Standards
8-6-2-2: National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
8-6-2-3: State Pretreatment Standards
8-6-2-4: Local Limits
8-6-2-5: City s Right Of Revision
8-6-2-6: Dilution
8-6-3 Pretreatment Of Wastewater
8-6-3-1: Pretreatment Facilities
8-6-3-2: Additional Pretreatment Measures
8-6-3-3: Accidental Discharge/Slug Discharge Control Plans
8-6-3-4: Hauled Wastewater
8-6-4 Individual Wastewater Discharge Permits
8-6-4-1: Wastewater Analysis
8-6-4-2: Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Requirement
8-6-4-3: Individual Wastewater Discharge Permitting: Existing Connections
8-6-4-4: Individual Wastewater Discharge Permitting: New Connections
8-6-4-5: Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Application Contents
8-6-4-6: Application Signatories And Certifications
8-6-4-7: Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Decisions
8-6-5 Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance
8-6-5-1: Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Duration
8-6-5-2: Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Contents
8-6-5-3: Permit Modification
8-6-5-4: Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Transfer
8-6-5-5: Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Revocation
8-6-5-6: Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Reissuance
8-6-5-7: Regulation Of Waste Received From Other Jurisdictions
8-6-6 Reporting Requirements
8-6-6-1: Baseline Monitoring Reports
8-6-6-2: Compliance Schedule Progress Reports
8-6-6-3: Reports On Compliance With Categorical Pretreatment Standard Deadline
8-6-6-4: Periodic Compliance Reports
8-6-6-5: Reports Of Changed Conditions
8-6-6-6: Reports Of Potential Problems
8-6-6-7: Reports From Unpermitted Users
8-6-6-8: Notice Of Violation/Repeat Sampling And Reporting
8-6-6-9: Notification Of The Discharge Of Hazardous Waste
8-6-6-10: Analytical Requirements
8-6-6-11: Sample Collection
8-6-6-12: Date Of Receipt of Reports
8-6-6-13: Recordkeeping
8-6-6-14: Certification Statements
8-6-7 Compliance Monitoring
8-6-7-1: Right Of Entry: Inspection And Sampling
8-6-7-2: Search Warrants
8-6-8 Confidential Information
8-6-9 Publication Of Users In Significant Noncompliance
8-6-10 Administrative Enforcement Remedies
8-6-10-1: Notification Of Violation
8-6-10-2: Consent Orders
8-6-10-3: Show Cause Hearing
8-6-10-4: Compliance Orders
8-6-10-5: Cease And Desist Orders
8-6-10-6: Administrative Fines
8-6-10-7: Emergency Suspensions
8-6-10-8: Termination Of Discharge
8-6-11 Judicial Enforcement Remedies
8-6-11-1: Injunctive Relief
8-6-11-1: Civil Penalties
8-6-11-3: Criminal Prosecution
8-6-11-4: Remedies Nonexclusive
8-6-12 Supplemental Enforcement Action
8-6-12-1: Penalties For Late Reports
8-6-12-2: Payment Of Outstanding Fees And Penalties
8-6-12-3: Water Supply Severance
8-6-12-4: Public Nuisances
8-6-13 Affirmative Defenses To Discharge Violations
8-6-13-1: Upset
8-6-13-2: Prohibited Discharge Standards
8-6-13-3: Bypass
8-6-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
8-6-1-1: PURPOSE AND POLICY:
This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for Users of the Publicly Owned
Treatment Works for the City of Fruitland and enables the City to comply with
all applicable State and Federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 United
States Code (“U.S.C.”) section 1251 et seq.) and the General Pretreatment
Regulations (Title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations (“CRF”) Part 403). The
objectives of this chapter are:
   A.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the Publicly Owned
Treatment Works that will interfere with its operation;
   B.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the Publicly Owned
Treatment Works that will pass through the Publicly Owned Treatment Works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the Publicly Owned Treatment Works;
   C.   To protect both Publicly Owned Treatment Works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
   D.   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge from
the Publicly Owned Treatment Works;
   E.   To enable the City to comply with its National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and
any other Federal or State laws to which the Publicly Owned Treatment Works is
subject. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-1-2: ADMINISTRATION:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the Public Works Director shall
administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers
granted to or duties imposed upon the Public Works Director may be delegated by
the Public Works Director to a duly authorized City employee. (Ord. 704, 8-28-
2023)
8-6-1-3: ABBREVIATIONS:
The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
BOD    - Biochemical Oxygen Demand
BMP    - Best Management Practice
BMR    - Baseline Monitoring Report
CFR    - Code of Federal Regulations
CIU    - Categorical Industrial User
COD    - Chemical Oxygen Demand
EPA    - U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
gpd    - gallons per day
IPDES  - Idaho Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
IU     - Industrial User mg/1- milligrams per liter
NPDES  - National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
NSCIU  - Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User
POTW   - Publicly Owned Treatment Works
RCRA   - Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIU    - Significant Industrial User
SNC    - Significant Noncompliance
TP     - otal Phosphorus
TSS    - Total Suspended Solids
U.S.C. - United States Code
(Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the following terms and
phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated.
ACT or “THE  The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, as amended,
ACT”:        33 U.S.C. section 1251 et seq.
APPROVAL       The Idaho Department of Environmental Quality.
AUTHORITY:
AUTHORIZED OR  1.   If the User is a corporation:
DULY              (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of the corporation in
AUTHORIZED     charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar
REPRESENTATIVE policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
OF THE USER:
                  (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operating facilities,
               provided the manager is authorized to make management decisions that govern the
               operation of the regulated facility including having the explicit or implicit duty of
               making major capital investment recommendations, and initiate and direct other
              comprehensive measures to assure long-term environmental compliance with environmental
               laws and regulations; can ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions
               taken to gather complete and accurate information for individual wastewater discharge
               permit requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
               delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
              2.   If the User is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general partner or
               proprietor, respectively.
               3.   If the User is a Federal, State, or local governmental facility: a director or
              highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
               the activities of the government facility, or their designee.
               4.   The individuals described in paragraphs 1 through 3, above, may designate a Duly
               Authorized Representative if the authorization is in writing, the authorization
              specifies the individual or position responsible for the overall operation of the
               facility from which the discharge originates or having overall responsibility for
               environmental matters for the company, and the written authorization is submitted to
               the City.
BIOCHEMICAL    The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under
OXYGEN DEMAND  standard laboratory procedures for five (5) days at 20 degrees centigrade, usually
or BOD:        expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/1).
BEST           Schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and other
MANAGEMENT     management practices to implement the prohibitions listed in Section
PRACTICES or   8-6-2-1 A. and B. BMPs include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and
BMPS:          practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or
               drainage from raw materials storage.
CATEGORICAL    Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance
PRETREATMENT   with sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. section 1317) that apply to a
STANDARD or    specific category of Users and that appear in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts
CATEGORICAL    405-471.
STANDARD:
CATEGORICAL    An Industrial User subject to a categorical Pretreatment Standard or categorical
INDUSTRIAL     Standard.
USER:
CITY:          The City of Fruitland, Idaho or the City Council of the City of Fruitland.
CHEMICAL       A measure of the oxygen required to oxidize all compounds, both organic and inorganic,
OXYGEN DEMAND  in water.
or COD:
CONTROL        The City of Fruitland.
AUTHORITY:
DAILY MAXIMUM: The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a pollutant collected during a
               calendar day.
               The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant during a calendar day. Where Daily
DAILY MAXIMUM  Maximum Limits are expressed in units of mass, the daily discharge is the total mass
LIMIT:         discharged over the course of the day. Where Daily Maximum Limits are expressed in
               terms of a concentration, the dailydischarge is the arithmetic average measurement of
               the pollutant concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
ENVIRONMENTAL  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water
PROTECTION     Management Division Director, the Regional Administrator, or other duly authorized
AGENCY or EPA: official of said agency.
EXISTING       Any source of discharge that is not a “New Source.”
SOURCE:
GRAB SAMPLE:   A sample that is taken from a wastestream without regard to the flow in the wastestream
               and over a period of time not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes.
               Any hazardous waste as defined in rules published by the state of Idaho or in 40 CFR
HAZARDOUS      261, including hazardous waste mixed with domestic waste under EPA’s domestic sewage
WASTE:         exemption (DSE) rule through direct or indirect connections to the wastewater
               collection system.
INDIRECT
DISCHARGE or   The introduction of pollutants into the POTW from any nondomestic source.
DISCHARGE:
INSTANTANEOUS  The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time,
LIMIT:         determined from the analysis of any discrete or composited sample collected,
               independent of the industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
               A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other
               sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or operations or its
               sludge processes, use or disposal; and therefore, is a cause of a violation of the
               City’s NPDES permit or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance
               with any of the following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder,
INTERFERENCE:  or any more stringent State or local regulations: section 405 of the Act; the Solid
               Waste Disposal Act, including Title II commonly referred to as the Resource
               Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any State regulations contained in any State
               sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal Act;
               the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the Marine Protection,
               Research, and Sanctuaries Act.
               Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the City upon industrial or
LOCAL LIMIT:   commercial facilities to implement the general and specific discharge prohibitions
               listed in 40 CPR 403.5(a)(l) and (b).
               Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood products, pathological
MEDICAL WASTE: wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding, surgical wastes, potentially
               contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis wastes.
MONTHLY        The sum of all “daily discharges” measured during a calendar month divided by the
AVERAGE:       number of “daily discharges” measured during that month.
MONTHLY        The highest allowable average of “daily discharges” over a calendar month, calculated
AVERAGE LIMIT: as the sum of all “daily discharges” measured during a calendar month divided by the
               number of “daily discharges” measured during that month.
               1.    Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there is (or may
               be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after the
NEW SOURCE:    publication of proposed Pretreatment Standards under section 307(c) of the Act that
               will be applicable to such source if such Standards are thereafter promulgated in
               accordance with that section, provided that:
                 (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is constructed at a site at
               which no other source is located; or
                  (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally replaces the
              process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at an Existing
               Source; or
                  (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the building, structure,
               facility, or installation are substantially independent of an Existing Source at the
              same site. In determining whether these are substantially independent, factors such as
               the extent to which the new facility is integrated with the existing plant, and the
               extent to which the new facility is engaged in the same general type of activity as the
               Existing Source, should be considered.
               2.   Construction on a site at which an Existing Source is located results in a
               modification rather than a New Source if the construction does not create a new
              building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the criteria of division 1.b. or
               c. above but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds to existing process or production
               equipment.
              3.   Construction of a New Source as defined under this paragraph has commenced if the
               owner or operator has:
                 (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite construction program
                    (i)   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or equipment; or
                     (ii)   Significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation, or
              removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is necessary for the
               placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities or equipment; or
                  (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of facilities
               or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a reasonable time.
              Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or modified without
               substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering, and design studies do not
               constitute a contractual obligation under this paragraph.
NONCONTACT     Water used for cooling that does not come into direct contact with any raw material,
COOLING WATER: intermediate product, waste product, or finished product.
               A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United States in quantities or
PASS THROUGH:  concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other
               sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the City’s NPDES permit,
               including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
               Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, corporation, association,
PERSON:        joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity, or any other legal entity; or
               their legal representatives, agents, or assigns. This definition includes all Federal,
               State, and local governmental entities.
pH:            A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in standard units.
               Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash, sewage, garbage,
               sewage sludge, munitions, Medical Wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials,
POLLUTANT:     radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt,
               municipal, agricultural and industrial wastes, and certain characteristics of
               wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
               The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of pollutants, or the
               alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater prior to, or in lieu of,
PRETREATMENT:  introducing such pollutants into the POTW. This reduction or alteration can be obtained
               by physical, chemical, or biological processes; by process changes; or by other means,
               except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
               Pretreatment Standard.
PRETREATMENT   Any substantive or procedural requirement related to pretreatment imposed on a User,
REQUIREMENTS:  other than a Pretreatment Standard.
PRETREATMENT   Pretreatment Standards shall mean prohibited discharge standards, categorical
STANDARDS or   Pretreatment Standards, and Local Limits.
STANDARDS:
PROHIBITED
DISCHARGE      Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
STANDARDS or   appear in Section
PROHIBITED     8-6-2-1 of this chapter.
DISCHARGES:
               A treatment works, as defined by section 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. section 1292), which
PUBLICLY OWNED is owned by the City. This definition includes any devices or systems used in the
TREATMENT      collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial
WORKS or POTW: wastes of a liquid nature and any conveyances, which convey wastewater to a treatment
               plant.
PUBLIC WORKS   The person designated by the City to supervise the operation of the POTW, and who is
DIRECTOR:      charged with certain duties and responsibilities by this chapter. The term also means a
               Duly Authorized Representative of the Public Works Director.
SEPTIC TANK    Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers, and
WASTE:         septic tanks.
SEWAGE:        Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing operations, etc.).
SIGNIFICANT    Except as provided in paragraphs 3. and 4. of this Section, a Significant Industrial
INDUSTRIAL     User is:
USER (SIU):    1.   An Industrial User subject to categorical Pretreatment Standards; or
              2.   An Industrial User that:
                  (a)   Discharges an average of twenty-five thousand (25,000) gpd or more of process
              wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler blowdown
               wastewater);
                 (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up five (5) percent or more of
               the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment plant; or
                  (c)   Is designated as such by the City on the basis that it has a reasonable
              potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for violating any
               Pretreatment Standard or Requirement.
               Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration, which could cause a violation of the
SLUG LOAD or   prohibited discharge standards in Section
SLUG           8-6-2-1 of this chapter. A Slug Discharge is any Discharge of a non-routine, episodic
DISCHARGE:     nature, including but not limited to an accidental spill or a non-customary batch
               Discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause Interference or Pass Through, or
               in any other way violate the POTW’s regulations, Local Limits or Permit conditions.
STORM WATER:   Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural precipitation, and resulting
               from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
TOTAL
SUSPENDED      The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water,
SOLIDS or      wastewater, or other liquid, and that is removable by laboratory filtering.
SUSPENDED
SOLIDS:
USER or
INDUSTRIAL     A source of indirect discharge.
USER:
               Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from residential dwellings,
WASTEWATER:    commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing facilities, and institutions,
               whether treated or untreated, which are contributed to the POTW.
WASTEWATER
TREATMENT      That portion of the POTW which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and
PLANT or       industrial waste. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
TREATMENT
PLANT:
 
8-6-2: GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS:
8-6-2-1: PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS:
   A.   General Prohibitions. No User shall introduce or cause to be introduced
into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes Pass Through or
Interference. These general prohibitions apply to all Users of the POTW whether
or not they are subject to categorical Pretreatment Standards or any other
National, State, or local Pretreatment Standards or Requirements.
   B.   Specific Prohibitions. No User shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      1.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140 degrees F (60 degrees C) using the test methods specified in 40
CFR 261.21;
      2.   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 9.5, or otherwise
causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
      3.   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in Interference.
      4.   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause Interference
with the POTW;
      5.   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 120 degrees F, or which
will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
Interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104 degrees F (40 degrees C);
      6.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause Interference or Pass Through;
      7.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      8.   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the Public Works Director in accordance with Section
8-6-3-4 of this chapter;
      9.   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
      10.   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant’s
effluent, thereby violating the City’s NPDES permit;
      11.   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations;
      12.   Storm Water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, Noncontact Cooling Water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Public Works Director;
      13.   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      14.   Medical Wastes, except as specifically authorized by the Public
Works Director in an individual wastewater discharge permit;
      15.   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources, the
treatment plant’s effluent to fail toxicity test;
      16.   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which that
might cause excessive foaming in the POTW; {'{'}optional{'}'}
      17.   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100 mg/1;
      18.   Hazardous Wastes.
      Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this Section shall
not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to
the POTW. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-2-2: NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS:
Users must comply with the categorical Pretreatment Standards found at 40 CPR
Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
   A.   When wastewater subject to a categorical Pretreatment Standard is mixed
with wastewater not regulated by the same Standard, the Public Works Director
shall impose an alternate limit in accordance with 40 CPR 403.6(e).
   B.   When a categorical Pretreatment Standard is expressed only in terms of
pollutant concentrations, an Industrial User may request that the City convert
the limits to equivalent mass limits. The determination to convert
concentration limits to mass limits is within the discretion of the Public
Works Director. The City may establish equivalent mass limits only if the
Industrial User meets all the conditions set forth below:
      1.   To be eligible for equivalent mass limits, the Industrial User must:
         a.   Employ, or demonstrate that it will employ, water conservation
methods and technologies that substantially reduce water use during the term of
its individual wastewater discharge permit;
         b.   Currently use control and treatment technologies adequate to
achieve compliance with the applicable categorical Pretreatment Standard, and
not have used dilution as a substitute for treatment;
         c.   Provide sufficient information to establish the facility’s actual
average daily flow rate for all wastestreams, based on data from a continuous
effluent flow monitoring device, as well as the facility’s long-term average
production rate. Both the actual average daily flow rate and the long-term
average production rate must be representative of current operating conditions;
         d.   Not have daily flow rates, production levels, or pollutant levels
that vary so significantly that equivalent mass limits are not appropriate to
control the Discharge; and
         e.   Have consistently complied with all applicable categorical
Pretreatment Standards during the period prior to the Industrial User’s request
for equivalent mass limits.
      2.   An Industrial User subject to equivalent mass limits must:
         a.   Maintain and effectively operate control and treatment
technologies adequate to achieve compliance with the equivalent mass limits;
         b.   Continue to record the facility’s flow rates through the use of a
continuous effluent flow monitoring device;
         c.   Continue to record the facility’s production rates and notify the
Public Works Director whenever production rates are expected to vary by more
than 20 percent from its baseline production rates determined in paragraph
F.1.c. of this Section. Upon notification of a revised production rate, the
Public Works Director will reassess the equivalent mass limit and revise the
limit as necessary to reflect changed conditions at the facility; and
         d.   Continue to employ the same or comparable water conservation
methods and technologies as those implemented pursuant to paragraphs B.1.a. of
this Section so long as it discharges under an equivalent mass limit.
      3.   When developing equivalent mass limits, the Public Works Director:
         a.   Will calculate the equivalent mass limit by multiplying the
actual average daily flow rate of the regulated process(es) of the Industrial
User by the concentration-based Daily Maximum and Monthly Average Standard for
the applicable categorical Pretreatment Standard and the appropriate unit
conversion factor;
         b.   Upon notification of a revised production rate, will reassess the
equivalent mass limit and recalculate the limit as necessary to reflect changed
conditions at the facility; and
         c.   May retain the same equivalent mass limit in subsequent
individual wastewater discharger permit terms if the Industrial User’s actual
average daily flow rate was reduced solely as a result of the implementation of
water conservation methods and technologies, and the actual average daily flow
rates used in the original calculation of the equivalent mass limit were not
based on the use of dilution as a substitute for treatment pursuant to Section
8-6-2-6. The Industrial User must also be in compliance with Section
8-6-13-3 regarding the prohibition of bypass. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-2-3: STATE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS:
Users must comply with the federal Pretreatment Standards codified at 40 CFR
403. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-2-4: LOCAL LIMITS:
   A.   The Public Works Director is authorized to establish Local Limits
pursuant to 40 CFR 403.S(c).
   B.   The following are the maximum allowable loadings of each pollutant due
to industrial sources and are established to protect against Pass Through and
Interference.
 
4,537 lb/d/ TSS
67    lb/d TP
6,950 Lb/d BOD
 
The above loadings will be allocated among Industrial Users as the Public Works
Director dictates. The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is
discharged to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for
total metal unless indicated otherwise. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-2-5: CITY’S RIGHT OF REVISION:
The City reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in individual
wastewater discharge permits, more stringent Standards or Requirements on
discharges to the POTW consistent with the purpose of this chapter. (Ord. 704,
8-28-2023)
8-6-2-6: DILUTION:
No User shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt to
dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment
to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly authorized
by an applicable Pretreatment Standard or Requirement. the Public Works
Director may impose mass limitations on Users who are using dilution to meet
applicable Pretreatment Standards or Requirements, or in other cases when the
imposition of mass limitations is appropriate. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-3: PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER:
8-6-3-1: PRETREATMENT FACILITIES:
Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with this
chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical Pretreatment
Standards, Local Limits, and the prohibitions set out in Section
8-6-2-1 of this chapter within the time limitations specified by EPA, the
State, or the Public Works Director, whichever is more stringent. Any
facilities necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained
at the User’s expense. Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating
procedures shall be submitted to the Public Works Director for review and shall
be acceptable to the Public Works Director before such facilities are
constructed. The review of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way
relieve the User from the responsibility of modifying such facilities as
necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the City under the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-3-2: ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES:
   A.   Whenever deemed necessary, the Public Works Director may require Users
to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams,
and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine
the User’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   The Public Works Director may require any person discharging into the
POTW to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a
suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. An
individual wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow
equalization.
   C.   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Public Works Director, they are necessary for the proper
handling of wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand;
except that such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All
interception units shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Public Works
Director, shall comply with City Code Title 8, Chapter 4, Section 4 F. and
shall be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired in accordance with City
Code Title 8, Chapter 4, Section 4 F. by the User at their expense.
   D.   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-3-3: ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG DISCHARGE CONTROL PLANS:
The Public Works Director shall evaluate whether each SIU needs an accidental
discharge/slug discharge control plan or other action to control Slug
Discharges. the Public Works Director may require any User to develop, submit
for approval, and implement such a plan or take such other action that may be
necessary to control Slug Discharges. Alternatively, the Public Works Director
may develop such a plan for any User. An accidental discharge/slug discharge
control plan shall address, at a minimum, the following:
   A.   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
   B.   Description of stored chemicals;
   C.   Procedures for immediately notifying the Public Works Director of any
accidental or Slug Discharge, as required by Section
8-6-6-6 of this chapter; and
   D.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or Slug
Discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-3-4: HAULED WASTEWATER:
   A.   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the Public Works Director, and at such times as are established
by the Public Works Director. Such waste shall not violate Section
8-6-2 of this chapter or any other requirements established by the City. the
Public Works Director may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain
individual wastewater discharge permits.
   B.   The Public Works Director may require haulers of industrial waste to
obtain individual wastewater discharge permits. the Public Works Director may
require generators of hauled industrial waste to obtain individual wastewater
discharge permits. the Public Works Director also may prohibit the disposal of
hauled industrial waste. The discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to
all other requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the Public Works Director. No load may be discharged without
prior consent of the Public Works Director. the Public Works Director may
collect samples of each hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable
Standards. the Public Works Director may require the industrial waste hauler to
provide a waste analysis of any load prior to discharge.
   D.   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA Hazardous Wastes. (Ord. 704, 8-
28-2023)
8-6-4: INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS:
8-6-4-1: WASTEWATER ANALYSIS:
When requested by the Public Works Director, a User must submit information on
the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 25 days of the request.
the Public Works Director is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and
may periodically require Users to update this information. (Ord. 704, 8-28-
2023)
8-6-4-2: INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENT:
   A.   No Significant Industrial User shall discharge wastewater into the POTW
without first obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit from the
Public Works Director, except that a Significant Industrial User that has filed
a timely application pursuant to Section
8-6-4-3 of this chapter may continue to discharge for the time period specified
therein.
   B.   The Public Works Director may require other Users to obtain individual
wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this
chapter.
   C.   Any violation of the terms and conditions of an individual wastewater
discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subjects the
wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in Sections
8-6-10 through
8-6-12 of this chapter. Obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all Federal and
State Pretreatment Standards or Requirements or with any other requirements of
Federal, State, and local law. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-4-3: INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING: EXISTING CONNECTIONS:
Any User required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who was
discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
chapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within
90 days after said date, apply to the Public Works Director for an individual
wastewater discharge permit in accordance with Section
8-6-4-5 of this chapter, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to
continue after 180 days of the effective date of this chapter except in
accordance with an individual wastewater discharge permit issued by the Public
Works Director. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-4-4: INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING: NEW CONNECTIONS:
Any User required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who
proposes to begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such
permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application
for this individual wastewater discharge permit, in accordance with Section of
this chapter, must be filed at least 180 days prior to the date upon which any
discharge will begin or recommence. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-4-5: INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENTS:
   A.   All Users required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit
must submit a permit application. The Public Works Director may require Users
to submit all or some of the following information as part of a permit
application:
      1.   Identifying Information.
         a.   The name and address of the facility, including the name of the
operator and owner.
         b.   Contact information, description of activities, facilities, and
plant production processes on the premises;
      2.   Environmental Permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      3.   Description of Operations.
         a.   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production
(including each product produced by type, amount, processes, and rate of
production), and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s)
carried out by such User. This description should include a schematic process
diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated
processes.
         b.   Types of wastes generated, and a list of all raw materials and
chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or
intentionally be, discharged to the POTW;
         c.   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed or
actual hours of operation;
         d.   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
         e.   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and
details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location,
and elevation, and all points of discharge;
      4.   Time and duration of discharges;
      5.   The location for monitoring all wastes covered by the permit;
      6.   Flow Measurement. Information showing the measured average daily and
maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in 40 CFR 403.6(e).
      7.   Measurement of Pollutants.
         a.   The categorical Pretreatment Standards applicable to each
regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for Existing
Sources.
         b.   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the Standard or by the Public
Works Director, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process.
         c.   Instantaneous, Daily Maximum, and long-term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported.
         d.   The sample shall be representative of daily operations and shall
be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in Section 8-6-6-10 of this
chapter. Where the Standard requires compliance with a BMP or pollution
prevention alternative, the User shall submit documentation as required by the
Public Works Director or the applicable Standards to determine compliance with
the Standard.
         e.   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in Section
8-6-6-11 of this chapter.
      8.   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the Public Works
Director to evaluate the permit application.
   B.   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will be
returned to the User for revision. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-4-6: APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATIONS:
   A.   All wastewater discharge permit applications, User reports and
certification statements must be signed by an Authorized Representative of the
User and contain the certification statement in Section
8-6-6-14 A.
   B.   If the designation of an Authorized Representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying the
requirements of this Section must be submitted to the Public Works Director
prior to or together with any reports to be signed by an Authorized
Representative. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-4-7: INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DECISIONS:
The Public Works Director will evaluate the data furnished by the User and may
require additional information. Within 90 days of receipt of a complete permit
application, the Public Works Director will determine whether to issue an
individual wastewater discharge permit. the Public Works Director may deny any
application for an individual wastewater discharge permit. (Ord. 704, 8-28-
2023)
8-6-5: INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE:
8-6-5-1: INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DURATION:
An individual wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified time
period, not to exceed five (5) years from the effective date of the permit. An
individual wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a period less than
five (5) years, at the discretion of the Public Works Director. Each individual
wastewater discharge permit will indicate a specific date upon which it will
expire. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-5-2: INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT CONTENTS:
An individual wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as are
deemed reasonably necessary by the Public Works Director to prevent Pass
Through or Interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the
treatment plant’s effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
   A.   Individual wastewater discharge permits must contain:
      1.   A statement that indicates the wastewater discharge permit issuance
date, expiration date and effective date;
      2.   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to the City in accordance with Section
8-6-5-5 of this chapter, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or
operator with a copy of the existing wastewater discharge permit;
      3.   Effluent limits, including Best Management Practices, based on
applicable Pretreatment Standards;
      4.   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants (or best management practice) to be monitored, sampling location,
sampling frequency, and sample type based on Federal, State, and local law.
      5.   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation
of Pretreatment Standards and Requirements, and any applicable compliance
schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance beyond that
required by applicable Federal, State, or local law.
      6.   Requirements to control Slug Discharge, if determined by the Public
Works Director to be necessary.
   B.   Individual wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be
limited to, the following conditions:
      1.   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      2.   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
      3.   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill control
plans or other special conditions including management practices necessary to
adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or nonroutine discharges;
      4.   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to reduce
the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      5.   The unit charge or schedule of User charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      6.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment, including flow measurement devices;
      7.   A statement that compliance with the individual wastewater discharge
permit does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable Federal and State Pretreatment Standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the individual wastewater discharge permit;
and
      8.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Public Works Director
to ensure compliance with this chapter, and State and Federal laws, rules, and
regulations. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-5-3: PERMIT MODIFICATION:
   A.   the Public Works Director may modify an individual wastewater discharge
permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      1.   To incorporate any new or revised Federal, State, or local
Pretreatment Standards or Requirements;
      2.   To address significant alterations or additions to the User’s
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
individual wastewater discharge permit issuance;
      3.   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      4.   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the City’s POTW, City personnel, or the receiving waters;
      5.   Violation of any terms or conditions of the individual wastewater
discharge permit;
      6.   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
      7.   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical Pretreatment
Standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13;
      8.   To correct typographical or other errors in the individual
wastewater discharge permit; or
      9.   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a
new owner or operator where requested in accordance with Section
8-6-5-5. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-5-4: INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT TRANSFER:
Individual wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new owner or
operator only if the permittee gives at least 30 days advance notice to the
Public Works Director and the Public Works Director approves the individual
wastewater discharge permit transfer. The notice to the Public Works Director
must include a written certification by the new owner or operator which:
   A.   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent to
change the facility’s operations and processes;
   B.   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
   C.   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
individual wastewater discharge permit.
Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the individual
wastewater discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer. (Ord.
704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-5-5: INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REVOCATION:
The Public Works Director may revoke an individual wastewater discharge permit
for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   A.   Failure to notify the Public Works Director of significant changes to
the wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
   B.   Failure to provide prior notification to the Public Works Director of
changed conditions pursuant to Section
8-6-6-5 of this chapter;
   C.   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application;
   D.   Falsifying self-monitoring reports and certification statements;
   E.   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
   F.   Refusing to allow the Public Works Director timely access to the
facility premises and records;
   G.   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
   H.   Failure to pay fines;
   I.   Failure to pay sewer charges;
   J.   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
   K.   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater discharge
permit application;
   L.   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business ownership
of a permitted facility; or
   M.   Violation of any Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, or any terms of
the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
   Individual wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of
operations or transfer of business ownership. All individual wastewater
discharge permits issued to a User are void upon the issuance of a new
individual wastewater discharge permit to that User. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-5-6: INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REISSUANCE:
A User with an expiring individual wastewater discharge shall apply for
individual wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete
permit application, in accordance with Section
8-6-4-5 of this chapter, a minimum of 90 days prior to the expiration of the
User’s existing individual wastewater discharge permit. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-5-7: REGULATION OF WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS:
   A.   If another municipality, or User located within another municipality,
contributes wastewater to the POTW, the Public Works Director shall enter into
an intermunicipal agreement with the contributing municipality.
   B.   Prior to entering into an agreement required by paragraph A, above, the
Public Works Director shall request the following information from the
contributing municipality:
      1.   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW by the contributing municipality;
      2.   An inventory of all Users located within the contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW; and
      3.   Such other information as the Public Works Director may deem
necessary.
   C.   An intermunicipal agreement, as required by paragraph A, above, shall
contain the following conditions:
      1.   A requirement for the contributing municipality to adopt a sewer use
ordinance which is at least as stringent as this chapter and Local Limits,
including required Baseline Monitoring Reports (BMRs) which are at least as
stringent as those set out in Section
8-6-2-4 of this chapter. The requirement shall specify that such ordinance and
limits must be revised as necessary to reflect changes made to the City’s
ordinance or Local Limits;
      2.   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a revised
User inventory on at least an annual basis;
      3.   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation activities,
including individual wastewater discharge permit issuance, inspection and
sampling, and enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing municipality;
which of these activities will be conducted by the Public Works Director; and
which of these activities will be conducted jointly by the contributing
municipality and the Public Works Director;
      4.   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the
Public Works Director with access to all information that the contributing
municipality obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      5.   Limits on the nature, quality, and volume of the contributing
municipality’s wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
      6.   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality’s
discharge;
      7.   A provision ensuring the Public Works Director access to the
facilities of Users located within the contributing municipality’s
jurisdictional boundaries for the purpose of inspection, sampling, and any
other duties deemed necessary by the Public Works Director; and
      8.   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms of
the intermunicipal agreement. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-6: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
8-6-6-1: BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS:
   A.   Within either one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective date of
a categorical Pretreatment Standard, or the final administrative decision on a
category determination under 40 CPR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
Categorical Industrial Users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge
to the POTW shall submit to the Public Works Director a report which contains
the information listed in paragraph B, below. At least one hundred eighty (180)
days prior to commencement of their discharge, New Sources, and sources that
become Categorical Industrial Users subsequent to the promulgation of an
applicable categorical Standard, shall submit to the Public Works Director a
report which contains the information listed in paragraph B., below. A New
Source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet
applicable categorical Standards. A New Source also shall give estimates of its
anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   B.   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      1.   All information required in Section
8-6-4-5A.1.a., Section
8-6-4-5A.2., Section
8-6-4-5A.3.a., and Section
8-6-4-5A.6.
      2.   Measurement of pollutants.
         a.   The User shall provide the information required in Section
8-6-4-5A.7.a. through d.
         b.   The User shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this paragraph.
         c.   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment the User should measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream formula in 40
CFR 403.6(e) to evaluate compliance with the Pretreatment Standards. Where an
alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated in accordance with 40
CPR 403.6(e) this adjusted limit along with supporting data shall be submitted
to the Control Authority;
         d.   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with
Section
8-6-6-10;
         e.   The Public Works Director may allow the submission of a baseline
report which utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides
information sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment
measures;
         f.   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place of
sampling and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
Discharges to the POTW.
      3.   Compliance Certification. A statement, reviewed by the User’s
Authorized Representative as defined in Section
8-6-1-4 and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
Pretreatment Standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the Pretreatment Standards and Requirements.
      4.   Compliance Schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the Pretreatment Standards, the shortest schedule by which the
User will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M must be provided. The
completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date
established for the applicable Pretreatment Standard. A compliance schedule
pursuant to this Section must meet the requirements set out in Section
8-6-6-2 of this chapter.
      5.   Signature and Report Certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be certified in accordance with Section
8-6-6-14 A. of this chapter and signed by an Authorized Representative as
defined in Section
8-6-1-4. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-6-2: COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS:
The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
Section
8-6-6-1 B.4. of this chapter:
   A.   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates for
the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction and
operation of additional pretreatment required for the User to meet the
applicable Pretreatment Standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   B.   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine (9) months;
   C.   The User shall submit a progress report to the Public Works Director no
later than fourteen (14) days following each date in the schedule and the final
date of compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the User to return to the established schedule; and
   D.   In no event shall more than nine (9) months elapse between such
progress reports to the Public Works Director. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-6-3: REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE:
Within ninety (90) days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical Pretreatment Standards, or in the case of a New Source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any User subject
to such Pretreatment Standards and Requirements shall submit to the Public
Works Director a report containing the information described in Section
8-6-4-5 A.6. and 7. and
8-6-6-1 B.2. of this chapter. For Users subject to equivalent mass or
concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in this
chapter, this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the User’s long-term
production rate. For all other Users subject to categorical Pretreatment
Standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
User’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with Section
8-6-6-14 A. of this chapter. All sampling will be done in conformance with
Section
8-6-6-11. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-6-4: PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS:
   A.   All Significant Industrial Users must, at a frequency determined by the
Public Works Director submit no less than twice per year (June and December)
reports indicating the nature, concentration of pollutants in the discharge
which are limited by Pretreatment Standards and the measured or estimated
average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period. In cases where the
Pretreatment Standard requires compliance with a Best Management Practice (BMP)
or pollution prevention alternative, the User must submit documentation
required by the Public Works Director or the Pretreatment Standard necessary to
determine the compliance status of the User.
   B.   If a User subject to the reporting requirement in this section monitors
any regulated pollutant at the appropriate sampling location more frequently
than required by the Public Works Director, using the procedures prescribed in
Section
8-6-6-11 of this chapter, the results of this monitoring shall be included in
the report. Note: See 40 CFR 403.12(g)(6). (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-6-5: REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS:
Each User must notify the Public Works Director of any significant changes to
the User’s operations or system which might alter the nature, quality, or
volume of its wastewater at least 90 days before the change.
   A.   the Public Works Director may require the User to submit such
information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition,
including the submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under
Section
8-6-4-5 of this chapter.
   B.   the Public Works Director may issue an individual wastewater discharge
permit under Section
8-6-5-7 of this chapter or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under
Section
8-6-5-4 of this chapter in response to changed conditions or anticipated
changed conditions. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-6-6: REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS:
   A.   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to, accidental
discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a noncustomary batch
discharge, a Slug Discharge or Slug Load, that might cause potential problems
for the POTW, the User shall immediately telephone and notify the Public Works
Director of the incident. This notification shall include the location of the
discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective
actions taken by the User.
   B.   Within five (5) days following such discharge, the User shall, unless
waived by the Public Works Director, submit a detailed written report
describing the cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the
User to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve
the User of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which might be
incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other
damage to person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the User of
any fines, penalties, or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this
chapter.
   C.   A notice shall be permanently posted on the User’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in paragraph A., above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who could cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   D.   Significant Industrial Users are required to notify the Public Works
Director immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for
a Slug Discharge. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-6-7: REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS:
All Users not required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit
shall provide appropriate reports to the Public Works Director as the Public
Works Director may require. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-6-8: NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING:
If sampling performed by a User indicates a violation, the User must notify the
Public Works Director within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The User shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the Public Works Director within thirty (30)
days after becoming aware of the violation. Resampling by the Industrial User
is not required if the City performs sampling at the User’s facility at least
once a month, or if the City performs sampling at the User between the time
when the initial sampling was conducted and the time when the User or the City
receives the results of this sampling, or if the City has performed the
sampling and analysis in lieu of the Industrial User. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-6-9: DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE:
No User shall introduce or cause the discharge of Hazardous Waste. If sampling
performed by a User indicates a violation of this Section, the Industrial User
must notify the Public Works Director within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming
aware of the violation. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-6-10: ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS:
All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as part
of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed in
accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136 and amendments
thereto, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical Pretreatment
Standard. If 40 CFR Part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques
for the pollutant in question, or where the EPA determines that the Part 136
sampling and analytical techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in
question, sampling and analyses shall be performed by using validated
analytical methods or any other applicable sampling and analytical procedures,
including procedures suggested by the Public Works Director or other parties
approved by EPA. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-6-11: SAMPLE COLLECTION:
Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements must be based on data
obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the period
covered by the report, based on data that is representative of conditions
occurring during the reporting period.
   A.   Except as indicated in Section B. and C. below, the User must collect
wastewater samples using 24-hour flow-proportional composite sampling
techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is
authorized by the Public Works Director. Where time-proportional composite
sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the City, the samples must be
representative of the discharge. Using protocols (including appropriate
preservation) specified in 40 CFR Part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance,
multiple grab samples collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior
to the analysis as follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the
samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile
organics and oil and grease, the samples may be composited in the laboratory.
Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures
as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by the City, as
appropriate. In addition, grab samples may be required to show compliance with
Instantaneous Limits.
   B.   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total phenols,
sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
      1.   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-day
compliance reports required in Section
8-6-6-1 and
8-6-6-3 [40 CFR 403.12(b) and (d)], a minimum of four grab samples must be used
for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organic
compounds for facilities for which historical sampling data do not exist; for
facilities for which historical sampling data are available, the Public Works
Director may authorize a lower minimum. For the reports required by paragraphs
Section
8-6-6-4 (40 CFR 403.12(e) and 403.12(h)), the Industrial User is required to
collect the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance by
with applicable Pretreatment Standards and Requirements. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-6-12: DATE OF RECEIPT OF REPORTS:
Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date postmarked.
For reports, which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail facility
serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of the report
shall govern. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-6-13: RECORDKEEPING:
Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain, and
make available for inspection and copying, all records of information obtained
pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter, and any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the User independent of such requirements. Records shall include
the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and the name of the person
(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed; who performed the
analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of such
analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
(3) years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the User or the City, or where the User has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the Public Works
Director. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-6-14: CERTIFICATION STATEMENTS:
   A.   Certification of Permit Applications, User Reports and Initial
Monitoring Waiver- The following certification statement is required to be
signed and submitted by Users submitting permit applications in accordance with
Section
8-6-4-7; Users submitting baseline monitoring reports under Section
8-6-6-1 B.5.; Users submitting reports on compliance with the categorical
Pretreatment Standard deadlines under Section
8-6-6-3 [Note: See 40 CFR 403.12(d)]; and Users submitting periodic compliance
reports required by Section
8-6-6-4 A.-B. [Note: See 40 CFR 403.12(e) and (h)]. The following certification
statement must be signed by an Authorized Representative as defined in Section
8-6-1-4 C.:
      I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-7: COMPLIANCE MONITORING:
8-6-7-1: RIGHT OF ENTRY: INSPECTION AND SAMPLING:
The Public Works Director shall have the right to enter the premises of any
User to determine whether the User is complying with all requirements of this
chapter and any individual wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder. Users shall allow the Public Works Director ready access to all
parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records
examination and copying, and the performance of any additional duties.
   A.   Where a User has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the User shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Public Works Director shall be permitted to
enter without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   B.   The Public Works Director shall have the right to set up on the User’s
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the User’s operations.
   C.   The Public Works Director may require the User to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the User
at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated per manufacturer’s specification to ensure their accuracy.
   D.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the User
at the written or verbal request of the Public Works Director and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be born by the User.
   E.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Public Works Director access to the
User’s premises shall be a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-7-2: SEARCH WARRANTS:
If the Public Works Director has been refused access to a building, structure,
or property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need
to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program
of the City designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any permit or
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and
welfare of the community, the Public Works Director may seek issuance of a
search warrant from the Payette County District Court of Idaho. (Ord. 704, 8-
28-2023)
8-6-8: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
Information and data on a User obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, individual wastewater discharge permits, and
monitoring programs, and from the Public Works Director’s inspection and
sampling activities, shall be available to the public without restriction,
unless the User specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the PublicWorks Director, that the release of such information
would divulge information, processes, or methods of production entitled to
protection as trade secrets under applicable State law. Any such request must
be asserted at the time of submission of the information or data. When
requested and demonstrated by the User furnishing a report that such
information should be held confidential, the portions of a report which might
disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available for
inspection by the public but shall be made available immediately upon request
to governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment
program, and in enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other effluent data, as
defined at 40 CFR 2.302 shall not be recognized as confidential information and
shall be available to the public without restriction. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-9: PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE:
The Public Works Director shall publish annually, a list of the Users which, at
any time during the previous twelve (12) months, were in Significant
Noncompliance with applicable Pretreatment Standards and Requirements. The term
Significant Noncompliance shall be applicable to all Significant Industrial
Users (or any other Industrial User that violates paragraphs C., D. or H. of
this Section) and shall mean:
   A.   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which sixty-six percent (66%) or more of all the measurements taken
for the same pollutant parameter taken during a six- (6-) month period exceed
(by any magnitude) a numeric Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, including
Instantaneous Limits as defined in Section
8-6-2;
   B.   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which thirty-three percent (33%) or more of wastewater measurements taken for
each pollutant parameter during a six- (6-) month period equals or exceeds the
product of the numeric Pretreatment Standard or Requirement including
Instantaneous Limits, as defined by Section
8-6-2 multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and
grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   C.   Any other violation of a Pretreatment Standard or Requirement as
defined by Section
8-6-2 (Daily Maximum, long-term average, Instantaneous Limit, or narrative
standard) that the Public Works Director determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, Interference or Pass Through, including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public;
   D.   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Public Works
Director’s exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a
discharge;
   E.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in an individual wastewater discharge
or enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
   F.   Failure to provide within forty-five (45) days after the due date, any
required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance
with categorical Pretreatment Standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring
reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
   G.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   H.   Any other violation(s) which the Public Works Director determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-10: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
8-6-10-1: NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION:
When the Public Works Director finds that a User has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or
Requirement, the Public Works Director may serve upon that User a written
Notice of Violation. Within 7 days of the receipt of such notice, an
explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and
prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall be submitted by
the User to the Public Works Director. Submission of such a plan in no way
relieves the User of liability for any violations occurring before or after
receipt of the Notice of Violation. Nothing in this Section shall limit the
authority of the Public Works Director to take any action, including emergency
actions or any other enforcement action, without first issuing a Notice of
Violation. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-10-2: CONSENT ORDERS:
The Public Works Director may enter into Consent Orders, assurances of
compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any User
responsible for noncompliance. Such documents shall include specific action to
be taken by the User to correct the noncompliance within a time period
specified by the document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect
as the administrative orders issued pursuant to Sections
8-6-10-4 and
8-6-10-5 of this chapter and shall be judicially enforceable. (Ord. 704, 8-28-
2023)
8-6-10-3: SHOW CAUSE HEARING:
The Public Works Director may order a User which has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or
Requirement, to appear before the Public Works Director and show cause why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the
User specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement
action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the User show cause why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least 30 days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be served on
any Authorized Representative of the User as defined in Section
8-6-1-4 and required by Section
8-6-4-7 A. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the User. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-10-4: COMPLIANCE ORDERS:
When the Public Works Director finds that a User has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or
Requirement, the Public Works Director may issue an order to the User
responsible for the discharge directing that the User come into compliance
within a specified time. If the User does not come into compliance within the
time provided, sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment
facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are installed and properly
operated. Compliance orders also may contain other requirements to address the
noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management practices
designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A
compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a
Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the
User of liability for any violation, including any continuing violation.
Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the User. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-10-5: CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS:
When the Public Works Director finds that a User has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or
Requirement, or that the User’s past violations are likely to recur, the Public
Works Director may issue an order to the User directing it to cease and desist
all such violations and directing the User to:
   A.   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
   B.   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed to
properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge. Issuance of a cease-and-desist
order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the User. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-10-6: ADMINISTRATIVE FINES:
   A.   When the Public Works Director finds that a User has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard
or Requirement, the Public Works Director may fine such User in an amount
established by resolution of the City Council and as may be amended from time
to time. Such fines shall be assessed on a per-violation, per-day basis. In the
case of monthly or other long-term average discharge limits, fines shall be
assessed for each day during the period of violation.
   B.   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the Public Works Director to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the
fine amount within 14 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has
merit, the Public Works Director may convene a hearing on the matter. In the
event the User’s appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest
accruing thereto, shall be returned to the User. the Public Works Director may
add the costs of preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices
and orders, to the fine.
   C.   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the User. (Ord. 704, 8-28-
2023; amd. Ord. 712, 2-10-2025)
8-6-10-7: EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS:
The Public Works Director may immediately suspend a User’s discharge, after
informal notice to the User, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge, which reasonably appears to present, or cause
an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons.
the Public Works Director may also immediately suspend a User’s discharge,
after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the
operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to
the environment.
   A.   Any User notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately
stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a User’s failure to
immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Public Works
Director may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance
of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its
receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. the Public Works Director
may allow the User to recommence its discharge when the User has demonstrated
to the satisfaction of the Public Works Director that the period of
endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings in Section
8-6-10-8 of this chapter are initiated against the User.
   B.   A User that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Public Works Director prior to the date
of any show cause or termination hearing under Sections
8-6-10-3 or
8-6-10-8 of this chapter.
   Nothing in this Section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing prior to
any Emergency Suspension under this Section. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-10-8: TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE:
In addition to the provisions in Section
8-6-5-6 of this chapter, any User who violates the following conditions is
subject to discharge termination:
   A.   Violation of individual wastewater discharge permit conditions;
   B.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
   C.   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
   D.   Refusal of reasonable access to the User’s premises for the purpose of
inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
   E.   Violation of the Pretreatment Standards in Section
8-6-2 of this chapter.
Such User will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge and be
offered an opportunity to show cause under Section
8-6-10-3 of this chapter why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise
of this option by the Public Works Director shall not be a bar to, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the User. (Ord. 704, 8-28-
2023)
8-6-11: JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
8-6-11-1: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
When the Public Works Director finds that a User has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or
Requirement, the Public Works Director may petition the [insert name of
appropriate Court] through the City’s Attorney for the issuance of a temporary
or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the
specific performance of the individual wastewater discharge permit, order, or
other requirement imposed by this chapter on activities of the User. the Public
Works Director may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/
or equitable relief, including a requirement for the User to conduct
environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a User. (Ord.
704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-11-2: CIVIL PENALTIES:
   A.   A User who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this
chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder,
or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement shall be liable to the City
for a maximum civil penalty as established by resolution of the City Council
and as may be amended from time to time, per violation, per day. In the case of
a monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue
for each day during the period of the violation.
   B.   The Public Works Director may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees, court
costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including
sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred
by the City.
   C.   In determining the amount of civil liability, the Court shall take into
account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the extent
of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the violation,
any economic benefit gained through the User’s violation, corrective actions by
the User, the compliance history of the User, and any other factor as justice
requires.
   D.   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a User. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023;
amd. Ord. 712, 2-10-2025)
8-6-11-3: CRIMINAL PROSECUTION:
   A.   A User who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this
chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder,
or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 per
violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more than 180 days, or both.
   B.   A User who willfully or negligently introduces any substance into the
POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of at least $1,000, or be
subject to imprisonment for not more than 180 days, or both. This penalty shall
be in addition to any other cause of action for personal injury or property
damage available under State law.
   C.   A User who knowingly makes any false statements, representations, or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other documentation
filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter, individual
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who falsifies,
tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of
not more than $1,000 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more than
180 days, or both. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-11-4:   REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE:
The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. the Public Works
Director may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant User. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the City’s enforcement response plan. However, the Public Works
Director may take other action against any User when the circumstances warrant.
Further, the Public Works Director is empowered to take more than one
enforcement action against any noncompliant User. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-12: SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION:
8-6-12-1: PENALTIES FOR LATE REPORTS:
A penalty as established by resolution of the City Council and as may be
amended from time to time, shall be assessed to any User for each day that a
report required by this chapter, a permit or order issued hereunder is late,
beginning five days after the date the report is due. Reports that are more
than 30 days past due shall constitute a violation of the User’s permit.
Actions taken by the Public Works Director to collect late reporting penalties
shall not limit the Public Works Director’s authority to initiate other
enforcement actions that may include penalties for late reporting violations.
(Ord. 704, 8-28-2023; amd. Ord. 712, 2-10-2025)
8-6-12-2: PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING FEES AND PENALTIES:
The Public Works Director may decline to issue or reissue an individual
wastewater discharge permit to any User who has failed to pay any outstanding
fees, fines or penalties incurred as a result of any provision of this chapter,
a previous individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder.
(Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-12-3: WATER SUPPLY SEVERANCE:
Whenever a User has violated or continues to violate any provision of this
chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder,
or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, water service to the User
may be severed. Service will recommence, at the User’s expense, only after the
User has satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply. (Ord. 704, 8-28-
2023)
8-6-12-4: PUBLIC NUISANCES:
A violation of any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard
or Requirement is hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or
abated as directed by the Public Works Director. Any person(s) creating a
public nuisance shall be subject to the provisions of the Fruitland City Code
governing such nuisances, including reimbursing the City for any costs incurred
in removing, abating, or remedying said nuisance. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-13: AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS:
8-6-13-1: UPSET:
   A.   For the purposes of this Section, upset means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with categorical
Pretreatment Standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
User. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
   B.   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical Pretreatment Standards if the requirements
of paragraph C., below, are met.
   C.   A User who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      1.   An upset occurred and the User can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      2.   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      3.   The User has submitted the following information to the Public Works
Director within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming aware of the upset [if this
information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided within
five (5) days]:
         a.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         b.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         c.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   D.   In any enforcement proceeding, the User seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   E.   Users shall have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical Pretreatment Standards.
   F.   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical Pretreatment Standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails. (Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-13-2: PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS:
A User shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in Section
8-6-2-1 A. of this chapter or the specific prohibitions in Sections
8-6-2-1 B.3. through 17. of this chapter if it can prove that it did not know,
or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with
discharges from other sources, would cause Pass Through or Interference and
that either:
   A.   A Local Limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the User was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the Pass Through or
Interference; or
   B.   No Local Limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the User’s prior discharge when the City was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements. (Ord.
704, 8-28-2023)
8-6-13-3: BYPASS:
   A.   For the purposes of this Section:
      1.   Bypass means the intentional diversion of wastestreams from any
portion of a User’s treatment facility.
      2.   Severe property damage means substantial physical damage to
property, damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become
inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can
reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property
damage does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   B.   A User may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause Pretreatment
Standards or Requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provision of paragraphs C. and D. of this Section.
   C.   Bypass Notifications:
      1.   If a User knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall submit
prior notice to the Public Works Director, at least ten (10) days before the
date of the bypass, if possible.
      2.   A User shall submit oral notice to the Public Works Director of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable Pretreatment Standards within
twenty-four (24) hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written
submission shall also be provided within five (5) days of the time the User
becomes aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description
of the bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates
and times, and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it
is expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent reoccurrence of the bypass. the Public Works Director may waive the
written report on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received
within twenty-four (24) hours.
   D.   Bypass:
      1.   Bypass is prohibited, and the Public Works Director may take an
enforcement action against a User for a bypass, unless:
         a.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         b.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         c.   The User submitted notices as required under paragraph C. of this
section.
      2.   The Public Works Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the Public Works Director determines that
it will meet the three conditions listed in paragraph D.1. of this Section.
(Ord. 704, 8-28-2023)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Codes Adopted
9-1-2: Building Permit Expiration; Renewal
9-1-3: Permit Fees
9-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
Pursuant to the authority set out in Idaho Code section 39-4116, the City does
by reference, hereby adopt the following Uniform Codes:
   A.   Building Code: The 2018 version of the International Building Code,
prepared by the International Code Council, Inc., as adopted by the State or
the Idaho Building Code Board, together with any amendments or revisions to the
International Building Code made by the Idaho Building Code Board through the
negotiated rulemaking process;
   B.   Residential Code: The 2018 version of the International Residential
Code as adopted by the State or the Idaho Building Code Board, together with
any amendments or revisions to the International Building Code made by the
Idaho Building Code Board through the negotiated rulemaking process;
   C.   Energy Conservation Code: The 2018 version of the International Energy
Conservation Code, together with any amendments or revisions to the
International Energy Conservation Code made by the Idaho Building Code Board
through the negotiated rulemaking process;
   D.   Abatement Of Dangerous Buildings Code: The current version of the
Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, published by the
International Conference of Building Officials;
   E.   Sign Code: The current version of the Uniform Sign Code, together with
appendices thereto;
   F.   Fuel And Gas Code: The 2012 version of the International Fuel and Gas
Code, together with appendices thereto;
   G.   Manufactured Home Installation Standard: The current version of the
State Division of Building Safety Manufactured Home Installation Standard,
together with appendices thereto;
   H.   Recreational Vehicle Parks And Campgrounds Standard: The 2009 version
of the American National Standard for Recreational Vehicle Parks and
Campgrounds;
   I.   Handicapped Accessibility: The current version of the American standard
specifications for making buildings and facilities accessible to, and usable
by, the physically handicapped, published by the American National Standards
Institute;
   J.   Fire Code: The 2015 version of the International Fire Code, published
by the International Code Council, Inc.;
   K.   Public Works Construction Standards: The current version of the Idaho
Standards for Public Works Construction, together with any amendments, changes,
modifications, appendices or successor Codes thereto;
   L.   Mechanical Code: The 2018 version of the International Mechanical Code,
published by the International Code Council, Inc.
The adopted versions of the foregoing International Building Codes and Idaho
standards shall be deemed superseded by successive versions of such Codes as
they are adopted by the Idaho Building Code Board effective on the date any
such Codes are made effective by the Idaho Building Code Board and as
authorized by Idaho Code.
The above Codes are hereby adopted by the City to provide for the regulations
set forth herein and to provide for the issuance of permits and the collection
of fees therefor. Said documents are on file in the Office of the City Clerk
and are hereby made a part hereof by reference in the same manner as though
fully set forth in this chapter, notwithstanding any existing conflicting
section contained in this Code, which by the adoption hereof is hereby
repealed. A copy of the adopted Codes shall be kept in the Office of the City
Clerk. (Ord. 576, 12-23-2013, eff. 1-1-2014; amd. Ord. 634, 12-26-2017; Ord.
674, 11-9-2020)
9-1-2: BUILDING PERMIT EXPIRATION; RENEWAL:
   A.   Term Of Permit: Any building permit issued by the building official or
building inspector shall be valid for a period not to exceed one hundred eighty
(180) days. All work contemplated to be done in accordance with the permit
shall be completed within that one hundred eighty (180) day period.
   B.   Expiration: If the project for which the permit was issued remains
uncompleted at the time the permit expires, no additional work shall be resumed
until a new permit is issued by the building official or building inspector.
   C.   First Extension: If any portion of the project is completed at the time
of expiration, an additional permit shall be issued, without charge, to allow
completion. The additional permit shall be good for a period of one hundred
eighty (180) days and shall be designated as a first extension.
   D.   Second Extension: If the project is not completed within the additional
one hundred eighty (180) day period, the project shall be abandoned and the
site restored to its original condition. Provided, however, if after the
expiration of the first extension period, a substantial portion of the work is
completed, another one hundred eighty (180) day permit shall be issued for a
second extension. If after the expiration of the second extension, the work is
not completed, the work will be abandoned and the site restored to its original
condition. No further work will be commenced, initiated or continued unless and
until an application is presented to, and, after hearing, approved by the City
Council. The City Council shall have the right to reject the application,
approve, or approve the application with any conditions which it may deem
appropriate for the best interest of the citizens of the City.
   E.   Terms Defined:
    BUILDING PERMIT: Shall be synonymous with use permit.
   SUBSTANTIAL: Twenty five percent (25%) or more of the projected project.
   F.   Commercial, Industrial Structures:
      1.   No building permit for a commercial or industrial structure shall be
issued until a plan review has been conducted by the building official. There
shall be two (2) types of plan reviews: one review will be for construction
purposes and the other shall be for fire and life safety purposes. There shall
be no fee for a plan review for commercial and industrial building
construction.
      2.   A fire and life safety plan review shall include, but not be limited
to, fire alarm systems, Fire Code compliance, fire sprinkler systems, overhead
pressure tests, rough in, fire suppression systems, hose connections,
commercial hood fire systems, firewalls and other fire or life safety related
construction. There shall be no fee for any fire and life safety plan review.
      3.   Applications for which no permit is issued within one hundred eighty
(180) days following the date of receipt of application shall expire and plans
and other data submitted for review may thereafter be returned to the applicant
or destroyed by the building official. The building official may extend the
time for action by the applicant for a period not exceeding one hundred eighty
(180) calendar days on request by the applicant showing that circumstances
beyond the control of the applicant have prevented action from being taken.
Without City Council approval, no application shall be extended more than once.
In order to renew action on an application after expiration, the applicant
shall resubmit plans and pay a new plan review fee. (1984 Code § 4-5-1)
   G.   Civil Penalty: Any person who shall build or commence construction of
any building or structure without first obtaining a building permit shall be
subject to and shall pay a civil penalty in an amount equal to twice the cost
of the permit fee. This fee shall be paid before a permit is issued. (Ord. 576,
12-23-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
9-1-3: PERMIT FEES:
Fees to enforce the provisions of this chapter shall be established by
resolution of the City Council. The City Council shall establish a permit fee
schedule, which schedule shall reflect the fees which are to be charged. The
fee schedule shall be kept on file in the Office of the City Clerk and in the
office of the building inspector or building official, and shall be made
available to the public upon request. (1984 Code §
4-1-2; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 2
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Permit Required
9-2-2: Building Moving Requirements
9-2-3: Penalty
9-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Any person, owner, mover or otherwise, desiring to move a building, shall
secure a permit at least fifteen (15) days in advance of the move. (1984 Code §
4-2-1)
9-2-2: BUILDING MOVING REQUIREMENTS:
No building shall be moved within the city limits, unless the following
precautions are made for moving the same safely:
   A.   Pilot Car: Any building shall be preceded and followed by a pilot car
displaying a flashing yellow light mounted on top of the vehicle and a large
sign across the front of the preceding vehicle or the rear of the following
vehicle warning other motorists of a wide load. Said pilot cars shall have
radio communication equipment capable of remaining in contact with the driver
of the vehicle moving the building and the other pilot car.
   B.   Pulling Vehicle: A vehicle pulling the building shall have a flashing
yellow light and mirrors which extend to such a length as the driver can view
traffic behind the building which is being moved.
   C.   Building Flagged: The building itself shall be flagged on all four (4)
corners with bright red flags placed at an angle away from the building, so
that the corner flags are pointing upward and away from the building and toward
the barrow pit, so that all flags are perpendicular to oncoming traffic. Said
flags shall measure at least twelve inches (12") on each side.
   D.   Compliance With Traffic Directions: Any person who is moving a building
within the city limits shall obey all traffic directions given to him by the
city police.
   E.   Notification Of Utilities: The owner of the building which is being
moved, or the operator of the equipment which is moving the building, shall be
responsible for acquainting himself with and notifying all utilities which may
be affected by the move, that a building will be moved and that said utilities
may be affected thereby.
   F.   Liability For Damages: The operator of the equipment moving the
building and the owner, or either of them jointly or severally, shall be liable
for all damages done to any utility, any improvement of the city, or any
private property during the course of the move. (1984 Code §
4-2-2)
9-2-3: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any portion of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code §
4-2-3; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 3
CURB, GUTTER, SIDEWALK AND DRAINAGE REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Curb, Gutter And Sidewalk Requirements
9-3-2: Drainage Standards
9-3-1: CURB, GUTTER AND SIDEWALK REQUIREMENTS:
Any person who files an application for development of property within the
City, which property has frontage abutting upon or along a public street,
whether the development be single residential, tract residential, commercial,
industrial or otherwise, shall be responsible as part of any development to
install curb, gutter and sidewalk along the entire distance that the property
abuts street. Property shall be considered as abutting even though it may abut
a State or City right-of- way or even though the improvement may be placed upon
a State or City road right-of-way. The landowner whose property abuts the
sidewalk shall be responsible for all costs associated with engineering,
installation, maintenance, upkeep, repair and replacement and shall assume all
liability for the sidewalk. The City Council may waive any part of the
requirement after a showing that a waiver would be in the best interest of the
City. (1984 Code § 4-6-1)
9-3-2: DRAINAGE STANDARDS:
Any person who engages in new construction, reconstruction or rebuilding of any
improvements to any real property, which improvement covers two thousand five
hundred (2,500) square feet or more with additional impervious surface, shall,
prior to or in conjunction with the construction work meet the requirements
outlined in section
10-7A-19 of this Code. (Ord. 640, 5-14-2018)
CHAPTER 4
REBAR REQUIREMENTS IN FOOTINGS AND FOUNDATIONS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Requirements
9-4-2: Enforcement; Penalty
9-4-1: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Specified: On any construction where conventional footings or
foundations are poured, in addition to any other requirement imposed by city
ordinances or that part of the most recently adopted version of the IBC or the
ISPWC, the following requirements shall apply. There shall be two (2) pieces of
0.4 rebar horizontally embedded the entire distance of the footings suspended
at least three inches (3") from the bottom of the pour. There shall be two (2)
pieces of 0.4 rebar horizontally embedded the entire distance of the
foundation. Each piece of rebar lying horizontally shall overlap twelve inches
(12") and shall be tied to the adjoining piece of rebar at the ends. One of the
two (2) pieces of the horizontal rebar in the foundation shall be placed
approximately three inches (3") from the top of the pour and the other piece of
horizontal rebar shall be placed approximately three inches (3") from the
bottom of the pour. There shall be one piece of 0.4 rebar embedded vertically
on six foot (6') centers the entire length of the foundation. The vertical
rebar in the foundation shall be tied to the horizontal rebar in the
foundation.
   B.   Applicability: The requirement for placement of rebar shall apply in
all footings and foundations which are poured along the perimeter of any
structure or which are poured to support interior walls or exterior
projections. (1984 Code § 4-7-1; amd. 2014 Code)
9-4-2: ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition, the building official may issue a stop work
order on any project which is not in compliance with this chapter and may
refuse to allow work to proceed until all existing work is made to conform to
city requirements. (1984 Code § 4-7-2; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ENGINEER AND LEGAL COSTS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Expenses
9-5-2: Reimbursement
9-5-3: Rebilling Fee
9-5-1: EXPENSES:
Any person, partnership, firm, LLC, LLP, corporation, company or any other
entity which makes any request for any service, any permit, any request for any
improvement or for any action from the City which causes the City to incur any
engineering and/or legal costs, either for review or for any other reason,
shall reimburse the City for those expenses incurred by the City. The City
shall be reimbursed for engineering and/or legal costs even if the services
have not been requested, agreed to or contracted for by the party requesting
the service. Any reference in this Code in regard to engineering expenses shall
also include legal expenses. (Ord. 639, 4-9-2018)
9-5-2: REIMBURSEMENT:
Upon receipt of a bill for engineering and/or legal services, the City Clerk
shall forward a copy of that bill to the entity which initiated the action
leading to the City obtaining the expense. That entity shall reimburse the City
by paying the bill within thirty (30) days of receipt. If the bill is not paid
within thirty (30) days, the City shall have the right to withhold any City
service to which the entity may claim an entitlement, to turn the bill over to
an agency for collection or to sue upon the bill. (Ord. 639, 4-9-2018)
9-5-3: REBILLING FEE:
In the event a bill is not paid within thirty (30) days of its receipt, the
City shall have the right to charge a rebilling fee as established by
resolution of the City Council and as may be amended from time to time. (1984
Code § 4-8-3; amd. Ord. 712, 2-10-2025)
TITLE 10
LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purpose And Intent
10-1-3: Scope And Content
10-1-4: Applicability
10-1-5: References
10-1-6: Preservation Of Private Property Rights
10-1-7: Amendments To Title
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as the LAND USE ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF FRUITLAND,
IDAHO. (1984 Code § 5-1-1)
10-1-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: The purposes of this title shall be to:
      1.   Carry out the intent and purposes of the "local land use planning
act", Idaho Code section 67-6501 et seq., as amended;
      2.   Carry out the policies of the comprehensive plan by classifying and
regulating the uses of property and structures within the incorporated areas of
the city;
      3.   Establish districts within the city in accordance with the adopted
comprehensive plan, in conformance with Idaho Code section 67-6511;
      4.   Provide standards for the orderly growth and development of the
city. As required by Idaho Code section 67-6511, such standards include, but
are not limited to, those regulating:
         a.   The height, number of stories, size, design, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair or location of structures.
         b.   Size, minimum lot dimensions, landscape buffers, size of required
yards and density of residential properties.
         c.   The use of structures and property;
      5.   Ensure the most appropriate use of properties;
      6.   Protect property rights and enhance property values;
      7.   Provide a method of administration and prescribe penalties for the
violations of regulations hereinafter described as authorized by the
constitution and laws of the state; and
      8.   Protect and promote health, safety and the general welfare. (1984
Code §
11-1-2)
   B.   Intent: The city council hereby declares that it is the intention that
this title does not repeal any existing laws in regard to fire limits,
sanitation or otherwise. (1984 Code § 5-17-3)
10-1-3: SCOPE AND CONTENT:
This title shall consist of the text adopted by ordinance, as amended from time
to time, and the official zoning maps, as amended from time to time. Copies are
available for review at the Fruitland City Hall or on the City’s website
www.fruitland.org. This title and each and all of its terms are to be read and
interpreted in light of the designations of the official zoning maps. (1984
Code § 11-1-3; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-1-4: APPLICABILITY:
The regulations of this title shall apply and govern development and use of all
properties within the corporate limits of the city and outside the city limits
and within the city area of impact for which annexation has been requested, or
as otherwise permitted through written agreement with Payette County.
   A.   No person or public agency shall construct, alter, move or change the
use of a structure or undertake any development unless:
      1.   The proposed use, structure or division of property complies with
this title.
      2.   Any required approval is first obtained as provided by this code,
and any applicable conditions of approval are met.
   B.   Nothing in this title shall eliminate the need for obtaining any other
required permits, including, but not limited to, building permits, plumbing,
electrical or mechanical permits, grading permits, or any permit, approval or
entitlement required by other titles of this code, other political subdivisions
of the state, or agencies of the state.
   C.   All properties in a commercial or industrial zone within the city
corporate limits shall comply with the regulations of this title unless
otherwise preempted by federal statute or local law statutory ordinance.
   D.   The prosecution of violations that occurred under previous land use
regulations and that remain a violation under this title shall continue until
resolved.
   E.   Applications pending as of the effective date of this title:
      1.   Project With Pending Application: All applications shall be
processed according to the regulations and requirements in effect as of the
date the zoning administrator accepted the application.
      2.   Approved Project With Pending Request For Time Extension: Time
extension requests shall be consistent with the requirements that are in effect
when the original application was approved.
      3.   Approved Project Not Yet Completed: Any approved application may
still be completed as provided by the approval. (1984 Code §
11-1-4)
10-1-5: REFERENCES:
References in this title to other ordinances or codes of the city and statutes
of the state are provided solely for the coordination of this title with such
other ordinances and statutes. Any amendments to cited codes that are adopted
subsequent to the adoption of this title shall be applicable to this title.
(1984 Code § 11-1-8)
10-1-6: PRESERVATION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY RIGHTS:
   A.   This title shall be interpreted to equally protect citizens from the
undue encroachment on their private property by their neighbors' uses of their
private property and equally protect each citizen's right to use their property
without creating undue burden upon their neighbors.
   B.   In the administration of this title, every person shall be secure in
their premises, and no employee of the city shall enter upon, investigate or
search any of the premises of any citizen without the consent of such citizen
or order issued by a court of proper jurisdiction.
   C.   Every citizen of the city shall have the right to appear in person or
be represented by their agent before the city council in the proper order of
business to appeal a decision pursuant to the procedures contained in chapter 2
of this title.
   D.   In the enforcement of this title, it shall be deemed to apply equally
to each citizen and each property in similar circumstances, and shall not be
enforced to discriminate between one individual and/or another individual or
other group as compared to all others. (1984 Code § 11-1-9)
10-1-7: AMENDMENTS TO TITLE:
The city council may amend the boundaries of the zoning districts or any
portion of this title in accordance with the notice provisions of Idaho Code
sections 67-6509 and 67-6511, as they now exist or hereafter are amended,
changed or replaced. (1984 Code § 5-3-2D)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-2-1: Purpose
10-2-2: Zoning Administrator
10-2-3: Design Review Committee
10-2-4: Planning And Zoning Commission
10-2-5: City Council Duties Generally
10-2-6: Application Process
10-2-7: Administrative Process
10-2-8: Public Hearings
10-2-9: Fees
10-2-10: Appeals
10-2-11: Mediation
10-2-12: Violations
10-2-13: Enforcement, Revocation And Penalties
10-2-14: Table 1; Summary Of Actions And Authority
10-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to set forth the roles, responsibilities and
processes associated with the administration of approvals and/or permits that
are authorized by this title. (1984 Code § 11-5-1)
10-2-2: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Appointment; Assistance: The city council shall appoint a zoning
administrator to act as the administrative official for this title. The zoning
administrator may be provided with the assistance of such other persons or may
designate other city officials to carry out the duties and responsibilities of
this title as the city council may authorize.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The zoning administrator, or his or her staff, shall
administer and enforce this title and fulfill all the duties imposed by law,
including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Make interpretations in the enforcement and administration of this
title;
      2.   Advise interested persons and the public of the land use provisions;
      3.   Notify the news media regarding matters of public interest;
      4.   With the city clerk, receive and examine applications;
      5.   Aid applicants in the preparation of required applications and
transmit to the planning and zoning commission or city council any required
applications;
      6.   Issue zoning permits, certificates of zoning compliance, certificate
of occupancy permits, notifications, stop work orders and such similar
administrative duties, subject to the veto powers of the city council;
      7.   Conduct investigations of structures and use of property as are
necessary to determine compliance with the regulations of this title;
      8.   Order the abatement of violations of this title and aid in
prosecuting such violations;
      9.   Withhold any certificate of zoning compliance or administrative
design review approvals on any property where structures or uses are in
violation of this title;
      10.   Enforce penalties for violations in accordance with this title;
      11.   With the consent of the owner, enter upon any property to make
examinations and surveys;
      12.   Maintain records of all materials and correspondence related to
land use applications;
      13.   Transmit to outside agencies and provide written notice to
surrounding property owners on all planning and zoning commission and city
council hearings;
      14.   Maintain records of the planning and zoning commission and city
council hearings, and actions thereon;
      15.   Review and act on requests for alternative compliance as identified
in this title;
      16.   Convene a design review committee to provide recommendations on the
interpretation and application of this title. The design review committee may
also review and make recommendations on alternative compliance requests related
to administrative design review. The zoning administrator shall review and act
on recommendations from the design review committee and shall issue a final
determination;
      17.   Assist and report to the planning and zoning commission and city
council regarding the provisions of this title as directed. (1984 Code §§
5-3-1, 11-5-2C; amd. 2014 Code)
10-2-3: DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEE:
The design review committee shall convene to offer recommendations to the
zoning administrator on administrative design review matters. Members of the
design review committee shall include the development engineer, transportation
engineer, water and sewer engineer, as required, the public works supervisor
and the building official. The design review committee shall meet as needed by
the zoning administrator. (1984 Code § 11-5-2D)
10-2-4: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Created; Membership; Terms: There is created a planning and zoning
commission for the city, consisting of nine (9) members, to be appointed by the
mayor and confirmed by the city council. One member may be selected from
outside the city limits; provided, that person resides within the designated
impact area and has been a resident of the impact area or the city for the
preceding two (2) continuous years. All members of the planning and zoning
commission shall be appointed for a four (4) year term. Any commission member
may be discharged from office at any time by the mayor with the concurrence of
a majority of the members of the city council. If any member has three (3)
consecutive unexcused absences, they shall automatically be discharged from
office. (Ord. 606, 3-14-2016)
   B.   General Procedures And Requirements:
      1.   Records: Copies of all records and proceedings of the planning and
zoning commission shall be on file in the office of the city clerk.
      2.   Rules And Regulations: The planning and zoning commission shall
adopt such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary to effectuate the
provisions and purposes of this title, and it shall hold such meetings and meet
at such places and have such hearings as the planning and zoning commission, or
a majority thereof, may deem necessary and to the interest of the city. At the
first meeting of the planning and zoning commission, it shall elect one of its
members chairperson, and then at the first meeting of each calendar year
following an appointment or reappointment, the planning and zoning commission
shall meet and organize by electing a chairperson and vice chairperson, each to
serve one year or until his successor is elected and qualified.
      3.   Recommendations: The planning and zoning commission shall be
responsible for recommendations to the city council on commercial and/or
industrial comprehensive plan amendments and land use legislation.
      4.   Meetings: All meetings and records shall be open to the public. At
least one regular meeting shall be held on the second Tuesday of each month for
not less than nine (9) months in a year. A majority of voting members of the
planning and zoning commission shall constitute a quorum. If both chairperson
and vice chairperson are not in attendance at meeting, such meeting shall be
conducted by the zoning administrator.
   C.   Duties: In addition, the duties of the planning and zoning commission
regarding implementation of this title shall be as follows:
      1.   Provide for citizen meetings, hearings or other methods to obtain
advice on the planning process, comprehensive plan and implementation;
      2.   Conduct informational meetings and consult with public officials and
agencies, public utility companies and civic, educational, professional or
other organizations;
      3.   Promote a public interest in and understanding of the planning and
zoning commission activities;
      4.   Conduct public hearings and make recommendations based on the
required findings and standards to the city council for applications in
accordance with section
10-2-14, table 1 of this chapter. (1984 Code §§ 5-3-2, 11-5-2B; amd. 2014 Code;
Ord. 606, 3-14-2016)
10-2-5: CITY COUNCIL DUTIES GENERALLY:
The city council shall have the authority to approve or deny commercial and/or
industrial comprehensive plan amendments and land use legislation, including
annexation, rezone and variance requests. The city council shall act on
recommendations from the planning and zoning commission and serve as a review
authority on appeals of discretionary and administrative actions. A listing of
duties is included in section
10-2-14, table 1 of this chapter. (1984 Code § 11-5-2A)
10-2-6: APPLICATION PROCESS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to outline the general
application process for a permit or decision under provisions of this title.
   B.   Application Requirements: All persons making application for permits
and decisions in accordance with this title shall submit an application to the
zoning administrator on forms provided by the zoning administrator.
   C.   Determination Of Completeness:
      1.   An application shall contain all information deemed necessary by the
zoning administrator to determine if the proposed permit or action will comply
with the requirements of the applicable district or regulation.
      2.   Upon receipt of a complete application, the zoning administrator
shall begin processing the application.
   D.   Fee: All applications shall be accompanied by a filing fee in an amount
established by city ordinance or resolution. (1984 Code § 11-5-3; amd. 2014
Code)
10-2-7: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESS:
   A.   Parties Of Record Defined: For purposes of this section, "parties of
record" shall include the applicant, property owners of record within three
hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundary of the application property, and
any person who, in writing, specifically requests such status as to a
particular application.
   B.   Procedure: Where the process specified by section
10-2-14, table 1 of this chapter, is administrative:
      1.   Upon submission of a complete application, the zoning administrator
shall review such application and shall:
         a.   Prepare a final decision of denial, which decision shall be
supported by written findings of fact and conclusions of law; or
         b.   Prepare a final decision of approval, which decision shall be
supported by written findings of fact and conclusions of law and shall set
forth any and all conditions of approval; and/or
         c.   Convene the design review committee to provide recommendations
related to an application.
      2.   The zoning administrator shall provide to the applicant notice of
the final decision. (1984 Code § 11-5-4)
10-2-8: PUBLIC HEARINGS:
   A.   Hearings Based On Certain Standards: Decisions on permits and requests
for action requiring a public hearing are based on standards that require
substantial discretion and are matters having broad public interest.
   B.   Preapplication Meeting: Prior to submitting an application, applicants
for permits requiring a public hearing are required to conduct a preapplication
meeting with the zoning administrator. At his discretion, the zoning
administrator may include the design review committee.
   C.   Publishing Of Public Hearing Notice:
      1.   Legal Notice: In accordance with state code, at least fifteen (15)
days prior to the public hearing, the city shall publish a notice of the time
and place and a summary of the application in the official newspaper of general
circulation in the city.
      2.   Notice To Other Jurisdictions: The city shall send notice of the
application to other jurisdictions with interest and/or authority over the
application, including, but not limited to, the following:
         a.   Other jurisdictions with joint jurisdiction;
         b.   See section
10-16B-2-3 of this title.
   D.   Public Hearing:
      1.   The city council and/or planning and zoning commission shall conduct
the public hearing in accordance with the procedures set forth in section
1-5-3 of this code and Idaho Code sections 67-6509 and 67-6511.
      2.   If the decision making body (see section
10-2-14, table 1 of this chapter) finds that it does not have sufficient
information to make a decision, it may or may not continue the public hearing.
The decision making body may also choose to conduct a study session with all
parties of record to address questions and issues related to the application.
      3.   The decision making body (see section
10-2-14, table 1 of this chapter) may require or recommend conditions of
approval that it deems necessary to protect the public health, safety and
welfare and/or to prevent undue adverse impacts on surrounding properties.
      4.   After the conduct of the public hearing, the planning and zoning
commission may recommend approval, recommend denial, approve, approve with
conditions or deny the application request; the city council may approve,
approve with conditions or deny the application request. (1984 Code § 11-5-5)
10-2-9: FEES:
   A.   Fees Established By Ordinance Or Resolution: Applicant shall be
responsible for fees as established by ordinance or resolution.
   B.   Professional Contract Staff (PCS) Fees: Applicant shall be responsible
for PCS fees as described in title 9, chapter 5 of this code.
   C.   Fees Not Refundable: Fees to be charged for the various procedures
stated in this title are not refundable, except where a petition or application
is withdrawn at least three (3) weeks prior to the date of its scheduled public
hearing. (1984 Code § 11-5-7; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-2-10: APPEALS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to standardize the appeal
procedure for any party from any adverse ruling of either the city council,
planning and zoning commission or zoning administrator. All time limits set out
herein shall be deemed controlling unless a specific time limit is set out in
another section. Any party aggrieved by the final action of the zoning
administrator, planning and zoning commission or city council, may appeal in
accordance with the appellant procedures herein set forth. Time limits shall be
deemed jurisdictional. (1984 Code § 5-16-0)
   B.   Appeals From Decisions Of Zoning Administrator:
      1.   Any aggrieved party may appeal to the planning and zoning commission
from a final adverse decision of the zoning administrator. Such appeal must be
filed in writing with the zoning administrator or the planning and zoning
commission within fifteen (15) days after the decision is rendered.
      2.   Notice of appeal may be informal, but shall be in writing and shall
set out reasons why the appealing party is aggrieved and shall state why the
appellant believes the zoning administrator committed error.
      3.   The planning and zoning commission may hear the appeal either by
receiving and reviewing the record accumulated by the zoning administrator or
by holding a hearing. Should the planning and zoning commission choose to
schedule a hearing, such a hearing shall be held at the first regular planning
and zoning commission meeting which falls after the filing of the notice of
appeal; provided, that at least five (5) days have elapsed between notice of
filing and meeting. If the regular meeting is less than five (5) days after
filing, said hearing may be scheduled at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
Should the planning and zoning commission choose to decide an appeal strictly
on the record presented by the zoning administrator, the planning and zoning
commission may do so at any time, but no later than the first regular meeting
which occurs fifteen (15) days after the filing of the notice of appeal.
      4.   Within sixty (60) days after the hearing or record review, the
planning and zoning commission shall render a decision, together with a summary
of findings, setting forth reasons why a particular decision was made.
      5.   Should the planning and zoning commission fail to take action within
the allotted time, the appeal shall be deemed denied and the aggrieved party
may pursue further appeal. (1984 Code § 5-16-1)
   C.   Appeals From Decisions Of Planning And Zoning Commission:
      1.   Any aggrieved party may appeal to the city council from a final
adverse decision of the planning and zoning commission. Such appeal must be
filed in writing with the zoning administrator or the city council within
fifteen (15) days after the decision is rendered.
      2.   Notice of appeal may be informal, but shall be in writing and shall
set out reasons why the appealing party is aggrieved and shall state why the
appellant believes the planning and zoning commission committed error.
      3.   The city council may hear the appeal either by receiving and
reviewing the record accumulated by the zoning administrator or by holding a
hearing. Should the city council choose to schedule a hearing, such a hearing
shall be held at the first regular city council meeting which falls after the
filing of the notice of appeal; provided, that at least five (5) days have
elapsed between notice of filing and meeting. If the regular meeting is less
than five (5) days after filing, said hearing may be scheduled at the next
regularly scheduled meeting. Should the city council choose to decide an appeal
strictly on the record presented by the zoning administrator, the city council
may do so at any time, but no later than the first regular meeting which occurs
fifteen (15) days after the filing of the notice of appeal.
      4.   Within sixty (60) days after the hearing or record review, the city
council shall render a decision, together with a summary of findings, setting
forth reasons why a particular decision was made.
      5.   Should the city council fail to take action within the allotted
time, the appeal shall be deemed denied and the aggrieved party may pursue
further appeal. (1984 Code § 5-16-2)
   D.   Appeals From Decisions Of City Council: Any person aggrieved by a final
decision of the city council may appeal to the district court within twenty
eight (28) days. For purposes of filing an appeal, an aggrieved person shall be
limited to a person whose permit has been denied in full or in part, or a
property owner whose property lies within three hundred feet (300') of the
property subject to city council action. (1984 Code § 5-16-3)
   E.   General Provisions:
      1.   Representation: Any party may be represented at any stage by
counsel.
      2.   Quorum: The city council or planning and zoning commission shall act
by a simple majority of a quorum.
      3.   Stay Of Proceedings: Any appeal stays all work or all proceedings in
furtherance of the action unless the zoning administrator certifies to the
planning and zoning commission, after the notice of appeal is filed with him,
that by reason of facts stated in the application, a stay would, in his
opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. (1984 Code § 5-16-4)
10-2-11: MEDIATION:
An applicant may request mediation consistent with Idaho Code section 67-6510.
(1984 Code § 11-5-8)
10-2-12: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Proper Permits Required: It is a violation for any person to initiate
or maintain or cause to be initiated or maintained the use of any structure,
land or real property within the city without first obtaining proper permits or
authorizations required for the use by this title.
   B.   Prohibited Use: It is a violation for any person to use, construct,
locate, demolish or cause to be used, constructed, located, or demolished any
structure, land or property within the city in any manner that is not permitted
by the terms of any permit or authorization issued pursuant to this title or
previous codes.
   C.   Noncompliance With Conditions Of Approval: It is a violation for any
person to not comply with specific conditions of approval as stated in a
conditional use permit, accessory use permit, final plat or land division plan
as set forth in this title.
   D.   Misrepresentation Of Facts: It is a violation to misrepresent any
material fact in any application, plans or other information submitted to
obtain any land use authorization as set forth in this title.
   E.   Failure To Comply: It is a violation for anyone to fail to comply with
the requirements of this title, as set out in the specific sections of this
title. (1984 Code § 11-1-11)
10-2-13: ENFORCEMENT, REVOCATION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide criminal as well as
civil sanctions against persons who violate this title. The remedies herein
contained shall not be deemed exclusive remedies and by choosing a criminal or
civil remedy does not amount to an election of remedies. (1984 Code § 5-17-0)
   B.   Intent: It is the intent of this title to place the obligation of
complying with its requirements upon the owner, occupier or other person
responsible for the condition of the land and buildings within the scope of
this title. (1984 Code § 11-1-12A; amd. 2014 Code)
   C.   Private Covenants Excepted: Neither the city council nor any employee
or representative of the city council shall be required to enforce any private
subdivision covenants or restrictions. (1984 Code § 5-17-2)
   D.   Investigation And Notice Of Violation:
      1.   The zoning administrator, or a person designated by the zoning
administrator, shall investigate any structure or use which he or she
reasonably believes does not comply with the standards and requirements of this
title.
      2.   If, after investigation, it is determined that the standards or
requirements of this title have been violated, the zoning administrator, or a
person designated by the zoning administrator, shall serve a notice of
violation upon the owner, tenant or other person responsible for the condition.
The notice of violation shall state separately each standard or requirement
violated; shall state what corrective action, if any, is necessary to comply
with the standards or requirements; and shall set a reasonable time for
compliance. The notice shall state that any further violation may result in
criminal prosecution and/or civil penalties.
      3.   The notice served upon the owner, tenant or other person responsible
for the condition shall be addressed to the last known address of such person.
If no address is known, then notice may be made by publication in the newspaper
of record for the city. The zoning administrator, or a person designated by the
zoning administrator, will record all efforts made to effect service in person
or by mail as part of his investigative report. (1984 Code § 11-1-12B; amd.
2014 Code)
   E.   Extension Of Compliance Date:
      1.   The zoning administrator may grant a reasonable extension of time
for compliance with any notice or order, whether pending or final, upon finding
that substantial progress toward compliance has been made and that the public
will not be adversely affected by the extension. Such extension of time shall
not exceed one hundred eighty (180) days.
      2.   An extension of time may be revoked by the zoning administrator if
it is shown that any of the following are true:
         a.   The conditions at the time the extension was granted have
changed; (1984 Code § 11-1-12C)
         b.   The zoning administrator determines that a party is not
performing corrective actions as agreed; or (1984 Code § 11-1-12C; amd. 2014
Code)
         c.   If the extension creates an adverse effect on the public.
      3.   The date of revocation shall then be considered as the compliance
date. (1984 Code § 11-1-12C)
   F.   Revocation Of Permits:
      1.   Zoning, General: The procedure for revocation of permits for other
than commercial and industrial development is as follows:
         a.   In the event of any violation of any condition, term or
prerequisite which has been set as a requirement, basis or condition precedent
for the issuance, continuance or land use of a conditional use permit, a
hardship permit or any other permit which is subject to revocation, any person
may bring that violation to the attention of the zoning administrator. The
information presented to the zoning administrator may be informal in nature,
but it shall be in written form. After receipt of the information, the zoning
administrator shall commence a cursory investigation to determine if the
factual allegations made in support of the asserted violation are true, and if
the allegations are true, if the conduct complained of constitutes a violation
of the terms of the permitted use.
         b.   In the event the zoning administrator determines that the
allegations are not true or, that even if true, the facts do not constitute a
violation of the permitted use, the zoning administrator may dismiss the
allegations and notify the complaining party. The complaining party shall have
fifteen (15) days to file a notice of appeal with the planning and zoning
commission. In the event the administrator determines that the allegations are
true and constitute a violation of the permitted use, the zoning administrator
shall send notice of the violation to the permit holder. The notice shall
inform the permit holder of the terms and conditions of the permit, the
substance of the allegations which constitute the violation and inform the
holder that the matter shall be placed on the agenda before the city council.
At the time the matter is scheduled before the city council, the permit holder
shall appear and shall either admit or deny the substance of the allegations.
In the event the allegations are denied, the city council may set the hearing
or may send the matter to the planning and zoning commission with instructions
that the commission set the matter for a public hearing on behalf of the city
council. At the public hearing, the city council or the planning and zoning
commission shall hear evidence presented to support the allegations that the
holder has violated the terms of the permit and shall hear evidence which
rebuts the allegations. After the public hearing has been conducted, the city
council shall make a determination whether or not the facts giving rise to the
allegations of a violation of the permit are true, and if true, whether the
conduct complained of constitutes a violation of the permit. In the event the
city council makes a finding that there is no substance to the allegations or
that the permit holder's conduct does not constitute a violation of the terms
of the permit, the matter shall be dismissed. In the event the city council
makes a finding that there has been a violation of the terms of the permit, or
in the event the holder admits to a violation thereof, the city council shall
take one of the following courses of action:
            (1)   The city council may revoke the permit.
            (2)   The city council may extend the permit for a set period on a
probationary status, subject to such terms and conditions as the city council
may deem appropriate, with the prerequisite that if there is a violation of the
conditions underlying the permit while it is in probationary status, the permit
may be revoked upon a showing by affidavit of any violation without the
necessity of further hearing.
            (3)   It may modify the terms and conditions of the permit and
allow it to continue subject to the new terms.
            (4)   It may allow the conditional use to continue under the same
terms and conditions.
         c.   All notices required by this section may be sent by regular U.S.
mail, postage prepaid. In the event a permit holder fails to appear at any
stage of any proceedings, a hearing or a decision can be made in the absence of
that person.
         d.   Any action pursued in accordance with this section does not
preclude the city from any other form of enforcement, which enforcement may
include criminal prosecution, civil abatement or injunctive relief.
         e.   Any decision rendered by the city council may be appealed to the
district court pursuant to the Idaho administrative procedures act, in the
manner and within the time limits set by Idaho Code section 67-5270. (1984 Code
§ 5-17-4; amd. 2014 Code)
      2.   Commercial And Industrial Development: The procedure for revocation
of permits for commercial and industrial development is as follows:
         a.   A conditional use or accessory use permit, or any other permit
which is subject to revocation, may be revoked or modified by the city council,
upon notice and hearing, for breach or violation of any condition of approval
or limitation of the permit.
         b.   If the city council decides to revoke a conditional use permit or
accessory use permit, or any other permit which is subject to revocation,
either on its own action or upon complaint to the city council, the city
council shall notify the permit holder of its intention to revoke the permit
and provide the permit holder with the opportunity to contest the revocation.
         c.   Fifteen (15) days' prior notice of the hearing shall be given to
the permit holder and all property owners within three hundred feet (300') of
the boundaries of the land for which the permit was issued.
         d.   The city council shall make findings of fact and conclusions of
law supporting its decision to revoke the conditional use or accessory use
permit. If the city council does not decide to revoke the permit, no findings
of fact and conclusions of law shall be made.
         e.   An aggrieved permit holder or complainant may appeal the decision
of the city council under the administrative procedures act of the state, Idaho
Code section 67-5270. (1984 Code § 11-1-12D; amd. 2014 Code)
   G.   Criminal Penalty: A violation of the provisions of this title is
declared a misdemeanor. Any person violating or failing to comply with any of
the provisions of this title shall be subject to criminal prosecution and, upon
conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of noncompliance with any of the provisions of
this title shall constitute a separate offense. (1984 Code § 11-1-15A; amd.
2014 Code)
   H.   Additional Remedies For Violations:
      1.   Nothing contained herein shall prevent the city council, the
planning and zoning commission, any public official or any private citizen from
taking any lawful action to restrain, prevent or abate any act, proposed act or
action which is in violation of or which would violate any provision of this
title. Should any person successfully sue for the restraining, prevention or
abatement of any act or proposed act which would violate this title, that
person shall be awarded all costs and fees incurred in pursuing that action.
(1984 Code § 5-17-1; amd. 2014 Code)
      2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection G of this section, the
city attorney, at his or her sole discretion, may civilly prosecute any
violation of this title and seek all available remedies that may include, but
are not limited to, abatement of the noncompliant conditions, revocation of
existing permits for noncompliance, civil damages for enforcement, or any other
remedy as allowed by law. (1984 Code § 11-1-15B)
      3.   The city may file a lien upon any real property owned by convicted
persons if they fail to comply with the penalty as set forth in this section.
(1984 Code § 11-1-15C)
      4.   The city may withhold any approval and/or permit for any and all
proposed activities or uses on any real property with outstanding violations of
this title, except that such approval and/or permit shall not be withheld where
such withholding would adversely affect health, safety or the general public
welfare. (1984 Code § 11-1-15D)
10-2-14: TABLE 1; SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND AUTHORITY:
The following is a summary list of the actions that the city shall take in
administration of this title, the body responsible for the action, and
reference to the process under which the action shall be taken. This is not
intended to require the planning and zoning commission to review applications
where they are not listed as a recommending body, such as final plat, variance
and vacation.
   TABLE 1
   DECISION MAKING AUTHORITY AND PROCESS BY APPLICATION
Application Type Recommending Body Decision Making Type Of Process Statute/Code
                                   Body                            Location
Application    Recommending Decision Making Type Of Process Statute/Code
Type           Body         Body                            Location
Administrative DR as                                        Section
design review  requested by ZA              Admin           10-2-7 of this
               ZA                                           chapter
Alternative    DR as
compliance     requested by ZA              Admin            
               ZA
Annexation,                                                 Chapter 4,
rezone or      PZ           CC              PH              article A of this
comprehensive                                               title
plan amendment
Land division                                               Chapter 7,
plan           DR           ZA              Admin           article E of this
                                                            title
                                                            Section
Certificate of                                              10-3-2 of this
occupancy      BO           ZA              Admin           title, definition
                                                            of "certificate
                                                            of occupancy"
Conditional    ZA           PZ              PH              Chapter 10 of
use permit                                                  this title
Development    PZ           CC              PH              Chapter 8 of this
agreement                                                   title
ZA
modification                                                Section
to an approved None         ZA              Admin           10-10-6 of this
conditional                                                 title
use
Landscaping                                                 Chapter 7,
plans          DR           ZA              Admin           article B of this
                                                            title
Parcel         DR as                                        Section
boundary       requested by ZA              Admin           10-9-11 of this
adjustment     ZA                                           title
Right of way                                                Title 7, chapter
permit         None         SPW             Admin           1, article A of
                                                            this code
Vacations of   DR           CC              PM              Idaho Code § 50-
easements                                                   1325
Vacations of   DR           CC              PM              Idaho Code § 50-
right of way                                                1306A
Variance       PZ           CC              PH              Chapter 13 of
                                                            this title
 
 
Admin = Administrative           PM  = Public meeting
BO    = Building official        PZ  = City planning and zoning commission
CC    = City council             SPW = Superintendent of public works
DR    = Design review committee  ZA  = Zoning administrator
PH    = Public hearing                
 
(1984 Code § 11-5-2E)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Interpretation Of Terms Or Words
10-3-2: Definitions
10-3-1: INTERPRETATION OF TERMS OR WORDS:
   A.   Language:
      1.   Terminology: When used in this title, all words used in the present
tense shall include the future; words used in the singular number shall include
the plural number and the plural the singular, unless the natural construction
of the sentence indicates otherwise. The word "shall" is mandatory, and the
word "may" is permissive.
      2.   Number Of Days: Whenever a number of days is specified in this
title, or in any permit, condition of approval, or notice issued or given as
provided in this title, the number of days shall be construed as calendar days,
except that such time limits shall extend to the following working day when the
last of the specified number of days falls on a weekend or city holiday.
      3.   Minimum Requirements: When interpreting and applying the regulations
of this title, all regulations shall be considered to be minimum requirements,
unless stated otherwise. Proposed uses shall comply with all applicable
regulations and standards unless specifically exempt elsewhere in this title.
      4.   Defined Terms: Terms defined in section
10-3-2 of this chapter shall have their defined meaning when used elsewhere in
this title. For the purpose of readability and clarity, such terms are not
shown in initial caps.
      5.   Section Headings: Section headings or captions are for reference
purposes only and shall not be used in the interpretation of this title.
      6.   References: All references to state or federal laws and/or
regulations shall refer to such laws and/or regulations as they may be amended
over time. (1984 Code §
11-1-6)
   B.   Measurements:
      1.   Structure height shall be measured in accordance with the adopted
building code, as set forth in title 9, chapter 1 of this code. (1984 Code §
11-1-6; amd. 2014 Code)
      2.   Linear distance shall be measured in a horizontal line; it shall not
be measured along an inclined surface or line. For uses that have a separation
standard, the distance shall be measured from the nearest customer entrance of
the proposed use to the nearest property line of the specified use.
   C.   Conflicting Regulations:
      1.   In case of conflict between the text and the maps of this title, the
maps shall prevail.
      2.   If conflicts occur between different regulations of this title, or
between this title and other regulations of this code, the most restrictive
regulation shall apply.
      3.   It is not intended that this title interfere with, abrogate or annul
any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties; however, where
this title imposes a greater restriction upon the use of structures or
premises, or upon the height of structures, or requires larger space than is
imposed or required by ordinances, rules or regulations, or by easements,
covenants or agreements, the regulations of this title shall govern.
   D.   Allowed Uses: If a proposed use of property is not specifically listed
in "district regulations" of this title, the use shall be prohibited, except as
follows: The zoning administrator may determine that a proposed use not listed
in "district regulations" of this title is equivalent to a principal permitted
or conditional use. In making the determination, the zoning administrator shall
consider the following:
      1.   The impacts on public services and activities associated with the
proposed use are substantially similar to those of one or more of the uses
listed in the applicable base districts as allowed;
      2.   The proposed use shall not involve a higher level of activity or
density than one or more of the uses listed in the applicable base districts as
allowed;
      3.   The proposed use is within the same three (3) digit category of an
allowed use listed in the latest edition of the "North American Industry
Classification System (NAICS)", published by the United States Department of
Commerce;
      4.   The proposed use is consistent with the purpose of the district in
which the use is proposed to be located; and
      5.   The proposed use is in substantial conformance with goals and
objectives of the Comprehensive Plan. (1984 Code §
11-1-6)
   E.   Surveys: It is important when providing a control network for future
geo referenced mapping and surveying to establish accurate bench marks.
      1.   Geographic Information System (GIS): GIS will be used to store and
manipulate data obtained from NAD, SPC and NAVD88 measurements to provide
accurate surveying and mapping geographic information for analysis and
visualization purposes.
      2.   Survey References: Accepted survey references include:
         a.   North American Datum (NAD)(83) for horizontal control. It is used
to locate horizontal reference points. (83) is an accepted version, however
there are more current versions of the NAD that may be used.
         b.   Idaho State Plane Coordinates (SPC), West Zone. It is used in
coordination with NAD to specify locations in our local geographic zone for
more accurate horizontal control.
         c.   North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD88) - for vertical
control. This is a fixed elevation measurement used to define the height of a
topographic point.
      3.   New Mapping Or Surveying Plans: All new mapping or surveying plans
shall reference at least two (2) points on the NAD (83) or most current
version, and/or Idaho State Plane West Zone Coordinates for Horizontal Control
and shall be tied to the NAVD 88 or the most current accepted Vertical Control.
(Vertical Control is expected to be updated in the future.)
      4.   Control Monuments: All subdivisions shall have a minimum of two (2)
control monuments within the subdivision with NAD (83) coordinates and NAVD 88
elevations. (Ord. 640, 5-14-2018)
10-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: An activity or detached building on the same tract,
parcel or lot with, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to,
the principal use or structure.
ACREAGE: Any tract or parcel of land which has not been subdivided.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT: Any modeling, posing, exhibition, display or exposure of
any type, whether through books, pictures, film, displays, live performance,
dance or modeling, which has as its dominant theme, or is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on any actual or simulated specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, or the removal of articles of
clothing or appearing nude or seminude.
AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES: Activities that take place on a farm,
including, but not limited to, growing cultivated crops (e.g., grazing crop,
pasture crop, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture, fruit trees, berry
bushes), raising domestic livestock and aquaculture.
AIR BED & BREAKFAST: A dwelling, not owner occupied, providing overnight
accommodations with a kitchen that permits use by the occupants on a daily,
weekly, or monthly basis.
AIRPORT: Any runway, land area or other facility designed or used, either
publicly or privately, by any person for the landing and taking off of
aircraft, including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tie down
areas, hangars and other necessary buildings.
ALLEY: A street or way shown on the official plat of the City or its additions
and designated thereon as an alley.
ALTERNATIVE COMPLIANCE: An administrative determination that a specific
application achieves or exceeds specific requirements as set forth in this
title. Consideration of alternative compliance is limited in circumstances as
identified in this title.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multi-family structure which is
arranged, designated, used or intended to be used as a housekeeping unit for a
single family.
AREA, BUILDABLE: The space within the setback lines remaining on a lot, parcel
or tract after the minimum open space requirements of this title have been
complied with.
AREA, MINIMUM LOT: The minimum area, which is allowed within the property lines
of the lot, excluding adjoining streets or rights-of-way.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR: The repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of motor vehicles
or equipment repair or parts thereof, including collision service and painting
and steam cleaning of vehicles.
AWNING: A projecting cover extending over a door, window or wall section with
support attached to the structures and used as cover, protection or as
decoration.
BASEMENT: That portion of a dwelling unit all or partly underground and having
at least one-half (1/2) of its height below the average level of the adjoining
ground.
BED AND BREAKFAST: An owner occupied dwelling providing overnight
accommodations and breakfast food and housekeeping service for no more than ten
(10) occupants, including the owner and owner’s family.
BILLBOARD: Any structure or portion thereof upon which are placed signs or
advertisements used as an outdoor display. This definition does not include any
bulletin boards used to display official court or public office notices, or a
sign advertising the sale or lease of the premises on which the sign is
located.
BOND, PERFORMANCE OR SURETY: A financial guarantee by a third party on behalf
of a subdivider or developer with the city guaranteeing the completion of
physical improvements according to plans and specifications within the time
prescribed by the agreement.
BUILDING: Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals or property of any kind.
BUILDING, ASSEMBLY: A building or portion thereof designated and used for the
gathering together of fifty (50) or more persons for such purposes as
deliberation, worship, entertainment, amusement or transportation.
BUILDING, HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the average elevation of
the proposed finished grade at the front of the building to the highest point
of the roof for flat roofs, to the deck line of mansard roofs and the top of
building walls for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
BUILDING PERMIT: A permit issued by the city authorizing construction of a
structure.
CARPORT: A structure attached to or made a part of the main structure which is
open to the weather on at least two (2) sides, intended for the sheltering of
licensed and operable motor vehicles. For detached carports, see definition of
Accessory Use Or Structure.
CEMETERY: Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead and
dedicated for cemetery purposes, including crematories, mausoleums and
mortuaries if operated in connection with and within the boundaries of such
cemetery for which perpetual care and maintenance is provided.
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY: A permit issued by the zoning administrator and
building official, which certifies that based upon the information provided to
the city, a structure is complete and ready to be used for the purpose
indicated in the original application for a building permit.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of Fruitland, Idaho.
CLINIC: A building used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing,
infirm or injured persons and those who are in need of medical and surgical
attention; but which building does not provide board, room or regular hospital
care and services.
CLUB OR LODGE: A building or portion thereof or premises owned or operated by
an organized association of persons for social, literary, political,
educational or recreational purposes, primarily for the exclusive use of
members and their guests; but not including an organization, group or
association, the principal activity of which is to render a service usually and
ordinarily carried on as a business.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The document, or any portion thereof, adopted by the city
council as the comprehensive plan pursuant to Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65.
CONDITIONAL USE: A special use permitted within a district, requiring a permit
and approval of the planning and zoning commission and as regulated by chapter
10 of this title.
COUNTY RECORDER: The office of the county recorder.
COURT: An open, unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building and bounded on two (2) or more sides by such building.
COVENANTS: A written promise or pledge for a set of restrictions which, when
recorded, attaches to affected realty and which cannot be separated from the
land without the consent of all affected landowners. The city does not enforce
such covenants.
CUL-DE-SAC: A dead end street provided with turnaround space at its terminus.
CURB GRADE: The established elevation of the curb measured at the center of the
front of the building. Where no curb grade has been established, the city shall
establish such curb level or its equivalent for the purpose of this title.
DAYCARE CENTER: A place or facility providing daycare for thirteen (13) or more
children for compensation.
DAYCARE, GROUP FACILITY: A home, place or facility providing daycare for seven
(7) to twelve (12) children for compensation.
DAYCARE, IN HOME: A home, place or facility providing daycare for six (6) or
fewer children for compensation.
DENSITY, GROSS: The total number of dwelling units within a development divided
by the total area and expressed in dwelling units per acre. Should that number
be a fraction, it shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number.
DENSITY, NET: The total number of dwelling units within a development divided
by the residential area (excluding roads and required open space) and expressed
in dwelling units per acre. Should that number be a fraction, it shall be
rounded down to the nearest whole number.
DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEE: A group of design professionals selected by the city
shall convene to offer recommendations to the zoning administrator on
administrative design review matters. The design review committee shall meet as
needed by the zoning administrator.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A written commitment or contract which binds an owner or
developer of property which is subject to an annexation or development request,
to a certain course of action when developing that parcel of property. (A
condition of zone designation or change.)
DIVIDE OR DIVISION: Any partition of a parcel of real property, whether by
deed, mortgage, deed of trust, sales agreement, will, trust, court order or
decree, or otherwise.
DWELLING: Any structure or portion thereof providing independent living
facilities for one "family", as defined in this section, including provisions
for living, sleeping, cooking and sanitation.
EASEMENT: A right, privilege, service or convenience, possessed by one person,
either through agreement or through condemnation, to use for a specified
purpose on a designated portion of a property owner's land.
ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY: An establishment that offers activities or events for
amusement, such as theaters or arcades, and where the selling of food or other
items is incidental to the principal use.
FAMILY: Two (2) or more persons related by consanguinity or affinity to the
first degree.
FENCE: An enclosure or barrier constructed of wood, masonry, stone, wire,
metal, plastic or other manufactured materials used to enclose, screen or
separate areas. Walls, latticework and screens are considered fences.
FENCE, CLOSED VISION: A fence that does restrict or impede vision or sight
through the fence by more than twenty percent (20%).
FENCE, NONSCALABLE: A fence erected as a barrier to unauthorized access by
persons or vehicles, usually six feet (6') in height and often made of wrought
iron or woven wire.
FENCE, OPEN VISION: A fence that does not restrict or impede vision or sight
through the fence by more than twenty percent (20%).
FENCE, SOLID: A fence that effectively conceals from viewers in or on adjoining
properties and streets, materials stored and operations conducted behind it.
FLOODPLAIN: See section
11-1-2 of this code.
GARAGE, RESIDENTIAL DETACHED: A building for the storage of not more than three
(3) vehicles of which not more than one shall be a commercial vehicle of not
more than two (2) tons' capacity.
GARAGE, SERVICE STATION: Buildings and premises where diesel, gasoline, oil,
grease, batteries, tires or motor vehicle accessories may be supplied and
dispensed at retail. Minor services may be performed.
HEALTH AUTHORITY: Southwest Idaho health district or Idaho department of health
and welfare, or their successors.
HOME OCCUPATION: A full or part time business which is conducted entirely
within a dwelling unit and which does not change the character of the dwelling
unit.
HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION: An organization of landowners formed for the purpose
of administering public areas within a subdivision and/or for enforcing private
subdivision covenants, conditions or restrictions.
HOSPITAL OR HOSPICE: An institution open to the public, in which sick patients
or injured persons are given medical or surgical care; or for the care of more
than eight (8) incurable patients.
HOTEL OR MOTEL: A building in which lodging is provided and offered to the
public for compensation.
JUNK: Discarded or used materials, including, but not limited to, used
machinery, equipment, scrap copper, brass, iron, steel, other metals, tools,
appliances, implements, vehicles or portions thereof, furniture, beds and
bedding, rags, glass, plastic, cordage, rubber, building materials (excluding
lumber), or other waste that has been abandoned from its original use.
JUNKYARD: Any land, property, structure or combination thereof used for the
collecting, storage, dismantling or sale of discarded material or "junk", as
defined in this section.
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: Any premises or portion thereof on which four (4) or more
domestic pets are maintained, harbored, possessed, trained, bred, boarded or
cared for in return for compensation, but not including an animal clinic,
animal hospital or veterinary office. Care for nondomestic animals shall be
subject to the standards established in title 5, chapter 2 of this code.
KENNEL, HOBBY: A facility located at the private residence of the dog owner,
where four (4) to ten (10) of the owner's dogs are maintained for purposes of
breeding, hunting, organized field trials, obedience training or competition,
security or for personal enjoyment.
LABORATORY: A place devoted to experimental study such as testing and
analyzing, not including the manufacture of products.
LOADING SPACE, OFF STREET: Space designated for pick ups and deliveries.
LOT: A. A parcel of land of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements
for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as
are herein required.
   B.   A portion of a recorded subdivision intended as a unit for transfer of
ownership or for development.
LOT COVERAGE: The ratio of roofed ground floor area of all structures on a lot
to the gross square footage of the lot expressed as a percentage.
LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
LOT, FLAG: A lot which has less footage when abutting a street than that
required by this title, but which expands away from the public street into a
lot which meets or exceeds lot width requirements.
LOT FRONTAGE: That portion of a lot nearest the street.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office of
the county recorder; or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded.
LOT TYPES: Terminology used in this title with reference to corner lots,
interior lots and through lots is as follows:
   A.   Corner Lot: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more
streets.
   B.   Interior Lot: A lot with only one frontage on a street.
   C.   Reversed Frontage Lot: A lot on which frontage is at right angles to
the general pattern in the area. A reversed frontage lot may also be a corner
lot.
   D.   Through Lot: A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more than
one street. Through lots abutting two (2) streets may be referred to as double
frontage lots.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the lot side lines.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A detached single-family dwelling unit with all of the
following characteristics:
   A.   Designed for long term occupancy and containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a bathtub or shower and kitchen facilities with
plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to outside systems.
   B.   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels, or a
flatbed or other trailers or detached wheels.
   C.   Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling, usually
including major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy, except for
minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, such as location on
foundation supports and connection to utilities.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: Any site or tract of land upon which two (2) or more
manufactured homes are parked on a permanent or semipermanent basis, either
free of charge or for revenue purposes; including any roadway, building,
structure, vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the
facilities of such park.
MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION: Any parcel of land which may be divided or
proposed to be divided in accordance with the definition of "subdivision",
whereupon one or more manufactured homes shall be placed.
MANUFACTURING, EXTRACTIVE: Any mining, quarrying, excavating, processing,
storing, separating, cleaning, crushing or marketing of any mineral natural
resource.
MANUFACTURING, HEAVY: Manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing, testing
and similar industrial uses which are generally major operations and extensive
in character requiring large sites. Normally, they generate some nuisances such
as smoke, noise, vibration, dust, and air and water pollution, which pollution
may extend beyond the district boundary.
MANUFACTURING, LIGHT: Manufacturing or other industrial uses which are usually
controlled operations, relatively clean, quiet and free from objectionable
noise or pollution.
MEATPACKING FACILITIES: Includes meat canning, curing, smoking, salting,
packing and freezing, or other similar establishments in which meat products
are so processed for sale to the public and where the inspection of meat, meat
byproducts and meat food products are maintained.
NONCONFORMING USE: A legally created building, structure or use of land which
does not conform to the current regulations of the zone in which it is
situated.
NURSERY: Land, building, structure or combination thereof for the storage,
cultivation, container growing, transplanting of live trees, shrubs or plants
for shipping or sale on the premises, including products used for gardening or
landscaping.
NURSING HOME: Any institution or facility which supplies all of the functional
needs of an individual in need of residence care and defined as such for
licensing purposes under state law or pursuant to the rules for nursing homes,
hospitals, residential care homes, whether proprietary or nonprofit, and shall
include, but not be limited to, healthcare facilities owned or administered by
the state government or any agency or political subdivisions thereof.
OPEN SPACE: An uncovered area which may include natural or manmade
environmental features, water areas, swimming pools, tennis courts, and other
recreational facilities which the planning and zoning commission deems
permissive.
OWNER: An individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership or corporation
having sufficient proprietary interest in land to be subdivided to commence and
maintain proceedings under the regulations of this chapter.
PACKING PLANT, COMMERCIAL: An establishment where fruits and vegetables are
graded and/or packed.
PARCEL: A contiguous quantity of land owned by or recorded as the property of
the same person.
PARKING AREA, PRIVATE: An open area for the parking of privately owned vehicles
and not for public use.
PARKING AREA, PUBLIC: An open area, other than a street, used for the temporary
parking of more than four (4) vehicles and available for public use, whether
free, for compensation or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
PARKING SPACE: An area, enclosed or unenclosed, which has adequate access to a
public street or alley, sufficient in size to store one automobile.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: An area of land in which a variety of uses are
developed under a single ownership or control as set forth in chapter 14 of
this title.
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission appointed by
the mayor and confirmed by the city council.
PLAT, NONRESIDENTIAL: A plan of subdivision for nonresidential uses, dedication
or any portion thereof prepared for filing and recording by the County Recorder
and containing those elements and requirements set forth in this title for a
nonresidential subdivision. A final plat for a nonresidential subdivision, upon
its being filed and recorded by the County Recorder, shall be known as an
authorized plat, subdivision or dedication.
PORCH: A roofed entrance to a building, projecting out from the wall or walls
of the main structure and commonly open in part to the weather.
PORTABLE AUTOMOBILE CANOPY: A shelter structure not intended for habitation,
less than two hundred (200) square feet, without sidewalls or drops,
constructed of fabric or pliable material supported by a frame made of
lightweight metal or plastic, and used only to park operable vehicles which are
also licensed and registered.
PORTABLE CANOPY: A shelter structure not intended for habitation, less than two
hundred (200) square feet, constructed of fabric or pliable material supported
by a frame made of lightweight metal or plastic.
PRINCIPAL USE OR STRUCTURE: The primary building or activity on a tract, parcel
or lot.
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES: Offices and related spaces for use by medical
practitioners, lawyers, architects, engineers, accountants and other similar
professions.
PUBLIC SERVICE: Power plants or substations, water treatment plants or pumping
stations, sewage disposal or pumping plants, and other similar public service
structures owned by a public utility, a railroad, whether publicly or privately
owned, or by a Municipal or other governmental agency, including the furnishing
of electrical, gas, rail transport, communication, public water and sewage
services.
PUBLIC USE FACILITY: Parks, schools, administrative and cultural buildings and
other structures intended for use by the public.
QUASI-PUBLIC USE: Churches, Sunday schools, parochial schools, colleges,
hospitals and other facilities of an educational, religious, charitable,
philanthropic or nonprofit nature.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A portable structure primarily designed as accommodation
for recreational, camping and travel use and as defined in Idaho Code section
49-119.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A premises upon which two (2) or more parking sites
are located, established or maintained for occupancy by recreational vehicles
for temporary recreation or vacation purposes.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES SALES OR SERVICE: The sale, trade or lease of new or used
recreational vehicles in operating condition. Repair work and service shall be
minor and incidental.
RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY: A structure or portion thereof that provides
permanent provisions for living, sleeping, cooking and sanitation and that
provides twenty four (24) hour nonmedical care for more than eight (8)
individuals that are eighteen (18) years or older who need personal care or
assistance and supervision. A residential care facility shall include, but not
be limited to, assisted living facility, retirement home and respite care.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: An area or strip of land, either public or private, on or over
which an irrevocable right of passage or usage has been obtained and/or secured
for either public or private purposes.
ROADSIDE STAND: A temporary structure designed or used for the display or sale
of products.
SCREENING: A method to aid in protecting properties from undesirable views,
glare, dust, noise or other offensive or harmful materials.
SETBACK LINE: A line established by this title, generally parallel with and
measured from the lot line, defining the limits of a yard.
SIGHT TRIANGLE: A. That triangular portion of a corner lot between two (2)
intersecting roadways that must be kept clear of sight obstructions that might
prevent motorists from identifying potential traffic approaching the
intersection on the intersecting roadway.
   B.   The boundaries of an area at the intersection of: 1) two (2) streets;
2) the intersection of a public street and driveway; 3) the intersection of a
public street and alley; or 4) at the crossing of a railroad over a street,
where visual observations are limited and specified by this title for the
purpose of protecting public health and safety. Also known as a sight vision
triangle and clear vision triangle. See section
10-9-8 of this title.
SIGN: Any device designed to inform or attract the attention of people. Signs
are regulated under chapter 7, article D of this title.
STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS: The standard specifications for public works of the
City, officially adopted by the City Council and including all subsequent
amendments thereto.
STREET, PRIVATE: A street not maintained, owned or dedicated to the City. Also
includes the terms “lane” or “loop”.
STREET, PUBLIC: Any right-of-way which provides vehicular and pedestrian access
to adjacent properties, the dedication of which has been officially accepted.
The term “street” also includes the terms highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road,
avenue, boulevard, place and other such terms.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change to the supporting members of a building or
structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location
on the ground or attachment to something having a fixed location on the ground.
Among other things, structures include, but are not limited to, buildings,
manufactured homes, walls, fences and billboards.
SUBDIVIDER: Any person, individual, company, firm, limited liability company,
limited liability partnership or other entity who executes the application and
initiates proceedings for the subdivision or short subdivision of land in
accordance with the provisions of the City subdivision ordinance. The
subdivider need not be the owner of the property.
SUBDIVISION: Any land which is divided or proposed to be divided into two (2)
or more lots, whether contiguous or not, for the purpose of sale, lease,
transfer or development as part of a common plan and where subdivided land is
offered for sale, lease, transfer or development by a single subdivider, or
designated or advertised as a common unit or by a common name. Such land shall
be presumed, without regard to the number of lots covered by each individual
offering, as being offered for sale, lease, transfer or development as part of
a common plan. However, this shall not apply to any of the following:
   A.   An adjustment of lot lines as shown on a recorded plat which does not
reduce the area, frontage, width, depth or building setback lines of each
building site below the minimum zoning requirements and does not change the
original number of lots in any block of the recorded plat.
   B.   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as defined
and allowed in the Idaho State Code.
   C.   Widening of existing streets to conform to the Comprehensive Plan.
   D.   The acquisition of a street right-of-way by a public agency in
conformance with the Comprehensive Plan.
   E.   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundaries which does not result in the change of the present land usage.
   F.   A sale or exchange of lands used exclusively and solely for
agricultural purposes.
SUBDIVISION, NONRESIDENTIAL: Any nonresidential land which is divided or
proposed to be divided into five (5) or more lots for nonresidential use,
whether contiguous or not, for the purpose of sale, lease, transfer or
development as part of a common plan and where subdivided land is offered for
sale, lease, transfer or development by a single subdivider, or designated or
advertised as a common unit or by a common name. Any nonresidential land which
is proposed to be divided into four (4) or less lots for nonresidential use is
not considered a subdivision.
SUPPLY YARD: A commercial establishment storing and offering for sale building
supplies, steel supplies, coal, heavy equipment, feed and grain and similar
goods.
TRACT, ASSESSOR'S: A tract drawn, platted, surveyed, recorded or created for
use by a taxing authority. Same as assessor's plat.
USE: The specific purpose for which land or a building is designated, arranged,
intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
USED OR OCCUPIED: Includes the words "intended, designed or arranged to be used
or occupied".
VARIANCE: A modification of the requirements of this title as to lot size, lot
coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear yard, setback, parking
space, height of buildings or other title provisions affecting the size or
shape of a structure or the size of a lot.
VICINITY MAP: A drawing which sets forth, by dimension or other means, the
relationship of a proposed development to other nearby developments or
landmarks and community facilities and services within the general area in
order to better locate and orient the area in question.
WRECKING YARD: Any use of premises, excluding fully enclosed buildings, whereon
more than two (2) motor vehicles not in operating condition are standing sixty
(60) days or more, on which such used motor vehicles or parts thereof, are
dismantled or stored.
YARD: A required open space, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed by
any structure or portion of a structure, to include:
   A.   Yard, Front: A yard extending between side lot lines across the front
of a lot and from the front lot line to the front of the principal building.
   B.   Yard, Rear: A yard extending between side lot lines across the rear of
a lot and from the rear lot line to the rear of the principal building.
   C.   Yard, Side: A yard extending from the principal building to the side
lot line on both sides of the principal building between the lines establishing
the front and rear yards.
ZONE: A section or sections of the incorporated area of the City for which the
regulations and provisions governing the use of buildings and land are uniform
for each class or use permitted therein.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: A person who is appointed by the City Council to
administer this title.
ZONING PERMIT: A document issued by the Zoning Administrator, subject to the
veto powers of the City Council, authorizing the use of land and structures,
and the characteristics of the uses. (1984 Code §§ 5-2-1, 5-2-2, 11-1-5; amd.
2014 Code; Ord. 630, 9-25-2017; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
CHAPTER 4
ZONES AND BOUNDARIES
SECTION:
10-4-1: Zoning Map Adopted
10-4-2: Boundaries Established On Zoning Map
10-4-3: Uncertainty Of District Boundaries
10-4-4: Zones Named And Established
10-4-5: Area Of City Impact
10-4-6: Errors In Legal Descriptions Of Property
10-4-1: ZONING MAP ADOPTED:
This title shall consist of the text hereof as well as that certain map
identified by the approving signatures of the Governing Body, marked and
designated as "zoning map", which said map, together with three (3) copies
thereof, is now on file in the Office of the City Clerk. Said map has been
heretofore examined in detail by the Governing Body, has been made available to
the public at public hearings and is hereby adopted as a part of this title,
but this title and said map shall be subject to change from time to time as may
be determined by the Governing Body. (1984 Code § 5-1-2)
10-4-2: BOUNDARIES ESTABLISHED ON ZONING MAP:
The boundaries of the zones as designated by this title shall be established
and clearly marked upon the zoning map as adopted in section
10-4-1 of this chapter. (1984 Code § 5-1-3)
10-4-3: UNCERTAINTY OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists about the location of any district boundary shown on
the official zoning map, the following rules shall be used to resolve the
uncertainty:
   A.   Where a district boundary approximately follows a property line, such
property line shall be construed as the district boundary.
   B.   Where a district boundary approximately follows a street, alley or
railroad line, such street, alley or railroad centerline, or the extension of
such line, shall be construed as the district boundary.
   C.   Where a district boundary approximately follows a watercourse, the
centerline of the watercourse shall be construed to be such boundary. In the
event of a change in the watercourse shoreline, the boundary shall be construed
as moving with the actual shoreline.
   D.   Where a district boundary does not obviously coincide with any of the
above lines (property; street, alley or railroad line; watercourse), or where
it is not designated by dimensions, it shall be deemed to be located along the
nearest section, quarter section or sixteenth section line. (1984 Code § 11-1-
6C)
10-4-4: ZONES NAMED AND ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose of this title, the City shall be and is divided into the
following zones:
   Single-family residential zones:
      Large Lot Residential (LLR)
      Single-Family Residential (SFR)
   Multi-Family Residential Zone
   Commercial zones:
      General Commercial (C)
      Neighborhood Commercial (CN)
      Downtown Commercial (CD)
   Industrial zones:
      Light Industrial (LI)
      Heavy Industrial (HI)
(1984 Code § 5-4-11)
10-4-5: AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
   A.   Impact Area Adopted: That area which is described or shown in exhibit
A, which is attached to ordinance 569 and incorporated herein as if set out in
full verbatim, is adopted as the impact area for the City.
   B.   Map Adopted: That map which accompanied said ordinance 569 is hereby
adopted as the impact area map and may be referred to as the City of Fruitland
impact area map. Three (3) copies shall be kept on file with the City Clerk and
shall be made available to the public for viewing or for copying in accordance
with the fee schedule of the City. (1984 Code § 5-1-4; amd. Ord. 569, 9-23-
2013)
   C.   Land Use Permit Issuance Requirements: Both the Payette County zoning
ordinance and the Fruitland City Comprehensive Plan shall regulate land use in
the area of City impact. In accordance with section 3-6 of Payette County
ordinance 57, the City Council, or its designee, shall be consulted and
approval shall be obtained before a land use permit is issued in the impact
area.
   D.   Impact Area Agreement: That impact area agreement entered into between
the City and Payette County, August 14, 1990, is hereby adopted as the impact
area agreement for the City and is incorporated herein as if set out in full
verbatim. (1984 Code § 5-1-4)
10-4-6: ERRORS IN LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS OF PROPERTY:
Where a property has not been zoned because of an error in a legal description,
the following shall apply:
   A.   If the error is caused by the City, the error shall be corrected and
duly processed by the City as soon as the error is discovered.
   B.   If the error is caused by the applicant and/or owner, the applicant
shall apply for an official zoning map amendment and submit the proper fees
pursuant to section
10-2-9 of this title. (1984 Code §
11-1-7)
ARTICLE A. RECLASSIFICATION OF ZONES OR ZONE CHANGES
SECTION:
10-4A-1: Purpose
10-4A-2: Zone Changes
10-4A-3: Application Required
10-4A-4: Content
10-4A-5: Notice And Publication Of Hearing
10-4A-6: Standards Applicable To Zone Changes
10-4A-7: Action By Planning And Zoning Commission
10-4A-8: Action By City Council
10-4A-9: Ordinance Required
10-4A-10: Resubmittal
10-4A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to set forth the procedure for securing a zone
change. (1984 Code § 5-10-0)
10-4A-2: ZONE CHANGES:
Any change, modification or reclassification of zones may be initiated by the
city council, the planning and zoning commission or by application of one or
more property owners, purchasers or holders of valid options to purchase
property. When the application for change, modification or reclassification is
initiated by a property owner, purchaser or holders of valid options to
purchase property, the procedure set forth herein shall be followed, except
that the planning and zoning commission may, subject to the provisions for
notice and publication of hearing, enlarge, expand and amplify a petition for
change in reclassification of a zone or planned use classification. (1984 Code
§ 5-10-1)
10-4A-3: APPLICATION REQUIRED:
Every person seeking a reclassification of any land regulated by this title
shall file with the zoning administrator an application therefor, upon a form
prescribed by the planning and zoning commission, accompanied by a filing fee
as specified by the schedule of fees. All applications for rezone shall conform
to the requirements of Idaho Code section 67-6511, as it may be amended,
modified, altered or changed. (1984 Code § 5-10-2)
10-4A-4: CONTENT:
Every application shall contain or be accompanied by all information, plans and
maps to scale and other data necessary to assure full presentation of pertinent
facts for the records and to assist in making a determination in harmony with
the objectives of this title. No application shall be accepted by the zoning
administrator unless it is complete and in compliance with all such
requirements and contains a designation of the proposed zone classification.
(1984 Code § 5-10-3; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-4A-5: NOTICE AND PUBLICATION OF HEARING:
Notice of time, place and purpose of each public hearing held by the planning
and zoning commission shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city at least fifteen (15) days prior to such hearing. When
the public hearing is before the planning and zoning commission on a proposed
change, modification or reclassification, notice shall be given by the zoning
administrator to the last known owners of each parcel of land within three
hundred feet (300') to the exterior boundary, by regular U.S. mail. In any
hearing before the planning and zoning commission or the city council, where
notice must be given to more than two hundred (200) persons, notice by
publication, published at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, setting
out the time and place and a summary of the action requested to be taken, shall
be published in the official newspaper or a paper of general circulation within
the jurisdiction. Notice shall also be posted on the premises not less than one
week prior to the hearing. In the event the planning and zoning commission
originates, enlarges, extends and amplifies the application for the change,
modification or reclassification of property, zone or land use classification,
the zoning administrator shall be required to ascertain the names and addresses
of the last known owners as the same appear on the records of the county
assessor’s office of each parcel of land within three hundred feet (300') to
the exterior boundaries of the land area sought to be enlarged, extended or
amplified. The notice shall give the date, time and place of hearing, the name
of the applicant and relief sought, and identification of the property, and
such other facts as may be prescribed by the planning and zoning commission. In
any public hearing, the presiding officer may order the hearing to be continued
by publicly announcing the time and place of continuance, and no further notice
thereof shall be required. (1984 Code § 5-10-5; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 682, 5-10-
2021)
10-4A-6: STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ZONE CHANGES:
The planning and zoning commission and city council shall review the particular
facts and circumstances of each proposed zone change and take the following
factors into consideration:
   A.   The compatibility of the proposed zone with surrounding uses and zones.
   B.   Availability of power, water, sewer, fire protection, police protection
and school facilities.
   C.   Access to highways.
   D.   Burdens imposed upon taxing entities for services which will have to be
provided.
   E.   Location in relation to floodplain and airport approaches.
   F.   Easements, encumbrances, adverse interests.
   G.   The opinions of surrounding landowners entitled to notice.
   H.   Availability of drainage structures and refuse disposal.
   I.   Opinions of other local or state agencies required to provide services
or issue permits.
   J.   Zone change will not set a precedence for future uses incompatible with
existing uses.
   K.   Compatibility or conflict with the comprehensive plan.
   L.   Any other factors relevant to the suitability of rezoning the property.
(1984 Code § 5-10-6; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-4A-7: ACTION BY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
At every hearing before the planning and zoning commission, the planning and
zoning commission shall hear all persons interested in the subject matter. Not
later than sixty (60) working days after the conclusion of the hearing, the
planning and zoning commission shall file a report stating its recommendation
to the city council. (1984 Code § 5-10-7; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-4A-8: ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL:
The city council shall hold a public hearing in accordance with this chapter.
The city council shall either approve, disapprove or modify the recommendations
of the planning and zoning commission. (1984 Code § 5-10-8; amd. Ord. 682, 5-
10-2021)
10-4A-9: ORDINANCE REQUIRED:
In the event the city council shall have approved or modified the
recommendation of the planning and zoning commission, the city council shall
cause to be prepared the appropriate ordinance of amendment. (1984 Code § 5-10-
9; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-4A-10: RESUBMITTAL:
No application for the change or reclassification of any property, zone or land
use classification, which has been denied by the city council, shall be
resubmitted in either the same or substantially the same form, with reference
to substantially the same premises or the same purpose, within one year from
the date of final action thereon. Any party adversely affected by any action of
the planning and zoning commission or city council may appeal pursuant to the
appellant procedures contained in section
10-2-10 of this title. (1984 Code § 5-10-10; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
CHAPTER 5
RESIDENTIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONES
SECTION:
10-5A-1: Purpose
10-5A-2: Use Regulations
10-5A-3: Development Standards
10-5A-1: PURPOSE:
This article establishes provisions, regulations and requirements for single-
family zones. The purpose of these zones is as follows:
   A.   Large lot residential (LLR): To preserve the rural character of lands
adjacent to the city limits to allow for orderly growth and the efficient
provision of city services as necessary.
   B.   Single-family residential (SFR): To allow for the development of
single-family homes in areas where urban services are provided. (1984 Code §
5-5-1)
10-5A-2: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Uses: The following uses and structures are principally
permitted uses on each building site in the residential zones:
 
Description                                               Zones Where Permitted
Accessory structures subject to provisions set forth in
section                                                     SFR, LLR
10-9-10 of this title.
Agricultural purposes                                       LLR
1 single-family dwelling on a lot                           SFR, LLR
Subdivisions at a gross density no greater than 6           SFR
dwellings per acre
 
   B.   Conditional Uses: The following uses and structures may be permitted
subsequent to issuance of a conditional use permit:
Description Zones Where
            Permitted
Description             Zones Where
                        Permitted
Bed and breakfasts         SFR, LLR
Churches                   SFR, LLR
Daycare, group facility    SFR, LLR
Daycare, in home           SFR, LLR
Nursing home               SFR
Parks, public uses         SFR, LLR
Public schools             SFR, LLR
 
   C.   Prohibited Uses: Any use which is incompatible, including, but not
limited to, industrial, adult entertainment and manufactured home parks, is
prohibited. (1984 Code § 5-5-2; amd. 2014 Code)
10-5A-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
No structure, nor the enlargement of any structure, shall be hereafter erected
or maintained unless the following are provided and maintained in connection
with such structure or enlargement:
   A.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: Each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed shall have
a front yard of not less than twenty two feet (22').
      2.   Side Yard: On interior lots, there shall be a side yard on each side
of a main building of not less than eight feet (8').
      3.   Corner Lots: On corner lots, the side yard requirements shall be the
same as for interior lots, including a side yard of not less than ten feet
(10') on the side adjacent to the street which intersects the street upon which
the building or structure maintains frontage.
      4.   Reversed Frontage Lots: On a reversed frontage lot, there shall be
maintained a setback from the side street of not less than fifty percent (50%)
of the front yard required on the lots on the rear of such corner lots, but
such setback need not exceed twenty feet (20'). No accessory building on a
reversed corner lot shall project beyond the front yard required to the
adjacent lot to the rear, nor be located nearer than ten feet (10') to the side
lot line of an adjacent lot.
      5.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having no less than ten feet
(10'). (1984 Code § 5-5-3)
   B.   Minimum Lot Size And Dimensions:
      1.   Within the Single-Family Residential (SFR) Zone, every dwelling
erected or structurally altered shall be on a lot having an area of not less
than seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet, a width at the
established lot line of not less than seventy five feet (75'), and a depth of
not less than one hundred feet (100'). (Ord. 640, 5-14-2018)
      2.   Within the Large Lot Residential (LLR) Zone, every dwelling erected
or structurally altered shall be on a lot having an area of not less than two
hundred seventeen thousand eight hundred (217,800) square feet (5 acres) and a
width at the established lot line of not less than three hundred feet (300').
(1984 Code § 5-5-3; amd. 2014 Code)
   C.   Lot Coverage: Lot coverage shall not exceed forty percent (40%). (1984
Code § 5-5-3)
   D.   Parking:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) off street parking spaces shall be provided for
each single-family dwelling. (Ord. 613, 7-11-2016)
ARTICLE B. MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-5B-1: Purpose
10-5B-2: Use Regulations
10-5B-3: Development Standards
10-5B-1: PURPOSE:
This article establishes provisions, regulations and requirements for a multi-
family zone. The purpose of this zone is to allow for the development of
residential units at higher densities in areas where urban services are
provided. (1984 Code §
5-6-1)
10-5B-2: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Uses: Permitted uses are:
Any use permitted in a single-family residential zone.
Apartments, duplexes and townhouses.
Manufactured home parks, subject to chapter 15, article E of this title.
Planned unit developments with a density of six (6) or greater dwelling units
per acre.
   B.   Conditional Uses: Conditional uses are:
Any use permitted as a conditional use in a single-family residential zone.
Hotel, motel or bed and breakfast.
   C.   Prohibited Uses: Any use which is incompatible including, but not
limited to, industrial and adult entertainment, is prohibited. (1984 Code §
5-6-2; amd. 2014 Code)
10-5B-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Yard And Area: No structure, nor the enlargement of any structure,
shall be hereafter erected or maintained, unless the following described yards
and lot areas are provided and maintained in connection with such structure or
enlargement:
      1.   Front yard: Twenty feet (20') minimum.
      2.   Side yard: Eight feet (8') minimum.
      3.   Rear yard: Ten feet (10') minimum.
      4.   Every dwelling erected or structurally altered to accommodate
single-family and multi-family dwelling units shall be on a lot having a width
at the established lot line of not less than seventy-five feet (75') on at
least one side on lots having an area of not less than seven thousand five
hundred (7,500) square feet.
   B.   Open, Recreation Space:
      1.   Open and recreation space shall be provided as follows:
         500 square feet per unit for the first 10 units.
         400 square feet per unit for 11-20 units.
         300 square feet per unit for 21 units and above.
      2.   The requirement for recreation space may not be satisfied through
the utilization of parking areas or building separation. One hundred (100)
square feet of the required square footage per unit may be provided in private
open space, such as patios and balconies.
   C.   Screening: Yards, fences, walls or vegetative screening shall be
provided at the edges of the development where needed to protect residents and
adjacent property owners from undesirable views, lighting, noise or other on
site and off site influences. In particular, extensive off street parking
areas, service areas for loading and unloading purposes, other than for
passenger use, and areas for storage and collection of refuse and garbage,
shall be screened (See § 10-9-7 for fencing regulations).
   D.   Parking:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) off street parking spaces shall be provided for
each living unit of a multi-family structure. (1984 Code § 5-6-3; amd. Ord.
613, 7-11-2016; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
CHAPTER 6
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. COMMERCIAL ZONES
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Purpose
10-6A-2: Allowed Uses
10-6A-3: Development Standards
10-6A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the commercial zones is to provide for the retail and service
needs of the community in accordance with the Fruitland comprehensive plan. The
following zones are designated. The purpose of these zones is as follows:
   A.   General commercial (C): To provide areas in which all types of
allowable retail businesses, offices and services can be conducted.
   B.   Neighborhood commercial (CN): To establish regulations in addition to
those established by the general commercial zone. Generally small scale
convenience centers with limited hours of operation in neighborhood areas not
otherwise served conveniently by general commercial. Prohibited features
include drive-up service windows and exterior speakers that are associated with
business operations.
   C.   Downtown commercial (CD): To promote customer oriented business
activities which are appropriate to the downtown business zone. The intent is
to provide opportunities for the development of a unified central business
environment that is more pedestrian-friendly than the general commercial zone.
(1984 Code § 11-2A-1; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-6A-2: ALLOWED USES:
   A.   Permitted uses and accessory uses shall be reviewed in accordance with
regulations applying to this zone, chapters 7, “Commercial And Industrial
Development Regulations”, and 2, “Administration And Enforcement”, of this
title. It shall be unlawful and a violation for any person to conduct in a
commercial zone any permitted or accessory use unless such person first obtains
each and every applicable permit from the city.
   B.   Conditional uses shall be approved in accordance with the procedures
and regulations for conditional uses set forth. It shall be unlawful and a
violation for any person to conduct in a commercial zone any conditional use
unless such person shall first obtain a conditional use permit from the city.
   C.   Any use not explicitly listed, or listed as a prohibited use, in this
section is prohibited in all commercial zones. It shall be unlawful and a
violation for any person to conduct in a commercial zone any prohibited use.
   D.   Interpretation of the inclusion or exclusion of allowed uses shall be
made by the zoning administrator and based on the zoning administrator’s
findings.
   E.   For uses that may fall into more than one category, the zoning
administrator shall determine the most appropriate category based on the more
restrictive standards.
   F.   Table 1 of this section lists principal permitted uses within each
commercial zone.
   TABLE 1
   PERMITTED USES IN COMMERCIAL ZONES
Description Zones Where Permitted
Description                                               Zones Where Permitted
Manufacturing:                                             
Assembly of any article from previously manufactured      C, CD
parts, provided some retail sales occur on site
Food or food products or confections manufacture,         C, CD
provided some retail sales occur on site
Offices                                                   C, CN, CD
Residential:                                               
Bed and breakfast                                         C, CD, CN
Hotel or motel                                            C, CD
1 or more apartment units provided they are located above
or behind principal use, when the first floor is devoted  CD
to an unrelated principal commercial use
Residential care facilities                               C, CN
Retail sales and service:                                  
Auditorium                                                C, CD
Automotive service station for the retail sale of fuel,   C
motor oil, automotive accessories
Bakeries, retail                                          C, CD, CN
Bar, cocktail lounge                                      C, CD
Barbershops, hair salons, nail technicians, massage, spas C, CN, CD
Call center                                               C
Car wash                                                  C
Catering service                                          C, CD
Dry cleaners and laundromats                              C, CN, CD
Entertainment facility                                    C, CD
General retail sales of any product                       C, CN, CD
Household and building repair services, including
plumbing and electrical service and small appliance and   C, CD
computer/electronics repair
Liquor store                                              C, CD
Medical facilities:                                        
Chiropractic related                                      C, CD, CN
Dental related                                            C, CD, CN
Dermatology related                                       C, CD, CN
Emergency related facilities                              C, CD, CN
Hearing related                                           C, CD, CN
Hospital                                                  C, CD, CN
Other medical related clinics and offices                 C, CD, CN
Pharmacy related                                          C, CD, CN
Physical therapy related                                  C, CD, CN
Vision related                                            C, CD, CN
Mortuary, funeral home, crematorium                       C, CN, CD
Motel                                                     C, CD
Parking lot or parking garage for public use              C, CD
Pet grooming                                              C, CN, CD
Photocopy, blueprint and mailing service                  C, CD
Private club, fraternal organization or lodge, social     C, CN, CD
club, union hall
Recreation center, gymnasium, health or tanning spa, or
other business offering exercise and/or body conditioning C, CD
services
Restaurant                                                C, CN, CD
Restaurant, fast food with drive-through                  C
Taxidermy                                                 C, CD
Upholstery and furniture repair                           C, CD
Veterinarian service, including pet hospital              C, CD
 
   G.   The following uses and structures in table 2 of this section may be
permitted subsequent to issuance of a conditional use permit:
   TABLE 2
   CONDITIONAL USES IN COMMERCIAL ZONES
Description Zones Where Conditionally Permitted
Description                               Zones Where Conditionally Permitted
Adult entertainment facility              C
Automobile and recreational vehicle sales C
Church                                    C, CN, CD
Daycare center                            C, CN, CD
Manufactured home sales                   C
School                                    C, CN, CD
Temporary supplemental lot                C
Truck stop                                C
 
(1984 Code § 11-2A-2; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 593, 4-13-2015; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-6A-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The standards for all development in the commercial districts shall be as
follows:
   A.   Dimensional Standards:
      1.   Requirements: Table 1 of this section shall be used for determining
required setbacks, street landscape buffers adjacent to residential zones and
maximum building height standards for development in each of the respective
commercial districts.
   TABLE 1
   DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS IN THE COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
Dimensional Standards C CN CD
Dimensional  C CN CD
Standards
Setbacks1:
Front        Current adopted editions of International Building and Fire Code
setback
Rear setback Current adopted editions of International Building and Fire Code
Interior     Current adopted editions of International Building and Fire Code
side setback
Street
landscape
buffer:
Local and
minor        10 feet
collector
Major        15 feet
collector
Arterial     15 feet
Entryway     20 feet
corridor
Maximum
building     Current adopted editions of International Building and Fire Code
height
Landscaping  See chapter 7, article B, “Landscaping Requirements”, of this title
requirements
Parking      See chapter 7, article C, “Off Street Parking And Loading”, of this
requirements title
Land use
separation   5 feet
buffer
 
   Note:
   1.    All setbacks shall be measured from the ultimate right of way for the
street classification as shown on the adopted transportation plan, or as
dictated by the fire chief.
      2.   Encroachments Allowed In Any Setback: Fire escapes may project a
distance not exceeding one foot (1').
      3.   Maximum Height Limit:
         a.   The maximum height limitations shall not apply to the following
architectural features not intended for human occupation: steeple, belfry,
cupola and chimney. Such architectural features shall have a maximum height
limit of twenty feet (20') as measured from the roofline.
         b.   The maximum height limitations shall not apply to the following:
spire; amateur radio antenna; bridge tower; fire and hose tower; observation
tower; power line tower; smokestack; water tank or tower; ventilator; windmill;
wireless communication facility, or other commercial or personal tower and/or
antenna structure; or other appurtenances usually required to be placed above
the level of the ground and not intended for human occupancy.
         c.   Additional height exceeding twenty percent (20%) of the maximum
height allowed for the district or when additional height is requested requires
approval through a conditional use permit.
   B.   Hours Of Operation: Business hours of operation within the Neighborhood
Commercial (CN) district shall be limited from six o’clock (6:00) A.M. to ten
o’clock (10:00) P.M. This restriction applies to all business operations
occurring outside an enclosed structure, including, but not limited to, trash
compacting and deliveries. This restriction does not apply to business
operations occurring within an enclosed structure, including, but not limited
to, cleaning, bookkeeping and after hours work by a limited number of
employees. (1984 Code § 11-2A-3; amd. Ord. 613, 7-11-2016; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
ARTICLE B. INDUSTRIAL ZONES
SECTION:
10-6B-1: Purpose
10-6B-2: Allowed Uses
10-6B-3: Development Standards
10-6B-1: PURPOSE:
This article establishes provisions, regulations and requirements for the
establishment and continuance of uses and structures in the industrial zones.
The following industrial zones exist. It is intended that these zones will
develop with sufficient urban services. Furthermore, the purpose of these zones
is as follows:
   A.   Light Industrial Zone (LI): The purpose of the LI zone is to provide
for convenient employment centers of light industrial uses, such as light
manufacturing, research and development, warehousing, light industrial parks
and distributing. The LI zone is intended to encourage the development of
industrial uses that are clean, quiet and free of hazardous or objectionable
elements and that are operated entirely, or almost entirely, within enclosed
structures. Accessibility to transportation systems is a requirement of this
zone.
   B.   Heavy Industrial Zone (HI): The purpose of the HI zone is to allow for
more intensive industrial uses, such as processing and manufacturing, to
support agricultural, commercial and light industrial uses and activities,
provide for the existing manufacturing and heavy distribution centers that
exist along major transportation corridors. These areas require buffering from
residential uses to mitigate the effects of noise, vibration, traffic, odor,
dust, smoke or glare that is typically associated with the uses allowed in the
HI zone. Accessibility to transportation systems is a requirement of this zone.
(1984 Code § 11-2B-1)
10-6B-2: ALLOWED USES:
   A.   Permitted Uses In LI Zone: The following uses and structures are
permitted on each building site in the light industrial zone (LI) as follows:
   Automobile painting, upholstering, repair, reconditioning and body and
fender work when done within the confines of an enclosed structure.
   Bakeries, wholesale.
   Beverage bottling, canning, packaging and distributing stations.
   Box manufacturing.
   Building equipment, building materials, lumber, coal, sand and gravel yards,
and yards for contracting equipment, maintenance or operating equipment of
public agencies or public utilities, or materials or equipment of a similar
nature.
   Call centers.
   Canvas goods fabrications.
   Carpet and rug cleaners.
   Cement block manufacture, when done wholly within a building.
   Cleaning and dyeing establishments.
   Clothing and dress manufacturing.
   Drapery and bedding manufacturing.
   Electrical appliance and electronic instrument assembly.
   Food processing and dehydrating for human consumption, but not including the
processing of sauerkraut, fish products, gelatin, sausage, casings for animal
products, starch, dextrin, glucose, sugar, vinegar, yeast and the rendering or
refining of fats and oils.
   Freight, express hauling or storage yards.
   Furniture manufacturing and upholstering.
   Grain elevators.
   Greenhouses, wholesale growers.
   Ice manufacturing.
   Laboratories for scientific experiments.
   Machine shops and metal manufacturing, when not equipped with heavy presses,
drop forges, screw machines, riveting machines or any other equipment which may
create vibration or noise disturbing adjacent property occupants.
   Medical laboratories and facilities, including prosthesis manufacture.
   Mini storages.
   Packaging facilities.
   Plastic products manufacturing, but not including the processing of raw
materials.
   Printing, binding and publishing of periodicals, books and reading matter.
   Printing of tags, forms, calendars and other products for commercial use.
   Public utility electric substations and distributing centers, gas regulation
centers and underground gas holder stations.
   Research or technology parks, or industrial developments which combine one
or more uses principally permitted in the light industrial (LI) or commercial
(C, CN, CD) zones.
   Residential: One residential dwelling unit may be maintained as an accessory
use for an employed caretaker of a storage unit facility with a minimum of
fifty (50) storage units.
   Restaurants.
   Retail sales and service.
   Seed cleaning and shipping facilities.
   Stone, granite and marble grinding and cutting.
   Storage and sale of automobiles, trailers, farm implements and equipment and
other equipment on an open lot.
   Storage of household goods and warehouses.
   Theaters.
   Upholstering.
   Warehousing.
   Window and shade manufacturing.
   B.   Permitted Uses In HI Zone: The following uses and structures are
permitted on each building site in the heavy industrial (HI) zone as follows:
   All uses listed in subsection A of this section.
   Heating and sheet metal fabrications.
   Storage of flammable liquids, fats or oils in tanks, each of fifty thousand
(50,000) gallons’ or less capacity, but only after the location and protective
measures have been approved by all applicable government entities.
   The manufacture, compounding and assembling or treatment of articles of
merchandise from the following list of previously prepared materials: bond,
cellophane, canvas, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fibers, furs, glass, hair,
horn, tanned leather, paper, plastics, precious or semiprecious metals or
stones, shells, textiles, wood (excluding planer mills) and yards.
   The manufacture of cosmetics and pharmaceuticals.
   The manufacture of pottery and figurines or any other similar ceramic
products using only previously pulverized clay and kilns fired only by
electricity or gas.
   Tool and die shops.
   Truck and bus storage yards.
   Any other manufacturing establishment that can be operated without creating
objectionable noise, dust, smoke, gas fumes or vapor and that has a use
compatible with the use and occupancy of adjoining properties.
   C.   Conditional Uses In LI Zone: The following uses and structures are
permitted on each building site pursuant to issuance of a conditional use
permit in the light industrial (LI) zone:
   Recreational uses.
   Truck stops.
   D.   Residential Use Prohibited: All residential uses shall be prohibited in
the industrial zones. (1984 Code § 11-2B-2; amd. Ord. 593, 4-13-2015; Ord. 682,
5-10-2021; Ord. 699, 6-12-2023)
10-6B-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Dimensional Standards:
      1.   Requirements: Table 1 of this section shall be used for determining
required setbacks, street landscape buffers and maximum building height
standards for development in each of the industrial zones. (1984 Code § 11-2B-
3)
TABLE 1
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS IN THE INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
Dimensional Standards LI HI
Dimensional  LI HI
Standards
Setbacks1:
Front        Current adopted editions of International Building and Fire Code
setback
Rear setback Current adopted editions of International Building and Fire Code
Interior     Current adopted editions of International Building and Fire Code
side setback
Street
landscape
buffer:
Local and
minor        10 feet
collector
Major        15 feet
collector
Arterial     20 feet
Entryway     20 feet
corridor
Maximum
building     Current adopted editions of International Building and Fire Code
height
Landscaping  See chapter 7, article B, “Landscaping Requirements”, of this title
requirements
Parking      See chapter 7, article C, “Off Street Parking And Loading”, of this
requirements title
Land use
separation   10 feet
buffer
 
   Note:
   1.    All setbacks shall be measured from the ultimate right of way for the
street classification as shown on the adopted transportation plan, or as
dictated by the fire chief.
      2.   Maximum Height Limit:
         a.   The maximum height limitations shall not apply to the following
architectural features not intended for human occupation: steeple, belfry,
cupola, and chimney. Such architectural features shall have a maximum height
limit of twenty feet (20') as measured from the roofline.
         b.   The maximum height limitations shall not apply to the following:
spire; amateur radio antenna; bridge tower; fire and hose tower; observation
tower; power line tower; smokestack; water tank or tower; ventilator; windmill;
wireless communication facility, or other commercial or personal tower and/or
antenna structure; or other appurtenances usually required to be placed above
the level of the ground and not intended for human occupancy.
         c.   No exception shall be allowed to the height limit where the
height of any structures will constitute a hazard to the safe landing and
takeoff of aircraft in an established airport or medical heliport.
         d.   Additional height not to exceed twenty percent (20%) of the
maximum height allowed for the district may be approved by the zoning
administrator through the alternative compliance procedures set forth.
Additional height shall be allowed when the development provides ten percent
(10%) of the building square feet in open space, courtyards, patios, or other
usable outdoor space available for the employees and/or patrons of the
structure, excluding required setbacks and landscape buffers.
         e.   Additional height exceeding twenty percent (20%) of the maximum
height allowed for the district or when additional height is requested without
providing the required open space requires approval through a conditional use
permit. (1984 Code § 11-2B-3; amd. Ord. 613, 7-11-2016; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
CHAPTER 7
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Purpose
10-7-2: Applicability
10-7-3: Temporary Occupancy Permits
10-7-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes regulations for all uses in accordance with the
commercial and industrial zones, including specific regulations. (1984 Code §
11-3-1; amd. 2014 Code)
10-7-2: APPLICABILITY:
The regulations of this chapter shall apply to the commercial and industrial
zones of the city. (1984 Code § 11-3-2; amd. 2014 Code)
10-7-3: TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY PERMITS:
   A.   Due to inclement weather conditions it is sometimes impractical to
complete the necessary requirements of a commercial or industrial development
project. These requirements may be delayed until conditions improve
satisfactorily to complete them. In certain cases, the city may grant temporary
occupancy status of a building or a portion of a building prior to the
structure and/or related requirements being completed and the occupancy
certificate being issued.
   B.   The following improvements may be eligible for construction deferment
due to inclement weather:
      1.   Parking lot paving.
      2.   Irrigation system.
      3.   Exterior painting.
      4.   Required landscape plantings.
      5.   Required fencing.
   C.   Items considered ineligible include, but are not limited to, all
weather access, on site drainage facilities, plumbing, electrical, water/sewer
connections, fire alarm systems, fire suppression systems.
   D.   Temporary occupancy of a commercial or industrial building that has not
been completed may be approved if the building official can make the finding
that no substantial life, safety or health hazard exists by allowing occupancy
of the building. Prior to approving a temporary occupancy permit, the building
official shall verify that all required approvals have been received for
electrical, plumbing, fire alarm and/or suppression systems, mechanical and
structural. In no case shall the structure be occupied until the building
official has granted approval.
   E.   An application for a temporary occupancy permit shall be submitted to
the building official at least ten (10) working days prior to the anticipated
occupancy date. The application shall require the following information:
      1.   Building permit number.
      2.   Job site address.
      3.   Requested date of temporary occupancy.
      4.   Detailed description of remaining items to be completed and time
period needed to complete them.
      5.   Signatures of the general contractor, building owner(s) and tenant
(s) with contact information.
      6.   Permit fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) or as amended by resolution.
      7.   Either an irrevocable letter of credit from an established financial
institution or a cash deposit equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%)
of the remaining work as determined by written quotes supplied to the
applicant.
   F.   The building official will review the application and negotiate
completion dates with the building owner. If negotiations are satisfactory, a
detailed list of requirements and due dates will be stated on the temporary
occupancy permit and the completion will be monitored closely by the building
official. Extensions of thirty (30) days may be approved by the building
official with a one hundred twenty (120) day maximum.
   G.   Failure to complete the required items at or prior to the agreed upon
completion dates will result in termination of water/sewer service until a
final occupancy certificate is issued. (1984 Code § 11-1-14)
ARTICLE A. STANDARD REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Purpose
10-7A-2: Applicability
10-7A-3: Access To Streets
10-7A-4: Accumulation Of Junk
10-7A-5: Bikeways/Shared Use Pathways
10-7A-6: Ditches, Laterals, Canals Or Drainage Courses
10-7A-7: Pathways
10-7A-8: Natural Features
10-7A-9: Noxious Use
10-7A-10: Outdoor Lighting
10-7A-11: Outdoor Service And Equipment Areas
10-7A-12: Outdoor Speaker Systems
10-7A-13: Outdoor Storage As An Accessory Use
10-7A-14: Pressurized Irrigation Systems
10-7A-15: Public Improvements
10-7A-16: Self-Service Uses
10-7A-17: Sidewalks And Parkways
10-7A-18: Storm Drainage
10-7A-19: Structure And Site Design Standards
10-7A-20: Traveling Sleeping Quarters And Storage
10-7A-21: Utilities
10-7A-1: PURPOSE:
This article provides standard regulations for the location, design and
development of new land uses and the alteration of existing land uses. This
article supplements the regulations for development in the commercial and
industrial zones. (1984 Code § 11-3A-1; amd. 2014 Code)
10-7A-2: APPLICABILITY:
This article shall apply to the development of all principal permitted,
accessory and conditional uses. The following regulations are the minimum
standards of development. Additional standards may be applied in accordance
with specific use standards, or other regulations of this title. It shall be
unlawful and a violation of this title for any person to use, construct,
locate, initiate, alter or maintain any structure, land or real property, or
cause any structure, land or real property, to be used, constructed, located,
initiated or maintained, in any manner which violates, omits or fails to
conform to any procedure, standard or requirement set forth in this article.
(1984 Code § 11-3A-2)
10-7A-3: ACCESS TO STREETS:
The following standards shall apply unless otherwise waived by the city
council. The intent of these standards is to improve safety by combining and/or
limiting access points to collector and arterial streets and ensuring that
motorists can safely enter all streets.
   A.   The following standards shall apply to any use and/or property that
takes direct access to an arterial and/or collector roadway prior to any new,
expanded or extended use or development of the property:
      1.   Where access to a local street is available, the applicant shall
reconfigure the site circulation plan to take access from such local street.
      2.   All subdivisions must provide local street access to any use that
currently takes direct access from an arterial or collector street. (1984 Code
§ 11-3A-3)
   B.   All landscaping or constructed features within the clear vision
triangle shall comply with the restrictions and measurements as set forth in
section
10-9-8 of this title. (1984 Code § 11-3A-3; amd. 2014 Code)
10-7A-4: ACCUMULATION OF JUNK:
The accumulation of "junk", as defined in section
10-3-2 of this title, on any property is prohibited. (1984 Code § 11-3A-4)
10-7A-5: BIKEWAYS/SHARED USE PATHWAYS:
   A.   Bikeways shall be encouraged within all developments, within the public
right of way or separate easement.
   B.   The federal highway administration’s document titled “Design Guidance
Accommodating Bicycle And Pedestrian Travel: A Recommended Approach” and the
AASHTO document titled “Guide for the Development of Bicycle Facilities” should
be considered for bikeway designs.
   C.   On street bikeways shall be provided in accordance with the city’s
master transportation plan. (1984 Code § 11-3A-5; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7A-6: DITCHES, LATERALS, CANALS OR DRAINAGE COURSES:
   A.   Piping:
      1.   Natural waterways that flow year round that are intersecting,
crossing or lying within the area being developed are recommended to remain as
a natural amenity and shall not be piped or otherwise covered unless approved
by the city.
      2.   Irrigation ditches, laterals, canals and drains may be left open
when used as a water amenity or linear open space.
   B.   Natural Drainage Courses: All natural drainage courses shall be left
undisturbed or be improved in a manner that will improve the hydraulics and
ease of maintenance of the channel. Relocation of natural swales is acceptable
if the hydraulics and ease of maintenance are provided for. The term “natural
drainage course” shall not be deemed to apply to minor swales and depressions
that are located entirely on the applicant’s property and which serve a
relatively small area where runoff is infrequent. (1984 Code § 11-3A-6; amd.
Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7A-7: PATHWAYS:
   A.   Multiuse and micro pathways shall be required within new commercial
developments as part of the public right of way or as separate easements so
that an alternate transportation system distinct and separate from vehicular
use can be provided.
   B.   The design and construction of multiuse pathways shall be consistent
with the guidelines contained in this code and the city master transportation
plan. Pathways shall follow ADA standards.
   C.   Right of way for micropathways in the middle of long blocks may be
required where necessary to obtain convenient pedestrian circulation to
schools, parks, other residential areas and/or shopping areas.
   D.   Micropathways shall have a walking surface of at least five feet (5')
in width. Shared use pathways accommodating pedestrians and bicyclists shall
have a usable width of at least ten (10') feet.
   E.   Landscaping adjacent to pathways shall be installed in accordance with
article B, “Landscaping Requirements”, of this chapter. (1984 Code § 11-3A-8;
amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7A-8: NATURAL FEATURES:
Existing natural features that add value to development and enhance the
attractiveness of the community (such as trees, watercourses, historic spots
and similar irreplaceable amenities) shall be preserved or mitigated in the
design of the development. (1984 Code § 11-3A-9; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7A-9: NOXIOUS USE:
No area or structure in any zone shall be used or occupied in any manner
creating dangerous, injurious, noxious or hazardous conditions to the
surrounding areas.
   A.   Fire Hazard: Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable or
explosive materials shall be protected by adequate firefighting and fire
prevention equipment and by such safety devices as are normally used in the
handling of any such materials. Such hazards shall be kept removed from
adjacent activities to a distance that is compatible with the potential danger
involved as specified in the international fire code and the National Fire
Protection Association publications.
   B.   Radioactivity Or Electrical Disturbance: No activity shall emit harmful
radioactivity at any point, or electrical disturbance adversely affecting the
operation of any equipment at any point other than that of the creator of such
disturbance.
   C.   Vibration: No vibration shall be permitted that is discernible without
instruments on any adjoining property.
   D.   Air Pollution: Air pollution shall be subject to the requirements and
regulations established by the health authority.
   E.   Erosion: No erosion shall be permitted that will carry objectionable
substances onto neighboring properties.
   F.   Water Pollution: Water pollution shall be subject to the requirements
and regulations established by the health authority.
   G.   Hazardous Materials: All hazardous material storage must comply with
the regulations and standards of the fire department.
   H.   Noise: Noise shall be subject to the provision of title 5, chapter 8 of
this code.
   I.   Safety: Any development or activity that creates a public safety
hazard, as determined by the police department, that is potentially harmful to
the health, safety and/or welfare of persons and/or property, shall be
prohibited. (1984 Code § 11-3A-10; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7A-10: OUTDOOR LIGHTING:
   A.   Exempt Lighting: The following types of lighting are exempt from the
regulations of this section:
      1.   Light fixtures that have a maximum output of less than two hundred
sixty (260) lumens.
      2.   All outdoor lighting produced by the direct combustion of natural
gas or other fossil fuels, such as kerosene lanterns or gas lamps.
      3.   Temporary holiday lighting used for forty (40) consecutive days or
less per year.
      4.   Vehicular lights and all temporary emergency lighting needed for
fire protection, police protection and/or other emergency services.
      5.   All hazard warning lights required by federal or state regulatory
agencies.
   B.   Prohibited Lighting: The installation, use or display of any of the
following types of lighting and/or illumination shall be prohibited:
      1.   Laser source light or any similar high intensity light.
      2.   Lighting that changes colors, revolves or moves, including
searchlights, shall be prohibited in all zones, except where approved for
temporary uses under a valid, current city temporary use permit.
      3.   Lighting, including strings of lights, on commercial or private
tower structures except as required by regulations of the federal aviation
administration (FAA).
      4.   Strobing, revolving or flashing lights (excluding temporary holiday
lighting).
      5.   Light or illumination with such brilliance or so positioned as to
blind or impair the vision of drivers and/or pedestrians.
      6.   Low pressure sodium lighting.
   C.   Standards:
      1.   Light fixtures that have a maximum output of two hundred sixty (260)
lumens or more shall have an opaque top to prevent uplighting.
      2.   Light fixtures that have a maximum output of one thousand (1,000)
lumens or more per fixture shall have an opaque top to prevent uplighting, and
the bulb shall not be visible.
      3.   Light fixtures that have a maximum output of one thousand eight
hundred (1,800) lumens or more shall have an opaque top to prevent uplighting;
the bulb shall not be visible and shall have a full cutoff shield. See figure 1
of this section.
   FIGURE 1
   EXAMPLE OF FULL CUTOFF SHIELDS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/34f27a3cdd2d56a1a4c8c121309cde63c8363032/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1559.gif]
       4.   Light fixtures with a maximum output of one thousand eight hundred
(1,800) lumens or more shall be placed such that the effective zone of light
(as documented by the photometric test report) shall not trespass on abutting
residential properties. See figure 2 of this section.
   FIGURE 2
   LIGHT TRESPASS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/34f27a3cdd2d56a1a4c8c121309cde63c8363032/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1561.gif]
       5.   Floodlight fixtures shall be located in such a manner as to prevent
direct glare into a street and to minimize impact on abutting properties.
         a.   Floodlight fixtures shall be set to go on only when triggered by
activity on the property (sensor activated) and to go off within five (5)
minutes after activation has ceased.
         b.   Floodlight fixtures shall be installed so that they do not tilt
up more than forty five degrees (45°) down from vertical.
      6.   Uplighting shall only be allowed in cases where the fixture and any
light it emits are shielded from the sky by a roof overhang or similar
structural shield.
      7.   Light fixtures mounted on a wall may extend to the full height of
the structure, but no farther.
      8.   Electrical feeds to outdoor light fixtures shall be underground, not
overhead. (1984 Code § 11-3A-11; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7A-11: OUTDOOR SERVICE AND EQUIPMENT AREAS:
   A.   Outdoor mechanical equipment, including, but not limited to, heaters
and fans, located within fifty feet (50') of any abutting residential zones,
shall be screened from view and measures taken to mitigate noise impacts.
   B.   Outdoor utility meters, HVAC equipment, trash dumpsters, trash
compaction and other service functions shall be incorporated into the overall
design of buildings and landscaping so that the visual and acoustic impacts of
these functions are fully contained and out of view from adjacent properties
and public streets. (1984 Code § 11-3A-12; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7A-12: OUTDOOR SPEAKER SYSTEMS:
Any outdoor speaker system associated with the use shall be located a minimum
one hundred feet (100') from all residential zones. No outdoor speaker systems
shall be allowed within a residential zone. These standards may be waived
through approval of a conditional use permit. (1984 Code § 11-3A-13; amd. Ord.
682, 5-10-2021)
10-7A-13: OUTDOOR STORAGE AS AN ACCESSORY USE:
Accessory outdoor storage shall be allowed for an approved use subject to the
following standards:
   A.   All outdoor storage of material, equipment, inventory and/or supplies
shall be conducted in an orderly manner. It shall be unlawful to conduct
outdoor storage of materials, equipment, inventory and/or supplies in a manner
that:
      1.   Creates a public nuisance, visual blight or acoustic impacts.
      2.   Blocks, impedes or overlaps any sidewalk and/or vehicular traffic.
      3.   Causes the site to be used as a vehicle “wrecking yard” or
“junkyard”, as defined in section
10-3-2 of this title.
   B.   For properties in commercial zones, outdoor storage of materials,
equipment, inventory and/or supplies shall be incorporated into the overall
design of buildings and site landscaping so that the visual impacts of these
functions are fully contained and screened from view of adjacent properties,
the railway corridor and public streets by a solid fence or wall with a minimum
height of seven feet (7'). Such fence and/or wall shall be constructed of
complementary or of similar design and materials of the primary structure. (See
§ 10-9-7 for fencing regulations).
   C.   For properties in industrial zones, the following standards shall
apply:
      1.   For properties that are adjacent to nonindustrial properties and/or
public streets, outdoor storage of materials, equipment, inventory and/or
supplies shall be incorporated into the overall design of buildings and site
landscaping so that the visual impacts of these functions are fully contained
and screened from view of adjacent nonindustrial properties and/or public
streets by a solid fence and/or wall with a minimum height of six feet (6').
Such fence and/or wall shall be constructed of complementary or of similar
design and materials of the primary structure. (See § 10-9-7 for fencing
regulations). (1984 Code § 11-3A-14; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7A-14: PRESSURIZED IRRIGATION SYSTEMS:
   A.   System Installation Required: In each development, the applicant shall
provide underground, pressurized non-potable irrigation water.
   B.   Cross Connections: Cross connections between the domestic water lines
and the irrigation water lines shall not be allowed.
   C.   Waiver Of Requirements: The requirements for pressurized non-potable
irrigation may be waived upon proof that any particular property does not have
water rights in an existing irrigation zone. The city domestic water system
shall be the last option for providing irrigation water to a proposed
development. (1984 Code § 11-3A-15; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7A-15: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Applicants shall be responsible for the design and construction of any upgrades
to or new public facilities, including, but not limited to, sanitary sewer,
storm sewer, domestic water and roadway systems. (1984 Code § 11-3A-16; amd.
Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7A-16: SELF-SERVICE USES:
Any unattended, self-service uses, including, but not limited to, laundromats,
automatic teller machines (ATMs), vehicle washing facilities, fuel sales
facilities and storage facilities, shall comply with the following
requirements. The police chief or designee may approve alternative standards
where it is determined that a similar or greater level of security is provided.
   A.   Entrance or view of the self-service facility shall be open to the
public street or to adjoining businesses and shall have low impact security
lighting.
   B.   Financial transaction areas shall be oriented to and visible from an
area that receives a high volume of traffic, such as a collector or arterial
street.
   C.   Landscape shrubbery shall be limited and maintained to no more than
three feet (3') in height between entrances and financial transaction areas and
the public street. (1984 Code § 11-3A-17; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021; amd. Ord.
682, 5-10-2021)
10-7A-17: SIDEWALKS AND PARKWAYS:
   A.   All sidewalk widths on local roads shall follow the table in section
10-15D-3 of this title. The U.S. 95 and U.S. 30 entry corridor shall have the
following sidewalk widths:
      1.   SW 1st Avenue to SW 8th Street shall have a minimum eight foot (8')
wide detached concrete sidewalk with a minimum planter width of five feet (5').
See subsection
10-7B-7C1a of this chapter.
      2.   SW 8th Street to NW 16th Street shall have a minimum eight foot (8')
attached concrete sidewalk.
      3.   NW 16th Street north to the Payette River shall have a five foot
(5') attached concrete sidewalk.
      4.   U.S. 30 east toward New Plymouth shall have a minimum eight foot
(8') wide attached concrete sidewalk.
      5.   U.S. 30 from N. Whitley to the Oregon State line shall have a
minimum five foot (5') attached concrete sidewalk. (Ord. 613, 7-11-2016)
   B.   The minimum width of parkways shall be eight feet (8'). The width can
be measured from the back of curb where there is no likely expansion of the
street section within the right-of-way; the parkway width shall exclude the
width of the sidewalk. (1984 Code § 11-3A-18; amd. Ord. 613, 7-11-2016; amd.
Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7A-18: STORM DRAINAGE:
An adequate storm drainage system shall be required in all developments in
accordance with the City adopted standards, specifications and ordinances. For
public roadways and private sites, see section
10-15D-6 of this title for drainage requirements. For private sites, post
developed stormwater runoff shall be retained on site. The 100-year storm event
shall be utilized. Drainage plans and calculations shall be prepared by a
licensed professional engineer and shall be submitted to the Public Works
Supervisor for review. Design and construction shall follow Best Management
Practices and the standard of care. (Ord. 640, 5-14-2018; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-
2021)
10-7A-19: STRUCTURE AND SITE DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Standards: The following minimum standards shall apply:
      1.   Architectural Character:
         a.   Facades: Building facades for commercial uses visible from a
public street or public space shall incorporate modulations in the facade,
including, but not limited to, projections, recesses and stepbacks that
articulate wall planes and break up building mass. Facades shall be modulated
and articulated. Facades for industrial buildings shall be reviewed and
approved by the Design Review Committee.
         b.   Primary Entrance(s): The primary building entrance(s) shall be
clearly defined by the architectural design of the building.
         c.   Rooflines: Roof design shall provide variations in profile
through modulation and/or articulation, including, but not limited to, the
following: 1) overhanging eaves; 2) sloped roofs; 3) two (2) or more roof
planes; 4) varying parapet heights; and 5) cornices.
         d.   Pattern Variations: Architectural building design shall not
create blank wall segments along public streets and/or adjacent public spaces.
Architectural elements, including, but not limited to, windows, awnings and
arcades, shall have color, texture and/or materials to mitigate blank walls.
         e.   Mechanical Equipment: All ground level mechanical equipment shall
be screened to the height of the unit as viewed from the property line. All
rooftop mechanical equipment shall be screened as viewed from the farthest edge
of the adjoining right of way.
      2.   Materials:
         a.   Exterior building designs shall demonstrate the appearance and
use of high quality materials, including, but not limited to, stone, brick,
wood or other natural materials, tinted or textured masonry block, textured or
architecturally detailed concrete panels, or stucco or stuccolike synthetic
materials.
         b.   In commercial zones, smooth faced concrete block, prefabricated
steel panels and/or vinyl materials shall not be used as the primary finish
materials, unless accented with other materials. Areas to be accented can
include wainscoting, glazing or other architectural elements.
         c.   In commercial zones, untextured concrete panels are prohibited as
finish and/or accent materials.
      3.   Pedestrian Walkways:
         a.   A continuous internal pedestrian walkway that is a minimum of
five feet (5') in width shall be provided from the perimeter public sidewalk to
the main building entrance(s) for nonresidential uses. The walkway width shall
be maintained clear of any obstructions, such as vehicles, outdoor sale
displays, vending machines or temporary structures and comply with ADA
standards.
         b.   The internal pedestrian walkway shall be distinguished from the
vehicular driving surfaces through the use of pavers, colored or scored
concrete, or bricks.
         c.   Unobstructed walkways at least five feet (5') in width shall be
provided for any aisle length that is greater than one hundred fifty (150)
parking spaces or two hundred feet (200') away from the primary building
entrance(s).
   B.   Alternative Compliance: If: 1) the location of existing buildings or
structures prevents conformance with the standards of this section; or 2)
strict adherence to such standards and/or guidelines would create inconsistency
in the design objectives of the proposed development, the zoning administrator
may consider an alternative design proposal. The zoning administrator may
approve, or recommend approval of, such an alternative compliance proposal when
the overall design, as proposed by the applicant, meets or exceeds the intent
and the requirements of this section and is not detrimental to public health,
safety, and welfare. (1984 Code § 11-3A-20; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7A-20: TRAVELING SLEEPING QUARTERS AND STORAGE:
No motor vehicle or trailer, including, but not limited to, travel trailers,
fifth wheels, recreational vehicles and/or motor coaches, shall be used as a
residence or as living quarters, except within an approved recreational vehicle
park. No recreational equipment, including, but not limited to, tents, tepees,
yurts and/or huts, shall be used as a residence or as living quarters. No
storage units, including, but not limited to, railroad box cars, pods, mini-
storage units, or sheds shall be used as a residence or living quarters. (1984
Code § 11-3A-21; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7A-21: UTILITIES:
   A.   Installation: All utilities shall be installed at or below grade in
accordance with the city adopted standards, specifications and ordinances.
Applicants shall be responsible for any and all costs associated with the
design and construction of utilities.
   B.   Streetlighting: Streetlighting shall be installed in accordance with
Section
10-15D-3.I. of this Code.
   C.   Water And Sewer Systems: All development shall be connected to the city
water and sewer systems.
      1.   All public water supply or sewer systems shall be constructed in
accordance with the city adopted facility/master plans.
      2.   All new public water supply or sewer systems shall be an extension
of an existing public system.
   D.   Fire Hydrants And Water Mains: Fire hydrants and water mains shall be
provided to ensure compliance with appropriate fire zone and fire protection
standards. (1984 Code § 11-3A-22; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
ARTICLE B. LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-7B-1: Purpose
10-7B-2: Applicability
10-7B-3: Plan Requirements
10-7B-4: Plan Review Process
10-7B-5: Standards And Installation
10-7B-6: Irrigation Standards
10-7B-7: Landscape Buffers Along Streets
10-7B-8: Parking Lot Landscaping
10-7B-9: Landscape Buffers To Adjoining Uses
10-7B-10: Tree Preservation
10-7B-11: Pathway Landscaping
10-7B-12: Landscape Maintenance
10-7B-13: Installation
10-7B-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The regulations of this article are intended to promote landscaping in
the city that will improve community livability, preserve the quality of life,
and enhance the aesthetic quality, economic viability and environmental health
of the city.
   B.   The city recognizes that landscaping can be a significant expense to
business people. At the same time, landscaping enhances the appearance and
customer attraction of commercial areas, increases property values, improves
the compatibility of adjacent uses, screens undesirable views, and can reduce
air and noise pollution.
   C.   The intent of these regulations is to achieve a balance between the
right of individuals to develop and maintain their property in a manner they
prefer and the rights of city residents to live, work, shop and recreate in
pleasant, healthy and attractive surroundings.
   D.   These regulations are intended to promote the use of native and other
low water use plant materials and to discourage landscaping that requires high
water use for maintenance, such as large expanses of lawn. (1984 Code § 11-3B-
1)
10-7B-2: APPLICABILITY:
Within commercial and/or industrial zones, a landscape plan shall be required
for the following:
   A.   Existing Structures: All development, redevelopment, additions to
existing structures (see below), or site modifications.
   B.   Common Lots: All common lots in proposed subdivisions and land division
plans.
   C.   Multiple Applications: All applications for a conditional use permit
(CUP), preliminary plat (PP), final plat (FP), land division plan (LDP) or
planned unit development (PUD). For multiple applications, the same landscape
plan should be submitted.
   D.   Applicability Of Additions To Existing Structures:
      1.   For additions less than twenty five percent (25%) of the existing
structure or developed area, no additional landscaping shall be required.
      2.   For additions that are twenty five percent to fifty percent (25% -
50%) of an existing structure five thousand (5,000) square feet or larger or
developed area, perimeter and right of way landscaping as required shall be
installed.
      3.   For additions greater than fifty percent (50%) of the existing
structure five thousand (5,000) square feet or larger or developed area, all
current landscape standards shall be met.
      4.   The additions shall be based upon a ten (10) year, cumulative cycle,
commencing on the date of the first addition. (1984 Code § 11-3B-2)
10-7B-3: PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All landscape plans shall include:
      One 24" x 36" copy of landscape plan
   B.   The landscape plan may be on the same site plan used to show parking
layout, setback compliance, etc.
   C.   All landscape plans for developments shall be prepared by a landscape
architect, landscape designer or qualified nurseryman. (1984 Code § 11-3B-3;
amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7B-4: PLAN REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   Preliminary Landscape Plan Review: A preliminary landscape plan review
is recommended prior to submission for all developments, but is not required.
   B.   Landscape Plan: A landscape plan will be reviewed in accordance with
the standards and procedures set forth in this article and approved by the
city.
   C.   Landscape Plan Modification:
      1.   An approved landscape plan shall not be altered without prior
approval of the zoning administrator.
      2.   No significant field changes to the plan are permitted without prior
approval of the zoning administrator.
      3.   Prior written approval of significant changes is required.
      4.   All approved changes to the landscape plan shall be documented prior
to issuance of a certificate of occupancy. (1984 Code § 11-3B-4)
10-7B-5: STANDARDS AND INSTALLATION:
   A.   Approved Plant Material: The publication titled "Tree Selection Guide
For Streets And Landscapes Throughout Idaho" by the urban forestry unit of the
Boise parks and recreation department (latest edition) is hereby adopted by
this reference as the city's list of approved and prohibited plant material.
The publication categorizes the trees by size as class I, class II or class III
trees. The city recognizes that new plant varieties are being produced and will
consider other species not listed in the publication.
   B.   Minimum Plant Sizes: The following are minimum plant sizes for all
required landscape areas:
      TABLE 1
      MINIMUM PLANT SIZES
 
Type Of Tree     Minimum Size
Evergreen trees  6 foot height minimum
Ornamental trees 2 inch caliper minimum
Shade trees      2 inch caliper minimum
Woody shrubs     2 gallon pot minimum
 
   C.   Prohibited Plant Material: The plants listed under trees not permitted
for rights of way property planting are prohibited from being planted along any
street or within any parking lot regulated by this article. The only exception
is that conifers may be planted in the center of street buffers that have a
minimum width of twenty feet (20') as measured from the edge of the sidewalk to
the street curb. For public safety purposes, the location of such conifers
shall maintain view corridors of nonresidential structures.
   D.   Tree Species Mix: When five (5) or more trees are to be planted to meet
the requirements of any portion of this article (including street trees, street
buffers, parking lot landscaping and other landscape guidelines), a mix of
species shall be provided. The number of species to be planted shall vary
according to the overall number of trees required to be planted. See table 2 of
this section.
      TABLE 2
      REQUIRED NUMBER OF TREES AND SPECIES
 
Required Number Minimum Number
Of Trees        Of Species
5 to 10         2
11 to 30        3
31 to 50        4
More than 50    5
 
   E.   Plant Quality: All plant material installed pursuant to this article
shall meet or exceed the minimum federal standards as regulated by ANSI Z60.1,
"American Standard For Nursery Stock".
   F.   Planting Standards: All trees, shrubs and other plant materials shall
be planted using accepted nursery standards as published by the American
Association Of Nurserymen (latest edition) including hole size, backfilling and
fertilization.
   G.   Staking: Trees may require staking.
   H.   Mulching: Mulch shall be used in all required planting areas. Approved
mulches may be organic, such as bark or soil aid, or they may include rock
products, such as "permabark" or similar products. Use of mulch, organic or
rock as the only ground cover in required planting areas is prohibited. Road
base gravel and similar products shall not be used as mulch. All mulch shall be
contained by an edging material to prevent it from migrating to adjacent
surfaces.
   I.   Protective Curbing: All tree planting areas that border drive aisles,
parking lots, and other vehicle use areas shall be protected by curbing. Such
devices shall be a minimum of thirty inches (30") from all tree trunks to
prevent cars from damaging tree trunks.
   J.   Utilities: The following standards apply to the planting of trees near
existing utilities and to trenching for new utilities near existing trees:
      1.   Overhead Utilities: Only class I trees in the recommended plant list
may be planted under or within ten (10) lateral feet of any overhead utility
wires.
      2.   Underground Utilities: All trees shall be planted outside of any
easement that contains a city water or sewer main. If any utility easement
precludes trees required by this article, the width of the required buffer
shall be increased to accommodate the required trees.
      3.   Trenching: New underground utilities shall stay outside of the drip
line of existing trees if trenched, or be tunneled a minimum of three feet (3')
below existing grade within the tree's drip line. The guiding principle is that
no root two inches (2") or larger shall be cut. Note: This requirement is for
placement of new utilities and does not affect the city's ability to access
existing utilities for repair and maintenance.
   K.   Erosion Control: The landscape installation shall stabilize all soil
and slopes.
   L.   Berms: Slopes that are not to be mowed shall not exceed two to one (2:
1) (horizontal: vertical). Grass that requires mowing shall not be used on
slopes steeper than three to one (3:1).
   M.   Screening: Where screening is required in this article and/or this
title, chainlink fencing without slats does not qualify as a screening
material. (1984 Code § 11-3B-5)
10-7B-6: IRRIGATION STANDARDS:
   A.   Irrigation Required: All landscape areas regulated by this article
shall be served with a private automatic underground irrigation system.
Requirements can be found in section
10-7A-15, "Pressurized Irrigation Systems", of this chapter.
   B.   Performance Specifications: Three (3) copies of detailed irrigation
performance specifications shall be submitted with the landscape plan for all
final plats and certificates of zoning compliance. Performance specifications
shall state design requirements, materials, construction methods and point of
connection, and the following specifications:
      1.   Coverage: The irrigation system shall be designed to provide one
hundred percent (100%) coverage with head to head spacing or triangular spacing
as appropriate.
      2.   Matched Precipitation Rates: Sprinkler heads shall have matched
precipitation rates within each control valve circuit.
      3.   Irrigation Zones: Sprinkler heads irrigating lawn or other high
water demand areas shall be circuited so that they are on a separate zone or
zones from those irrigating trees, shrubs or other reduced water demand areas.
      4.   Overspray: Sprinkler heads shall be adjusted to reduce overspray
onto impervious surfaces, such as streets, sidewalks, driveways and parking
areas.
   C.   Backflow Prevention: Provide a backflow prevention device as required
by this code.
   D.   Irrigation Water: Use of nonpotable irrigation water is required when
determined to be available. Water availability during the fall and spring
seasons may also be required by connecting to temporary city potable water or
an on site private well as a secondary source. (1984 Code § 11-3B-6)
10-7B-7: LANDSCAPE BUFFERS ALONG STREETS:
   A.   Purpose: The intent of these requirements is to ensure the long term
and consistent maintenance of landscape buffers along streets that improve the
visual quality of the streetscape, unify diverse architecture, and carry out
the master street plan policies related to promoting attractive streets and
street beautification.
   B.   Applicability: Landscape buffers shall be required along all collector
and arterial streets within commercial and/or industrial zones.
   C.   Standards: Standards for landscape buffers along streets shall be as
follows:
      1.   Buffer Size: See the applicable "dimensional standards" table under
chapter 6, articles A and B of this title.
         a.   Measurement/Location:
            (1)   All street buffers with attached sidewalks shall be measured
from the back of sidewalk. Where the city is anticipating future widening of
the street, the width of the buffer shall be measured from the ultimate
sidewalk location as anticipated by the city. (1984 Code § 11-3B-7)
            (2)   All street buffers with detached sidewalks shall be measured
from the back of curb. Where the city is anticipating future widening of the
street as per the master transportation plan, the width of the buffer shall be
measured from the ultimate curb location as identified in the master
transportation plan. Detached sidewalks shall have a minimum landscaped
separation of greater than five feet (5') to back of curb. (Ord. 613, 7-11-
2016)
            (3)   All commercial and industrial street buffers shall be on a
common lot or in a permanent dedicated easement buffer, maintained by the
property owner or business owners' association.
            (4)   Except where fences and walls are used solely for decorative
landscape elements, fences and walls are permitted only on the interior edge
(nonstreet side) of the street buffer. (1984 Code § 11-3B-7)
         b.   Width Reduction: In a development where the required street
buffer width results in an otherwise unavoidable hardship to the property, a
written request for a buffer reduction may be submitted in accordance with
chapter 2, "Administration And Enforcement", of this title. The request shall
demonstrate evidence of the hardship caused by the required street buffer and
propose a specific alternative landscape plan that meets or exceeds the intent
of the required buffer. A reduction to the buffer width shall not affect
building setbacks; all structures shall be set back as required in the
applicable land use zone. (1984 Code § 11-3B-7; amd. Ord. 613, 7-11-2016)
      2.   Buffer Landscaping Materials:
         a.   All required landscape buffers along streets shall be planted
with trees and shrubs, lawn, or other vegetative ground cover.
         b.   The minimum density of one tree per thirty five (35) linear feet
is required. If this calculation results in a fraction five (5) or greater,
round up to an additional tree. If the calculation results in a fraction less
than five (5), round the number down. Clustering of trees is allowed.
         c.   Large shrubs, hedges and conifers should be used sparingly and in
clusters that are well integrated with the landscape design. Such plants shall
not screen or create a public safety hazard.
      3.   Tree Spacing: For design flexibility, trees may be grouped together
or spaced evenly as desired. However, trees shall be spaced no closer than
eighty percent (80%) of the average mature width of the trees, as demonstrated
in the following examples:
   FIGURE 1
   TREE SPACING
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/34f27a3cdd2d56a1a4c8c121309cde63c8363032/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1563.gif]
 
      4.   Landscaping Within Right Of Way: Landscaping improvements within the
right of way shall require a license agreement between the property owner and
the city.
      5.   Impervious Surfaces: Allowed impervious surfaces within the
landscape buffer include driveways, outdoor seating, signs and walkways.
      6.   Berms In Street Buffers: Berm design is subject to the provisions in
accordance with this title.
      7.   Stormwater: Stormwater disposal for private property may be
incorporated into the buffer in accordance with this chapter. (1984 Code § 11-
3B-7)
10-7B-8: PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of parking lot landscaping is to soften and
mitigate the visual effect of a large expanse of asphalt in parking lots.
Landscaping can also reduce summer heat gain in parking areas and define
pedestrianways.
   B.   Applicability: The requirements for parking lot landscaping shall apply
to all commercial and industrial developments, with the following exceptions:
      1.   Parking spaces adjoining loading areas in industrial zones are
excluded from the interior landscape requirements.
      2.   For parking lot reconstruction, exclusive of sealing, striping, or
repaving, all current landscape standards of this section shall be met.
      3.   If the location of existing buildings or other structures prevents
conformance with the requirements of this section, or if its implementation
would create nonconformity with parking standards, the design review committee
shall determine how this article is to be applied.
   C.   Standards:
      1.   Parking Lot Perimeter Landscaping: The following standards apply to
the perimeter of parking or other vehicular use areas, including drive aisles:
         a.   Requirement: Provide a five foot (5') wide minimum landscape
buffer adjacent to parking, loading, or other paved vehicular use areas,
including drive aisles, vehicle sales areas, truck parking areas, bus parking
areas, and vehicle storage areas, subject to the following exceptions:
            (1)   This requirement may be reduced or waived at the
determination of the zoning administrator where there is a shared driveway and/
or recorded cross parking agreement and easement with an adjacent property.
            (2)   This requirement may be reduced or waived at the
determination of the zoning administrator for truck maneuvering areas in
industrial zones.
         b.   Landscaping: The landscape buffer shall be planted with one tree
per thirty five (35) linear feet and shrubs, lawn, or other vegetative ground
cover.
         c.   Encroachments: Structures less than one hundred twenty (120)
square feet, including, but not limited to, trash enclosures and storage sheds,
may encroach into a required landscape buffer, excluding any buffer to
adjoining residential uses.
      2.   Internal Parking Lot Landscaping: Interior parking lot landscaping
shall be required on any parking lot with more than fifteen (15) spaces. The
following standards apply to internal landscaping:
         a.   Planter Size: Landscape planters shall contain a minimum of fifty
(50) square feet, and the planting area shall not be less than five feet (5')
in any dimension, measured inside curbs. The only exception to the five foot
(5') minimum dimension is at the tip of triangular planters located at the end
of rows of angled parking.
         b.   Parking Spaces: No linear grouping of parking spaces shall exceed
fifteen (15) in a row, without an internal planter island. Planter islands are
also required at the ends of parking rows. The planter island shall run the
length of the parking space and may be reduced by two feet (2') in length to
allow for improved vehicular maneuvering.
         c.   Parking Lot Layout: Interior landscaping shall, insofar as
possible, be used to delineate and guide major traffic movement within the
parking area so as to prevent driving across parking spaces. Interior landscape
planters shall be spaced as evenly as feasible and at the ends of rows of
parking throughout the lot to consistently reduce the visual impact of long
rows of parked cars.
         d.   Trees Required: Each interior planter that serves a single row of
parking spaces shall be landscaped with at least one tree and shall be covered
with low shrubs, lawn, or other vegetative ground cover. Each interior planter
that serves a double row of parking spaces shall have at least two (2) trees
and shall be covered with low shrubs, lawn, or other vegetative ground cover.
Trees shall be centered within the planters. Deciduous shade trees shall be
pruned to a minimum height of eight feet (8') above the adjacent parking areas.
Evergreen trees and class III trees are prohibited in interior planters. (1984
Code § 11-3B-8)
10-7B-9: LANDSCAPE BUFFERS TO ADJOINING USES:
   A.   Purpose: The requirements in this section shall apply to landscape
buffers in developments adjacent to residential uses. (Ord. 613, 7-11-2016)
   B.   Applicability: The landscape buffer is required in all commercial and
industrial zones on any parcel sharing a contiguous parcel line with a
residential land use.
   C.   Standards:
      1.   Buffer Materials: The materials within the required buffer between
incompatible land uses are regulated as follows:
         a.   Mix Of Materials: Buffer areas shall be comprised of, but not
limited to, a mix of evergreen and deciduous trees, shrubs, lawn or other
vegetative ground cover. Fences, walls and berms utilized as decorative
landscape elements may also be incorporated into the buffer area.
         b.   Barrier Effectiveness: The required buffer area shall result in a
barrier that allows trees to touch at the time of the tree maturity.
         c.   Buffer Wall And/Or Fence: Where existing or proposed adjacent
land uses cannot be adequately buffered with plant materials, the city may
require inclusion of a wall, fence or other type of screen that mitigates noise
and/or unsightly uses. If a wall or fence at least seven feet (7') tall is
provided, the planting requirement may be reduced to a minimum of one tree per
thirty five (35) linear feet, plus shrubs, lawn or other vegetative ground
cover. (See §
10-9-7 for fencing regulations).
      2.   Minimum Buffer Size: The width of the buffer adjacent to residential
land uses for each zone shall be in accordance with "dimensional standards"
table under chapter 6, articles A and B of this title. A reduction to the
buffer width shall not affect building setbacks; all structures shall be set
back from the property line a minimum of the buffer width required in the
applicable land use zone.
      3.   Pedestrian Access: Landscape buffers shall facilitate existing
pedestrian access from residential development to abutting commercial zones.
      4.   Relationship To Parking Lot Perimeter Requirements: All buffers
against residential land uses may include any required perimeter parking lot
landscape buffers when calculating the minimum width of the buffer.
      5.   Open Water Ponds: Aesthetically designed open water ponds and
holding areas may comprise up to twenty five percent (25%) of a required open
space area. All ponds with a permanent water level shall meet the following
standards:
         a.   The pond shall have recirculated water.
         b.   The pond shall be maintained such that it does not become a
mosquito breeding ground. (1984 Code § 11-3B-9; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7B-10: TREE PRESERVATION:
   A.   Purpose: The regulations of this section are intended to preserve
existing trees four inch (4") caliper or greater from destruction during the
development process.
   B.   Applicability: Tree preservation is required in all commercial and
industrial zones.
   C.   Standards:
      1.   Site Plans: Site plans shall make all feasible attempts to maintain
existing trees four inch (4") caliper or greater within their design.
      2.   Landscape Plan: All existing trees greater than four inch (4")
caliper shall be shown on the landscape plan, indicating whether each tree is
to be retained or removed and including on the plan a description of how
existing trees to be retained are to be protected during construction.
      3.   Protection During Construction: Existing trees that are retained
shall be protected from damage to bark, branches and roots during construction.
Any severely damaged tree shall be replaced in accordance with this section.
      4.   Construction Within Drip Line Of Existing Trees: Construction,
excavation or fill occurring within the drip line of any existing tree shall be
avoided. Specific requirements for construction within the drip line of
existing trees are as follows:
         a.   Paving: Whenever possible, impervious paving surfaces shall
remain outside of the drip line of existing trees. When it is not possible,
impervious surfaces shall be allowed at a distance from the trunk of a retained
tree equal to the diameter of the tree trunk plus five feet (5').
         b.   Compaction: A fence or barrier that encloses the entire area
beneath the tree canopy shall be in place prior to construction.
         c.   Utilities: New underground utilities to be placed within the drip
line of existing trees shall be installed in accordance with this chapter.
      5.   Mitigation:
         a.   Mitigation shall be required for all existing trees four inch
(4") caliper or greater that are removed from the site with equal replacement
of the total calipers lost on site up to an amount of one hundred percent
(100%) replacement. (Example: Two 10-inch caliper trees removed may be
mitigated with four 5-inch caliper trees, five 4-inch caliper trees, or seven
3-inch caliper trees, etc.)
         b.   No mitigation is required in the following: 1) existing
prohibited trees within the street buffer or parking lot; 2) existing dead,
dying or hazardous trees; 3) trees that are required to be removed by another
governmental agency having jurisdiction over the project.
      6.   Required Landscaping: Existing trees that are retained or relocated
on site may count toward the required landscaping. Mitigation trees are in
addition to all other landscaping required by this article.
      7.   Incentives: The zoning administrator may allow a reduction up to ten
percent (10%) of the required parking spaces to accommodate existing trees in
accordance with chapter 2, "Administration And Enforcement", of this title.
Approval for a reduction in required parking shall be obtained prior to
submittal of plans. (1984 Code § 11-3B-10)
10-7B-11: PATHWAY LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to promote trees and other
landscaping along pathways developed within the city. The required landscaping
will provide shade and visual interest along the pathways.
   B.   Applicability: Wherever pathways are installed and/or required, the
landscaping standards within this section shall apply.
   C.   Standards:
      1.   Planter Width: A landscape strip a minimum of five feet (5') wide
shall be provided along each side of the pathway, except meandering pathways
shall require a total landscaped width of ten feet (10'). Designs are
encouraged in which the width of the landscape strip varies to provide
additional width to plant trees farther from the pathway, preventing root
damage. The minimum width of the landscape strip shall be two feet (2') to
allow for maintenance of the pathway.
      2.   Required Plants: The landscape strips shall be planted with a mix of
trees, shrubs, lawn and/or other vegetative ground cover. There shall be a
minimum of one tree per one hundred (100) linear feet of pathway. If this
calculation results in a fraction of five (5) or greater, round up to an
additional tree; if the calculation results in a fraction less than five (5),
round the number down.
      3.   Improvements: The pathways shall be paved with three inches (3") of
asphaltic concrete or equivalent and shall meet the Americans with disabilities
act.
      4.   Tree Branching Height: Trees along the pathway shall be pruned with
a clear branching height of at least eight feet (8') above the path surface.
      5.   Shrub Height: Shrubs are limited to three feet (3') high or less at
mature size to allow for safety provisions and sight distance.
      6.   Mulch: The solitary use of mulches, such as bark alone without
vegetative ground covers, is prohibited. Mulch under the trees and shrubs is
required in accordance with this article.
      7.   Prohibited Trees: No evergreen trees or class III trees shall be
planted within the required landscape strip because of safety, sight distance
and maintenance concerns.
      8.   Fences: See section
10-9-7, “Fences”, of this chapter for pathway fencing standards. (1984 Code §
11-3B-11; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7B-12: LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Purpose: The regulations of this section are intended to ensure that
all required landscaping is maintained in a healthy, growing condition at all
times.
   B.   Applicability: The requirement for landscape maintenance applies in all
commercial and/or industrial zones where landscaping has been required.
   C.   Standards:
      1.   Responsibility: The property owner is responsible for the
maintenance of all landscaping and screening devices required by this article.
      2.   Topping Prohibited: Topping any street tree required by this article
is prohibited.
      3.   Tree Grates: Tree grates, where utilized, shall be widened to
accommodate the growing tree trunk and prevent girdling of any trees planted in
tree wells within sidewalks or other public rights of way.
      4.   Dead And Diseased Plant Materials: Plant materials that exhibit
evidence of insect pests, disease and/or damage shall be appropriately treated
to correct the problem. Dead plant materials shall be replaced. (1984 Code §
11-3B-12)
      5.   Inspections: All landscaping required by this subsection may be
subject to periodic inspections by city officials to determine compliance or to
investigate possible noncompliance. (1984 Code § 11-3B-12; amd. 2014 Code)
10-7B-13: INSTALLATION:
   A.   Certificate Of Completion: A written certificate of completion shall be
prepared by the landscape architect, landscape designer or qualified nurseryman
responsible for the landscape plan upon completion of the landscape
installation. The certificate of completion shall verify that all landscape
improvements, including plant materials and sprinkler installation, are in
substantial compliance with the approved landscape plan.
   B.   Installation Schedule:
      1.   All required landscaping, irrigation systems and site features shall
be installed according to the approved landscape plan prior to issuance of a
final certificate of occupancy.
      2.   Site improvements that are above and beyond the requirements do not
require completion prior to occupancy.
   C.   Extension Of Time For Installation: The building official, upon
recommendation of the zoning administrator, may issue a temporary certificate
of occupancy for a specified time period, not to exceed one hundred eighty
(180) days when:
      1.   Due to weather or other circumstances, the landscaping or other
required site amenities cannot be completed; or
      2.   The applicant has provided surety to the city for the required
improvements. (1984 Code § 11-3B-13)
ARTICLE C. OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
10-7C-1: Purpose
10-7C-2: Applicability
10-7C-3: Process
10-7C-4: Parking Standards
10-7C-5: Required Number Of Off Street Parking Spaces
10-7C-6: Standards For Alternatives To On Site Parking
10-7C-7: Off Street Loading Space Requirements
10-7C-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide regulations and standards for off
street parking and loading facilities with the intent to provide off street
parking areas, minimize traffic hazards and congestion, and mitigate impacts on
surrounding properties. (1984 Code § 11-3C-1)
10-7C-2: APPLICABILITY:
The following standards shall apply to any new construction, alteration or
moving of a structure, or any new or more intense use of property. The number
of off street parking spaces, as set forth in this article, shall be provided
for all allowed uses in any district. A greater number of spaces may be
required in any application involving a conditional use permit. (1984 Code §
11-3C-2)
10-7C-3: PROCESS:
An off street parking and loading plan shall be required as a component of any
discretionary permit or applicable building permit. Such plan shall show the
following:
   A.   The off street parking and loading plan shall contain the location,
size and type of all proposed off street parking and loading facilities.
   B.   If the proposed development project shall be completed in phases, such
phases shall be noted on the plan. (1984 Code § 11-3C-3)
10-7C-4: PARKING STANDARDS:
   A.   Use And Design Of Parking Areas:
      1.   Type And Number Of Parking Spaces: All parking areas shall be
designed and constructed to provide the type and number of off street parking
spaces required by this article, and designed as required by this section.
      2.   Location Of Parking Spaces Relative To Structures: Parking spaces
for nonresidential uses shall be located not more than five hundred feet (500')
from structures, except as provided by this article.
      3.   Landscape Buffer: Off street parking spaces shall not be located in
any landscape buffer as required by article B, "Landscaping Requirements", of
this chapter.
      4.   Parking Lot Design: Parking lots shall be designed in accordance
with section
10-7B-8, "Parking Lot Landscaping", of this chapter.
      5.   Parking Stall And Driving Aisle Design: Parking stalls and driving
aisles shall be designed in accordance with the standards in table 1 of this
section.
      TABLE 1
      REQUIRED STALL WIDTH AND LENGTH BY PARKING ANGLE
 
Parking Angle    Stall Width Stall Depth One-Way Drive Aisle1
   0° (parall9'0"        23'0"       12'0"
   45°       9'0"        19'0"       13'0"
   60°       9'0"        19'0"       17'0"
   90°       9'0"        19'0"       25'0"
 
   Note:
    1.    All two-way drive aisles shall be a minimum of 25 feet in width.
      6.   Design For Standard Vehicles: All required parking as determined by
this article shall be designed for standard vehicles.
      7.   On Site Turnarounds; Connections: All parking areas shall provide on
site turnarounds, or connections through to adjacent parking areas or streets,
in accordance with the fire department standards for all off street parking
spaces and loading facilities.
      8.   Moving Of Vehicles: The design of off street parking areas shall not
require moving any vehicle to gain access to a required parking space.
      9.   ADA Requirements: It is the responsibility of the applicant to
ensure that the parking lot design and sidewalk and/or access provisions meet
all Americans with disabilities act (ADA) requirements. (1984 Code § 11-3C-4)
   B.   Improvements:
      1.   All off street parking areas and driveways into and through a
parking area shall be improved with an appropriately designed section
consisting of compacted gravel base and surfaced with asphaltic pavement.
Infrequently used parking areas, as determined by the public works supervisor,
may be improved with other dustless materials, including, but not limited to,
asphalt, concrete, pavers, bricks or recycled asphalt (asphalt grindings). In
such cases, the public works supervisor shall review and approve of the
dustless material improvement prior to construction. (1984 Code § 11-3C-4; amd.
2014 Code)
      2.   All parking and loading areas shall provide proper drainage of
surface water to prevent the drainage of such water onto adjacent properties,
streets, or walkways. (See section
10-15D-6 of this title.)
      3.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, all off street parking
areas shall be provided with a substantial wheel restraint to prevent cars from
encroaching upon abutting private and public property or overhanging beyond the
designated parking stall dimensions. The public works supervisor may waive this
requirement for internal parking spaces not adjoining a property boundary,
landscape island, sidewalk, pathway or any similar development feature. This
standard shall not apply to temporary uses.
      4.   When a bumper overhangs onto a sidewalk or landscape area, the
parking stall dimensions may be reduced two feet (2') in length if two feet
(2') is added to the width of the sidewalk or landscaped area planted in ground
cover.
      5.   Parking spaces and access lanes shall be marked, including
handicapped symbols and signs.
      6.   All lighting provided to illuminate a parking area shall comply with
the lighting standards provided in article A, "Standard Regulations", of this
chapter.
      7.   All landscaping improvements shall comply with article B,
"Landscaping Requirements", of this chapter.
   C.   Bicycle Parking Facilities: Bicycle parking facilities shall meet the
following location and design standards:
      1.   Bicycle parking facilities shall be located as close as possible to
the building entrance.
      2.   Bicycle parking facilities shall not obstruct pedestrian walkways,
public sidewalks or building entrances.
      3.   It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the bicycle
parking facilities meet all Americans with disabilities act (ADA) requirements.
      4.   Bicycle parking facilities shall support the bicycle and allow the
owner to lock the frame and a wheel with one lock.
   D.   Alternatives: The zoning administrator may approve, or recommend
approval of, an alternative off street parking and loading plan, through the
alternative compliance process when the overall design, as proposed by the
applicant, meets or exceeds the intent and the requirements of this article and
shall not be detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare. Mitigating
circumstances might include, but not be limited to, access to an adequate
public transit system and/or an unusually low parking demand. (1984 Code § 11-
3C-4; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7C-5: REQUIRED NUMBER OF OFF STREET PARKING SPACES:
   A.   The following standards shall apply for off street vehicle parking for
nonresidential uses. In all commercial uses, the minimum requirement shall be
one space for every two hundred (200) square feet of gross floor area. In all
industrial uses, the requirement shall be one space for every one thousand
(1,000) square feet of gross floor area. In the case of warehousing or
agricultural product storage where employee access is limited to less than ten
(10) employees, the zoning administrator may approve acceptable parking below
this standard. Additional parking may be required in circumstances where there
would appear to be a public safety concern, i.e. church or school. When, in the
determination of the zoning administrator, there is insufficient parking, the
applicant shall provide additional on site parking or provide alternatives to
on site parking as set forth in this article. The determination by the zoning
administrator shall be based on the following criteria:
      1.   The specific use proposed and/or on the property;
      2.   Uses in the vicinity of the property;
      3.   A traffic study, if prepared, forecasting the expected traffic and
parking needs expected from the use;
      4.   The availability of on street, shared and/or public parking within
the vicinity of the use; and/or
      5.   The availability of public transit, vanpooling or other alternative
transportation to serve the use.
   B.   Upon any change of use, the number of vehicle parking spaces to be
provided shall be calculated according to the requirements of this article for
the new use.
   C.   It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the size and
number of handicap accessible spaces meets all Americans with disabilities act
(ADA) requirements.
   D.   The required vehicle parking spaces shall be provided and continuously
maintained.
   E.   No required parking area or space provided, as required by this
article, shall later be eliminated, reduced or converted in any manner unless
other equivalent facilities approved by the zoning administrator are provided.
   F.   One bicycle parking space shall be provided for every twenty five (25)
proposed vehicle parking spaces or portion thereof. (1984 Code § 11-3C-5; amd.
Ord. 613, 7-11-2016; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7C-6: STANDARDS FOR ALTERNATIVES TO ON SITE PARKING:
Alternatives to providing on site parking as set forth in this article are
encouraged in all developments. When required to meet minimum parking standards
of this article, alternatives shall include, but not be limited to, shared use
facilities, access to transit and availability of other forms of
transportation, such as car pools and vanpools.
   A.   Favorable Conditions: Conditions favorable to providing alternatives to
on site parking are as follows:
      1.   Shared Use:
         a.   There are convenient pedestrian connections between separate
properties;
         b.   The properties and/or uses are within one thousand feet (1,000')
of each other;
         c.   The principal operating hours of the uses are not in substantial
conflict with one another; and
         d.   Directional signs provide notice of the availability of parking.
      2.   Alternative Transportation:
         a.   There is a transit stop within one-fourth (1/4) mile of the use;
or
         b.   There is an incentive program for car pooling, vanpooling or
transit supported by the employer.
   B.   Alternative Transportation: Where alternative modes of transportation
are available, on site parking may be reduced by an equivalent amount to the
demand that is met by the alternative transportation mode, as documented in a
transportation plan prepared by a registered engineer.
   C.   Agreement:
      1.   All parties involved with the shared use parking area shall submit a
written agreement to the zoning administrator, signed and recorded by the
applicable parties involved. The agreement shall specify the following:
         a.   Party or parties responsible for construction; and
         b.   Party or parties responsible for maintenance.
      2.   The applicant or owner shall record such agreement with the Payette
County recorder prior to issuance of any permits.
      3.   The shared use parking agreement may be terminated by the parties
only if off street parking is provided in conformance with this article and
approved by the zoning administrator prior to the termination. (1984 Code § 11-
3C-6)
10-7C-7: OFF STREET LOADING SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Off street loading spaces for commercial and industrial uses shall be
provided to prevent delivery vehicles from blocking travel lanes essential for
emergency vehicular access.
   B.   Parking and loading areas shall be designed so vehicles shall not back
out into the street.
   C.   No off street loading space shall be located closer than fifty feet
(50') to an abutting rural or residential district unless wholly enclosed
within a sound attenuating structure, such as masonry block. No off street
loading space shall face an abutting residential district.
   D.   Any off street loading space located within fifty feet (50') of a
residential district shall not operate between the hours of seven o'clock (7:
00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. (1984 Code § 11-3C-7)
ARTICLE D. SIGNS
SECTION:
10-7D-1: Purpose
10-7D-2: Applicability
10-7D-3: Definitions
10-7D-4: Process
10-7D-5: Prohibited Signs
10-7D-6: Construction Signs
10-7D-7: Business Identification Signs
10-7D-8: Nonaccessory Or Off Premises Signs
10-7D-9: Standards For Vehicle Signs
10-7D-10: Nonconforming Signs
10-7D-1: PURPOSE:
The regulations of this article are intended to:
   A.   Require architectural and aesthetic harmony for signs as they relate to
building design and surrounding landscaping.
   B.   Regulate sign size, height, and quality of signs, which will allow for
good visibility for the public and the needs of business while providing for
the health and safety of the public by minimizing distractions to motorists and
pedestrians.
   C.   Regulate signs that will be compatible with the building, site
conditions and land uses the signs are intended to identify.
   D.   Establish design criteria for signs to promote a well maintained and
attractive community, which are compatible with their surroundings, and do not
detract from the overall visual quality of the city.
   E.   Recognize the need for adequate business identification, advertising,
and communication for city residents, businesses, employees and visitors.
   F.   Establish and facilitate easy and agreeable communication between
people.
   G.   Set forth procedures that will facilitate the efficient processing of
sign applications.
   FIGURE 1
   SIGN TYPES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/34f27a3cdd2d56a1a4c8c121309cde63c8363032/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1581.png]
 
   (Ord. 559, 10-22-2012)
10-7D-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Standards Applicable To Commercial And Industrial Zoning Districts: The
sign standards provided in this article are intended to apply to any sign in
all commercial and industrial zoning districts in the city. Only signs
authorized by this article shall be allowed.
   B.   Nonconforming Signs: Nonconforming signs are subject to the provisions
of section 10-7D-12, "Nonconforming Signs", of this article.
   C.   Change Of Copy On Signs: A permit shall not be required for a change of
copy on any sign, nor for the repainting, cleaning or other normal maintenance
or repair of a sign or sign structure for which a permit has previously been
issued in accordance with this article; provided, that the sign or sign
structure is not altered in any way.
   D.   Exemptions: The provisions of this article shall not apply to the
following:
      1.   Public hearing notice signs as required by city ordinance.
      2.   Conventional flags, emblems, or insignia of any national or
political subdivision or corporation.
      3.   Governmental signs for the control of traffic or other regulatory
purposes, or signs of public service companies indicating danger, that are
erected by or on the order of a public officer in the performance of public
duty.
      4.   Any sign erected by or under the authority of the city for direction
to places of general interest, including, but not limited to, schools,
colleges, auditoriums, fairgrounds, hospitals, airports, parks, and
playgrounds.
      5.   Signs located within the interior of any business and are attached
to the window glass.
      6.   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and date of erection
that are cut into masonry surface or inlaid so as to be part of the building.
      7.   Public signs required or specifically authorized for a public
purpose by any law, statute or ordinance, that may be of any type, number,
area, height above grade, location, illumination or animation as required by
the law, statute or ordinance under which the signs are erected.
      8.   Historical signs or markers.
      9.   Signs related to temporary uses regulated by the provisions of this
code shall not require a sign permit under the provisions of this article, but
shall comply with any and all applicable provisions of this code. (Ord. 559,
10-22-2012; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7D-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply to signs:
AWNING SIGN: The copy area or separate background areas attached to an awning.
BACKGROUND AREA: The area comprising the portion of a sign on which copy could
be placed, not including the supporting structure. The background area shall be
computed by measuring the area enclosed by straight lines drawn to enclose the
extremities of the copy. When computing the area of sign background, only the
face or faces that may be seen from one direction at one time shall be
considered. If a sign consists of individual letters, only the total area
enclosed by straight lines drawn to enclose each letter shall be computed as
sign background area.
BANNER: A sign made of fabric or other similar nonrigid material with no
enclosing framework or electrical components that is supported or anchored on
two (2) or more edges or at all four (4) corners. Banners also include nonrigid
signs anchored along one edge or two (2) corners.
BUILDING SIGN ALLOWANCE: The allowed sign area for each elevation, excluding
freestanding signs and including awning signs, canopy signs, changeable copy
signs, hanging signs, projecting signs, wall signs, and window signs.
BUSINESS IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A sign that serves to identify only the name,
address, and lawful use or uses of the premises upon which it is located.
CANOPY SIGN: The copy area or separate background areas attached to a canopy.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN: A sign on which copy may be changed, whether manually or
electronically:
Animated Changeable Copy Sign: A changeable copy sign, any visible part of
which blinks, flashes, moves or changes color to depict action or create a
special effect or scene, regardless of the source of energy causing the
animation.
Manual Changeable Copy Sign: A changeable copy sign, any visible part of which
is constructed with removable letters and is not electronically changeable.
CONFORMING SIGN: A sign that conforms to the requirements of this article.
CONSTRUCTION SIGN: A sign on a property or portion thereof that has a valid and
active building permit.
COPY: Any combination of letters, the space between the letters, numbers,
identifying print, symbols, illustrations, logos, or other graphic elements
which conveys information.
COPY AREA: The area of the sign occupied by "copy", as defined herein.
DIRECTIONAL SIGN: A freestanding sign directing automobile movement through a
site that has a drive-through establishment.
FREESTANDING SIGN: A sign whose background or copy area is wholly supported by
a column, pole, foundation, pedestal or other support structure in or upon the
ground and that is independent from any other structure.
FREESTANDING SIGN ALLOWANCE: The allowed sign area for a property, excluding
building signs and including freestanding signs, directional signs, and banners
and/or other signs attached to freestanding structures, such as a pole.
HANGING SIGN: A sign suspended below an awning and/or a canopy.
HEIGHT: The height of a sign shall be computed by measuring the distance
measured vertically from the top of curb of the abutting street (or, where no
curb exists, from the edge of pavement) to the highest point of the sign or
visual appurtenance(s). The height of any landscape berm or other structure
erected to support or ornament the sign shall be measured as part of the sign
height. This allowance does not apply to streets that are part of a freeway
interchange or overpass.
ILLEGAL SIGN: Any sign and/or sign structure that does not conform to the
requirements of this article and for which a permit was never issued and that
cannot meet the requirements of a nonconforming sign. A sign and/or sign
structure lacking a current and valid permit.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign that uses a source of light for illumination,
including, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   Direct Illumination: A source of light located away from the sign that
lights the sign and is visible to persons viewing the sign from a street,
sidewalk, parking area or neighboring property.
   B.   Indirect Illumination: A source of light located away from the sign
that lights the sign, but which is itself not visible to persons viewing the
sign from any street, sidewalk, parking area, or neighboring property.
   C.   Internal Illumination: A source of light that is concealed or contained
within the sign and becomes visible in darkness through a translucent surface.
   D.   Neon Tube Illumination: A source of light for externally lit signs
supplied by a neon tube that is bent to form letters, symbols, or other shapes.
INFORMATION SIGN: A sign displayed strictly for the direction, safety, or
convenience of the public and which sets forth no advertisement. Information
signs include signs which identify parking areas and drives, restrooms,
addresses, telephones, exits and entrances, no trespassing areas, danger areas,
and similar information.
MARQUEE: A permanent roofed structure attached to and supported by the building
and projecting over public property.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: A sign, sign structure, or use of a sign lawfully existing
prior to the adoption of this article, but that does not now conform to the
dimensional and/or locational standards for the district in which it is
located.
OFF PREMISES OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN: Any outdoor sign, display, light,
device, figure, painting, drawing, message, plaque, poster, billboard or other
thing which is designed, intended or used to advertise or inform and which is
situated in order to be visible from any highway, or other traveled way and
which is located on property which is separate from and not adjoining the
premises or property on which the advertised activity is carried out.
POLE COVER: Decorative treatment that encloses the support structure of a
freestanding sign.
PORTABLE SIGN: Any A-frame, T-frame, and similar freestanding, movable signs
that are placed on the sidewalk for the promotion of a business and/or product
and is taken off the sidewalk at the closure of each business day.
PROJECTING SIGN: A sign other than a wall sign that projects from and is
supported entirely by a wall of a building or other structure. The projection
of a sign is measured by the distance by which a sign extends beyond the
building line.
ROOF SIGN: Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and over the roof of a
building, supported by the roof structure or extending vertically above the
eaves of the roof, with the exception that a mansard roof sign is treated as a
wall sign.
SCROLLING: Text or graphics, usually as part of an electronic reader board,
which moves up or down or across a display screen in a consistent and
predictable manner.
SIGN: Any device, fixture, placard, or structure that uses any color, form,
graphic, illumination, symbol, or writing.
SIGN STRUCTURE: Any structure that is specifically designed to support a sign,
including decorative cover.
SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A freestanding sign that identifies a platted
subdivision.
TEMPORARY SIGN: Any display constructed of cloth, canvass, light fabric,
cardboard, wallboard, or other light materials, with or without frames,
intended to be displayed for a limited period of time only.
UNDER AWNING SIGN: See definition of Hanging Sign.
UNDER CANOPY SIGN: See definition of Hanging Sign.
VEHICLE SIGN: A sign on a vehicle of any kind that is directly affixed to the
body of the original vehicle, including, but not limited to, magnetic decals,
vinyl stickers, vinyl wraps, and/or paint.
WALL AREA: The wall surface of a single-tenant structure or the storefront of a
multi-tenant structure.
WALL SIGN: Any sign that is attached, erected, or painted on the exterior wall
of a structure with the exposed face of the sign parallel to the wall. (Ord.
559, 10-22-2012; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7D-4: PROCESS:
   A.   Application Required: For projects requiring a sign permit approval,
the applicant shall submit a sign permit application. Except as otherwise
provided in this article, it shall be unlawful for any person to erect,
construct, enlarge, move or convert any sign in the city, or cause the same to
be done, without a sign permit.
      1.   An application and fees, in accordance with chapter 2,
"Administration And Enforcement", of this title, shall be submitted to the
zoning administrator on forms provided by the zoning administrator.
      2.   The zoning administrator shall apply the standards listed in this
article to review the sign permit request.
      3.   The city's design guidelines shall apply in the evaluation of sign
permit applications to ensure that signs meet or exceed the intent of the
design guidelines.
      4.   No sign permit shall be issued for any property and/or business that
has an outstanding notice of violation.
   B.   Effect Of Issuance: No permit for a sign issued hereunder shall be
deemed to constitute permission or authorization to maintain an unlawful sign,
nor shall any permit issued hereunder constitute a defense in an action to
abate an unlawful sign.
   C.   Maintenance: It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to
continually maintain any and all signs on his/her property. The sign, copy, and
materials shall be maintained and kept in good condition and repair to guard
against decay, unsafe, and poorly maintained signs.
   D.   Inspection: The zoning administrator and/or building official are
hereby empowered to enter or inspect, upon notification of the property owner
or manager, any building, structure or premises in the city on which or in
connection with which a sign is located, for the purpose of inspection of the
sign, its structural and electrical connections, and to ensure compliance with
the provisions of this code. Such inspections shall be carried out during
business hours, unless an emergency exists.
   E.   Signs Declared Hazardous: The zoning administrator and/or building
official shall have the authority to order the repair or structural alteration
for safety of signs that present a hazard to the public. Upon finding that any
sign endangers public safety, the zoning administrator and/or building official
may declare the sign hazardous. The zoning administrator and/or building
official shall send the owner written notice that the sign has been declared
hazardous, specifying the reasons why the sign endangers public safety, and
order that the sign be repaired or removed by the owner within thirty (30)
days. If a sign determined to be hazardous presents an immediate and serious
danger to the public, it may be immediately removed by the city without prior
notice and the removal costs charged to the owner.
   F.   Time Limitations On Sign Permit Approval:
      1.   Where the sign permit also requires a building permit, the zoning
administrator approval shall be governed by the building permit. That is to
say, that as long as the building permit is valid, the zoning administrator
approval is valid as well. If the building permit is deemed expired, the zoning
administrator approval of the sign permit expires as well.
      2.   Where the sign permit does not require a building permit, the zoning
administrator approval shall become null and void if erection or construction
of the sign on site is not commenced within six (6) months from the date the
permit was issued. If work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned
for six (6) months at any time after the work is commenced, the permit shall be
null and void.
      3.   For any expired sign permit, the applicant shall obtain a new sign
permit. (Ord. 559, 10-22-2012; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7D-5: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
The following types of signs are prohibited:
   A.   Any sign not specifically allowed by this article as determined by the
zoning administrator.
   B.   Any private signs within public rights of way or upon city owned
property. This shall not prohibit the transportation authority or city from
placing signs on such property.
   C.   Any signs which, because of color, wording, design, size, movement,
location or illumination, resemble or conflict with any traffic control device
or with the safe and efficient flow of traffic.
   D.   Any sign displaying red, amber, blue or blinking intermittent light
likely to be mistaken for a warning or danger signal.
   E.   Any signs that emit any sound, odor or visible matter.
   F.   Any abandoned nonconforming signs.
   G.   Any sign not maintained in a safe condition.
   H.   Any sign that includes strobing, revolving or flashing lights.
   I.   Any sign using a prohibited light source as set forth in this article.
   J.   Any signs within the clear vision triangle as set forth in section
10-9-8 of this title.
   K.   Any signs for illegal uses.
   L.   Any sign within any stream or drainage canal or within a floodway.
   M.    Any signs illegally tacked, nailed, posted, pasted, glued, or
otherwise attached to trees, poles, stakes, fences, utility poles, street sign
posts, or other objects. (Ord. 559, 10-22-2012; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7D-6: CONSTRUCTION SIGNS:
The following standards shall apply to properties under construction:
   A.   General Standards For Construction Signs By Owner And/Or Developer:
      1.   Any construction sign shall not be erected prior to issuance of a
valid building permit. If such building permit lapses or ceases to be valid,
any construction sign shall be removed immediately.
      2.   Any construction sign shall not be erected more than thirty (30)
days prior to commencement of construction.
      3.   Any construction sign shall be confined to the site of construction.
      4.   Any construction sign shall be removed five (5) days after
completion of construction and prior to occupancy.
      5.   A maximum of three (3) construction signs are allowed per property.
      6.   All construction signs shall meet the setback standards of this
article.
      7.   A permit is not required for any construction sign.
      8.   The maximum background area for construction signs shall not exceed
thirty two (32) square feet.
      9.   The maximum height of any construction sign shall not exceed twelve
feet (12'). (Ord. 559, 10-22-2012; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7D-7: BUSINESS IDENTIFICATION SIGNS:
The following standards shall apply to business identification signs:
   A.   Abandoned Signs: Except as otherwise provided in this code, any sign
and/or sign structure located on property that has been continuously vacant for
a period exceeding six (6) months or longer shall be deemed as abandoned.
      1.   An abandoned nonconforming sign and/or sign structure is subject to
the standards set forth in this article.
      2.   An abandoned conforming sign and/or sign structure may remain.
   B.   Sign Maintenance And Repair: The owner of any sign and/or the owner of
real property on which any sign is located shall maintain such signs and/or
sign structures in a state of good appearance, security, safety and repair,
including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Any metal pole covers and sign cabinets shall be kept free of rust
and rust stains.
      2.   Any internally illuminated sign cabinets or sign panels that have
been damaged shall remain nonilluminated until repaired.
      3.   Any sign that has been damaged to such extent that it may pose a
safety hazard shall be repaired or removed immediately.
      4.   Any exposed lamps or ballasts shall be prohibited.
   C.   Setbacks And Location Of Freestanding And Temporary Signs: No part of a
freestanding and/or temporary sign, including the footing, shall be located
closer than five feet (5') from any street property line and twelve and one-
half feet (121/2') from any rear or interior side property line, unless greater
separation is required.
   D.   Signs On Property Abutting Residential District: The following
standards shall apply to all signs on a property abutting a residential
district:
      1.   Illuminated freestanding signs shall be allowed in the required
street landscape buffer.
      2.   Illuminated freestanding signs not in the required street landscape
buffer shall be less than eight feet (8') in height or shall be located greater
than one hundred feet (100') from any residential district.
      3.   Illuminated building signs shall not face a residential district
unless located greater than one hundred feet (100') from such residential
district, unless otherwise approved by city through the design review process.
   E.   Building Sign Design: All awning signs, canopy signs, hanging signs,
projecting signs, and/or wall signs for business identification shall meet the
following design standards:
      1.   The elements comprising the sign, including, but not limited to,
areas devoted to copy, background area, supports, lighting fixtures, and any
other architectural appurtenances or detailing, shall be harmonious in scale
and proportion and the design of the sign, including color scheme, shall be
compatible with the wall face.
      2.   Signs shall be designed and constructed with a material or
combination of materials that are durable and contribute to an aesthetic
appearance.
      3.   No sign and/or sign structures shall diminish the aesthetics or
architectural integrity of the structure to which it is attached. For example,
cabinets shall not cut across columns or other architectural features.
   F.   Freestanding Sign Design: All freestanding signs for business
identification shall meet the following design standard:
      1.   The elements comprising a freestanding sign, including, but not
limited to, areas devoted to copy, bases, podiums, supports, structures, caps,
lighting fixtures, and any other architectural appurtenances or detailing,
shall be harmonious in scale and proportion to all other elements of the sign
and the entire sign as a whole to create a unified and aesthetic appearance.
      2.   Freestanding signs shall be designed and constructed with a material
or combination of materials that are durable and contribute to an aesthetic
appearance.
      3.   Architectural appurtenances or other decorative elements that do not
contain copy are allowed up to a maximum of fifteen percent (15%) of the
district’s allowable sign height.
      4.   Special decorative elements, such as sculptured metal, wrought iron
or other aesthetically pleasing materials that are incorporated into the
support structure design and do not fully enclose the structure may be allowed,
when such decorative elements meet or exceed the intent of this subsection.
   G.   Street Address: All freestanding signs, except as otherwise approved
for residential subdivision identification, shall include the street address of
the subject property and shall meet the following standards:
      1.   The placement of the street address on the sign shall be in addition
to any address required to be placed on the structure, unless otherwise
authorized by the fire department.
      2.   Numbering shall be a minimum of four inches (4") tall and be of a
contrasting color. Along arterial streets, numbering shall be a minimum of six
inches (6") tall and be of a contrasting color. Additionally, any freestanding
sign located on a corner property shall include the address.
      3.   Street addresses shall not be included in the calculation for sign
background area, except for those portions that are used to identify the
business name, e.g., the 123 Main Street Daycare Facility.
      4.   Signs that identify multiple structures and/or addresses may provide
a range of addresses.
      5.   No permit is required.
   H.   Awning Signs: Awning signs, when allowed by this article, shall meet
the following standards:
      1.   Awning signs shall be nonilluminated or may have indirect or
internal illumination. Direct and/or neon tube illumination are prohibited.
      2.   Any awning sign shall not extend above the top of the awning
structure.
      3.   A permit is required for any awning sign.
   I.   Canopy Signs: Canopy signs, when allowed by this article, shall meet
the following standards:
      1.   Any canopy sign shall not extend above the top of the canopy
structure.
      2.   Canopy signs may be nonilluminated or may have indirect or internal
illumination. Direct and neon tube illumination are prohibited. Neon tube
illumination along the perimeter is allowed.
      3.   A permit is required for any canopy sign.
   J.   Changeable Copy Sign Proposed As Building Sign: Changeable copy signs
proposed as building signs, when allowed by this article, shall meet the
following standards:
      1.   All changeable copy building signs shall count as part of the
building sign allowance as set forth.
      2.   Changeable copy building signs are allowed for a maximum of fifty
percent (50%) of the proposed sign background area.
      3.   A permit is required for any changeable copy building sign.
   K.   Changeable Copy Sign Proposed As Freestanding Sign: Changeable copy
signs proposed as freestanding signs, when allowed by this article, shall meet
the following standards:
      1.   Changeable copy freestanding signs are allowed for a maximum of
fifty percent (50%) of the proposed sign background area.
      2.   All changeable copy freestanding signs shall meet the setback
standards in subsection M3 of this section.
      3.   A permit is required for any changeable copy freestanding sign.
   L.   Directional Signs: Directional signs, when allowed by this article,
shall meet the following standards:
      1.   Directional signs shall only be allowed where there is automobile
movement through a site that has a drive-through establishment.
      2.   Directional signs may be nonilluminated or have internal
illumination. Direct, indirect, and neon tube illumination are prohibited.
      3.   All directional signs shall meet the setback standards.
      4.   The maximum background area of any directional sign shall not exceed
four (4) square feet. Any directional sign may be single or double sided.
      5.   The maximum height of any directional sign shall not exceed four
feet (4').
      6.   A permit is required for any directional sign.
   M.   Freestanding Signs: Freestanding signs, when allowed by this article,
shall meet the following standards:
      1.   Freestanding signs may be nonilluminated or may have indirect or
internal illumination. Neon tube and direct illumination are prohibited.
      2.   All freestanding signs shall meet the setback standards.
      3.   All freestanding signs shall be set entirely within a landscaped
area having at least the same square footage as the background area of the
sign. The landscaped area shall include plants, ground cover, and materials
that contribute to an aesthetic appearance and maintain clear vision for
pedestrians and vehicles. The required landscaping area may be integrated with
adjacent landscaping buffers, parking areas, or the vegetation surrounding an
adjacent structure. One sign per street frontage is allowed.
      4.   A permit is required for any freestanding sign.
   N.   Hanging Signs: Hanging signs, when allowed by this article, shall meet
the following standards:
      1.   Hanging signs may be nonilluminated or may have indirect, internal,
or neon tube illumination. Direct illumination is prohibited.
      2.   The length of hanging signs shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of
the canopy width.
      3.   Any hanging sign under a canopy shall have a minimum vertical
clearance of thirteen and one-half feet (131/2') from any driving surface.
      4.   Any hanging sign under an awning shall have a minimum vertical
clearance of eight feet (8') from any sidewalk, walkway, and/or pathway.
      5.   Only one hanging sign shall be allowed per business entrance.
      6.   A permit is required for any hanging sign.
   O.   Portable Signs: Portable signs, when allowed by this article, shall
meet the following standards:
      1.   The placement of any portable sign shall be limited to the portion
of the sidewalk that is located directly in front of the business applying for
the sign permit and shall not be placed in front of another business.
      2.   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to comply with
the Americans with disabilities act (ADA) standards for pedestrian walkways and
clearance for handicap accessible parking stalls.
      3.   A maximum of one portable sign is allowed per entrance with no more
than one portable sign per street frontage.
      4.   The maximum background area of any portable sign side shall not
exceed eight (8) square feet. Any portable sign may be single or double sided.
      5.   Portable signs shall be constructed of stable and durable materials
that will hold up under adverse weather conditions.
      6.   A permit is required.
   P.   Projecting Signs: Projecting signs, when allowed by this article, shall
meet the following standards:
      1.   Projecting signs may be nonilluminated or may have indirect,
internal, or neon tube illumination, except illumination shall be prohibited
where projecting signs are attached and/or affixed to a second story where
residential uses are located within fifty feet (50') of such sign. Direct
illumination is prohibited.
      2.   The projecting sign shall project no more than four feet (4') from
the building.
      3.   The projecting sign shall be pinned away from the building at least
six inches (6").
      4.   The projecting sign shall have a minimum clearance of eight feet
(8') from grade.
      5.   The projecting sign shall not extend vertically above the lowest of
the following: the roofline or eighteen feet (18').
      6.   Only one projecting sign shall be allowed per business per street
frontage.
      7.   A permit is required for any projecting sign.
   Q.   Wall Signs: Wall signs, when allowed by this article, shall meet the
following standards:
      1.   Wall signs for a tenant shall be located over the main public
entrance.
      2.   No wall sign shall exceed the height of the wall face.
      3.   Wall signs may be nonilluminated or may have indirect, internal, or
neon tube illumination. Direct illumination is prohibited.
      4.   A permit is required for any wall sign.
   R.   Temporary Signs: Temporary signs, when allowed by this article, shall
meet the following standards:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to allow additional business
identification signs for a temporary duration.
         a.   Applicability: This section shall apply to all allowed
nonresidential uses in all districts. Temporary sign types include: air-
activated graphic, balloon, banner, blade, feather, flag, inflatable device,
light pole banner, pennant, portable message center, teardrop, and yard sign.
         b.   Exemptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to
handheld signs. Handheld signs are allowed and do not require a permit.
         c.   General Standards for Temporary Signs: The following standards
shall apply to all temporary signs in all districts:
            (1)   All temporary signs shall be securely fastened to the ground
or to a permanent structure. Signs shall be erected in a manner that does not
create a potential hazard of any kind. The attachment line for inflatable signs
shall not be within ten feet (10') of the nearest overhead power line.
            (2)   No temporary sign shall be illuminated. Illumination is
prohibited.
            (3)   No temporary sign shall be located within a public right-of-
way.
            (4)   All temporary signs shall be weatherproofed and kept in a
state of good appearance, safety, and repair. Any damaged or potentially
hazardous sign shall be repaired or removed immediately.
            (5)   Temporary signs shall maintain a minimum twenty-five feet
(25') of spacing from any and all other approved freestanding and limited
duration signs.
            (6)   The background area for freestanding temporary signs shall
not exceed twenty (20) square feet.
            (7)   Balloons and other inflated devices that are temporary signs
shall be no greater than one and one-half (11/2) times the maximum building
height within the district.
            (8)   Electrical components shall be prohibited as part of a
temporary sign, except electrical pumps may be allowed for balloons and other
inflated devices.
            (9)   No permit is required. (Ord. 559, 10-22-2012; amd. Ord. 580,
6-9-2014; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7D-8: NONACCESSORY OR OFF PREMISES SIGNS:
   A.   Definition: “Nonaccessory or off premises signs” are signs which are
not related to the property upon which they are located, or to the activities
being conducted thereon. Nonaccessory or off premises signs include large
general advertising signs known as billboards and signs advertising a nearby
but off site business. Nonaccessory or off premises signs do not include
benches which are expressly designed for human seating while waiting for public
conveyances and which have advertising painted thereon, nor do they include
corresponding shelters which may be installed for protective purposes around
the benches.
   B.   New Billboards Prohibited: No new nonaccessory, off premises, general
advertising signs of the billboard category are allowed. Existing billboards
may be allowed to relocate if the new site is approved based upon the findings
and criteria set forth in this section. Existing nonaccessory or off premises
signs of the billboard category may be replaced structure for structure.
   C.   Equivalents For Relocation: An existing, single faced sign may be
proposed at a new location as a double faced sign on a single sign structure.
An existing double faced billboard sign cannot be relocated as two (2) single
faced signs. Applications for billboard sign relocation must reflect the size
of the sign that is being replaced or relocated. V-shaped, double faced,
billboard signs shall be considered a single sign structure as long as the
angle between the sign faces does not exceed thirty five degrees (35o).
   D.   New Signs Prohibited: There shall be no permits issued for any new off
premises signs or billboards for any property within the City limits. Existing
off premises signs or billboards shall be allowed to continue subject to the
following set out limitations. Those signs or billboards may be moved within
the City limits.
   E.   Distance And Spacing Requirements:
      1.   No off premises sign may be moved to within one thousand feet
(1,000') in any direction of another off premises sign.
      2.   In addition to finding that a proposed off premises sign complies
with all general requirements and spacing regulations as described in this
article, the Planning and Zoning Commission must make all of the following
findings in permitting such a sign:
         a.   The location and placement of the sign will not endanger
motorists or pedestrians and does not cause undue distraction to traffic on the
adjacent street or impede views at street or railroad intersections.
         b.   The sign will not cover or blanket any prominent view of a
structure or facade of historical or architectural significance.
         c.   The sign will not obstruct view or uses of adjacent building to
side yards, front yards or to open space.
         d.   The sign will not distract, intrude upon or negatively impact the
visual quality of a public open space, such as a public recreation facility,
square, plaza, courtyard and the like.
         e.   The sign is compatible with building heights of the existing
neighborhood and does not impose a foreign or inharmonious element to an
existing skyline.
         f.   The sign’s lighting will not cause hazardous or unsafe driving
conditions for motorists and will not glare, reflect or spill onto adjacent
business or residential areas.
   F.   Directional Off Premises Signs:
      1.   A “directional off premises sign” is one that identifies a premises
not located on the same property as the sign and gives directional information
to the reader to the off site location.
         a.   Such a sign may be freestanding or flush wall mounted. It may or
may not be illuminated.
         b.   A directional off premises sign shall not be constructed until
the builder has first obtained a conditional use permit for the sign.
   G.   Conditional Use Permit Required: No nonaccessory, off premises, general
advertising signs of the billboard category may be moved without first
obtaining a conditional use permit from the Planning and Zoning Commission. No
sign which is permitted by this section shall be constructed without first
obtaining a building permit from the City building official.
   H.   Allowed Use: Benches which are expressly designed for human seating
while waiting for public conveyances and which have advertising painted or
affixed thereon, together with their corresponding shelters, may be placed in
all designated land use areas at places where public transportation vehicles
stop to admit passengers; provided, that the placement is in a safe and
convenient location and the placement is approved by the City Council.
   I.   Penalty: In addition to, or in lieu of, any criminal charges, the City
shall be allowed to bring an action for abatement. In any such action, the City
shall be allowed to recover all fees and costs. (Ord. 559, 10-22-2012; amd.
2014 Code; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7D-9: STANDARDS FOR VEHICLE SIGNS:
The following standards shall apply to vehicle signs used for business
identification and parked within public rights-of-way or within public
property:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to allow vehicle signs.
   B.   Applicability: This section shall apply to all vehicle signs for
vehicles that are parked within public rights-of-way or on public property.
   C.   Process: Vehicle signs that meet the standards set forth in this
article are allowed and do not require a permit. Any vehicle signs that do not
meet the standards set forth in this article may be considered for approval as
a business identification sign or temporary sign.
   D.   Standards For Vehicle Signs: The following standards shall apply to
vehicle signs:
      1.   Any vehicle sign shall not project or extend beyond two inches (2")
from the original manufactured body proper of the vehicle.
      2.   Any vehicle sign shall be magnetic decals, vinyl stickers, vinyl
wraps, and/or painted directly to the body of the original vehicle.
      3.   The vehicle to which the sign is attached shall be in proper working
order and shall bear a current license plate.
      4.   The vehicle to which the sign is affixed shall not be permanently
parked on a public street or street right-of-way.
      5.   The parking of any idle vehicle or trailer on any public right-of-
way or public property for more than seventy two (72) hours and which has
affixed to it a vehicle sign is prohibited. (Ord. 559, 10-22-2012; amd. Ord.
682, 5-10-2021)
10-7D-10: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   A.   Any nonconforming signs that lawfully existed prior to the effective
date hereof are allowed to continue until they are removed, but not to
encourage their continuation. It is further the intent of this section that
nonconforming signs shall not expand or extend the nonconforming aspect of the
sign unless approved subject to a conditional use permit.
   B.   These regulations shall apply to any lawfully existing sign in any
commercial or industrial district, except, in the event that a sign that was
deemed nonconforming under past regulations now complies with the standards of
this article, such sign shall be deemed conforming.
   C.   Except as set forth in this section, a nonconforming sign shall lose
its nonconforming status and may become an illegal sign if any of the following
occur:
      1.   The sign and/or sign structure is removed.
      2.   The sign and/or sign structure is replaced and/or moved for any
period of time.
      3.   There is a change in, cessation of, and/or abandonment of the use of
the property, or any portion thereof, on which the sign and/or sign structure
is located.
      4.   There are alterations or enlargements to the site or building on the
property in excess of twenty five percent (25%) or more of the existing site or
building. The amount of alterations and/or enlargements shall be cumulative
over time.
      5.   The sign and/or sign structure is damaged to the extent of more than
fifty percent (50%) of its replacement value.
   D.   Any nonconforming sign that is subject to Idaho Code section 40-1910A
related to the removal of off premises outdoor advertising along State highways
shall lose its nonconforming status and may become an illegal sign if any of
the following occur:
      1.   The sign and/or sign structure is moved.
      2.   The sign structure is replaced and/or removed for any period of
time.
   E.   Where a nonconforming sign becomes an illegal sign, the owner of the
property on which the illegal sign is located shall:
      1.   Remove the sign within sixty (60) days;
      2.   Bring the sign into full compliance with this article within sixty
(60) days; or
      3.   Submit a complete application for conditional use approval within
thirty (30) days and subsequently gain approval reinstating the nonconforming
status of the sign. If the conditional use is not approved, the owner of the
property on which the sign is located shall remove the sign within thirty (30)
days. (Ord. 559, 10-22-2012; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
ARTICLE E. LAND DIVISION PLAN
SECTION:
10-7E-1: Purpose
10-7E-2: Process
10-7E-3: Contents Of Land Division Site Plan Drawing
10-7E-4: Land Division Site Plan Approval
10-7E-5: Contents Of Land Division Record Of Survey
10-7E-6: Dedications
10-7E-7: Limitation Upon Development
10-7E-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of the land division is to allow the creation of up to four
(4) nonresidential parcels within commercial or industrial zones without being
subject to the procedural provisions of the preliminary and final plat
regulations of this title.
   B.   The land division plan shall ensure that the collective lots continue
to function as one site with respect to, but not limited to, lot access,
interior circulation, parking, open space and drainage facilities.
   C.   The approval of the land division plan shall be valid for a period of
five (5) years. Should the improvements not be completed as agreed upon within
that time frame, an application may be made for an extension or for a new or
amended plan. (1984 Code § 11-3E-1)
10-7E-2: PROCESS:
   A.   Submittal To Zoning Administrator: The land division plan is an
administrative process. An application and site plan shall first be submitted
to the zoning administrator for review and approval. The zoning administrator
may require the site plan be reviewed by the design review committee.
   B.   Process Specified: The land division plan process shall include:
      1.   Applicant to submit a parcel description and a completed application
on the required forms as provided by the city.
      2.   Applicant to prepare and submit a land division site plan drawing.
      3.   Applicant to prepare and submit a draft land division record of
survey.
      4.   If public improvements are required, submit two (2) sets of complete
construction drawings and specifications prepared by a licensed professional
engineer. The plans shall be reviewed by the city’s qualified licensed
professional engineer (QLPE). Approval of said plans by the QLPE is required.
      5.   A preliminary cross access, parking and open space agreement to be
shared among the proposed parcels.
      6.   A preliminary land division agreement in a form as prescribed by the
zoning administrator. It shall refer to the land division site plan and shall
address the items shown in the plan, i.e., public and private streets, public
utilities, etc., indicate the proposed schedule of each phase, and be signed by
the landowner and developer. (1984 Code § 11-3E-2; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7E-3: CONTENTS OF LAND DIVISION SITE PLAN DRAWING:
Land division site plan drawings shall be prepared in accordance with this
article and presented to scale, on sheets with a maximum size of twenty four
inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36"). The following information shall be
legible and shall appear on the proposed land division site plan drawing:
   A.   The proposed name of the land division site plan.
   B.   The scale of the drawing.
   C.   The date of the drawing.
   D.   The name and address of the engineer, surveyor or individual
responsible for creating the land division plan. Drawings prepared by an
engineer, surveyor or architect shall bear the appropriate professional stamp
and signature.
   E.   North arrow.
   F.   The location and typical section of all existing and proposed streets
(public and private), rights of way and easements within and adjacent to the
proposal and labeling each of the foregoing width and name.
   G.   Layout of the exterior parcel boundary with distances and bearings,
together with all existing and proposed subparcels, including dimensions and
square footage.
   H.   Subparcels labeled numerically, i.e., parcel 1, parcel 2, etc.
   I.   The name and locations of adjacent subdivisions and land division site
plans.
   J.   The location and use of all existing and proposed structures. Pad sites
can be identified as such, in lieu of depicting proposed structures.
   K.   The location and purpose of all property to be dedicated to the public.
   L.   The horizontal layout of existing and proposed water systems, sewer
systems and irrigation systems.
   M.   Existing land features, such as ditches, contour lines, pipelines,
trees, waterways, irrigation facilities, etc., extending one hundred feet
(100') beyond the parcel.
   N.   A declaration that all development of the property shall conform to
that shown on the land division plan. (1984 Code § 11-3E-3; amd. Ord. 682, 5-
10-2021)
10-7E-4: LAND DIVISION SITE PLAN APPROVAL:
   A.   Compliance With Procedures: Land division site plan applications shall
be processed in accordance with these procedures.
   B.   Considerations: Applications for a land division plan shall be
approved, approved with conditions or denied based upon a determination by the
zoning administrator that:
      1.   Appropriate provisions are made for the public health, safety and
welfare, including adequate access and utilities; and
      2.   The land division plan complies with all applicable requirements;
and
      3.   Open space, parking, access and other improvements shared among
contiguous properties and subject to conditions of use, maintenance and
restrictions on redevelopment are identified on the land division plan and
enforced by covenants, easements or other similar mechanisms.
   C.   Development Agreement: The zoning administrator may require a
development agreement to accompany the land division site plan. The process
shall be in accordance with chapter 8 of this title. (1984 Code § 11-3E-4)
10-7E-5: CONTENTS OF LAND DIVISION RECORD OF SURVEY:
   A.   Land Division Plan Record Of Survey: After the land division plan
application is approved by the zoning administrator, a land division plan
record of survey (LDP-ROS) shall be prepared and recorded with the Payette
County recorder. The LDP-ROS shall conform to the requirements of Idaho Code
title 55, chapter 19 and the monuments shall conform to Idaho Code title 50,
chapter 13, and section 50-1303. It shall be entitled, "Land Division Plan No.
         Record Of Survey, City Of Fruitland, Idaho".
   B.   Content: The LDP-ROS shall depict the exterior boundary and the
monuments found or set. It shall be tied to a minimum of two (2) land corners.
All proposed public or private streets and all public utility easements shall
be shown and dimensioned. The proposed interior parcel lines shall be depicted
but are subject to revision by either amended or subsequent land division
plans. The LDP-ROS shall include a statement, signed and notarized by the
owner, authorizing the preparation of the LDP-ROS and the dedication of the
public right of way and utility easements. The LDP-ROS shall also have a
statement of approval to conformance to the LDP-ROS, signed by the zoning
administrator, which shall be executed prior to recording of the LDP-ROS. A
certificate of the Payette County recorder shall also be included. (1984 Code §
11-3E-5)
   C.   Land Division Agreement: A land division agreement shall be prepared
and executed by the owner and the zoning administrator and recorded with the
Payette County recorder.
   D.   Record Of Survey: Final parcels may be created, prior to sale of the
parcel, by a recorded metes and bounds description and an accompanying record
of survey. The record of survey shall indicate the recorded description of the
parcel, show the monuments set, and be labeled as a “Record Of Survey For
Parcel Number          Of Land Division Plan No.         , City Of Fruitland”.
The plat shall include a signed statement, by the zoning administrator, that
the LDP-ROS is in conformance with the approved land division plan.
   E.   Creation Of Additional Right Of Way Or Easement: The creation of any
additional public right of way and/or utility easements shall be by recorded
documents signed and executed by the landowner and the city. The easement shall
be executed after the construction of the proposed public streets defined on
the approved land division plan, as approved in writing by the city engineer.
   F.   Copies Of Recorded Documents: Paper copies of the recorded LDP-ROS
shall be provided to the zoning administrator at the applicant’s expense. (1984
Code § 11-3E-5; amd. Ord. 613, 7-11-2016; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7E-6: DEDICATIONS:
In order to meet the public interest, approval of a land division plan may be
conditioned upon dedications for open spaces, drainageways, streets, alleys,
other public ways, water supplies, sanitary wastes, parks, playgrounds, sites
for schools, and other needs of the public in accordance with local, state and
federal law. Any dedications required as a condition shall be noted on the land
division site plan drawing. The owner shall be responsible for the design and
construction of any and all required improvements. See subsection 10-7E-5E of
this article. (1984 Code § 11-3E-6)
10-7E-7: LIMITATION UPON DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   All parcel dimensions and setbacks shall meet the requirements
established by this title and/or building codes.
   B.   All conditions and requirements provided in this title shall be met.
   C.   No property within an approved land division plan shall be used,
improved or developed in a fashion contrary to that indicated by the land
division plan or the zoning laws. (1984 Code § 11-3E-7)
ARTICLE F. PRIVATE STREET REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-7F-1: Purpose
10-7F-2: Applicability
10-7F-3: Process
10-7F-4: Standards
10-7F-5: Required Findings
10-7F-1: PURPOSE:
The regulations of this article are intended to provide better circulation and
safety within commercial and industrial developments by establishing a clear
emergency vehicle travel lane and private street name addressing for properties
that do not have internal public roads. It is not the intent to approve private
streets for developments other than those that create a common access through
the site design. The applicability may be extended where the zoning
administrator or fire chief determines that private streets will enhance the
safety of the development. The fire chief may require designation of a private
street within existing developments where it is in the best interest of the
public safety and health to be able to better locate a given property in the
event of an emergency. (1984 Code § 11-3F-1)
10-7F-2: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this article shall apply to any developments proposing
private streets. (1984 Code § 11-3F-2)
10-7F-3: PROCESS:
   A.   Application, Fees: An application and fees, in accordance with chapter
2, "Administration And Enforcement", of this title, shall be submitted to the
zoning administrator on forms provided by the zoning administrator. (1984 Code
§ 11-3F-3; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Requirements: Upon tentative approval of the application by the zoning
administrator, subject to any applicable conditions of approval and the
regulations of chapter 2, "Administration And Enforcement", of this title, the
applicant or owner shall have one year to complete the following tasks:
      1.   Obtain approval from the zoning administrator for a private street
name. All names shall include the suffix "Lane";
      2.   Install an approved street name sign that complies with the "Manual
Of Uniform Traffic Control Devices" standards;
      3.   Create a perpetual ingress/egress easement or a single platted lot
for the private street to all applicable properties; and
      4.   The applicant or owner shall provide documentation of a binding,
recorded contract that establishes the party or parties responsible for the
repair and maintenance of the private street, including regulations for the
funding thereof.
   C.   Letter Of Approval: Upon completion of the items noted above, the
zoning administrator shall issue a letter stating that the private street has
been approved. No building permit shall be issued for any structure using a
private street for access to a public street until the private street has been
approved. (1984 Code § 11-3F-3)
10-7F-4: STANDARDS:
All private streets shall be designed and constructed to the following
standards:
   A.   Design Standards:
      1.   Easement: The private street shall be constructed on a perpetual
ingress/egress easement or a single platted lot that provides access to all
applicable properties, including any adjacent parcels as deemed necessary by
the zoning administrator.
      2.   Connection Point: Where the point of connection of the private
street is to a public street, the private street connection shall be approved
by the city.
      3.   Emergency Vehicle: The private street shall provide sufficient
maneuvering area and/or turnarounds for emergency vehicles as determined and
approved by the fire chief.
      4.   Gates: Knox® locks shall be provided for all gates.
   B.   Construction Standards:
      1.   Conversion: For conversion of an existing private facility to a
private street at the direction of the fire chief:
         a.   If a roadside curb does not exist, all drive aisles shall be
posted as fire lanes with no parking allowed.
         b.   If a curb exists next to the drive aisle, it shall be painted
red.
      2.   Other Private Streets: For all other private streets:
         a.   Roadway And Storm Drainage: The private street shall be designed
and constructed to retain the 100-year event on site. Plans shall be prepared
by a licensed engineer and submitted to the city for review.
         b.   Street Width: The private street shall have a total roadway
travel width of twenty four feet (24') or as determined by the fire chief
relative to the height and size of the proposed structures that adjoin the
private street.
         c.   Sidewalks: A five foot (5') wide (minimum) sidewalk shall be
provided on both sides of the street in residential developments and commercial
districts. This requirement may be waived if the applicant can demonstrate that
an alternative pedestrian path exists.
         d.   Fire Lanes: If a curb does not exist, all drive aisles shall be
posted as fire lanes with no parking allowed. If a curb exists next to the
drive aisle, it shall be painted red.
   C.   Alternative Compliance: Upon recommendation of the city engineer and
fire chief, the zoning administrator may approve, or recommend approval, of
alternative design or construction standards when the applicant can demonstrate
that the proposed overall design meets or exceeds the intent of the required
standards of this article and shall not be detrimental to the public health,
safety and welfare. (1984 Code § 11-3F-4; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-7F-5: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
In order to approve the application, the zoning administrator shall find the
following:
   A.   The design of the private street meets the requirements of this
article;
   B.   Granting approval of the private street would not cause damage, hazard
or nuisance, or other detriment, to persons, property or uses in the vicinity;
and
   C.   The use and location of the private street shall not conflict with the
comprehensive plan and/or the city master transportation plan. (1984 Code § 11-
3F-5)
ARTICLE G. DEVELOPMENT ALONG STATE HIGHWAYS
SECTION:
10-7G-1: Purpose
10-7G-2: Applicability
10-7G-3: Process
10-7G-4: Standards
10-7G-1: PURPOSE:
The regulations of this article are intended to maintain traffic flow and
provide better circulation and safety within the community and for the
traveling public. (1984 Code § 11-3G-1)
10-7G-2: APPLICABILITY:
The following standards shall apply to all development along state highways.
(1984 Code § 11-3G-2)
10-7G-3: PROCESS:
The zoning administrator shall review all development applications for
compliance with these standards. The planning and zoning commission or the city
council may consider and apply modifications to the standards of this article
upon specific recommendations of the Idaho transportation department (ITD).
(1984 Code § 11-3G-3; amd. 2014 Code)
10-7G-4: STANDARDS:
Access to and/or from a state highway shall conform to the city master
transportation plan and ITD's access management policy as adopted by city
council and per the following:
   A.   Existing Approaches: Use of existing approaches shall be allowed to
continue; provided, that the existing approaches are lawful and properly
permitted by ITD. Upgrades to current standards, including width and other
design items, may be required.
   B.   Change Of Use: If an applicant proposes a change or increase in
intensity of use, the owner shall obtain any necessary approvals and/or permits
from both the city and ITD.
   C.   New Public Street Connections: New public street connections to the
state highway shall only be allowed at:
      1.   The section line road; and
      2.   Per the city master transportation plan.
   D.   Future Connectivity And Access: For undeveloped properties where no
frontage or backage street network exists, the applicant shall construct a
street, generally paralleling the state highway, to provide future connectivity
and access to all properties fronting the state highway that lie between the
applicant’s property and the nearest section line road and/or half mile
collector road. The intent is to provide for future connectivity and access to
all properties fronting the state highway that lie between the applicant’s
property and the nearest section line road and/or half mile collector road. The
street shall be designed to collect and distribute traffic.
      1.   The applicant shall be responsible to construct the segment of the
street within the applicant’s property. This standard is not intended to
require off site improvements.
      2.   The street shall meet the road standards of the city.
      3.   The street shall connect to the section line road at a distance that
is no closer than one hundred feet (100') (as measured from centerline to
centerline) from the intersection with the state highway.
      4.   The street shall provide buildable land between the highway and the
collector road. For the purposes of this article, such streets shall be termed
“backage roads”.
      5.   Frontage streets or private streets may be considered by the city.
Frontage streets or private streets may be required in cases where insufficient
access to surrounding properties exists. Reciprocating access easements may be
required.
   E.   Design And Construction Standards:
      1.   The applicant shall have an approved permit from the Idaho
transportation department for construction of any access to the state highway
and/or any construction in the highway right of way.
      2.   The width of right of way reservations for U.S. 95 or U.S. 30 shall
be as set forth by the ITD.
      3.   Refer to subsection 10-7A-18A of this chapter for sidewalks on the
U.S. 95 entry corridor. (1984 Code § 11-3G-4; amd. Ord. 613, 7-11-2016; Ord.
682, 5-10-2021)
ARTICLE H. TEMPORARY USES
SECTION:
10-7H-1: Purpose
10-7H-2: Applicability
10-7H-3: Process
10-7H-1: PURPOSE:
The regulations of this article are intended to allow for temporary uses as
accessory uses to a conditional or principal permitted use on the property.
(1984 Code § 11-3H-1)
10-7H-2: APPLICABILITY:
The regulations of this article shall apply to all temporary uses in all
commercial and industrial districts with the exception that trailers and other
construction related equipment associated with an active construction site,
community events occurring at public parks and at education facilities, and
temporary uses that are conducted as part of the curricular or extracurricular
programming of an education institution, shall be deemed accessory uses.
Community events are meant to include, but are not limited to, events organized
by an association of persons for a social, literary, political, educational or
recreational purpose. They are not intended to include retail or other services
that are customarily carried on as a business. (1984 Code § 11-3H-2)
10-7H-3: PROCESS:
Temporary uses shall be accessory to a conditional or principal permitted use
on the property and shall follow regulations as set out in Title 3, Chapter 6
of Fruitland City Code. (1984 Code § 11-3H-3; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
CHAPTER 8
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS FOR REZONE APPLICATIONS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purpose
10-8-2: Submittal
10-8-3: Time Limits
10-8-4: Form Of Development Agreement Application
10-8-5: Process
10-8-6: Approval
10-8-7: Recording
10-8-8: Modification
10-8-9: Termination
10-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of a development agreement is to provide a vehicle for development
in areas and for uses where, in the opinion of the city council or the planning
and zoning commission, approval of a requested rezone by itself does not
satisfy the requirements set forth in this title for rezone approval; but, that
use of a development agreement will assure compliance with the required rezone
findings and conclusions. Development agreements can be used after a
determination has been made that the proposed rezone by itself is not
appropriate, unless the use of a development agreement could allow development
to proceed under stricter restrictions than those imposed generally in the
proposed zoning district. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as
relieving the property which is subject to development agreement restrictions
from further compliance with all other permit and code requirements applicable
because of the zoning designation of the property. Restrictions imposed upon
property as a result of a development agreement are in addition to all other
requirements of this title. (1984 Code § 5-9-1)
10-8-2: SUBMITTAL:
After an application for rezone has been received by the zoning administrator,
a request to enter into a development agreement for that parcel may be
submitted by the rezone applicant; or a development agreement may be required
by the city council at the city council's rezone hearing, or may be required by
the city council upon recommendation from the planning and zoning commission
following the planning and zoning commission's rezone hearing.
   A.   In the event of a recommendation by the planning and zoning commission
that a development agreement should be entered into, the rezone shall be
forwarded to the city council with a recommendation that the requested rezone
be denied or that it be remanded to the planning and zoning commission, with
the city council requiring an application for a development agreement to be
submitted by the applicant. If, however, the applicant agrees to submit an
application for a development agreement, then the planning and zoning
commission shall defer its recommendation to the city council on the rezone
application until a public hearing is held on the development agreement
application. After the public hearing on the development agreement application
is held, the planning and zoning commission shall forward its recommendation on
both the rezone and development agreement requests to the city council.
   B.   In the event of a determination by the city council that a development
agreement should be entered into, the city council shall remand the matter back
to the planning and zoning commission, with the city council requiring an
application for a development agreement to be submitted by the applicant,
unless the applicant has already done so and a public hearing was held under
subsection A of this section. The city council shall, upon remand, direct the
planning and zoning commission on the specific issues to be addressed by the
development agreement. The planning and zoning commission shall then proceed as
specified in this section.
   C.   In the event a developer seeks to enter into a development agreement,
the developer's application for a development agreement shall be taken to the
planning and zoning commission at the time of the scheduled rezone hearing. The
planning and zoning commission shall, following consideration of the rezone and
development agreement applications, forward its recommendation to the city
council regarding each of the applicant's requests. (1984 Code § 5-9-2)
10-8-3: TIME LIMITS:
Upon request for a development agreement, all time limits required by this
title may be stayed upon affirmative vote of the city council or planning and
zoning commission. (1984 Code § 5-9-3)
10-8-4: FORM OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT APPLICATION:
All applications for development agreements shall be in a form as required by
the city clerk or the zoning administrator. No application shall be accepted
which does not include the following:
   A.   An affidavit by the owner of the property agreeing to submission of the
use and property for a development agreement.
   B.   The specific use or uses of the property upon which the development
agreement is sought.
   C.   The concept plan, which shall include at a minimum:
      1.   Three (3) site plans and eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17")
reduction showing:
         a.   Existing structures which will remain, labeled as to existing and
proposed uses.
         b.   Building footprint, height, number of stories, proposed uses
(office, retail, restaurant, etc.), and square footage of proposed structures.
If residential, overall density and number of dwelling units per building. (If
single-family residential, information on proposed structures is not
necessary.)
         c.   North arrow.
         d.   Scale.
         e.   Property boundary.
         f.   Names of applicant, owner (if different than applicant), plan
preparer and project.
         g.   Size of project.
         h.   Existing vegetation, labeled as to remain or be removed.
         i.   Existing and generalized proposed grades for hillside
developments.
         j.   Parking areas with total number of parking spaces shown.
         k.   Locations and widths of rights of way, easements, canals, ditches
and property lines.
         l.   Drainage features.
         m.   Conceptual landscape plan.
   D.   The time period for which the agreement is requested to be valid,
including the time period with which the development or use must commence and
the time period within which the development and the terms of the agreement are
to be completed.
   E.   A statement that failure to comply with all commitments in the approved
development agreement shall be deemed a consent to rezone the property to the
preexisting zone, or in the case of an initial zone at annexation, a zone
deemed appropriate by the city council.
   F.   If the development agreement is being requested by the rezone
applicant, as opposed to having been required by the city council, a statement
must be included that all time limits required by this title are waived.
   G.   Phasing plan and proposed phasing schedule. (1984 Code § 5-9-4; amd.
Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-8-5: PROCESS:
Upon receipt of an application for development agreement, the zoning
administrator shall work with the applicant to prepare a development agreement.
The development agreement shall include the requirements of section
10-8-4 of this chapter and any other matter which, in the discretion of the
zoning administrator, would address the concerns for the development which has
been proposed by the applicant. Such concerns addressed may include, but shall
not be limited to, density, bulk, site design, mitigation of impacts on the
surrounding neighborhood, appearance, provision of utilities or public
facilities, and restrictions on use. The draft of the development agreement
shall be reviewed by the city attorney and design review committee prior to
being sent to the planning and zoning commission. (1984 Code § 5-9-5; amd. Ord.
682, 5-10-2021)
10-8-6: APPROVAL:
   A.   The planning and zoning commission shall hold a public hearing on the
draft development agreement and the rezone request, and make recommendation to
the city council. The planning and zoning commission may recommend approval or
denial and may recommend the addition of conditions, terms, duties or
obligations to the development agreement.
   B.   The city council shall hold a public hearing on the draft agreement and
the rezone request, and shall review the recommendation from the planning and
zoning commission. The city council may approve, deny, and may add conditions,
terms, duties or obligations to the development agreement. Development
agreements may be approved at the sole discretion of city council. (1984 Code §
5-9-6)
10-8-7: RECORDING:
Upon approval of a development agreement or any modification thereto by the
city council and the applicant, it shall be recorded at the expense of the
applicant and prior to the rezone approval. Proof of recording must be
submitted by the applicant prior to the adoption of the rezone ordinance by the
city council. The development agreement, or any modification thereto, and all
conditions, terms, duties or obligations included therein, shall run with the
land and shall be considered continuing obligations of the owner, co-owners and
each other person acquiring an interest in the property. An owner, co-owner,
each subsequent owner or other person acquiring an interest in the property
which is restricted by a development agreement or modification adopted pursuant
to this chapter, shall comply with the terms, conditions, obligation and duties
contained in the development agreement or modification. (1984 Code § 5-9-7;
amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-8-8: MODIFICATION:
Development agreements may only be modified after public hearing by the city
council. Major modifications, as determined by the zoning administrator and
city attorney, require a hearing and recommendation from the planning and
zoning commission prior to city council hearing. (1984 Code § 5-9-8; amd. Ord.
682, 5-10-2021)
10-8-9: TERMINATION:
   A.   Development agreements may be amended or terminated by the city
council, after public hearing, for failure to comply with the commitments
expressed in the development agreement.
   B.   Upon termination of the development agreement, the city council shall
revert the property to the prior zone, or in the case of an initial zone at
annexation, to a zone deemed appropriate by the city council. All uses of the
property which are not consistent with the subsequently designated zone
following termination of the development agreement shall cease. The owner of
the property shall apply for a conditional use permit for the property if the
use is conditionally allowed within the subsequently designated zone.
   C.   Development agreements may be enforced by the city through any means
deemed to be appropriate, including, but not limited to, specific enforcement,
injunctive relief, damages or criminal penalty for violation of this chapter.
The enforcement options available to the city shall not be considered
exclusive. (1984 Code § 5-9-9; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
CHAPTER 9
SUPPLEMENTARY AND QUALIFYING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Change Of Use Requires Compliance
10-9-2: Zoning Of Rights Of Way
10-9-3: Buildings On A Lot
10-9-4: Assessor's Tract
10-9-5: Yard And Open Space Requirements
10-9-6: Lot Sizes
10-9-7: Fences
10-9-8: Traffic Visibility At Intersections
10-9-9: Off Street Parking
10-9-10: Accessory Structures
10-9-11: Treatment Of Lot Line Adjustments
10-9-12: Manufactured Housing
10-9-1: CHANGE OF USE REQUIRES COMPLIANCE:
Use of a building already erected at the time this title became effective shall
not be changed unless the owner applies for and receives the appropriate
business license and complies with all zoning, building code and parking
requirements. (1984 Code §
5-4-1)
10-9-2: ZONING OF RIGHTS OF WAY:
All streets, alleys, canals, and railroad rights of way, if not otherwise
specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same zone as the property
immediately abutting them. Where the centerline of a transportation corridor
serves as the district boundary, the zoning of such transportation corridor to
the centerline, unless otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be
the same as that of the abutting property. (1984 Code § 5-4-2; amd. Ord. 682,
5-10-2021)
10-9-3: BUILDINGS ON A LOT:
No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed
or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used for any purpose
other than is permitted in the zone in which the building or land is located.
(1984 Code §
5-4-3)
10-9-4: ASSESSOR'S TRACT:
A recorded assessor's tract, created for aiding in taxing parcels of land, will
not be deemed a recorded subdivision for purposes of issuing permits. (1984
Code §
5-4-4)
10-9-5: YARD AND OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No space, which for the purpose of a structure, has been counted or
calculated as part of a side yard, rear yard, front yard, court or other open
space required by this title, may, by reason of change of ownership or
otherwise, be counted or calculated to satisfy or comply with a yard, court or
other open space requirement of or for any other building.
   B.   The minimum yards or other open spaces required by this title shall not
be encroached upon or considered as yard or open space for any other lot.
   C.   Overhanging eaves, including gutters, may project over the minimum
required yard not more than twenty four inches (24").
   D.   The city council may alter the required yard area for public or quasi-
public use facilities after a public hearing and after showing that such action
will not cause damage and will be in accordance with the general purpose of
this title.
   E.   In the event a lot or parcel includes a portion of a street, the front
yard shall be measured from the edge of the public right of way. (1984 Code §
5-4-5)
10-9-6: LOT SIZES:
   A.   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered to provide
dwelling units shall be located upon a lot and in no case shall there be more
than one such building on one lot, unless otherwise provided in this title.
   B.   Any residential lot, the title of which was of record at the time of
the adoption of this title, that does not meet the requirements of this title
for yards, courts or other open space, may be utilized for single residence
purposes, provided the requirements for such yard or court or lot area, width,
depth or open space is within seventy five percent (75%) of that required by
this title. The purpose of this provision is to permit utilization of recorded
lots which lack adequate width or depth as long as reasonable living standards
can be provided.
   C.   No building shall be constructed or erected upon a lot or parcel of
land which does not abut upon a public street unless provisions are made for
permanent access to a public street by a twenty-five foot (25') wide minimum
driveway or private street in accordance with section
10-7F-4 of this code. (1984 Code § 5-4-6; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-9-7: FENCES:
The following regulations shall apply to all zones unless specifically
designated otherwise:
   A.   Front Yard: No sight obscuring fence, hedge, wall, latticework or
screen shall be erected over thirty six inches (36") in height in the front
yard.
   B.   Maximum Height: No sight obscuring fence, hedge, wall, latticework or
screen shall be erected which exceeds a height of seven feet (7') on any lot,
unless authorized by a conditional use permit.
   C.   Conditional Uses Abutting Residential: A sight obscuring fence may be
required by the planning and zoning commission for any conditional use which
abuts any lot zoned for residential purposes.
   D.   Condition And Maintenance: Where any sight obscuring fences are
required by this title to protect adjacent properties, said fence shall be
painted or stained a single solid color, and shall be kept free from
advertising and shall be maintained in good repair.
   E.   Electric Fences: Electric fences are prohibited.
   F.   Barbed Wire Fences:
      1.   Barbed wire fences will not be allowed in any residential
subdivision, except by conditional use.
      2.   Barbed wire may be permitted in commercial or industrial zones only
when used as the top section for security fences and shall be a minimum of six
feet (6') above grade. (1984 Code § 5-4-7; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-9-8: TRAFFIC VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   No wall, fence or shrubbery shall unreasonably obstruct or interfere
with traffic visibility.
   B.   No flashing lights of high intensity or advertising sign lights of high
intensity shall be within one hundred feet (100') of the right of way boundary
on the side of the road on which the sign or lights are located.
   C.   In any zone, it shall be a landowner's responsibility to remove from
their properties any vegetation, fence, wall or other sight obstructions of any
nature, except public highway signs and trees, where a sight obstruction
constitutes a potential traffic hazard or where a sight obstruction lies within
the vision triangle of vehicle operators.
   D.   Sight distance at intersections with stop control on the minor road
shall conform to the following requirements:
   FIGURE 1
   Sight distance configuration at intersections with stop control on minor
road.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/34f27a3cdd2d56a1a4c8c121309cde63c8363032/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1571.gif]
 
For intersections with stop control on the minor road, minimum sight distances
listed in table 1 of this section and as measured in figure 1 of this section
shall be provided. The sight distance is based on the design speed of the
roadway as illustrated in table 1 of this section. The design speed shall be
ten (10) miles per hour greater than the posted speed limit on the major road.
The sight distance is measured sixteen feet (16') from the edge of pavement on
the major road, on the centerline of the travel lane in question, and from a
height of 3.5 feet above the roadway surface. The sight triangle shall be
unobstructed from 3.5 feet to 7.6 feet above the roadway surface.
   TABLE 1
   INTERSECTIONS WITH STOP CONTROL ON THE MINOR
Design Speed Minimum Distance
(mph)        (Feet)
Design Speed Minimum Distance
(mph)        (Feet)
20           225
25           280
30           335
35           390
40           445
45           500
50           555
55           610
60           665
 
Note: Distance shown is for a stopped passenger car turning onto a 2 lane
roadway (major road) with no median and grades 3 percent or less. For all other
cases, refer to the AASHTO "Policy On Geometric Design Of Highways And
Streets".
   E.   Sight distance at intersections with interior residential streets that
do not meet the criteria of subsection D of this section shall conform to the
following requirements:
   FIGURE 2
   Sight distance configuration at interior street intersections with no stop
control.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/34f27a3cdd2d56a1a4c8c121309cde63c8363032/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1573.gif]
 
The sight distance is measured, as illustrated in figure 2 of this section,
from the intersection of the centerlines of two (2) intersecting roadways forty
feet (40') along each roadway and connecting the two (2) points with a straight
line and from a height of 3.5 feet above the roadway surface. The sight
triangle shall be unobstructed from 3.5 feet to 7.6 feet above the roadway
surface.
   F.   The sight obstruction restriction is also applicable to railroad street
grade crossings. The railroad-street vision triangle shall meet the guidelines
of the current AASHTO policy on Geometrics Design of Highways and Streets.
   G.   When a member of either the public works department, the police
department, the building department or any other designee of the city council
determines that a traffic hazard exists because of a sight restriction or a
sight restriction exists in the vision triangle, it may notify the owner and
order that the sight restriction be removed. In the event there is an order to
remove the sight restriction, the notice shall give the landowner not less than
ten (10) nor more than twenty five (25) days to remove the obstruction. The
notice shall notify the landowner of the nature of the obstruction, what must
be done to remove the obstruction, the time in which the obstruction must be
removed and the landowner’s right to appeal to the city council.
   H.   The landowner shall have ten (10) days from the date of service of the
notice and order to file a notice of appeal with the city council. Notice of
appeal may be filed by simply giving a written notice to the city clerk
requesting that the removal order of the person or agency giving the removal
order be reviewed. Any administrative removal or abatement order shall be
stayed during the pendency of the appeal process.
   I.   An order shall be effective upon the date of service. Service shall be
complete upon the date of personal delivery or upon the date of mailing. In the
event a landowner cannot be personally served, the landowner may be served by
regular mail addressed to the landowner’s last known address. In the event it
is necessary to serve a landowner by mail, three (3) days shall be added to the
time required for computation. In the event no address is available, service
may be made upon any tenant residing upon the premises.
   J.   An order to remove a sight obstruction or a traffic hazard or a simple
notice of an existing sight obstruction or traffic hazard, shall not obligate
the city to pursue removal or abatement. Knowledge of a sight restriction or a
violation of the vision triangle shall not require any officer, city employee
or any other person to give a notice or an order of removal.
   K.   The failure of the owner to remove the traffic hazard within the
specified time shall constitute a misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. Every day the owner shall fail to remove the obstruction
may be considered a separate and distinct offense.
   L.   The city or any other person, may file a civil action to enforce vision
triangle restrictions. In the event a civil abatement action is successfully
pursued, the successful party shall be entitled to attorney fees and costs.
(1984 Code § 5-4-8; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-9-9: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Location And Utility: Off street parking is required under this section
only in connection with the principal use of the property. All required off
street parking spaces shall be located, constructed and maintained so as to be
fully usable during workday periods or as needed by the use on the premises.
The required off street parking spaces shall not be utilized for vehicle
storage or impounding, vehicle sales or leasing, fleet parking or parking of
vehicles used in connection with the business. All required parking shall be
permanently available to all users without charge.
   B.   Design: All off street parking areas, whether required or not, shall be
designed and developed as set forth in the Idaho standards for public works
construction. All parking spaces, except for one- and two-family dwellings on
separate lots, shall be arranged so that vehicles are not required to back onto
any public street for either ingress or egress.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/34f27a3cdd2d56a1a4c8c121309cde63c8363032/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1575.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/34f27a3cdd2d56a1a4c8c121309cde63c8363032/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1577.gif]
   C.   Increase In Building Floor Area Or Occupant Load: When the occupant
load of any building, as defined in the international building code, is
increased, or when the building floor area on a lot is increased by a building
addition or by the erection of a new building on the same development parcel,
the off street parking for all uses and structures on that parcel shall be
increased to conform to the requirements of this title, except as follows:
      1.   No additional parking shall be required for the increase in occupant
load for an existing building in the CD zone. Additional parking shall be
required only for an increase in floor area of existing buildings. This
exemption shall not apply to newly constructed buildings.
      2.   The increase in floor area of any dwelling unit shall be exempt from
this requirement.
   D.   Loading Space Requirement: All uses utilizing truck delivery service
which are hereafter erected, constructed, converted, established or enlarged to
increase their floor space shall be required to provide at least one truck
loading space. All loading spaces, wherever provided, shall be located so as to
avoid the backing of the truck across any street or public pedestrian walkway
to either enter or leave the loading area. All loading docks shall be screened
from view to persons on adjacent streets or adjacent residential sites.
   E.   Setbacks For Required Parking: Each parking area shall have a front
setback of not less than the required front setback for a principal building or
five feet (5'), whichever is greater.
   F.   Parking Structures: Buildings or structures used for off street parking
shall be subject to all regulations applicable to principal buildings and
accessory buildings. Buildings or structures providing required off street
parking may be altered, changed or converted for any permitted use only after
the required number of parking spaces is provided elsewhere.
   G.   Off Street Parking Requirements For Residential Uses: All required off
street parking and driveways to residential use parking shall be on the same
building site. Unless tandem parking is specifically permitted, the access to
each required parking space shall be unrestricted by either the physical
condition of the land or another parking space. This provision shall not be
construed to prevent adjoining lots from utilizing joint use driveways. (1984
Code § 5-4-9; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-9-10: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
Accessory structures, except as otherwise permitted in this title, shall be
subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Where an accessory structure is attached to a main building, it shall
be subject to and conform with regulations of this title which are applicable
to the main building.
   B.   Accessory structures shall not be located nearer than five feet (5')
from an interior lot line and not nearer than five feet (5') to the rear lot
line, unless otherwise provided herein.
   C.   No detached accessory building shall be located closer than five feet
(5') to any main building or other structures.
   D.   An accessory building may be erected prior to the establishment or
construction of the principal use or building if a conditional use permit is
obtained.
   E.   Unless a conditional use permit is obtained, no accessory structure
shall exceed the principal structure in height and square footage.
   F.   An accessory building shall not be used as a temporary or permanent
shelter for human habitation or occupancy.
   G.   Swimming pools shall be considered accessory structures when
constructed on private lots where a main building exists. No swimming pool
shall be placed in use until a proper fence with a locked gate is erected. A
proper fence is one which will exclude young children from the area of said
pool unless accompanied by a responsible older person. Owners of swimming pools
shall accept responsibility for any liability incurred due to the presence of
such pools.
   H.   A portable canopy is considered an accessory structure and requires a
siting permit pursuant to this section. Portable canopies are only allowed in
the rear yard of residential properties and are not allowed in the front or
side yard. Portable canopies may encroach into the rear setback areas of the
property provided a site-obscuring fence of six feet (6') in height from
established grade is constructed to shield the canopy from neighboring
properties and public streets. Portable canopies must be anchored to withstand
normal weather patterns. The owner of a portable canopy or the owner of the
real property on which it is located shall maintain such canopy in a state of
good appearance, safety, and repair, including, but not limited to, supporting
framework and covering materials. Any damaged portable canopy shall be repaired
or removed immediately. The temporary use of a portable canopy, not to exceed
forty-eight (48) hours, is exempted from this section.
   I.   A portable automobile canopy is considered an accessory structure and
requires a siting permit pursuant to this section. Portable automobile canopies
may encroach into the rear setback areas of the property provided a site-
obscuring fence of six feet (6') in height from established grade is
constructed to shield the canopy from neighboring properties and public
streets. Portable automobile canopies may encroach into the front setback area
of the property provided they do not obstruct traffic lines of sight or
encroach onto the sidewalk. Portable automobile canopies must be anchored to
withstand normal weather patterns. The owner of a portable automobile canopy or
the owner of the real property on which it is located shall maintain such
canopy in a state of good appearance, safety, and repair, including, but not
limited to, supporting framework and covering materials. Any damaged portable
automobile canopy shall be repaired or removed immediately.
(1984 Code § 5-4-10; amd. Ord. 568, 8-12-2013; Ord. 630, 9-25-2017; Ord. 682,
5-10-2021; Ord. 712, 2-10-2025; Ord. 715, 6-23-2025)
10-9-11: TREATMENT OF LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS:
   A.   Definition: A "lot line adjustment" is a readjustment of lot lines as
shown on a recorded plat which does not reduce the area, frontage, width or
depth of each building site below the minimum prescribed by any City ordinance
or any covenant pertaining to said plat.
   B.   Applicability: The lot line adjustment procedure may be used:
      1.   Where parcels or lots are being combined, or
      2.   Where the adjustment of lot lines is requested and no new buildable
lot will be created, or
      3.   Where the reorientation of existing lots does not increase the
number of buildable lots.
      4.   The procedure may not be used where it creates or expands
nonconformity with land use ordinances.
   C.   Application: The application for a lot line adjustment shall consist of
the following:
      1.   Applicant Name, Owner Name, Purchaser Name, Representative Name,
Applicant Name and Phone Numbers, Email Addresses, Mailing Addresses for all
names. If the signature on the application is not the owner of the property, a
notarized statement (Affidavit of Legal Interest) from the owner stating the
applicant is authorized to submit the application.
      2.   Proof of Ownership.
      3.   Record of Survey including the following:
         a.   A heading and narrative stating the purpose of the survey.
         b.   Subdivision, Lots, and Blocks affected.
         c.   Existing Lot and Block numbers and new parcel numbers shown.
         d.   Existing and new property lines shown and labeled.
         e.   Square footage and acreage of the new parcels.
         f.   Existing easements and any proposed easements.
         g.   Abutting road names and rights-of-way, including alleys.
         h.   Existing buildings and new setbacks.
         i.   A signature line for City Engineer Certification.
         j.   Signatures of all owners of record.
      4.   Legal descriptions for the new parcels.
      5.   Three (3) copies of the lot line adjustment plat on 11" x 17" sheets
drafted with black ink at a legible scale and stamped by a Licensed Land
Surveyor.
      6.   Surveyor verification of closures on all new parcels prior to
application submission.
   D.   Installation Of Utilities: In the event utilities have been installed,
lot line adjustments shall not be allowed unless written approval is obtained
from all affected utilities.
   E.   Utility Easements: If utilities are not in place, the property owner
shall provide adequate utility easements before a lot line adjustment will be
granted. (1984 Code § 5-4-12; amd. Ord. 666, 5-11-2020; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-9-12: MANUFACTURED HOUSING:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: The purpose of this section is to establish
standards and regulations governing the location and approval of manufactured
housing in the City. It is the intent of these regulations to allow a mix of
housing types and living styles. However, this should occur in a manner which
will not adversely affect existing neighborhoods. For this reason, standards
have been set that will regulate the appearance of the manufactured home,
allowing only those that are acceptably similar in appearance to site built
dwellings on individual lots in all residential zoning districts. The Planning
and Zoning Commission and/or City Council may subject any such manufactured
home and the lot on which it is placed to any or all of the same development
standards to which any single-family residential dwelling on the same lot would
be subject, including, but not limited to, building setback standards, side and
rear yard requirements, standards for enclosures, access, and vehicle parking
and architectural and aesthetic requirements. However, any architectural
requirements imposed on the manufactured home itself, exclusive of any
requirement for any and all additional enclosures, shall be limited to roofing
and siding material. In no case may the Planning and Zoning Commission or City
Council apply any development standards which will have the effect of totally
precluding manufactured homes from being installed as permanent residences.
(1984 Code § 4-4-1)
   B.   Definitions:
       FOUNDATION SYSTEM: An assembly of materials constructed, not intended to
be removed from its installation site, which is designed to support the
structure and engineered to resist the imposition of external natural forces.
      GUIDELINES FOR MANUFACTURED HOUSING INSTALLATIONS: (Self- explanatory)
The current edition as written by the International Conference Of Building
Officials.
      MANUFACTURED HOME: A dwelling unit which is fabricated in one or more
sections at a location other than the homesite by assembly line type production
techniques or by other construction methods unique to an off site manufacturing
process. Every section shall bear a label certifying that it is built in
compliance with the federal manufactured home construction and safety
standards. For mobile homes built prior to June 15, 1976, a label certifying
compliance to the standard mobile home, NFPA 501, ANSI 119.1, in effect at the
time of manufacture, is required. For the purpose of this guideline, a mobile
home shall be considered a manufactured home. A manufactured home is designed
to be towed on its own chassis or be site delivered by alternative means. The
home must also meet the criteria established in subsection C of this section.
(1984 Code § 4-4-2)
   C.   Development Standards:
      1.   Specified: Manufactured homes built since June 15, 1976, and
manufactured homes built prior to June 15, 1976, which have been updated to
standards required of manufactured homes built after that date:
         a.   Allowed in zones SFR and LLR.
         b.   Shall have a metallic, wood shake or asphalt shingle roof with a
minimum slope of sixteen percent (16%) (2:12).
         c.   Shall have horizontal or vertical aluminum, simulated wood or
wood siding.
         d.   Shall have a foundation fascia that is similar in appearance and
durability to masonry foundation of site built dwellings, as approved by the
building inspector, which surrounds the entire perimeter of the structure and
completely encloses the space between the siding and the finished grade.
         e.   Electrical, gas, water and sewer connections shall be made
permanent. Gas shutoff valves, meters and regulators shall not be located
beneath the manufactured home.
         f.   Shall comply with all other applicable requirements of the zoning
district in which the manufactured home is located (such as lot size and
setback requirements).
      2.   Accessory Structures: Attached accessory structures, as permitted in
the zoning district in which the manufactured home is to be located, shall be
similar in material and integrated into the design of the structure. Accessory
structures must meet international building code standards or HUD standards.
      3.   Permanent Foundation: All manufactured homes placed on privately
owned lots which lie outside of manufactured home courts or manufactured home
parks, shall comply with Idaho Code section 44-2201 et seq., and shall be
placed on a permanent foundation. A permanent foundation shall comply with the
following requirements:
         a.   I-Beam Ribbon Footings: Ribbon footings shall be poured concrete
continuous footings at least twenty inches (20") wide and eight inches (8")
deep; placed on firm, undisturbed soil below the prevailing frost line. Slabs
shall be level and parallel to, and centered on, the main frame beams and
extending to the end of the frames. Slabs shall contain three (3) no. 4
reinforcing rods evenly spaced.
         b.   Piers: Blocking shall have a maximum spacing of six feet (6').
         c.   Centerline Support: The minimum centerline support base block
shall be sixteen inches by sixteen inches by four inches (16" x 16" x 4").
However, when the manufacturer's setup instructions require larger supports,
then those requirements shall be met.
         d.   Anchoring: Weather resistant anchor ties shall be embedded in the
outside ribbon footing within three feet (3') of each end and a maximum of
twelve feet (12') between centers and shall be tied to the I-beam with cable or
zinc coated strapping. Anchor ties shall be designed for a three thousand one
hundred fifty (3,150) pound working load and withstand a fifty percent (50%)
overload (4,750 pounds).
         e.   Crawl Space Enclosure: The crawl space beneath the home shall
have a perimeter fascia enclosure adequately secured to the perimeter of the
home and designed and supported to resist all forces to which it may be
subject, without transmitting those forces to the building superstructure. The
bottom of the enclosure shall be below the prevailing frost level. Minimum
venting of the perimeter fascia enclosure shall be one minimum ninety six (96)
square inch vent (net size of screen) every twenty five feet (25'), and to
include one three feet (3') from each corner in both directions. No fascia
shall have less than eight (8) vents. (1984 Code § 4-4-3; amd. 2014 Code)
   D.   Administration And Enforcement: Prior to locating the manufactured home
on a lot, applications for approval of manufactured housing shall be submitted
to the building inspector on the standard prescribed form. In addition to such
information which is generally required for building permits and which is
necessary for administrative purposes, such applications shall also include all
information necessary to determine the manufactured home's conformity with
subsection C of this section, including exterior siding, foundation and any
other applicable information. (1984 Code § 4-4-4)
   E.   Criteria For Homes Placed Within City Limits:
      1.   Approval Stickers: All new manufactured housing, modular homes and
mobile homes placed for occupancy within the city limits, whether in an
established mobile home park or on any individual lot, shall have any and all
approval stickers as required by the state and shall have a date of manufacture
after June 15, 1976.
      2.   Conformity To Codes: All previously owned, used, significantly
altered, moved or rebuilt homes, modular homes and mobile homes placed within
the city limits shall meet all international building code requirements, all
state electrical codes and all state plumbing codes.
      3.   Certificate Of Occupancy: No structures shall be occupied without
approvals outlined in subsections E1 and E2 of this section, and without an
occupancy certificate being issued by the building inspector or building
official. (1984 Code § 4-4-5; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 10
CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
10-10-1: Purpose And Intent
10-10-2: Contents Of Application For Conditional Use Permit
10-10-3: General Standards Applicable To All Conditional Uses
10-10-4: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
10-10-5: Procedure For Hearing, Notice
10-10-6: Action By Planning And Zoning Commission
10-10-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   It is recognized that an increasing number of new kinds of uses are
appearing daily, and that many of these and some other more conventional uses
possess characteristics of such unique and special nature relative to location,
design, size, method of operation, circulation and public facilities that each
specific use must be considered individually.
   B.   The planning and zoning commission shall hold a public hearing on each
conditional use permit application. The planning and zoning commission may
approve, conditionally approve or deny a conditional use permit under the
conditions as herein specified and considering such additional safeguards as
will uphold the intent of this title and when it is not in conflict with the
comprehensive plan. (1984 Code § 5-11-0)
10-10-2: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   An application for conditional use permit shall be filed with the
zoning administrator by at least one owner or lessee of property for which such
conditional use is proposed. At a minimum, the application shall contain the
following information:
      1.   Name, address, email address, and phone numbers of applicant;
      2.   Legal description of property;
      3.   Description of existing use;
      4.   Zone classification;
      5.   Description of proposed conditional use;
      6.   A plan of the proposed site for the conditional use, showing the
location of all buildings, parking and loading area, traffic access and traffic
circulation, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service areas, utilities,
signs, yards and other such information as the planning and zoning commission
may require to determine if the proposed conditional use meets the intent and
requirements of this title;
      7.   A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining property
of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes and vibration; discussion of the
general compatibility with adjacent and other properties in the zone; and the
relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan; and
   B.   A filing fee set by resolution of the city council shall accompany the
application. (1984 Code § 5-11-1; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-10-3: GENERAL STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL CONDITIONAL USES:
The planning and zoning commission shall review the particular facts and
circumstances of each proposed conditional use in terms of the following
standards and shall find adequate evidence showing that such use at the
proposed location:
   A.   Will constitute a conditional use;
   B.   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general objectives
or with any specific objective of the comprehensive plan and this title;
   C.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be harmonious
and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended character of the
general vicinity and that such use will not change the essential character of
the same area;
   D.   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring
uses;
   E.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services,
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures,
refuse disposal, water and sewer and schools; or that the persons or agencies
responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be adequately able
to provide any such services;
   F.   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community;
   G.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment and
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property or
the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare or odors;
   H.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares; and
   I.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural, scenic
or historic feature of major importance. (1984 Code § 5-11-2)
10-10-4: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
In granting any conditional use permit, the planning and zoning commission may
prescribe appropriate conditions, bonds and safeguards in conformity with this
title. Violations of such conditions, bonds or safeguards, when made a part of
the terms under which the conditional use is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of this title. (1984 Code § 5-11-3)
10-10-5: PROCEDURE FOR HEARING, NOTICE:
Prior to granting a conditional use permit, at least one public hearing in
which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard shall be held.
At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time and place
and a summary of the proposal shall be published in the official newspaper.
Notice may also be made available to other newspapers, radio and television
stations serving the jurisdiction for use as a public service announcement.
Written notice sent by regular United States mail shall be provided to
adjoining property owners as indicated on the records of the county assessor’s
office, owners and residents within the land being considered, three hundred
feet (300') beyond the external boundaries of the land being considered, and
any additional area that may be substantially impacted by the proposed
conditional use as determined by the planning and zoning commission. When
notice is required to two hundred (200) or more property owners or residents,
in lieu of the mailing notification, three (3) notices in the official
newspaper is sufficient; provided, the third notice appears fifteen (15) days
prior to the public hearing. (1984 Code § 5-11-4; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-10-6: ACTION BY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Within sixty (60) days after the public hearing, the planning and
zoning commission will either approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the
application as presented. If the application is approved or approved with
modifications, the planning and zoning commission shall direct the zoning
administrator to issue a conditional use permit listing the specific conditions
specified by the planning and zoning commission for approval.
   B.   Upon granting of a conditional use permit, conditions may be attached
to a conditional use permit, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on other development.
      2.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development.
      3.   Controlling the duration of development, including hours and days of
operation.
      4.   Assuring that development is maintained properly.
      5.   Designating the exact location and nature of development.
      6.   Requiring the provision for on site improvements, such as
appropriate lighting, screening and landscaping.
      7.   Requiring provision for off site public facilities and services.
      8.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in an ordinance.
   C.   Prior to granting a conditional use permit, the planning and zoning
commission may require additional information concerning social, economic,
fiscal and environmental effects of the proposed conditional use. A conditional
use permit shall not be considered as establishing a binding precedent to grant
other conditional use permits. A conditional use permit is not transferable
from one parcel of land to another.
   D.   Upon granting or denying an application, the planning and zoning
commission shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   E.   Within thirty (30) days after a decision has been rendered by the
planning and zoning commission, the zoning administrator shall provide the
applicant with written notice of the action on the request. (1984 Code § 5-11-
5)
CHAPTER 11
TEMPORARY USES
SECTION:
10-11-1: Purpose And Intent
10-11-2: Contents Of Application For Temporary Use Permit
10-11-3: General Standards Applicable To All Temporary Uses
10-11-4: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
10-11-5: Procedure For Hearing, Notice
10-11-6: Action By Planning And Zoning Commission
10-11-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   It is recognized that it may become necessary to provide housing and
care to an elderly relative or a person with special needs due to a physical or
mental impairment for a certain period of time. This situation will be
considered a temporary hardship and the permit would be effective only as long
as the individual resides in the structure.
   B.   The planning and zoning commission shall hold a public hearing on each
temporary use permit application. The planning and zoning commission may
approve, conditionally approve or deny a temporary use permit under the
conditions as herein specified and considering such additional safeguards as
will uphold the intent of this title and when it is not in conflict with the
comprehensive plan. (1984 Code § 5-13-0)
10-11-2: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR TEMPORARY USE PERMIT:
   A.   An application for a temporary use permit shall be filed with the
zoning administrator by at least one owner or lessee of property for which such
temporary use is proposed. At a minimum, the application shall contain the
following information:
      1.   Name, address, email address, and phone numbers of applicant;
      2.   Legal description of property;
      3.   Description of existing use;
      4.   Zone classification;
      5.   Description of proposed temporary use;
      6.   A plan of the proposed site for the temporary use showing the
location of all buildings, parking and loading areas, traffic access and
traffic circulation, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service areas,
utilities, signs, yards and other such information as the planning and zoning
commission may require to determine if the proposed temporary use meets the
intent and requirements of this chapter;
      7.   A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining property
of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes and vibrations; a discussion of
the general compatibility with adjacent and other properties in the zone; and
the relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan; and
      8.   A written document signed by a licensed physician stating the need
for the temporary use.
   B.   A filing fee as set by resolution of the city council shall accompany
the application. (1984 Code § 5-13-1; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-11-3: GENERAL STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL TEMPORARY USES:
   A.   The planning and zoning commission shall review the particular facts
and circumstances of each proposed temporary use in terms of the following
standards and shall find adequate evidence showing that such use at the
proposed location:
      1.   Will constitute a temporary use;
      2.   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general
objectives or with any specific objective of the comprehensive plan and this
title;
      3.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and that such use will not change the
essential character of the same area;
      4.   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future
neighboring uses;
      5.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and
services, such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage
structures, refuse disposal, water and sewer and schools; or that the persons
or agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able
to provide adequately any such services;
      6.   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community;
      7.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment
and conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property
or the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise,
smoke, fumes, glare or odors;
      8.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares; and
      9.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural,
scenic or historic feature of major importance.
   B.   A temporary use is deemed personal in nature and cannot be transferred
with title to the property. (1984 Code § 5-13-2)
10-11-4: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
In granting any temporary use permit, the planning and zoning commission may
prescribe appropriate conditions, bonds and safeguards in conformity with this
title. Violations of such conditions, bonds or safeguards, when made a part of
the terms under which the temporary use is granted, shall be deemed a violation
of this title. (1984 Code § 5-13-3)
10-11-5: PROCEDURE FOR HEARING, NOTICE:
Prior to granting a temporary use permit, at least one public hearing in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard shall be held. At
least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time and place and
a summary of the proposal shall be published in the official newspaper. Notice
may also be made available to other newspapers, radio and television stations
serving the jurisdiction for use as a public service announcement. Written
notice sent by regular United States mail shall be provided to adjoining
property owners as indicated on the records of the county assessor’s office,
owners and residents within the land being considered, three hundred feet
(300') beyond the external boundaries of the land being considered, and any
additional area that may be substantially impacted by the proposed temporary
use as determined by the planning and zoning commission. When notice is
required to two hundred (200) or more property owners or residents, in lieu of
the mailing notification, three (3) notices in the official newspaper is
sufficient; provided the third notice appears fifteen (15) days prior to the
public hearing. (1984 Code § 5-13-4; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-11-6: ACTION BY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Within sixty (60) days after the public hearing, the planning and
zoning commission will either approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the
application as presented. If the application is approved or approved with
modifications, the planning and zoning commission shall direct the zoning
administrator to issue a temporary use permit listing the specific use and
conditions specified by the planning and zoning commission for approval.
   B.   Upon granting of a temporary use permit, conditions may be attached to
a temporary use permit, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on surrounding development.
      2.   Requiring the provision for on site improvements such as appropriate
lighting, screening and landscaping.
   C.   Prior to granting a temporary use permit, the planning and zoning
commission may require additional information concerning social, economic,
fiscal and environmental effects of the proposed temporary use. A temporary use
permit shall not be considered as establishing a binding precedent to grant
other temporary use permits. A temporary use permit is not transferable from
one parcel of land to another.
   D.   Upon granting or denying an application, the planning and zoning
commission shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standard used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   E.   Within thirty (30) days after a decision by the planning and zoning
commission has been rendered, the zoning administrator shall provide the
applicant with written notice of the action on the request.
   F.   The applicant or any affected person who appeared in person or in
writing before the planning and zoning commission may appeal the decision of
the planning and zoning commission in accordance with section
10-2-10 of this title. (1984 Code § 5-13-5; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 12
NONCONFORMING PROPERTY, USE OR STRUCTURE
SECTION:
10-12-1: Existence Prior To Effective Date
10-12-2: Exceptions
10-12-3: Nonconforming Property
10-12-4: Nonconforming Use
10-12-5: Nonconforming Structure
10-12-1: EXISTENCE PRIOR TO EFFECTIVE DATE:
Any nonconforming property, use or structure that lawfully existed prior to the
effective date hereof, will be allowed to continue until they are removed, but
not to encourage their continuation. It is further the intent of this chapter
that nonconforming properties, uses or structures shall not expand or extend
the nonconforming aspect of the property, use or structure unless approved
subject to a conditional use permit. (1984 Code § 11-1-13)
10-12-2: EXCEPTIONS:
These regulations shall apply to any lawfully existing nonconforming property,
use or structure in any district, except in the event that a property, use or
structure that was deemed nonconforming under past regulations now complies
with the standards of this chapter, such property, use or structure shall be
deemed conforming. (1984 Code § 11-1-13)
10-12-3: NONCONFORMING PROPERTY:
   A.   The nonconforming property shall not be diminished in size. (1984 Code
§ 11-1-13)
   B.   Any property reduced by governmental action that reduces an existing
conforming parcel below the required property size shall be deemed as a
conforming property for the purpose of development. To be deemed a conforming
property, the owner or applicant shall submit documents to the city clerk
proving the following: (1984 Code § 11-1-13; amd. 2014 Code)
      1.   The property was in compliance with the minimum property size
requirement of the applicable district prior to the decrease in property size;
and
      2.   The decrease in property size was caused by acquisition through
prescription, purchase or other means by the transportation authority, a
utility company or corporation under the jurisdiction of the Idaho public
utilities commission, or other local, state or federal agency. (1984 Code § 11-
1-13)
10-12-4: NONCONFORMING USE:
   A.   Requirements For Continuance: The nonconforming use may continue as
long as the use remains lawful and is not expanded or extended, subject to the
following provisions:
      1.   Alteration: No existing structure containing a nonconforming use may
be enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally
altered except: a) through the approval of a conditional use permit; or b)
where the use of the structure is changed to a conforming use.
      2.   Extension: A nonconforming use may be extended to occupy additional
land area only through the approval of a conditional use permit.
   B.   Abandonment: If a nonconforming use has ceased for twelve (12)
consecutive months or has been replaced with a conforming use, the
nonconforming use shall be deemed abandoned and shall not be reestablished.
   C.   Damage To Structure: A nonconforming use or structure housing a
nonconforming use that is damaged more than fifty percent (50%) of its current
assessed taxable value by fire, flood, explosion, wind, earthquake, war, riot,
calamity, or other catastrophic event, shall comply with this chapter upon
reconstruction. If the damage to the nonconforming use or structure housing the
nonconforming use is fifty percent (50%) or less of its current assessed
taxable value, the nonconforming use may continue; provided, that the
nonconforming use commences within twelve (12) months of the event.
   D.   Exemption For Historic Places: Uses housed within structures listed on
the national register of historic places shall be exempt from the regulations
of this section. (1984 Code § 11-1-13)
10-12-5: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE:
   A.   Continuance: Nonconforming structures may be enlarged, repaired or
modified; provided, that the additions or modifications to the structure
conform to the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Damaged Structure: A nonconforming structure that is damaged more than
seventy five percent (75%) of its current assessed taxable value by fire,
flood, explosion, wind, earthquake, war, riot, calamity or other catastrophic
event, shall comply with this chapter upon restoration or reconstruction. If
the damage to the nonconforming structures is seventy five percent (75%) or
less of its current assessed taxable value, the structure may be restored or
reconstructed; provided, that restoration or reconstruction commences within
twelve (12) months of the event.
   C.   Exemption For Historic Structures: Structures listed on the national
register of historic places shall be exempt from the regulations of this
section. (1984 Code § 11-1-13)
CHAPTER 13
VARIANCES
SECTION:
10-13-1: General
10-13-2: Application And Standards For Variances
10-13-3: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
10-13-4: Public Hearing
10-13-5: Decision; Appeal
10-13-1: GENERAL:
The City Council may authorize in specific cases such variance from the terms
of this title as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this title would
result in unnecessary hardship. No nonconforming use of neighboring lands,
structures or buildings in the same zone and not permitted or nonconforming use
of lands, structures or buildings in other zones shall be considered grounds
for issuance of a variance. A variance shall not be considered a right or
special privilege, but may be granted to an applicant only upon showing of
undue hardship. (Ord. 635, 3-12-2018)
10-13-2: APPLICATION AND STANDARDS FOR VARIANCES:
   A.   Information Required: A variance from the terms of this title shall not
be granted by the City Council unless and until a written application for a
variance is submitted to the Zoning Administrator, which application contains
the following information: (Ord. 635, 3-12-2018)
      1.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
      2.   Legal description of property.
      3.   A filing fee as set forth by resolution of the City Council.
      4.   A narrative statement demonstrating that the requested variance
conforms to the following standards:
         a.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are
peculiar to the land, structure or building involved and which are not
applicable to other lands, structures or buildings in the zone;
         b.   That a literal interpretation of the provisions of this title
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same zone under the terms of this title;
         c.   That special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant; and
         d.   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this title to other lands,
structures or buildings in the same zone. A variance attaches to the realty and
is transferable with the title to the property.
   B.   Findings Required: A variance shall not be granted unless the City
Council makes specific findings of fact based directly on the particular
evidence presented to it which support conclusions that the above mentioned
standards and conditions have been met by the applicant. (1984 Code § 5-12-2;
amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 635, 3-12-2018; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-13-3: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
Under no circumstances shall the City Council grant a variance to allow a use
not permissible under the terms of this title in the zone involved, or any use
expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of this title in said zone.
In granting any variance, the City Council may prescribe appropriate conditions
and safeguards and, when made a part of the terms under which the variance is
granted, any deviation shall be deemed a violation of this title. (Ord. 635, 3-
12-2018)
10-13-4: PUBLIC HEARING:
Upon receipt of the application for a variance, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall hold a public hearing, publish notice in a newspaper of
general circulation within the City, and give written notice to all parties as
required by section
10-2-8 of this title. Following the hearing, the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall forward its recommendation to the City Council for a decision. (Ord. 635,
3-12-2018)
10-13-5: DECISION; APPEAL:
   A.   Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing or at the next regular
meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission, whichever occurs last, the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall either recommend approval, conditional
approval or denial of the request for a variance, and forward such
recommendation to the City Council for a decision.
   B.   Within thirty (30) days after receiving the recommendation, the City
Council shall either approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the request
for a variance.
   C.   Upon granting or denying an application, the City Council shall
specify: (Ord. 635, 3-12-2018)
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit. (1984 Code § 5-12-5; amd. Ord. 635, 3-12-2018)
   D.   Within thirty (30) days after a decision has been rendered, the Zoning
Administrator shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on
the request. The applicant or any affected person may appeal the decision of
the City Council, in accordance with section
10-2-10 of this title. (Ord. 635, 3-12-2018)
CHAPTER 14
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
10-14-1: Purpose
10-14-2: General Provisions
10-14-3: Uses Permitted
10-14-4: Ownership Requirements
10-14-5: Common Open Space
10-14-6: Utility Requirements
10-14-7: Increased Residential Density
10-14-8: Arrangement Of Commercial Uses
10-14-9: Arrangement Of Industrial Uses
10-14-10: Procedure For Approval Of Planned Unit Development
10-14-11: Preapplication Meeting
10-14-12: Contents Of Application For Approval Of Preliminary Development Plan
10-14-13: Procedure For Public Notice
10-14-14: Approval In Principle By Planning And Zoning Commission
10-14-15: Contents Of Application For Approval Of Final Development Plan
10-14-16: Recommendation By Planning And Zoning Commission
10-14-17: Action By City Council
10-14-18: Expiration And Extension Of Approval Period
10-14-1: PURPOSE:
It shall be the policy to guide a major development of land construction by
encouraging planned unit developments (PUD) to achieve the following:
   A.   Orderly and functional arrangement of land uses and buildings;
   B.   Development which is consistent with adopted comprehensive plans,
future acquisition maps and area of impact ordinances;
   C.   A maximum choice of living environments by allowing a variety of
housing and building types and permitting an increased density per acre and a
reduction in lot dimensions, yards, building setbacks and area requirements;
   D.   A more useful pattern of open space and recreation areas and, if
permitted as part of the project, more convenience in the location of residual
commercial and industrial uses and services;
   E.   A development pattern which preserves and utilizes natural topography
and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees and other vegetation, avoids
hazardous areas, and prevents the disruption of natural drainage patterns;
   F.   A more efficient use of land than is generally achieved through
conventional development resulting in substantial savings through shorter
utilities and streets;
   G.   A development pattern in harmony with the land use, transportation and
public facilities elements of the comprehensive plan; and
   H.   Preservation of natural and manmade scenic areas and protection of
sites of historical or archaeological value through appropriate site design
reviews. (1984 Code § 5-14-1)
10-14-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Applicability: Whenever an application is submitted for a "planned unit
development", as defined in section
10-3-2 of this title, the procedures set forth herein shall apply.
   B.   Base Zone: Planned development, either residential, commercial or
industrial, may only be placed over a corresponding "base zone" (e.g., planned
residential developments shall only be applied for in an existing residential
zone), or shall have an application for a base residential zone filed
concurrently with the planned development application (e.g., applications for
rezoning to a commercial designation as set forth in this title shall have an
application for a planned commercial development submitted and processed
concurrently).
   C.   Dedications: Dedication of, or offers to dedicate interest in, real
property for specific purposes, which may include, but are not limited to,
roadways, rights of way, schools, bikeways, bus facilities, parks, libraries
and fire stations, shall be shown on development plans. Such dedications may be
made a condition of approval of a planned development if: 1) it is
substantiated by the governing board responsible for those facilities that such
additional facilities would serve the public interest in such locations; 2)
such facilities would be in accordance with the applicable comprehensive plan
in effect as of the date of acceptance of the application by the zoning
administrator; and 3) the amount and location of land to be dedicated bears a
reasonable relationship to the demand generated by the proposed development.
   D.   Improvements: Improvements, consistent with the pattern established in
the area, or as shown on any officially adopted comprehensive plan or component
thereof, shall be required as a condition of approval of a planned development.
Improvements may include, but are not limited to, paving, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, bikeways, water lines, sewer lines, drainage works, bus turnouts,
streetlights and landscaping. All improvements required as part of the final
development plan shall stipulate that a bond, or similar financial arrangement,
in the amount equal to the estimated cost of the improvements, plus twenty
percent (20%), shall be posted prior to the city issuing an occupancy permit
for any part of the development. Bonding requirements for multiphase projects
shall be applied to each phase as finalized and shall not consider future
phases.
   E.   Concurrent Processing: An application for a planned development may be
accompanied by all other discretionary requests, such as changes of zone,
variances, conditional use permits and plats which may relate to the proposal.
Zone change applications that are processed concurrently with a planned
development application may be filed with the zoning administrator, but shall
not become finalized until the provisions of this section are met.
   F.   Conflict: Whenever there is a conflict or difference between the
provisions of this chapter and those of the other chapters of this title, the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail. Subjects not covered by this chapter
shall be governed by the respective provisions found elsewhere in this title.
(1984 Code § 5-14-2)
10-14-3: USES PERMITTED:
All uses that may be allowed within the land use district are permitted within
a PUD. Also, up to thirty percent (30%) of the gross land area may be directed
to other uses that are not allowed within the land use district; provided,
there is a favorable finding by the planning and zoning commission:
   A.   The uses are appropriate with any applicable residential uses;
   B.   The uses are intended to serve principally the PUD;
   C.   The uses are planned as an integral part of the PUD;
   D.   The uses be located and designed to provide direct access to a
collector or an arterial street without creating significant congestion or
traffic hazards; and
   E.   That a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the residential development
occurs prior to the development of the related commercial or industrial land
uses. (1984 Code § 5-14-3)
10-14-4: OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS:
An application for approval of a PUD may be filed by a property owner or a
person having an existing interest in the property to be included in the PUD.
The PUD application shall be filed in the name or names of the recorded owner
or owners of property included in the development. However, the application may
be filed by the holders of an equitable interest in such property. Before
approval is granted to the final development plan, the entire project shall be
under single ownership or control and legal title must be presented with the
final development plan. (1984 Code § 5-14-4)
10-14-5: COMMON OPEN SPACE:
   A.   Minimum Area: A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the gross land area
developed in any residential PUD project shall be reserved for common open
space and recreational facilities for the residents or users of the area being
developed.
   B.   Ownership Or Dedication: The required amount of common open space land
reserved under a PUD shall either be held in corporate ownership by owners of
the project area for the use of each owner who buys property within the
development or be dedicated to the public and retained as common open space for
parks, recreation and related uses. Public utility and similar easements and
rights of way for watercourses and other similar channels are not acceptable
for common open space dedication unless such land or right of way is usable as
a trail or other similar purpose and approved by the planning and zoning
commission.
   C.   Maintenance: The responsibility for the maintenance of all open spaces
shall be specified by the developer before approval of the final development
plan.
   D.   Abutment, Clustering Of Dwellings: Parcels developed under the PUD
approach should be designed to abut upon common open space or similar areas. A
clustering of dwellings is encouraged. In areas where townhouses are used,
there shall be no more than eight (8) townhouse units in any contiguous group.
(1984 Code § 5-14-5)
10-14-6: UTILITY REQUIREMENTS:
Underground utilities, including telecommunications and electrical systems, are
required within the limits of all PUDs. Appurtenances to these systems which
can be effectively screened may be excepted from this requirement if the
planning and zoning commission finds that such exception will not violate the
intent of character of the proposed PUD. (1984 Code § 5-14-6; amd. Ord. 682, 5-
10-2021)
10-14-7: INCREASED RESIDENTIAL DENSITY:
To provide for an incentive for quality PUD, the planning and zoning commission
may authorize an increased residential density of up to fifteen percent (15%)
of the allowable number of dwelling units. Character, identity and
architectural and siting variation incorporated in a development shall be
considered cause for density increases; provided, these factors make a
substantial contribution to the objectives of the PUD, which are as follows:
   A.   Landscaping (a maximum increase of 5 percent), streetscape, open spaces
and plazas, use of existing landscaping, pedestrianway treatment and
recreational areas;
   B.   Siting (a maximum increase of 5 percent) visual focal points, use of
existing physical features such as topography, view, sun and wind orientation,
circulation pattern, physical environment, variation in building setbacks and
building grouping (such as clustering); and
   C.   Design features (a maximum increase of 5 percent), street sections,
architectural styles, harmonious use of materials, parking areas broken by
landscaping features and varied use of housing types. (1984 Code § 5-14-7)
10-14-8: ARRANGEMENT OF COMMERCIAL USES:
   A.   When PUDs include commercial uses, commercial buildings and
establishments shall be planned as groups having common parking areas and
common ingress and egress points in order to reduce the number of potential
accident locations at intersections. Planting screens or fences shall be
provided on the perimeter of the commercial areas abutting residential areas.
   B.   The plan of the project shall provide for the integrated and harmonious
design of buildings, and for adequate and properly arranged facilities as may
be necessary to make the project attractive and efficient from the standpoint
of the adjoining and surrounding noncommercial areas.
   C.   All areas designed for future expansion or not intended for immediate
improvement or development shall be landscaped or otherwise maintained in a
neat and orderly manner. (1984 Code § 5-14-8)
10-14-9: ARRANGEMENT OF INDUSTRIAL USES:
   A.   Industrial Uses Allowed: PUDs may include industrial uses if it can be
shown that the development results in a more efficient and desirable use of
land.
   B.   Industrial Use Requirements:
      1.   Industrial uses and parcels shall be developed in parklike
surroundings utilizing landscaping and existing woodlands as buffers to screen
lighting, parking area, loading areas or docks and/or outdoor storage of raw
materials or products.
      2.   A planned industrial area shall provide for the harmony of buildings
and a compact grouping in order to economize in the provision of such utility
services as are required.
      3.   Thoroughfares shall be kept to a minimum throughout a planned
industrial area in order to reduce through traffic.
      4.   Project side yards of forty feet (40') and a rear yard of fifty feet
(50') shall be required if the project is located adjacent to any residential
uses. All intervening spaces between the right of way line and project building
line and intervening spaces between buildings, drives, parking areas and
improved areas shall be landscaped with trees and plantings and properly
maintained at all times. (1984 Code § 5-14-9)
10-14-10: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
When the PUD also qualifies as a subdivision, the processing of the special use
permit and subdivision application shall occur at the same time. The granting
of a special use permit for a PUD shall require a preapplication, the
submission of a preliminary development plan and approval by the city council
of a final development plan as specified within this chapter. (1984 Code § 5-
14-10)
10-14-11: PREAPPLICATION MEETING:
The developer shall meet with the zoning administrator prior to the submission
of the preliminary development plan. The purpose of this meeting is to discuss
early and informally the purpose and effect of this chapter and the criteria
and standards contained herein, and to familiarize the developer with the
comprehensive plan, this title and such other plans and ordinances as deemed
appropriate. (1984 Code § 5-14-11)
10-14-12: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   An application for preliminary PUD shall be filed with the zoning
administrator by a property owner or person having existing interest in the
property for which the PUD is proposed. At a minimum, the application shall
contain the following information filed in triplicate:
      1.   Name, address, email address, and phone numbers of applicant;
      2.   Name, address, email address, and phone numbers of registered
surveyor, registered engineer and/or urban planner assisting in the preparation
of the preliminary development plan;
      3.   Legal description of property;
      4.   Description of existing use;
      5.   Zoning districts;
      6.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the city engineer, showing
property lines, streets, existing and proposed zoning and such other items as
the city engineer may require to show the relationship of the PUD to the
comprehensive plan and to existing schools and other community facilities and
services;
      7.   Fifteen (15) copies of a preliminary development plan at a scale
approved by the city engineer showing topography at two foot (2') intervals;
location and type of residential, commercial and industrial land uses; layout,
dimensions and names of existing and proposed streets; rights of way; utility
easements; parks and community spaces; layout and dimensions of lots and
building setback lines; preliminary improvement drawings showing water, sewer,
drainage, electricity, telecommunications and natural gas and other
characteristics as the planning and zoning commission deems necessary;
      8.   Proposed schedule for the development of the site; and
      9.   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the land in
question to initiate the proposed development plan within two (2) years.
   B.   The application for preliminary PUD shall be accompanied by a written
statement by the developer setting forth the reasons why, in his opinion, the
PUD would be in the public interest. (1984 Code § 5-14-12; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-
2021)
10-14-13: PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC NOTICE:
The procedure for public hearing and legal notification shall be as required by
Idaho Code section 67-6512. (1984 Code § 5-14-13; amd. 2014 Code)
10-14-14: APPROVAL IN PRINCIPLE BY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Time Limit; Considerations: Within thirty (30) days after the public
hearing, the planning and zoning commission shall review the preliminary
development plan to determine if it is consistent with the intent and purpose
of this chapter; whether the proposed development advances the general welfare
of the community and neighborhood and whether the benefits, combination of
various land uses and the interrelationship with the land uses in the
surrounding area justify the deviation from standard district regulations. The
planning and zoning commission's approval in principle of the preliminary
development plan shall be necessary before an applicant may submit a final
development plan. Approval in principle shall not be construed to endorse a
precise location of uses, configuration of parcels or engineering feasibility.
   B.   Other Criteria: The planning and zoning commission shall consider the
general standards applicable to special use permits and criteria for special
uses before approving in principle a preliminary development plan. (1984 Code §
5-14-14)
10-14-15: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
Upon approval in principle of a preliminary development plan, an application
for approval of the final development plan may be filed with the zoning
administrator by at least one property owner or person having a presently
existing interest in the property for which the PUD is proposed. Each
application shall be signed by the owner or the lessee, attesting to the truth
and exactness of all information supplied on the application for final
development plan. Each application shall clearly state that the approval shall
expire and may be revoked if construction on the project has not begun within
two (2) years from the date of issuance of the approval. At a minimum, the
application shall contain the following information:
   A.   A survey of the proposed development site, showing the dimensions and
bearings of the property lines, area in acres, topography, existing features of
the development site, including major wooded areas, structures, streets,
easements, utility lines and land uses;
   B.   All the information required on the preliminary development plan; the
location and sizes of lots, location and proposed density of dwelling units,
nonresidential building intensity and land use considered suitable for adjacent
properties;
   C.   A schedule for the development of units to be constructed in
progression and a description of the design principles for buildings and
streetscapes; tabulation of the number of acres in the proposed project for
various uses; the number of housing units proposed by type; estimated
residential population by type of housing; estimated nonresidential population;
anticipated timing for each unit and standards for height, open space, building
density, parking areas, population density and public improvements proposed for
each unit of the development whenever the applicant proposes and exception from
standard zoning districts or other ordinances governing development;
   D.   Engineering feasibility studies and plans showing, as necessary, water,
sewer, drainage, electricity, telecommunication and natural gas installations;
waste disposal facilities; street improvements and nature and extent of
earthwork required for site preparation and development;
   E.   Site plan, showing buildings, various functional use areas, circulation
and their relationship;
   F.   Preliminary building plans, including floor plans and exterior
elevations;
   G.   Landscaping plans; and
   H.   Deed restrictions, protective covenants and other legal statements or
devices to be used to control the use, development and maintenance of the land,
and the improvements thereon, including those areas which are to be commonly
owned and maintained. (1984 Code § 5-14-15; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-14-16: RECOMMENDATION BY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Within sixty (60) days after receipt of the final development plan, the
planning and zoning commission shall recommend to the city council that the
final development plan be approved as presented, approved with supplementary
conditions or disapproved. The planning and zoning commission shall then
transmit all papers constituting the record and the recommendations to the city
council.
   B.   The planning and zoning commission shall find that the facts submitted
with the application and presented to them establish that:
      1.   The proposed development can be initiated within two (2) years of
the date of approval;
      2.   Each individual unit of the development, as well as the total
development, can exist as an independent unit capable of creating an
environment of sustained desirability and stability or that adequate assurance
will be provided that such objective will be attained; the uses proposed will
not be detrimental to present and potential surrounding uses, but will have a
beneficial effect which would not be achieved under standard district
regulations;
      3.   The site design conforms to the topography and natural landscape
features and shows consideration for the location and function of land uses and
structures to achieve this purpose;
      4.   The development is compatible with existing and planned permitted
uses and would not cause damage, hazard or nuisance to persons or property in
the vicinity;
      5.   The internal street system is designed for the efficient and safe
flow of vehicles and pedestrians without having a disruptive influence upon the
activities and functions contained within the development, nor placing an undue
burden upon existing transportation and other public services in the
surrounding area;
      6.   Community facilities, such as park, recreational and open space
areas are functionally related to all dwelling units and are easily accessible
via pedestrian and/or bicycle pathways. Any common usable open space which may
be provided shall be directly accessible to the lots which have been reduced in
size from the minimum lot size, and to multi-family developments within the
development;
      7.   Any exception from standard district requirements is warranted by
the design and other amenities incorporated in the final development plan, in
accordance with the PUD and the adopted policy of the city council;
      8.   The area surrounding said development can be planned and zoned in
coordination and substantial compatibility with the proposed development;
      9.   The PUD is in general conformance with the comprehensive plan;
      10.   The existing and proposed utility services are adequate for the
population densities and residential uses proposed. (1984 Code § 5-14-16)
10-14-17: ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Within sixty (60) days after the receipt of the final recommendation of
the planning and zoning commission, the city council shall either approve,
approve with supplementary conditions or disapprove the application presented.
Upon granting or denying the application, the city council shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   B.   If the application is either approved or approved with conditions, the
city council shall direct the zoning administrator to issue zoning permits only
in accordance with approved final development plan and the supplementary
conditions attached thereto. (1984 Code § 5-14-17)
10-14-18: EXPIRATION AND EXTENSION OF APPROVAL PERIOD:
The approval of a final development plan for a PUD shall be for a period not to
exceed two (2) years to allow for preparation and recording of the required
subdivision plat and the development of the project. If no construction has
begun within two (2) years after approval is granted, the approved final
development plan shall be void. An extension of the time limit or modification
of the approved final development plan may be approved if the planning and
zoning commission finds that such extension or modification is not in conflict
with the public interest. (1984 Code § 5-14-18)
CHAPTER 15
RESIDENTIAL LAND SUBDIVISIONS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-15A-1: Purpose
10-15A-2: Applicability
10-15A-3: Hearing Procedure
10-15A-4: Definitions
10-15A-5: Alternatives To Subdivisions
10-15A-6: Variances And Appeals
10-15A-7: Amendments
10-15A-8: Denial Of Building Permit Upon Violation
10-15A-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare of present and future residents of the city, and to bring about
a coordinated and efficient development of the city, as well as the following
items:
      1.   To protect property rights and enhance property values.
      2.   To ensure that public facilities and services are provided to the
people at reasonable cost.
      3.   To ensure the economy and important environmental features of the
city are protected and enhanced.
      4.   To encourage urban and urban type development while avoiding undue
concentration of population and overcrowding of land.
      5.   To ensure that the development of land is commensurate with the
physical characteristics of the land.
      6.   To protect fish, wildlife and recreation resources while avoiding
undue water and air pollution.
   B.   For these reasons, the following regulations of this chapter for
subdividing land within the city are hereby adopted. (1984 Code §
6-1-1)
10-15A-2: APPLICABILITY:
The regulations of this chapter shall apply to the subdividing of all
residential land within the corporate limits of the city, and the subdividing
of all residential land within the city impact area: (1984 Code §
6-1-2; amd. 2014 Code)
   A.   Every owner proposing a "subdivision", as defined in section
10-3-2 of this title, shall cause the same to be engineered and surveyed and a
plat and construction plans made thereof, which shall particularly and
accurately describe and set forth all the streets, easements, slopes, grades,
elevations, public grounds, blocks or lots, and other essential information,
and shall record such plat. This subsection is not intended to prevent the
filing of other plats.
   B.   The dividing of land into two (2) or more tracts, lots or parcels for
transfer of ownership or building development.
   C.   The dedicating of any street or alley through or along any tract of
land.
   D.   The resubdivision of a lot or parcel into one or more sublots, except
as provided for in subsection E of this section.
   E.   The regulations in this chapter shall not apply to any of the
following:
      1.   A lot or parcel line adjustment. See section
10-9-11 of this title.
      2.   Any new street dedication other than dedications widening existing
platted streets.
      3.   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent
or a court decree for the distribution of property thereunder. (1984 Code §
6-1-2)
10-15A-3: HEARING PROCEDURE:
Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6509, the procedures adopted for the conduct
of hearings are to apply to all hearings held pursuant to this chapter. (1984
Code §
6-1-3)
10-15A-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
CITY ENGINEER: The city civil engineer, city transportation engineer, city
water engineer, and city sewer engineer as appointed by the mayor and confirmed
by the city council.
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interest in land for use by the
public. Land becomes dedicated when accepted by the city council.
PLAT, FINAL: A plan of subdivision, dedication or any portion thereof, prepared
for filing and recording by the county recorder and containing those elements
and requirements set forth in this chapter. A final plat, upon it being filed
and recorded by the county recorder, shall be known as an authorized plat,
subdivision or dedication.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A preliminary plat of a proposed subdivision or dedication,
containing the elements and requirements set forth in this chapter.
RETURN, PROPERTY LINE: A circular lot line that connects two (2) lot lines at a
street intersection.
SHORT PLAT: The map or representation of a short subdivision.
SHORT SUBDIVISION: Every division of a tract, for the purpose of lease or sale,
into four (4) or less lots, plats, sites, parcels or tracts.
STREET, DEAD END: A street connecting to another street at one end only and not
having provisions for vehicular turnaround at its terminus.
STREET, FRONTAGE: A minor street, parallel to and adjacent to an arterial
street, which has the primary purpose of providing access to abutting
properties.
STREET, LOCAL: A street inside of a subdivided parcel designed to access
residential dwellings within that subdivision.
STREET, LOOP: A minor street which forms a loop and returns to the same street
from which it originated. A street forming a connection between two (2) other
streets is not considered a loop.
STREET, MAJOR COLLECTOR: A street designated as a major collector street by the
city council. A major collector street serves both intercounty movements and
provides the primary routes through the community. Major collectors serve the
central business area and larger traffic generators within a community.
STREET, MINOR ARTERIAL ROUTE: A street designated as a minor arterial street by
the city council typically referred to as a state highway. Minor arterial
routes are regionally significant corridors for higher speed intercounty
service.
STREET, MINOR COLLECTOR: A street designated as a minor collector street by the
city council. A minor collector street has the primary purpose of collecting
traffic from local roads onto the major collector streets and arterial streets.
STREET, PARTIAL: A dedicated right of way which provides only a portion of the
required street width.
STREET, PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL ROUTE: A street designated as a principal arterial
street by the city council typically referred to as a state highway. It is the
primary purpose of a principal arterial route to carry high volumes of fast
moving or heavy traffic. Principal arterial routes are regionally significant
corridors for interstate travel.
STREET, REVERSE FRONTAGE: Lots that front on more than one street, but have
access to only one street (a double fronted lot).
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY (TIS): A study to be completed by a professional engineer
registered in the state of Idaho which identifies, analyzes and provides
recommendations for mitigating the impacts that a proposed development will
have on the surrounding surface transportation system, including existing and
anticipated vehicle and pedestrian facilities.
UTILITIES: The installation of water, sewage, gas, irrigation, cable
television, communication lines or electricity and similar facilities providing
service to and used by the public. (1984 Code § 6-1-4; amd. 2014 Code; Ord.
682, 5-10-2021)
10-15A-5: ALTERNATIVES TO SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Short Subdivisions: A short subdivision may be considered if it
consists of four (4) lots or less, where right of way is required. All platting
and development requirements shall be adhered to, except that the preliminary
and final plats may be presented at the same time.
   B.   Phasing Of Subdivision: Phasing may be allowed. Phasing shall be laid
out in a written agreement, setting forth the area and what is to be developed.
Phasing shall include all development work, such as roads, water, sewer,
drainage and irrigation. The work shall also include service to all lots and
adequate work to allow development of the next phase.
   C.   Granting Of Alternatives: Relief pursuant to subsections A and B of
this section will be granted only after an affirmative vote of the city council
and subject to such conditions or terms as they deem appropriate. (1984 Code §
6-1-5)
10-15A-6: VARIANCES AND APPEALS:
   A.   Variances: Whenever a tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size or
shape or is surrounded by such developments or unusual conditions that the
strict application of the regulations of this chapter would result in
substantial hardship or inequity, the planning and zoning commission may vary
or modify such requirements so that the subdivider may develop his property in
a reasonable manner, but so at the same time, the public welfare and interest
of the city are protected, the general intent and spirit of said regulations
are preserved, and conformity to achievement of the comprehensive general plan
is assured. The variance procedure shall be as specified in chapter 13 of this
title.
   B.   Appeals: The appeal procedure shall be as specified in section
10-2-10 of this title. (1984 Code §
6-1-6; amd. 2014 Code)
10-15A-7: AMENDMENTS:
The planning and zoning commission may recommend amendments to this chapter and
the city council, in acting on such recommendation or on its own motion, may
amend this chapter from time to time; provided, however, that the procedure
following in such modifications shall be the same as in the original adoption
of these regulations, or in conformity with the then applicable state law.
(1984 Code §
6-1-7)
10-15A-8: DENIAL OF BUILDING PERMIT UPON VIOLATION:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall not be
entitled to the issuance of any building permits for construction of buildings
or otherwise on the land being subject to subdivision under the provisions of
this chapter. (1984 Code § 6-1-8; amd. 2014 Code)
ARTICLE B. DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-15B-1: Generally
10-15B-2: Block Requirements
10-15B-3: Lot Requirements
10-15B-4: Street Requirements
10-15B-5: Alley Requirements
10-15B-6: Easements
10-15B-1: GENERALLY:
In order that the subdivision of land within the jurisdiction of the City will
contribute to the development of safe, convenient and attractive residential,
commercial and other areas, and will advance the public welfare, the Planning
and Zoning Commission, in reviewing and acting upon any subdivision plat, shall
ensure that full consideration and weight is given to the following:
   A.   The intent and design of the proposed plat shall be in accordance with
the provisions of the Comprehensive General Plan.
   B.   Street patterns in residential neighborhoods shall be designed to
create areas free of through traffic but readily accessible to adjacent
arterial streets.
   C.   In the subdivision of land along arterial and collector streets, the
block length shall be increased so as to limit driveway or other vehicular
access compatible with good design and a reasonable use of land.
   D.   Street intersections in residential areas may be composed of two (2),
three (3) or four (4) approaches wherever such design will not unduly restrict
the free movement of traffic.
   E.   All irrigation and natural drainage courses shall be improved by tiling
in a manner which will improve the hydraulics and ease of maintenance of the
channel as per City specifications.
   F.   Reserve strips controlling access to public streets shall be permitted;
provided, that the control and disposition of land comprising such strips are
placed within jurisdiction of the City under conditions specified by the
planning and zoning commission and shown on the plat.
   G.   The point of beginning of all subdivisions shall be marked with a brass
or aluminum cap monument, either in concrete set on galvanized iron pipe, or
set on an iron or steel rod. If concrete be used, it shall not be less than six
inches by six inches by twenty four inches (6" x 6" x 24"); and if galvanized
iron pipe be used, it shall not be less than two inches (2") in diameter and
thirty inches (30") long, and if iron or steel rod be used, it shall not be
less than five-eighths inch (5/8") in diameter and thirty inches (30") long.
The centerline intersections and points where the centerline changes direction
on all streets, avenues and public highways shall be monumented with an iron or
steel rod with the above dimensions bearing an aluminum, brass or plastic cap
permanently stamped with the intersection point and registration number of the
professional land surveyor in responsible charge. (1984 Code § 6-2-1; amd. Ord.
682, 5-10-2021)
10-15B-2: BLOCK REQUIREMENTS:
No block should be longer than six hundred feet (600') nor less than two
hundred fifty feet (250') between street intersections, and each block should
have sufficient width to provide for two (2) tiers of lots, except as provided
in subsection
10-15B-3E of this article, or by a special exception approval by the planning
and zoning commission. (1984 Code § 6-2-2; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15B-3: LOT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Established By City: Lot area, dimensions and minimum street frontage
shall be established as set forth in this title. If a lot is not uniform for
width and/or depth, at least one lot line for width and one lot line for depth
shall meet the minimum requirements for dimensions.
   B.   Corner Lots: For corner lots, a minimum property line connecting
streets allowing for adequate right-of-way to construct pedestrian ramps in
accordance to ADA shall be provided. A larger right-of-way may be required
when, in the opinion of the planning and zoning commission, such is necessary
to serve an existing or future need.
   C.   Butt Or Key Lots: Butt or key lots shall be avoided whenever possible.
   D.   Side Lot Lines: Side lot lines are preferred to be at approximate right
angles or radial to the street center line.
   E.   Street Reverse Frontage Lots: Street reverse frontage lots are not
encouraged except that, where a showing is made that unusual topography or
other conditions make it impossible to meet this requirement, an exception may
be approved by the planning and zoning commission. A common lot landscaped
buffer is encouraged to separate the rear of the lot from the street.
   F.   Lot Area And Dimensions:
      1.   Minimum Lot Size And Dimensions In Single-Family Residential Zones:
Each buildable lot shall have a minimum lot area of seven thousand five hundred
(7,500) square feet, a minimum lot depth of one hundred feet (100'), and a
minimum street frontage of seventy five feet (75'). Street frontage may be
measured at the building front setback line.
      2.   Minimum Lot Size And Dimensions In Large Lot Residential Zones: Each
buildable lot shall have a minimum lot area of two hundred seventeen thousand
eight hundred (217,800) square feet (5 acres) and a minimum street frontage of
three hundred feet (300').
      3.   Minimum Lot Size And Dimensions In Multi-Family Residential Zones:
Each two-family dwelling unit shall have a minimum lot area of three thousand
seven hundred fifty (3,750) square feet per dwelling unit, and a minimum street
frontage of sixty feet (60'). Street frontage may be measured at the building
front setback line.
   G.   Sight Triangle Requirements: Refer to section
10-9-8 of this title for sight triangle requirements on corner lots. (1984 Code
§ 6-2-3; amd. Ord. 640, 5-14-2018; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15B-4: STREET REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of all
streets shall conform to the Comprehensive General Plan and shall be considered
in their relation to existing and planned streets, topographic conditions,
public convenience and safety, and in their appropriate relation to the
proposed uses of the land served.
   B.   Where a subdivision abuts or contains any existing or proposed
principal arterial, minor arterial, major collector or minor collector street,
it should be designed with reverse frontage streets or similar treatment for
the purpose of creating desirable neighborhood character and enhancing the
movement of traffic. Direct residential access to principal arterial, minor
arterial, major collector or minor collector streets should be limited where
possible.
   C.   The planning and zoning commission may require a street along a
railroad right-of-way suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land.
   D.   There shall be provided rights-of-way of such width in no case to be
less than those defined in the Comprehensive Plan for the City; provided,
however, that the width of said rights-of-way shall in no case be less than the
following:
 
Classification      Right-Of-Way Description            Potential Example
                                 Arterials are
                                 regionally significant
                                 corridors for
                                 interstate travel and
                                 provide high speed
                                 travel. All principal
Principal arterials 90' and up   arterials in the       U.S. 95,
                                 Fruitland area of      U.S. 30
                                 impact are State
                                 highways and are under
                                 the jurisdiction of
                                 the Idaho
                                 Transportation
                                 Department.
                                 Fruitland does not
                                 currently have any
                                 minor arterials. A
                                 minor arterial would
                                 also provide high
                                 speed interstate and
Minor arterials     90' and up   intercounty service. A U.S. 95,
                                 minor arterial would   U.S. 30
                                 serve that portion of
                                 the community not
                                 served by the
                                 principal arterials
                                 and would likely be a
                                 State highway.
                                 Serves both
                                 intercounty movements
                                 and provides the
                                 primary routes through Pennsylvania Ave.,
                                 communities.           SW 3rd St.,
Major collectors    65' minimum  Collectors are not of  NW 16th St.,
                                 Statewide importance.  Washoe Rd.,
                                 They serve central     Elmore Rd.
                                 business areas and
                                 larger traffic
                                 generators within a
                                 community.
                                 Collect traffic from
                                 local roads and feed   NW 24th St.,
Minor collectors    55' minimum  residential traffic    NW 4th St.,
                                 onto minor collectors, W 1st St.
                                 major collectors, or
                                 arterial road network.
                                 Roads located within
                                 residential district.  Residential subdivision
Local roads         50' minimum  Many of these roads    roads -
                                 are cul-de-sacs or     Cornwall Way
                                 loop roads with no
                                 through continuity.
 
   E.   Street grades shall be such as to provide for the safe movement of
traffic in all weather and for adequate drainage of both streets and abutting
properties. Street grades shall be not less than four-tenths percent (0.4%) and
not more than ten percent (10%). The planning and zoning commission may approve
minimum street grade of 0.3 on a case by case situation.
   F.   In general, partial street dedications shall not be permitted;
provided, however, that the planning and zoning commission may accept a partial
street dedication when such street forms the boundary of the property being
subdivided and, in addition, is shown on the comprehensive general plan, or is
designated by the planning and zoning commission as an arterial or collector
street, or is otherwise officially designated as of major importance as a
present or future trafficway, or when such other conditions or restrictions
exist or are imposed by the planning and zoning commission so that the eventual
completion of such street to its full required right of way is assured. When a
dedicated partial street exists adjacent to the property to be subdivided, the
other portion may be platted within such subdivision.
   G.   A cul-de-sac, court or similar type street may be permitted; whenever a
tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size or shape or is surrounded by
such developments or unusual conditions that the strict application of the
regulations of this chapter would result in substantial hardship or inequity,
the planning and zoning commission may vary or modify such requirements so that
the subdivider may develop his property in a reasonable manner, but so at the
same time, the public welfare and interest of the city are protected, the
general intent and spirit of said regulations are preserved, and conformity to
achievement of the comprehensive general plan is assured; provided, that the
maximum length for a cul-de-sac shall be four hundred feet (400') as measured
from entrance to the center of the turnaround, and all cul-de-sacs shall be
provided with a turnaround having a minimum radius of fifty feet (50') at the
property line and not less than forty five feet (45') at the back of curb
lines.
   H.   Dead end streets shall not be permitted, with the exception that such
streets terminating at the boundary of a subdivision may be approved when such
street and its extension is shown on the comprehensive general plan or when, in
the opinion of the planning and zoning commission, the future extension of such
street is feasible and necessary to the proper development of the city street
pattern. A temporary cul-de-sac shall be constructed at the end of a dead end
street. A temporary fence barricade or other substantial barrier shall be
constructed at the end of any dead end street to prevent vehicles using said
street as a through street. Any abutting landowners who desire to use a dead
end street to reach abutting lands may apply for a permit to do so, and will be
required to bring his portion of the street up to subdivision standards.
   I.   The maximum length of a loop street shall be one thousand feet (1,000')
and a loop street over this length, though otherwise meeting the definition of
a loop street, shall be required to conform to the standards of a local street
in its subdivision type unless otherwise approved by the planning and zoning
commission.
   J.   Streets shall be designed and laid out in order to intersect as nearly
as possible at right angles, and no street shall intersect any other street at
less than seventy degrees (70°).
   K.   Where any street deflects an angle of ten degrees (10°) or more, a
connecting curve having a minimum radius as defined by the American Association
Of State Highway And Transportation Officials for the appropriate roadway
design speed is required.
   L.   Proposed streets which are continuations of existing streets shall be
given the same names as the existing streets, and all other street names used
shall not duplicate or be of a spelling or pronunciation of existing streets
within the city or within the adjacent county area. The subdivider shall name
all streets within the proposed subdivision subject to final approval from the
planning and zoning commission.
   M.   Street trees, where provided, shall be of the variety, size and
location approved by the planning and zoning commission. (1984 Code § 6-2-4;
amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15B-5: ALLEY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Alleys may be required at the rear of business and/or residential lots
and shall maintain a clear travelway at least twenty feet (20') in width for
their entire length.
   B.   At the intersection of two (2) alleys, the corners of the abutting
property shall be provided with a property line return having a radius of not
less than twenty feet (20').
   C.   Except under unusual circumstances, alleys shall not terminate in a
dead end and in no case shall a dead end alley be accepted unless turnaround
facilities are provided to the satisfaction of the planning and zoning
commission. (1984 Code § 6-2-5; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15B-6: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Where there is no alley, easements shall be provided at least ten feet
(10') wide for utilities and drainage or other public services at the rear of
every lot and ten feet (10') at the front of every lot. A minimum of ten feet
(10') shall be provided along all public street rights of way.
   B.   Structures shall not be placed within an easement. Portable structures,
fences and on grade slabs may be placed within an easement, subject to the
condition that whenever work is done in the easement, any removal or movement
of items placed therein shall be done at the expense and peril of the
landholder. A utility doing work shall not be liable for any damage done to
anything placed within the easement. Utilities shall have unrestricted access
to enter, install, maintain and replace the improvements located in the
easements. Portable structures and other features may be removed and not
replaced if they interfere with the maintenance or use of the affected utility.
(1984 Code § 6-2-6)
ARTICLE C. PLAT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-15C-1: Plats Generally
10-15C-1-1: When Required
10-15C-1-2: Official Filing; Recording Of Sales Required
10-15C-1-3: Review And Inspection; Charges
10-15C-2: Preliminary Plats
10-15C-2-1: Filing Of Copies, Submittal Of Title Report
10-15C-2-2: Preparation, Submittal To Planning And Zoning Commission
10-15C-2-3: Review And Recommendations By Agencies
10-15C-2-4: Planning And Zoning Commission Action
10-15C-2-5: Scale, Required Information
10-15C-2-6: Traffic Impact Study Thresholds
10-15C-3: Final Plats
10-15C-3-1: Preparation, Filing, Accompanying Prints
10-15C-3-2: Filing, Time Constraints
10-15C-3-3: Certification By Zoning Administrator, Placement On Agenda
10-15C-3-4: Acceptance Of Public Dedications
10-15C-3-5: Scale
10-15C-3-6: Contents
10-15C-1: PLATS GENERALLY:
10-15C-1-1: WHEN REQUIRED:
A plat shall be drawn for each subdivision of land and submitted to the
planning and zoning commission, as provided in this article. (1984 Code § 6-3-
1-1; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15C-1-2: OFFICIAL FILING; RECORDING OF SALES REQUIRED:
   A.   No plat or description of land subdividing shall be filed in the office
of the county recorder until the same has been approved by the planning and
zoning commission in preliminary and final plat form as required in this
article.
   B.   No lots shall be sold from any plat until the plat has been recorded in
the office of the county recorder.
   C.   Prior to submitting a preliminary plat, an applicant shall submit a
nonrefundable fee, as established by resolution of the City Council and as may
be amended from time to time, to the city clerk. This fee shall be for mailing
and processing costs and shall be in addition to any other fees or costs,
including city engineer and/or legal review fees, called for elsewhere in this
code. (1984 Code § 6-3-1-2; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021; Ord. 712, 2-10-2025)
10-15C-1-3: REVIEW AND INSPECTION; CHARGES:
   A.   The planning and zoning commission will review the preliminary and
final plats and/or construction drawings for conformance to the standards
contained in this chapter, and will inspect all construction, or inspection may
be delegated to a public works supervisor or other authorized agent. The cost
of such reviewing and inspection be borne by the applicant.
   B.   Services provided by the city in reviewing of such plat or construction
drawings, and for the full time construction inspections for which charges are
made, may be charged for on a time and material basis at rates to be
established from time to time by the city council. (1984 Code § 6-3-1-5; amd.
Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15C-2: PRELIMINARY PLATS:
10-15C-2-1: FILING OF COPIES, SUBMITTAL OF TITLE REPORT:
   A.   Any owner desiring to subdivide a piece of land within the city shall
file with the zoning administrator copies of the preliminary plat as required.
   B.   In making application, the owner shall submit a current title report or
such evidence as is acceptable to the zoning administrator. (1984 Code § 6-3-2-
1; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15C-2-2: PREPARATION, SUBMITTAL TO PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat and such other supplementary
material as may be required to indicate to the planning and zoning commission
the general objectives of the subdivision. The subdivider shall submit to the
city twenty two (22) copies of the preliminary plat to be considered. The
subdivider shall also submit one copy of the preliminary plat in an eleven inch
by seventeen inch (11" x 17") size. If the warrants defined in section 10-15C-
2-7 of this article for a traffic impact study are met with the proposed
development, five (5) copies of the completed and signed traffic impact study
shall be submitted concurrently with the preliminary plat to the zoning
administrator. (1984 Code § 6-3-2-2; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15C-2-3: REVIEW AND RECOMMENDATIONS BY AGENCIES:
   A.   The zoning administrator may transmit one copy each of the preliminary
plat to the following agencies for review and recommendations, and may request
recommendations from such other agencies as he may deem necessary:
   City building official.
   City engineers.
   City of Fruitland public works department.
   Drainage district 5 (if said plat abuts or crosses).
   Farmers Mutual Telephone Company.
   Fire chief.
   Fruitland school district 373.
   Highway district 1.
   Idaho Power Company.
   Idaho transportation department (if said plat abuts).
   Intermountain Gas Company.
   Irrigation district appropriate to area being platted.
   Payette County assessor.
   Postmaster.
   Treasure Valley Classical Academy.
   Williams Northwest pipeline (if said plat abuts or crosses).
   B.   The zoning administrator shall transmit one copy of the preliminary
plat and the traffic impact study, where applicable, to the city engineer for
review and recommendations. The city engineer review fees shall be paid by the
subdivider.
   C.   If no written recommendation from any agency listed in subsection A of
this section is received within fifteen (15) days after such notification, the
approval of the preliminary plat by such agency will be considered to be
granted. (1984 Code § 6-3-2-3; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15C-2-4: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION ACTION:
The planning and zoning commission shall approve, approve conditionally or
disapprove the plat within forty-five (45) days of the date at which said plat
is submitted with a complete application. If the preliminary plat is
disapproved or approved conditionally, the reasons for such action shall be
stated in writing, a copy of which, signed by the Zoning Administrator, shall
be transmitted to the applicant. (1984 Code § 6-3-2-4; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-
2021)
10-15C-2-5: SCALE, REQUIRED INFORMATION:
   A.   Preliminary plats shall be drawn on a twenty four inch by thirty six
inch (24" x 36") sheet size and at a scale of not less than one hundred feet to
the inch (100' = 1"), except that it may be smaller by approval of the city
engineer and zoning administrator, and shall show the following:
      1.   The scale, north point, date, township, range, section and quarter
section of subject parcel;
      2.   The name of the proposed subdivision;
      3.   The name and address of the owner of record, the subdivider and
engineer, surveyor or person preparing the plat;
      4.   The names, with locations of intersecting boundary lines, of
adjoining subdivisions, and the location of the city limits if falling within
or immediately adjoining the tract;
      5.   The land contours with appropriate vertical intervals referenced to
datum and at intervals acceptable to the engineer; provided, however, that
where authorized by the engineer, contour data may be provided in form of spot
elevations at street intersections and in drainage channels;
      6.   The location of existing buildings, water bodies or courses, and the
location of dedicated streets at the point where they adjoin and/or are
immediately adjacent to; provided, that actual measured distance shall not be
required;
      7.   The boundaries of the tract, as determined by a legal survey area of
the tract, the proposed location, right of way width and pavement width of
streets and alleys, the proposed locations and width of easements, proposed lot
lines, the radius of all curves and approximate lot dimensions;
      8.   The existing zoning boundary lines defining the proposed use of all
portions of the subdivision;
      9.   The proposed street names and system of consecutively numbering lots
and blocks;
      10.   The locations, approximate size and proposed use of all land
intended to be dedicated for public use or reserved for the use of all property
owners within the proposed subdivision;
      11.   The location of sanitary and storm sewers, irrigation lines and
facilities, water mains, culverts and other surface and subsurface structures
existing within or immediately adjacent to the proposed subdivision; and the
locations, layout type of any proposed water mains and storage facilities,
sanitary mains and laterals, storm sewers, irrigation lines and facilities,
culverts and drainage structures, street improvements and any other proposed
utilities;
      12.   The location of all drainage structures and the proposed method of
disposing of all runoff from the proposed subdivision, and the location of all
drainage easements relating thereof, whether they are located within or outside
the proposed plat.
   B.   A vicinity map of the proposed subdivision shall accompany the
preliminary plat at an appropriate scale. The vicinity map shall show the
following features within one-half (1/2) mile of the exterior boundary of the
proposed subdivision:
      1.   Names and right of way widths of proposed and existing public
highways, arterials and collector roads;
      2.   City limits;
      3.   Government section lines;
      4.   Named rivers, streams, drainages, and canals. (1984 Code § 6-3-2-6;
amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15C-2-6: TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY THRESHOLDS:
A traffic impact study (TIS) shall be performed by a professional engineer
licensed in the state and employed by the developer when one or more of the
following apply:
   A.   Full TIS: A full TIS shall be required for any development that will
generate:
      1.   One hundred (100) or more added (new) peak direction trips to or
from the site during the adjacent roadway’s peak hours or the development’s
peak hours;
      2.   One thousand (1,000) or more added (new) vehicle trips per day;
      3.   One hundred (100) or more dwelling units;
      4.   The proposed development will add fifteen thousand (15,000) square
feet or more retail space;
      5.   The proposed development will add thirty five thousand (35,000)
square feet or more office space;
      6.   The proposed development will add seventy thousand (70,000) square
feet or more industrial space;
      7.   The proposed development will have a significant impact on a
roadway, as determined by the city transportation engineer.
      A full TIS shall be completed in accordance with the city’s “Traffic
Impact Study Requirements” for any development meeting these thresholds.
   B.   Modified TIS: A modified TIS shall be required for any development that
will generate:
      1.   Fifty (50) to ninety nine (99) added (new) peak direction trips to
or from the site during the adjacent roadway’s peak hours or the development’s
peak hours;
      2.   Five hundred (500) to nine hundred ninety nine (999) added (new)
vehicle trips per day; and/or
      3.   Fifty (50) to ninety nine (99) dwelling units.
      The developer shall meet with the city transportation engineer prior to
completing the modified TIS. The purpose of this meeting will be to identify
the modified requirements for the TIS.
   C.   Authority Of City To Require: The city reserves the right to require a
TIS for any and all new development or redevelopment, regardless of the
thresholds previously listed. (1984 Code § 6-3-2-7; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15C-3: FINAL PLATS:
10-15C-3-1: PREPARATION, FILING, ACCOMPANYING PRINTS:
   A.   After the approval or conditional approval of the preliminary plat, the
subdivider may cause the subdivision, or any part thereof, to be surveyed and a
final plat prepared in accordance with the preliminary plat as approved.
   B.   The final plat, prepared in accordance with Idaho Code title 50,
chapter 13, and the provisions set forth in this chapter, shall be filed with
the zoning administrator, together with a letter requesting that it be approved
by the city engineer.
   C.   Such final plat, when submitted, shall be accompanied by prints
thereof, as required, and two (2) sets of prints of the plans and (complete)
construction drawings and specifications for all proposed improvements as
required by article D of this chapter. (1984 Code § 6-3-3-1; amd. Ord. 682, 5-
10-2021)
10-15C-3-2: FILING, TIME CONSTRAINTS:
   A.   Filing of the final plat may be made within one year after action by
the city council on the preliminary plat.
   B.   Failure to file a final plat within one year after action by the city
engineer approving the preliminary plat shall cause all approvals of the
preliminary plat to be voided; provided, however, that upon application of the
subdivider, the city engineer may grant extensions for reasonable cause in one
year increments based on the preliminary plat, and improvement standards are in
conformance with the standards in place at approval time. (1984 Code § 6-3-3-2;
amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15C-3-3: CERTIFICATION BY ZONING ADMINISTRATOR, PLACEMENT ON AGENDA:
Upon receipt of the final plat and all other required data as provided for by
this chapter, the zoning administrator shall certify the application as
complete and shall affix the date of application acceptance thereon. He shall
place the final plat on the planning and zoning commission agenda for
consideration at the regular meeting. (1984 Code § 6-3-3-3)
10-15C-3-4: ACCEPTANCE OF PUBLIC DEDICATIONS:
At the time of approval of the final plat, the city council shall accept offers
of dedication to the public shown thereon and shall, as a condition precedent
to the acceptance of any streets or easements, require that the subdivider
improve the streets and easements in accordance with standards established
under article D of this chapter. (1984 Code § 6-3-3-7; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-
2021)
10-15C-3-5: SCALE:
The final plat shall be drawn at such scale and contain on the front lettering
of such size, including reference to dedication and affidavit of survey, as to
enable the same to be placed upon a single sheet eighteen inches by twenty four
inches (18" x 24") in size, with no part thereof nearer to the edge of said
sheet than one inch (1"), and shall be in full accordance with provisions of
the state law, Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13. The reverse of said sheet shall
not be used for any portion of the drawing but may contain written matter as to
dedication and other information. (1984 Code § 6-3-3-8; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-
2021)
10-15C-3-6: CONTENTS:
The final plat shall clearly show the following:
   A.   The exterior boundary of the platted tract shall show distance and
bearing ties to the primary control monuments. Primary control points, approved
by the city engineer, or a description and ties to such control points, to
which all dimensions, angles, bearings and similar data on the plat shall be
referenced. Such primary control points must include either a section corner,
quarter section corner or meander corner according to government survey.
   B.   Location and description of monuments.
   C.   Show all tract boundary lines, property lines, lot lines and right of
way lines of streets, easements and other rights of way. Lines shall be labeled
with accurate dimensions in feet and decimals thereof and bearings in degrees,
minutes and seconds, relative to the established basis of bearings. Curves
shall be shown with radii, arc length and chord lengths in feet and decimals
thereof; central angles, and chord bearings in degrees, minutes and seconds.
   D.   Names and locations of adjoining subdivisions. Adjoining parcels which
are not subdivisions shall be labeled “unplatted”.
   E.   Name and right of way width of each street or other right of way.
   F.   The location, dimensions and purposes of all easements.
   G.   The blocks numbered consecutively throughout the entire subdivision and
lots numbered consecutively throughout each block, with areas to be excluded
from platting marked “Reserved” or “Not a Part”.
   H.   The outline of any property, other than streets or alleys, by lengths
and bearings, with the area marked “Public” and showing the proposed use.
   I.   A title which shall include the name of the subdivision, name of the
city, county and state, and the location and description of the subdivision
referenced to section, township and range.
   J.   Scale, north arrow. Drawing scale shall be shown by a graphic bar scale
and text indicating the number of feet in an inch on the drawing, i.e., scale:
One inch equals sixty feet (1" = 60'). Also include a “basis of bearing”.
   K.   Location, width, typical sections, and name of all existing or platted
streets or other important features, such as the general outline of the
following: existing buildings, watercourses, power lines, telecommunications
lines, railroad lines, any existing easements, municipal boundaries, section
lines and restrictive covenants as required or assured. Existing easements
shall be labeled with the recording instrument number found in the county
clerk’s office. Restrictive covenants shall be noted with the recording
instrument number found in the county clerk’s office, or, if no restrictive
covenants are filed for the subdivision, a note stating that:
      No restrictive covenants have been established or adopted for this
subdivision at the time of first recording.
   L.   Certification by a professional land surveyor preparing said plat
certifying the accuracy of the survey and plat shall appear on the front of
said plat.
   M.   Certification by the owner, including dedication of all streets, rights
of way and any sites for public use and grant on any existing or proposed
easements.
   N.   Certification and signature of the county surveyor and signature of the
city engineer verifying that the plat meets the requirements of state law and
this chapter.
   O.   Certification and signature of the city clerk verifying that the final
plat complies with state law, Idaho Code title 50, and with this chapter.
   P.   Certification and signature of the city clerk verifying city council
and planning and zoning commission approval of the final plat and acceptance of
streets, alleys, easements and public land dedications.
   Q.   Certification and signature of the county treasurer verifying that all
taxes and levies against said property are currently paid, prior to the filing
of said plat, and pursuant to Idaho Code.
   R.   Final plat shall be lettered using a Leroy pen set or similar
mechanical lettering set. (1984 Code § 6-3-3-9; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
ARTICLE D. IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
10-15D-0: Applicability
10-15D-1: Plans, Standards Generally
10-15D-2: Preconstruction Filing Of Plans And Bond
10-15D-3: Streets And Alleys
10-15D-4: Waterworks Requirements
10-15D-5: Irrigation Supply
10-15D-6: Drainage
10-15D-7: Stream Or Drainage Course Easements
10-15D-8: Sewer Requirements
10-15D-9: Schools Or Parks, Standards Generally
10-15D-10: Inspector On Development Site
10-15D-11: Warranty Requirement
10-15D-12: Time Of Completion Of Improvements
10-15D-0: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this article shall apply to residential and nonresidential
subdivisions, as applicable. (2014 Code)
10-15D-1: PLANS, STANDARDS GENERALLY:
   A.   The improvements described in this article shall be shown on the
construction plans of any subdivision and installed in accordance with the
procedures and requirements designated in this article. Improvement plans shall
be drawn on a twenty-four inch by thirty-six inch (24" x 36") sheet size and at
a scale of not less than sixty feet to the inch (60' = 1"), except that they
may be drawn at a smaller scale with prior written approval of the city
engineer.
   B.   All improvements shall be in accordance with all elements of the
comprehensive general plan of the city and the requirements of the Idaho state
code, and shall further be in accordance with the standard specifications of
the city and with all requirements of this article. Construction shall be under
the supervision of the city engineers and public works supervisor and subject
to their approval. (1984 Code §6-4-1; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15D-2: PRECONSTRUCTION FILING OF PLANS AND BOND:
   A.   At the time of acceptance of the final plat, the subdivider shall file
with the public works department completely detailed construction drawings and
complete written construction specifications for all improvements required for
the subdivision.
   B.   Plans for the improvements required by this article shall be prepared
by a professional engineer registered in the state.
   C.   Prior to the installation of and acceptance by the city of any
improvement installed by the subdivider, all plans and specifications for all
improvements shall be reviewed and approved by the city engineer.
   D.   The city may receive a performance bond on all improvements at one
hundred twenty percent (120%) of value of the improvements and the bond shall
be received prior to commencement of actual construction. (1984 Code §6-4-2;
amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15D-3: STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Classification: Street type, whether arterial, collector or local,
shall be determined by reference to the comprehensive general plan of the city
and to a map of the entire area the street serves. When classification of a
local street, cul-de- sac or loop street is claimed, the entire length of the
street shall be shown on the subdivision plat being proposed or on a previously
approved plat.
   B.   Pavement Width: The pavement width of all streets shall conform to the
minimum widths defined in the following standard city specifications: (1984
Code § 6-4-3)
   TYPICAL ROAD SECTIONS
                         R/    BC To Paved            Bike Travel Additional Center
 Designation Description W     BC    Width SW Parking Lane Lane   Lane       Lane
                         Width Width
                                  R/    BC To Paved             Bike Travel Additional Center
          Designation Description W     BC    Width SW  Parking Lane Lane   Lane       Lane
                                  Width Width
          L 1         2 lanes,    50.0  38.0  34.0  5.0 7.0         10.0              
Local                 parking
roads                 2 lanes,
          L 2         parking     55.0  42.0  38.0  5.0 7.0         12.0              
                      wider lanes
          C 1         2 lanes,    50.0  35.0  31.0  5.0        5.0  12.0              
                      bike lane
          C 2         2 lanes,    55.0  42.0  38.0  5.0 7.0         12.0              
                      parking
          C 3         3 lanes,    60.0  47.0  43.0  5.0        5.0  12.0             12.0
                      bike lane
Minor                 2 lanes,
collector C 4         parking,    65.0  52.0  48.0  5.0 7.0     5.0  12.0              
                      bike lane
          C 5         3 lanes,    70.0  54.0  50.0  5.0 7.0         12.0   12.0       12.0
                      parking
                      3 lanes,
          C 6         parking,    80.0  64.0  60.0  5.0 7.0     5.0  12.0   12.0       12.0
                      bike lane
          C 71        2 lanes,    55.0  35.0  31.0  7.0        5.0  12.0              
                      bike lane
          C 81        3 lanes,    65.0  47.0  43.0  7.0        5.0  12.0             12.0
Major                 bike lane
collector C 91        4 lanes,    75.0  59.0  55.0  7.0        5.0  12.0              
                      bike lane
          C 101       5 lanes,    90.0  71.0  67.0  7.0        5.0  12.0             12.0
                      bike lane
Minor     Not applicable; cross section to be determined by the state of Idaho (Idaho
arterial  transportation department).
Principal Not applicable; cross section to be determined by the state of Idaho (Idaho
arterial  transportation department).
 
Note:
   1.   Sidewalk may be 7.0 feet attached or 5.0 feet detached with a 5.0 foot
buffer. Refer to subsection
10-7B-7C1a of this title.
(1984 Code §6-4-3; amd. Ord. 613, 7-11-2016; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
   C.   Paving Design: The paving design of the intersection of any new street
with an existing State or Federal highway shall be in accordance with the
standard specifications of the Idaho Transportation Department, but in no case
shall be less than the applicable specification contained in this section.
   D.   Pavement, Base, Gravel: Pavement, base, leveling course gravel shall be
constructed in accordance with the following minimum standard City
specifications:
Base (minimum):
Local roads: Ten inches (10") compacted pit run or equal and three inches (3")
3/4" minus compacted road mix.
Minor collector: Ten inches (10") compacted pit run or equal and three inches
(3") 3/4" minus compacted road mix.
Major collector: Twelve inches (12") compacted pit run or equal and three
inches (3") 3/4" minus compacted road mix.
Surface:
Local and minor collectors: Two and one-half inches (21/2") asphaltic plant
mix.
Major collectors: Three inches (3") asphaltic plant mix.
   E.   Centerlines: In general, the centerline of the street pavement shall
coincide with the centerline of the right-of-way in which the pavement is
located.
   F.   Curb And Gutter: All subdivisions shall be constructed with curb and
gutter. Either six inch (6") vertical curb (SD-701) or standard three inch (3")
rolled curb (SD-702) and gutter are allowed on local roads. Minor collectors
and major collectors shall be constructed with six inch (6") vertical curb and
gutter. (1984 Code § 6-4-3)
   G.   Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall be provided on both sides of all roads per
the table in this section. Sidewalks shall also be provided along any other
street in a subdivision where deemed by the City to be essential to public
convenience or safety. The back of the sidewalk shall be stamped with a "w"
over the water service and "s" over the sanitary sewer service.
      1.   Materials:
         a.   Concrete shall conform to the latest edition of the ISPWC.
      2.   Construction:
         a.   Construction shall conform to the latest edition of the ISPWC.
         b.   Sidewalk used in conjunction with vertical curb shall be a
minimum four inch (4") thickness and shall be six inches (6") in thickness in
all driveway approaches. Sidewalk used in conjunction with rolled curb shall be
a minimum of five inches (5") thick with a four inch (4") thick three-fourths
inch (3/4") road base under it. (Ord. 613, 7-11-2016)
   H.   Driveways: Driveway curb cuts and driveway approaches shall be made in
accordance with the latest edition of the ISPWC. The centerline of the driveway
curb cuts located at intersections shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50') from
the property line in residential zones and one hundred fifty feet (150') in
commercial or industrial zones. (Ord. 640, 5-14-2018)
   I.   Street Lighting: Street lighting in any development, residential or
otherwise, shall be provided by the developer in accordance with the latest
edition of the ISPWC and exceptions contained therein. Local road fixtures
shall be 45-70 watt LED cobra head style (no shoe-box fixtures are allowed) and
collector road fixtures shall be 95-115 watt LED cobra heads. Fixtures shall be
mounted on a mast arm having length of six feet (6') where located at local
road intersections and along collector roads. The mounting height shall be
twenty five feet (25') and wood poles are not allowed in new city
installations. Subdivider shall determine location of streetlights and show
such placement on final construction drawings. At a minimum, streetlights are
required at all intersections, curves, cul-de-sacs, and bike path crossings.
Street lights shall be spaced no farther than four hundred feet (400') on local
roads and three hundred feet (300') on collector roads. A developer may present
a proposal to the city council for decorative street lighting. Any proposal for
decorative lighting may be accepted, rejected, or accepted in a modified form
by the city council. Whichever option is chosen, the developer shall
unconditionally guarantee such improvements and indemnify the City from any
damages resulting from any defects in workmanship or materials for a period of
one year after the date the city accepts the lighting.
   J.   Alleys: Alleys shall be constructed in accordance with the standard
specifications of the city.
   K.   Utilities: All utilities shall be placed underground before any base
street material is laid.
   L.   Signs: Street signs, traffic control signs and posts shall be installed
by the city at the subdivider's expense.
   M.   Pathways: Shared use pathways separated from streets shall be a minimum
of ten feet (10') wide and shall be designed to accommodate two-way bicycle and
pedestrian traffic. Pathways design shall comply with the AASHTO Guide for the
Development of Bicycle Facilities. (1984 Code § 6-4-3; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-
2021)
10-15D-4: WATERWORKS REQUIREMENTS:
All water mains, valves, hydrants and connections to the city water
distribution system shall be provided and installed by the subdivider in
accordance with the standards and specifications of the city and in conformance
with the latest edition of the ISPWC and the Idaho rules for public drinking
water systems. Fire hydrants spacing shall conform to the latest edition of the
international building code. See applicable tables for commercial buildings.
Fire hydrant spacing in residential areas shall not exceed five hundred feet
(500').
   A.   Water Supply Line And Distribution System:
      1.   General: All water lines shall be constructed in accordance with the
specifications from the latest edition of the ISPWC and with the special
provisions of the contract. These specifications cover the work necessary to
install water line, fittings and appurtenances of the sizes and classes
indicated, including, but not limited to, the furnishing of all labor,
equipment and materials; excavation and backfilling; fine grading of trench
bottom; pavement, sidewalk and curb cutting, removal and replacement; providing
base for the pipe; providing bell holes in the trench bottom; laying and
jointing pipe; installing service connections; furnishing pipe necessary for
physical tests; hydrostatic testing of the lines; providing permanent plugs in
tees and crosses installed for future use.
      2.   County Roads And State Highways: Where a water line is to be
constructed across or within the right of way of a state highway, county road
or city street, the contractor shall procure from the proper authority any
permits necessary for such work and shall pay all fees, charges, special
insurance policies, and furnish a bond, if required, to ensure that all
requirements of the state or city are observed, and the roadway and ditches are
restored to a condition as good as their original condition. All requirements
of the state, county or city authorities shall be strictly observed.
   B.   Lines And Grades:
      1.   Lines and grades as indicated on the plans will be staked by the
subdivider's engineer on an offset line. It will be the contractor's
responsibility to provide adequate notice when grades are needed, and to
indicate the location and amount of offset required for his operation.
      2.   The contractor shall carefully preserve all stakes, reference
points, right of way stakes, and bench marks set by the subdivider's engineer
to control construction of the project.
      3.   The contractor shall be responsible for the transfer of the lines
and grades from the offset stakes to the pipeline and the method of transfer
shall be acceptable to the engineer and adequate to ensure construction within
allowable tolerances.
   C.   Materials:
      1.   References: All references to the term ASTM and/or NSF refer to
standard specifications or methods of the American Society For Testing And
Materials and National Sanitary Foundation. The number following the
abbreviation refers to the serial number of the pertinent ASTM specification.
References shall be made herein to standards, tests, methods, and
specifications of research and technical organizations, such as the following:
Item Standard Spec., Test Or Method Designation.
         a.   Reference made to ASTM or other standards shall be understood to
mean the latest revision of said specifications or standards, unless otherwise
noted.
         b.   Asbestos cement pressure pipe is not acceptable for water supply
and distribution.
      2.   PVC Plastic Pipe: PVC pipe indicated on the plans shall be suitable
for use at maximum hydrostatic working pressures rated for C-900/C-905 PVC. PVC
pipe shall be the product of a recognized manufacturer, with established
standards, who is regularly engaged in the production of such materials, and
shall be stamped with AWWA approval.
      3.   Service Pipe:
One inch (1") minimum CTS polyethylene service pipe class 200 or one inch (1")
copper tubing.
Service lines larger than one inch (1") shall be two hundred (200) psi IPS
polyethylene tubing or schedule 80 PVC pipe.
      4.   Service Saddles: Shall have iron pipe or CC threads, manufactured by
Rockwell, Smith Blair, Ford, or Romac with single two inch (2") stainless steel
band.
      5.   Meter Setters: Shall be a minimum eighteen inches (18") high with
coated ball angle valve stop with extended leg to protrude out of meter tile,
shall set so that meter depth will be a minimum of eighteen inches (18")
maximum twenty two inches (22") from lid. Shall have curb stop with copper
compression and female fittings installed prior to meter setter. Meter setter
shall have male multipurpose fitting on inlet and female multipurpose on
outlet. Shall have a vertical check valve manufactured by Mueller or Ford.
For double meter setters, they shall be supplied with a one inch (1") service
line to a U-branch and then a female X male curb stop installed on each outlet
side of the U-branch, prior to the meter setter.
      6.   Corporation Stops:
         a.   Shall be brass with coated ball valve manufactured by Mueller or
Ford.
         b.   Inlet thread to be iron pipe or CC thread type, outlet to be
copper compression fitting.
      7.   Curb Stops: The curb stop shall be full opening stop manufactured by
Mueller or Ford.
      8.   Fire Hydrants:
         a.   Shall be in accordance with latest specifications of AWWA.
         b.   Hydrants to be painted with two (2) coats of approved red hydrant
enamel and manufactured by Waterous Pacer 100, Mueller Centurion, or Clow
Medallian. Shall have mechanical joint shoe.
      9.   Tracer Wires: All mains constructed of materials other than ductile
cast iron, and any service lines constructed of materials other than copper,
shall be equipped with tracer lines at time of installation. Where splices are
required, splices shall be made by soldering or with approved crimp splice. All
splices shall be wrapped with three (3) layers of plastic electrical tape. The
tracer wire shall be laid in the trench beside the pipe prior to backfilling.
Tape once in each joint of pipe. Tracer lines shall be tested after backfilling
is complete. A low voltage source shall be connected to the tracer contacts,
and a magnetic locator shall be used at intervals not greater than one hundred
feet (100'), to determine whether pipe can be located with magnetic locator.
Contractor shall supply the necessary testing equipment and personnel at no
cost to the city. Faulty tracer lines shall be repaired by the contractor and
retested. Tracer wires shall be UF insulated wire, 12-gauge, and shall be
accessible at all valve boxes, fire hydrants, and at water services, if poly
pipe was used.
      10.   Fittings For PVC Plastic Pipe: Flange fittings are accepted when
approved by city.
      11.   Meter Box: Install PVC box minimum of eighteen inches (18")
diameter by thirty six inches (36") deep for single and twenty inches (20")
diameter for double with meter lid assembly or twenty inches by thirty six
inches (20" x 36") poly meter box. For larger meter boxes, contact water
department for guidance.
      12.   Water Meters: Water meters shall be purchased and installed by city
personnel at the expense of the owner. Water meters shall be manufactured by
Sensus and equipped with an encoder register designed for touch read.
      13.   Meter Lids: Meter lids shall be standard flat meter lid with
locking assembly operated by a pentagon nut. Lid shall be compatible with
minimum four inch (4") raised ring assembly. Shall accommodate meter setting
sizes. For variations in sizes and installation situations contact responsible
persons in water department for guidance. Lids shall be provided with one 13/4-
inch predrilled hole for single services and two (2) 13/4-inch predrilled holes
for double services.
   D.   Trench Excavation: Backfill of the trench shall be accomplished so that
no section of approved pipe shall be left open longer than twenty four (24)
hours, except by permission of the public works supervisor. Complete backfill
and cleanup shall progress as each section of pipe has been inspected and
approved. (1984 Code § 6-4-4; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15D-5: IRRIGATION SUPPLY:
   A.   Subdivider shall design and build a pressurized irrigation system
utilizing a nonpotable surface irrigation water source. If surface water is not
available to a particular tract of land, then the subdivider shall present an
alternative plan to the planning and zoning commission for approval. The
pressurized system must be capable of providing a minimum of twenty five (25)
psi at ten (10) gpm to each lot within the subdivision.
   B.   Irrigation main lines and distribution lines shall be provided in
accordance with the latest edition of the Idaho standards for public works
construction.
   C.   Each lot shall be provided with a minimum of one inch (1") service
line.
   D.   Pressure irrigation system shall be owned and operated by the
homeowners’ association or the applicable irrigation district. (1984 Code § 6-
4-5; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15D-6: DRAINAGE:
   A.   Stormwater Management: Stormwater management (SWM) involves a
coordinated effort to control the size and severity of floods, the impacts of
water pollution events, and erosion and sedimentation problems.
The Idaho legislature enacted the groundwater quality protection act of 1989.
The act called for creation of a groundwater quality council that is
responsible for developing a groundwater quality plan as well as a groundwater
monitoring plan.
The water quality plan has identified urban runoff as a possible major nonpoint
source of groundwater contamination. This is a source that cannot be ignored.
This section outlines the city stormwater management program, which is intended
to set up the best management practices (BMP) for managing stormwater discharge
from new developments. The applicant shall also comply with all applicable
state and federal requirements.
An Idaho licensed engineer shall prepare and submit plans to the city
demonstrating that the 100-year event is retained on site or detained and will
not impact surrounding properties. Methodologies and calculations shall conform
to the standard of care and the designs shall include proper and adequate state
of Idaho BMPs.
   B.   Goals: This stormwater management plan addresses three (3) distinct
system goals: flow controls, water quality protection and erosion and
sedimentation control. These goals must be addressed for the construction phase
of a development, as well as for the completed development.
      1.   Flow Controls: Management of stormwater flows involves the design
and implementation of a control system to achieve the following objectives:
         a.   Mitigate downstream impacts from stormwater flows resulting from
land development activities.
         b.   Accommodate the stormwater flows from natural flooding of
upstream lands and developments by providing adequate conveyance facilities
through downstream sites.
         c.   Reduce the impacts on the downstream drainage system by restoring
the original water distribution system to predevelopment conditions through the
use of best management practices.
      2.   Water Quality Protection: Management of surface and ground water
quality involves the design and implementation of a control system to achieve
the following objectives:
         a.   Control or mitigate with the intent to prevent impacts to surface
and ground water resources resulting from storm runoff due to land development
activities.
         b.   Control the source of water pollutants through the development of
on site facilities to structurally control and treat the runoff from the water
quality event.
         c.   Regulate the sources of runoff pollution through system
management public awareness campaigns and licensing procedures.
      3.   Erosion And Sedimentation Control: The management of erosion and
sedimentation from construction sites and new developments involves the design
and implementation of a control system. The source of sediment must be
controlled through the use of diversions, ground cover lined channels, sediment
basins, sediment control structures, filtering and screening membranes or other
approved methods.
   C.   Legislative Authority For Stormwater Management: The city is not
responsible for all drainage in the city. The city does have the responsibility
and the authority to manage stormwater in the city that is associated with
public streets and public roads through the following laws:
      1.   Idaho Code Title 40: Idaho Code title 40, gives the city exclusive
and general supervision and jurisdiction over all public streets in the city.
Idaho Code section 40-1415(1)(d) provides authority over drainage where
necessary for motorist safety or right of way maintenance. Idaho Code section
40-1415(6) requires all subdivision plats to be submitted to the city for
acceptance and approval of drainage provisions and construction standards.
      2.   Jurisdiction And Ownership: The city has authority to control
discharges into the public right of way or into any storm sewers or drainage
facilities within the public right of way through its ownership of the right of
way.
      3.   Idaho Constitution: The city has constitutional, statutory and other
authority as a municipal corporation to regulate all discharges of stormwater
onto the public right of way or into the city's stormwater system.
      4.   Other: This is not a comprehensive listing of all legal authority.
There may be other legal authorities which the city may assert from time to
time.
   D.   Peak Rate Of Discharge: The peak rate of discharge shall be determined
for use in designing individual components of the drainage system within the
development and to examine predevelopment and postdevelopment peak flows.
      1.   Calculation Methodology: The rate of discharge shall be calculated
using the proper methodology. The peak rate for areas up to one hundred (100)
acres shall be calculated using the rational method or other preapproved
standard methodologies. The soil conservation service (SCS) method TR no. 55,
shall be used for larger areas.
      2.   Rational Method Equation For Areas Smaller Than One Hundred Acres:
The equation for the rational method follows:
 
Q = CIA
Q  = Peak flow rates in cubic feet per second (cfs)
C  = Nondimensional runoff coefficient
I  = Average rainfall intensity in inches per hour (in./hr.), over a duration
     equal to the time of concentration tc for the contributing area
tc = Time of concentration in minutes (min.)
A  = Size of the contributing area (acres)
 
         a.   Typical C values are shown in exhibit A of this section. For
mixed surfaces, a weighted coefficient shall be used.
         b.   The "time of concentration (tc)" is defined as the time required
for runoff to travel from the most distant point in the basin to the point of
measurement. It is related to the slope and runoff coefficient and may be
estimated by various methods. For overland travel distances greater than one
thousand feet (1,000') the Izzard (1946), Kirpich (1940), SCS lag equation or
velocity charts (1975) may be used.
         c.   Rainfall intensity shall be based upon the intensity-duration-
frequency curves in exhibit B of this section. In all cases, a minimum time of
concentration of ten (10) minutes should be used. The design storm frequencies
shown in table 1 of this section should be considered as a minimum unless
special circumstances are involved.
   EXHIBIT B
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/34f27a3cdd2d56a1a4c8c121309cde63c8363032/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1567.gif]
 
            TABLE 1
            DESIGN STORM FREQUENCIES
 
            Return Frequency
Location    Primary Conveyance System Secondary Conveyance System Storage
                                                                  Facilities
Urban areas 25-year                   100-year                    100-year
 
         d.   The size of the drainage area shall include both on site and off
site lands tributary at the design point.
      3.   SCS TR55 Method For Peak Discharges For Areas Larger Than One
Hundred Acres:
         a.   See SCS TR55 for application and calculation method.
         b.   The time of concentration shall use the methodologies described
above.
         c.   Computer software adaptation of this method are acceptable;
provided, that their data and graphical printout are submitted for review.
      4.   Other Methods: Other methods of determining peak rate of charge
based on sound engineering principles and with proven results may be
acceptable. Said methods shall be reviewed and approved by the city engineer in
writing prior to plan submittal.
         a.   Minimum Peak Discharge Rate: The postdevelopment minimum peak
discharge rate for design of residential subdivisions shall be greater than or
equal to the rate calculated using the rational method assuming the total area
equal to the road right of way, the runoff coefficient equal to one, and the
storm intensity equal to one inch (1") per hour. For small residential
subdivision (less than 5 acres) this method may be used in lieu of other
methods. For other developments, the area used for calculation of the minimum
discharge rate shall be the impervious area.
      5.   Peak Rates Of Discharge: Peak rates of discharge for design storms
shall be included in the design calculations.
   E.   Runoff Volume: Runoff volumes shall be calculated for use in
determining storage requirements. Volumes shall be calculated based upon the
storm return frequency in table 1 of this section for storage facilities.
      1.   Criteria For Calculating Runoff Volumes: The following standards
shall be used when calculating runoff volumes:
         a.   Storm Duration: The storm duration shall be one hour when using
the rational method, or twenty four (24) hours when using the SCS method.
         b.   Rainfall Intensities: The rainfall intensities shall correspond
to the storm frequencies of table 1 of this section.
      2.   Minimum Runoff Volume: A site specific weighted runoff coefficient
shall be determined and used within the Rational Method Equation to determine
the worst-case runoff volume. Said weighted runoff coefficient shall be based
on landscaping and impervious surfaces in the right of way and a minimum of the
front one half (1/2) of the lots. The minimum runoff volume used for design of
residential subdivisions shall be greater than or equal to the volume from one
inch (1") of rainfall times the area of the road right of way. For other
developments, the area used for calculation of the minimum runoff volume shall
be the impervious area.
      3.   Runoff Volume (Design Storms): Runoff volumes for design storms
shall be included in the design calculations.
   F.   Conveyance System Design Criteria:
      1.   Size:
         a.   Primary Conveyance System: The primary conveyance system shall be
designed to accommodate the peak discharge of the design storm frequency in
table 1 of this section. The primary system consists of catch basins, drop
inlets, street gutters and conduit systems. In general, the primary conveyance
system should convey the design storm to the receiving waters with the maximum
treatment and the minimum impact or inconvenience to the public.
         b.   Secondary Conveyance System: The secondary conveyance system
shall be designed to accommodate the peak discharge of the design storm
frequency in table 1 of this section. The secondary system conveys stormwater
to the receiving waters after the capacity of the primary system has been
exceeded. In general, the secondary conveyance system will convey the design
storm to the receiving waters with some impacts and inconvenience to the
public.
      2.   Hydraulic Capacity: Hydraulic capacity may be calculated by various
acceptable methods for open channels and closed conduits such as Hazen-Williams
formula, Darcy-Weisbach equation and Manning equation.
      3.   Velocities:
         a.   Open Channels: Velocities in open channels designed as conveyance
system at design flow shall not be less than two feet (2') per second and not
greater than the velocity, determined from channel conditions, to erode or
scour the channel lining (generally 5 fps for an unlined channel).
Supercritical velocities should be avoided.
         b.   Closed Conduits: Velocities in closed conduits at design flow
shall be at least two feet (2') per second. They shall not be more than eight
feet (8') per second, unless the conduit is designed for higher rates.
      4.   Energy Dissipaters: Energy dissipaters shall be provided when
outflow velocity exceeds five feet (5') per second.
      5.   Catch Basins: Catch basin inlets shall be designed to accommodate
the design flow.
      6.   Siphons: Cross drain siphons shall not be used.
   G.   Street Section (Gutter) Capacity: Street gutters shall provide
stormwater conveyance up to their hydraulic capacity. Beyond that limit,
subsurface piping or flow routing will be required to facilitate proper
drainage. The minimum gutter grade shall be 0.4 percent.
      1.   Hydraulic Capacity: The hydraulic capacity of a street section to
convey water can be calculated by the Manning equation in the following form as
developed by Izzard:
 
Q = 0.56 Zd8/3S1/2
n
 
 
Q = Discharge in cfs
Z = 1/Sx where Sx is the cross slope of the pavement (generally 2 percent)
d = Depth of water at face of curb (feet)
S = Longitudinal grade of street
n = Manning's roughness coefficient
 
      2.   Depth Of Water:
         a.   Primary System: During storm events less than or equal to the
design storm for the primary system the street and gutter section may be used
to convey water to a catchment with the following encroachments. If no curb
exists, flow may not encroach onto adjacent property.
            (1)   Local streets: No curb overtopping, the flow may spread to
the crown of the street, not to exceed at the crown of the roadway.
            (2)   Collector streets: No curb overtopping, the flow spread must
leave at least one 10-foot lane free of water.
            (3)   Arterial streets: No curb overtopping, the flow spread must
leave at least one 12-foot lane in each direction free of water.
         b.   Secondary System: During storm events with return frequencies of
those of the secondary system the street and gutter section may be used to
convey water to a catchment with the following inundation criteria:
            (1)   Local and collector streets: Buildings shall not be
inundated. The depth of water over the gutter flow line shall not exceed twelve
inches (12"), and shall not exceed six inches (6") at the roadway crown.
            (2)   Arterial streets: Buildings shall not be inundated. The depth
of water at the roadway crown shall not exceed three inches (3").
      3.   Ponding Of Water: Ponding of water in the street section is not
allowed.
      4.   Collector And Arterial Streets: Cross drain valley gutters are not
allowed across collectors and arterial streets.
      5.   Street Grades: Mean velocities in the gutter at peak flows shall not
exceed eight feet (8') per second. Excessive velocity shall be checked through
diversion of runoff, drop inlet structures or redesign of the street.
      6.   Offset Crown And Super Elevated Streets: Offset crowns, super
elevations, meandering crowns and "shed no crown" streets shall be designed so
water does not flow from one gutter across the street when the streets are
functioning as primary systems.
   H.   Criteria For Stormwater Retention/Detention:
      1.   Subdivisions, multilot developments:
         a.   Site Runoff: In general, stormwater runoff from developments
shall be retained on the development site. In areas where a defined
predevelopment discharge existed and the postdevelopment discharges are
permitted by downstream owners and operators, off site, predevelopment
discharge rates may be allowed if the downstream system has proven adequate
capacity.
         b.   Location Of Stormwater Facilities: For systems receiving runoff
from public streets, all stormwater facilities (including conveyance
facilities) shall be located either in the public right of way, easements, or
in a common area maintained by the developer or a homeowners' association into
perpetuity. Private systems shall not be allowed within public right of way.
         c.   Roof Downspouts/Drains: Building downspouts shall not discharge
onto public right of way.
      2.   Single lot developments:
         a.   Private commercial and industrial sites: All site generated
stormwater and surface water shall be retained on site.
         b.   Residential: Site generated storm and surface water may be
discharged into the public right of way if the existing system is within the
right of way and has proven adequate capacity. This capacity may be proven with
engineering calculations and approved by the city or if it can be shown that
the lot drainage was included in the overall drainage for the development.
   I.   Retention/Detention Facilities:
      1.   General: The following criteria apply to both retention and
detention facilities.
      2.   Multiuse: When possible, retention/detention facilities should be
designed as open surface facilities for multiuse. If the facility is not
designed for multiuse, it shall be fenced with a six foot (6') tall chainlink
fence with gates as needed for maintenance and operations access.
      3.   Idaho Department Of Water Resources/Southwest District Health
Department Requirements: Retention facilities which incorporate absorption
trenches and subsurface infiltration elements for stormwater management shall
conform to Idaho Code title 42, chapter 39, and to the Idaho department of
water resources rules for waste disposal and injection wells.
      4.   Sediment Control:
         a.   Sand And Grease Traps: Flows into retention/detention facilities
shall flow through an appropriately sized sand and grease trap. Maximum
velocity through the sand and grease trap(s) shall be 0.5 feet per second.
         b.   Sediment Storage: Storage volumes required for design runoff
volumes shall be increased by fifteen percent (15%) to accommodate sediment
storage.
      5.   Absorption Designs: Any facility that allows water to percolate into
the soil will be considered an absorption design. This includes both
aboveground and belowground facilities. Facilities utilizing absorption designs
shall not intercept the groundwater table. The bottom of the facility shall
have a minimum three foot (3') vertical separation from the seasonal high
groundwater or bedrock. The three foot (3') separation between the bottom of
the facility and the seasonal high groundwater table shall contain a fine
aggregate material to treat the water prior to entering the groundwater. The
fine aggregate material shall meet the gradation requirements of ASTM C-33
sand. If best management practices approved by the city are utilized to
pretreat the water prior to discharge into the absorption facility, the
requirement for three feet (3') of fine aggregate may be reduced.
The seasonal high groundwater table elevation shall be established and used for
the facility design. The elevation of the seasonal high groundwater table shall
be determined from a monitoring well established at the facility site and
monitored during the high groundwater season. If available, Southwest district
health department groundwater records may be used to establish the probable
highest groundwater elevation.
Alternatively, a site assessment of the area immediately around the proposed
facility may be conducted by a licensed geologist or by a professional
engineer, registered in the state. The site assessment shall include an
evaluation of the soil strata to at least four feet (4') below the bottom of
the proposed facility to determine if the probable maximum high groundwater
elevation will encroach into the facility. A site assessment report shall be
submitted to the city for review and approval. The report shall be stamped by
the registered geologist or engineer. This elevation may be used as the
groundwater elevation in lieu of data from monitoring wells monitored
throughout a year.
Regardless of the method used in determining the groundwater elevation, the
elevation shall be shown on the drawings.
If groundwater is encountered during construction of the facility at an
elevation higher than that shown on the plans, the facility shall be redesigned
to account for the higher elevation. Said redesign shall be approved by the
city.
      6.   Maintenance And Operation:
         a.   M&O Manual: A plan for operation, maintenance and repair of the
facility shall be prepared and submitted to the city for approval. The approved
plan shall be provided to the parties responsible for maintenance and operation
of the facility. Typically, the city shall be responsible for heavy maintenance
and the homeowners' association is responsible for light maintenance.
         b.   Access: The facility shall be designed to allow access for
maintenance and operation. This includes heavy equipment access, if required.
Maintenance access roads must be a minimum of twelve feet (12') in width, must
have an HS-25 load capacity and a minimum turning radius of thirty feet (30').
      7.   Facility Sites:
         a.   Multilot Developments: Stormwater retention/detention facilities
including infiltration and percolation facilities shall be located in the
public right of way or in common areas or easements owned and maintained by the
developer or homeowners' association.
No street drainage facility will be allowed on any single- family or multi-
family lot.
For facilities located in common areas, the developer and/or homeowners'
association shall guarantee perpetual maintenance of the facility.
         b.   Single Lot Developments: Single lot developments may not accept
additional off site drainage.
         c.   Easements: Detention/retention facilities not located in the
public right of way must have a city drainage and access easements with no
encroachments which would adversely affect drainage or operation and
maintenance of the facility.
      8.   Design: Facilities shall be designed to accommodate the runoff from
a design storm with a 100-year return frequency. Emergency overflows shall not
be allowed into irrigation facilities without prior written permission from the
owner and/or operator of the system and applicable regulatory agencies. Where
applicable, facilities shall be designed with minimum twelve inch (12")
freeboard above the high water mark.
      9.   Dams And Embankments:
         a.   In fill areas, the minimum top widths of all dams and embankments
are listed below:
            TABLE 2
            MINIMUM TOP WIDTHS
 
Height (Feet) Top Width (Feet)
0 - 5         10
5 - 10        12
10 - 15       14
 
         b.   The design top elevation of all dams and embankments, after all
settlement has taken place, shall equal or exceed the maximum water surface
elevation in the basin. This is the routed hydrograph, plus the required
freeboard height. The design height of the dam or embankment is defined as the
vertical distance from the top down to the bottom of the deepest cut. It shall
be increased by the amount needed to assure that the design will be maintained
after settling. This increase shall not be less than five percent (5%). Where
necessary, the engineer shall require consolidation tests of the undisturbed
foundation soil to more accurately determine the necessary increase.
         c.   Maximum side slopes for all dams and embankments are three
horizontal to one vertical (3:1) on the upstream or empoundment side and two
horizontal to one vertical (2:1) on the downstream on outside, or as approved
by the state water resources department.
         d.   All earth fill shall be free from brush, roots, and organic
material that might decompose.
         e.   Cutoff walls are to be constructed along the dam or embankment
centerline of impervious soil or concrete, piling, plastic sheeting or as
approved by state water resources department.
         f.   Safety ledges shall be constructed on the side slopes of all wet
detention basins having a permanent pool of water and deeper than five feet
(5'). The ledges shall be four to six feet (4 - 6') in width and located about
two and one-half to three feet (21/2 - 3') below and one to one and one-half
feet (1 - 11/2') above the permanent water surface.
         g.   The fill material in all earth dams and embankments shall be
compacted to at least ninety five percent (95%) of the maximum density obtained
from density tests.
         h.   Embankments over six feet (6') shall be reviewed by the state
department of water resources.
   J.   Retention Facilities: Retention facilities are designed to accept all
the runoff from the site and retain the runoff until it infiltrates into the
surrounding ground or evaporates.
      1.   Design Criteria: Retention facilities shall be designed to
accommodate the runoff volume from the design storm as described in subsection
E, "Runoff Volume", of this section, with allowance for sediment and freeboard
as indicated in subsections I4 and I8 of this section, respectively.
   K.   Detention Facilities:
      1.   Design: The design of any detention facility requires consideration
of several factors, such as size of the basin; minimum freeboard depth; maximum
allowable depth of temporary ponding; recurrence interval of the storm being
considered; storm duration; timing of the inflow; allowable outflow rate; and
the length of time water is allowed to remain in the facility. The design goal
is to leave downstream areas with the same hydrology that existed before
development.
Balancing the requirements is done through the development of three (3) items:
an inflow hydrograph, a depth-storage relationship, and a depth-outflow
relationship. These items are combined in a routing routine to get the outflow
rate, depth of stored water, and volume of storage at any specific time, as the
flood passes through the detention facility. The storm interval to be used is
specified in table 1 of this section. The inflow/storage/outflow relationships
shall be based on a storm duration that identifies a peak detention pond volume
for the storm interval required. The design considerations and procedures are
discussed in the following sections.
      2.   Inflow Hydrograph Procedures: Generally accepted procedures for
determining the inflow hydrograph include the modified rational method and the
SCS TR55 method. Other acceptable methods may be used. The design storm shall
have a return frequency obtained from table 1 of this section.
      3.   Maximum Outflow Rate: Maximum outflow rate shall not be more than
the predevelopment rate of runoff for each storm return interval. It shall
account for the initial soil abstractions from the site. The receiving system
must be shown to be capable of accommodating the design flow.
      4.   Computer Software Adaptations: Computer software adaptations of
these calculations may be acceptable; provided, that their data and graphic
printout allow review and evaluation.
      5.   General Structural Criteria: The following list of general
structural criteria shall be used to design stormwater detention basins. Since
each stormwater basin is unique and soil and other site conditions vary, these
criteria may be modified at the discretion of the design engineer. The engineer
must submit justifications for any variance in writing to the city for review
and approval.
         a.   Principal Outlets Of Detention Facilities:
            (1)   To minimize the chance of clogging and to facilitate
cleaning, outlet pipes shall be at least twelve inches (12") in diameter. If
riser pipes are used, they shall be at least twelve inches (12") in diameter.
Trash racks or antivortex devices may be required. All pipe joints are to be
watertight.
            (2)   Antiseep cutoff walls, eight inches (8") thick, are to be
installed along outlet pipes.
            (3)   Where necessary, a concrete cradle shall be provided for
outlet pipes.
            (4)   All principal outlet structures shall be reinforced concrete.
All construction joints are to be watertight.
            (5)   Suitable slope protection approved by the city shall be
placed upstream and downstream of principal outlets as necessary to prevent
scour and erosion. High velocity discharges (greater than 5 fps) require energy
dissipaters.
         b.   Detention Components:
            (1)   Emergency spillways, when required, shall be suitably lined
and shall follow criteria contained in hydraulic circular no. 15.
            (2)   Maximum velocities in emergency spillways shall be checked by
the design engineer, based on the velocity of the peak flow in the spillway
resulting from the routed inflow/outflow hydrograph.
   L.   Infiltration Basins:
      1.   Design: In general, infiltration basins are designed to contain the
design inflow without overflowing. The water in the basin infiltrates into the
ground through a soil or sand layer.
Infiltration basins shall be designed to assure that the runoff from the design
storm is retained such that more than ninety percent (90%) infiltrates into the
ground within twenty four (24) hours of the storm event. Infiltration basins
shall be off stream facilities and emergency overflows into irrigation
facilities shall not be allowed without prior written permission from the
owner/operator of the facility and applicable regulatory agencies.
      2.   Conditions Where Infiltration Facilities Are Not Allowed: There are
several conditions that rule out a site as an infiltration facility. When the
following conditions are likely, disposal of stormwater by infiltration is not
recommended. A separate permit may be required by the state department of water
resources when any of these conditions exist.
         a.   Seasonal high groundwater is less than three feet (3') below the
infiltrating surface.
         b.   Bedrock or impervious soils are within three feet (3') of the
infiltrating surface.
         c.   The infiltrating surface is on top of fill unless the fill is
clean sand or gravel and demonstrates water quality degradation will be
mitigated.
         d.   The surface and underlying soil are SCS hydrologic group C, or
the saturated infiltration rate is less than 0.25 inches per hour.
         e.   The facility is located within one hundred feet (100') or within
the zone of contribution of a known water well.
      3.   Infiltration Rates: Soil borings shall be taken at the basin sites
to classify soil types. Infiltration rates shall be determined for design. A
percolation test for the site specific soil conditions at the depth of the bed
can be used. The table below presents typical infiltration rates. These values
may be used based upon soil testing without an on site percolation test. In no
event will a rate exceeding fifteen inches (15") per hour be allowed.
            TABLE 3
            INFILTRATION RATES
SCS Group And Type Infiltration Rate
                   (Inches Per Hour)
SCS Group And Type               Infiltration Rate
                                 (Inches Per Hour)
A. Sand                          8
A. Loamy sand                    2
B. Sandy loam                    1
B. Loam                          0.5
C. Silt loam                     0.25 1
C. Sandy clay loam               0.15
D. Clay loam and silty clay loam <0.09
D. Clays                         <0.05
 
   Note:
       1.   Minimum rate, soils with lesser rates should not be considered as
candidates for infiltration facilities.
      4.   Sediment And Grease Traps: Properly sized standard sediment and
grease traps shall be installed upstream of infiltration facilities. Maximum
velocity shall be 0.5 fps.
      5.   Groundwater Elevations: Groundwater elevation shall be established
in accordance with subsection I5 of this section. If groundwater is encountered
during construction of the facility at an elevation higher than that shown on
the plans, the facility shall be redesigned to account for the higher
elevation.
   M.   Percolation Facilities:
      1.   Design: In general, percolation facilities are designed to contain
the design inflow without overtopping. The water is stored within the effective
subsurface pore volume and percolates into the ground.
Percolation facilities may be designed to contain the runoff from the design
storm for a primary system if the facility has a positive outflow to a
secondary system. If there is not a positive outflow to a secondary system, the
percolation facility must be designed to accommodate the runoff from the design
storm for a secondary system. Outflows or emergency outflows to irrigation
facilities shall not be allowed without prior written permission of the owner/
operator of the facility and applicable regulatory agencies.
The storage volume shall accommodate the design storm, plus fifteen percent
(15%). The surface infiltration shall be calculated using the lower two-thirds
(2/3) (excluding freeboard) at the sidewall area of the trench or the bottom
area.
The facility shall have an approved filter fabric placed between the storage
media and the surrounding soil.
Accepted engineering design formula shall be used in determining storage
volumes and infiltration rates.
      2.   Conditions Where Percolation Facilities Are Not Allowed: There are
several conditions that rule out a site for a percolation facility. If any of
the conditions described in subsection L2 of this section exist, disposal of
stormwater by percolation is not permitted.
      3.   Sediment And Grease Traps: Properly sized standard sediment and
grease traps shall be installed upstream of the percolation facility. Maximum
velocity shall be 0.5 fps.
      4.   Monitoring Well: Monitoring wells shall be installed at each
percolation facility per DEQ standards.
      5.   Different Soil Strata Characteristics: Soil borings shall be taken
at the trench sites to classify soil types. When the soil strata has different
infiltration characteristics, the relative rate for that depth of soil shall be
used. The infiltration rates described in subsection L3 of this section shall
apply.
      6.   Materials: Table 4 of this section indicates the effective void
volume for typical materials used in the infiltration bed. The design engineer
may determine void volumes for other materials by laboratory analysis and
submit them to the city for review.
            TABLE 4
            VOID VOLUME OF TYPICAL MATERIALS
 
Material                      Void Volume
                              (Percent)
Blasted rock                  30
Uniform sized gravel (1 1/2") 40
Graded gravel (3/4" minus)    30
Sand                          25
Pit run gravel                15 - 25
 
   N.   Erosion And Sediment Control: Erosion and sediment discharge from the
development site must be minimized or eliminated both during construction and
after the development is complete. Properly designed developments utilize
ground covers, lined ditches, riprap, and underground piping systems to
eliminate erosion and control sediment.
      1.   Construction Sites: Prior to the beginning of construction on any
development site larger than five (5) acres, the developer or his
representative must have a pollution prevention plan in place and must file a
notice of intent (NOI) with the EPA, in accordance with NPDES (national
pollutant discharge elimination system) requirements. The pollution prevention
plan will include provisions for reducing sediment discharges from the
construction site and tracking of mud onto roadways. A copy of this plan and
the NOI shall be provided to the city prior to any site grading.
   O.   Irrigation And Drainage Facilities: In general, stormwater conveyance
and storage facilities shall be separate and distinct from nonstorm systems
such as irrigation, drainage and irrigation return flows. Existing nonstorm
systems rerouted or piped through new developments shall not be located in the
public right of way except at crossings. These systems should be located in
individual easements. Approved discharges of storm drain facilities into
nonstorm systems shall be at centralized, distinct locations. Stormwater system
conveyance piping shall not be utilized for land drainage systems.
   P.   Design Specifications: This section sets forth the minimum standards,
specifications, standard details, etc., to be used for the design of stormwater
and drainage facilities. Except as modified herein, all work shall be in
accordance with the current Idaho standards for public works construction
(ISPWC).
      1.   Pipe Size: Pipe size shall be dictated by peak flow and hydraulic
capacity. Minimum pipe size shall be twelve inch (12") diameter.
      2.   Discharge Pipes: All discharge pipes shall end in a precast concrete
or corrugated metal end section or a cast in place concrete headwall. It may or
may not have wingwalls and energy dissipaters as conditions require.
      3.   Materials: Storm sewers shall be constructed of materials specified
in Idaho standards for public works construction (ISPWC).
      4.   Pipe Bedding: Pipe bedding shall be provided as specified in ISPWC.
      5.   Maintenance Easements: Maintenance easements shall be provided for
access to stormwater facilities where those facilities are located outside the
public right of way. The size of the easement shall be dictated by working
needs. In general, the easement shall be twenty feet (20') wide or the area of
the facility plus a ten foot (10') perimeter. They shall remain free of all
encroachments and obstructions (including buildings and trees) which may
adversely affect drainage or operation and maintenance of the facility.
   Q.   Catch Basins, Manholes, Sediment And Grease Traps:
      1.   Design: Inlets, catch basins and manholes shall be designed
according to the latest edition of ISPWC.
      2.   Manhole Spacing: Manholes shall be provided at all intersections of
two (2) or more pipes and at all locations where the pipe changes direction.
Manhole spacing maximums shall be four hundred feet (400').
      3.   Manholes: Manholes shall be precast or cast in place concrete and
watertight and comply with the ISPWC.
      4.   Precast Manhole Barrels, Cones And Bases: Precast manhole barrels,
cones, and bases shall conform to ASTM C 478 with round rubber gasketed joints,
conforming to ASTM C 923 or Ramnek (or equivalent) joint sealant.
      5.   Top Riser Section: The top riser section shall end less than one
foot (1') below the finished grade. The manhole cover shall be flush with the
finished grade.
      6.   Manholes Frames And Covers: Manhole frames and covers shall be cast
iron conforming to specification ASTM A 48 class 30. They shall be suitable for
HS-25 loading capacity. All storm drain manhole covers shall have a reinforced
cast in place concrete collar, and the words "STORM DRAIN" or "SD" shall be
cast integrally in the top of the cover.
      7.   Catch Basins: Catch basins shall be cast in place or precast and
shall be watertight. Catch basin grates shall be steel capable of HS-25 loading
with grate bars set at ninety degrees (90°) to curb face.
      8.   Sediment And Grease Traps: Cleanout lids shall be located within six
feet (6') from the edge of the sidewalk on the edge of an HS-25 roadway or
access and maintenance road.
   R.   Submission, Inspection, Certification Requirements:
      1.   Inspection Of Drain Facilities And Conveyances: The design engineer
shall provide certification of inspection to the city of the storm drainage
facilities for conformance to the plans.
In addition, the engineer shall provide certification that all irrigation and
drainage water conveyances through a development have been continued through
the development or the right to the conveyance has been released prior to final
acceptance of the development.
      2.   Required Submissions To The City For Drainage Review:
Note: Review and approval by the city does not constitute a guarantee of
project plans and calculations. The review is for the purpose of ensuring
general conformance to city policies and requirements. The submitting design
engineer is solely responsible for the design. All submissions to the city
shall be stamped and signed by a professional engineer registered in the state.
         a.   Topographic survey of the development showing all drainage and
irrigation water conveyance systems within the area encompassed by a line two
hundred feet (200') outside the property line.
         b.   Peak flow calculations and peak flows.
         c.   Runoff volume calculations.
         d.   Plan and profile of new or modified drainage and irrigation water
conveyance systems.
         e.   Plan, profile and calculations for stormwater retention or
detention facilities.
         f.   Flood routing computations for the 100-year flood through any
existing drainage conveyance systems.
         g.   Maintenance and operation manuals for stormwater facilities.
         h.   Infiltration rates where applicable.
         i.   Seasonal high groundwater table where applicable.
         j.   Soil classifications where applicable.
         k.   Flood routing of the 100-year storm to the ultimate drainage
system.
         l.   Copies of associated permits and discharge agreements.
      3.   Postconstruction Submissions: Prior to final acceptance of the
development, the following must be submitted to the city:
         a.   Record or as built drawing in electronic AutoCAD or DXF and hard
copy form.
         b.   Engineer's storm drain inspection certificate.
         c.   Engineer's water conveyance certificate.
   S.   Exhibits:
      EXHIBIT A
      Recommended "C" Coefficients For "Rational
      Method Equation" Peak Rate Of Discharge
Description Of Runoff Area Runoff Coefficients "C"
Description Of Runoff Area Runoff Coefficients "C"
Business:                   
 Downtown areas           0.95
 Urban neighborhood areas 0.70
Residential:                
 Single-family            0.50
 Multi-family             0.75
Residential (rural)        0.40
Apartment dwelling areas   0.70
Industrial and commercial:  
 Light areas              0.80
 Heavy areas              0.90
Parks, cemeteries          0.10
Playgrounds                0.20
Railroad yard areas        0.20
Unimproved areas           0.10
Streets:                    
 Asphalt                  0.95
 Concrete                 0.95
 Brick                    0.85
Drives and walks           0.85
Roofs                      0.95
Fields: sandy soil:         
 Flat 2 percent           0.05
 Average 2 - 7 percent    0.10
 Steep 7 percent          0.15
Fields: clay soil:          
 Flat 2 percent           0.13
 Average 2 - 7 percent    0.18
 Steep 7 percent          0.25
 
Adapted from ASCE (1972)
   T.   Swales:
      1.   Statement Of Purpose: The purpose of this subsection is to promote
the public health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the city by
ensuring that drainage swales utilized for draining public rights of way
continue to accept, treat, and temporarily store storm drainage runoff as
originally designed.
      2.   Applicability: The regulations of this subsection shall apply to the
following subdivisions:
Bishop Ranch Subdivision(s).
Creekside Subdivision(s).
Fruitland 7th Street Commercial.
Paradise Estates Subdivision.
River Crest Estates Subdivision(s).
Syringa Springs Subdivision(s).
Any subdivision that was or is developed using swales as a water retention
method.
      3.   Permits: Any person who desires to modify, alter, change, enlarge,
expand, reduce, shrink, decrease or perform any work on a swale, shall first
apply and obtain a permit in the manner set forth in this subsection.
         a.   Exception: No permit shall be required in the following
circumstances:
            (1)   Work Undertaken By City: Work undertaken by the city or by
contractors or agents acting for or on behalf of the city.
            (2)   Work Covered Under A Building Permit: Work covered under a
building permit where the building permit allows work on the swale. Provided,
however, all other requirements included in this subsection shall be met and
considered a requirement of final acceptance by the city building official.
            (3)   Emergencies: Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to
prevent any person from maintaining any swale, by virtue of any statute,
ordinance, this subsection or a permit or from modifying a swale as may be
necessary for the preservation of the life or property when an emergency
exists; provided, that the person making the modification shall notify the
public works supervisor (PWS) or the city clerk within one working day
following the commencement of the emergency and obtain a permit.
      4.   Application For Permit: Any person required to obtain a permit
shall, before commencing work, submit a fee and an application to the city
clerk's office on a form prescribed and provided by the city which is
consistent with this subsection.
      5.   Filing Of Application: Upon the filing of a completed application
with the city clerk’s office, together with the required fees and supporting
information, the PWS shall evaluate the application for conformance with the
provisions of this subsection and all other applicable ordinances,
specifications, standards and policies of the city. Within two (2) working days
thereafter, the PWS shall either approve the application and issue a permit in
accordance with this subsection or disapprove the application or request a
conference with the applicant. If the application is disapproved, the PWS shall
provide the applicant with a written statement of such disapproval, setting
forth the reasons therefor.
      6.   Fee Schedule: The city, by resolution, may establish fees for the
items covered by this subsection.
      7.   Form Of Permit:
         a.   Issuance Of Permit: A permit, if approved by the PWS, shall be
issued on a form consistent with this subsection as prescribed by the city.
         b.   License Conferred: The issuance of such a permit shall confer to
the permittee the privilege of performing the work authorized in the permit,
obligating the permittee to satisfactorily complete such authorized work within
the time set forth in the permit and in compliance with the terms and
conditions stated in the permit, and in accordance with this subsection, and
all applicable ordinances, specifications, standards and policies of the city.
      8.   Indemnification: As a condition of the permit, permittee shall
indemnify and save and hold the city and its employees and consultants harmless
from and against all claims, demands, actions or judgments, for damages, injury
or death, mechanics and other liens, arising out of the failure or neglect of
permittee, permittee's employees, contractors and agents, to properly and
reasonably perform work, or that otherwise results from the use and occupation
of the street right of way by the permittee, and including any attorney fees
and costs that may be incurred by the city, its employees or consultants in
defense of such claims or any appeals therefrom.
      9.   Construction Standards For The Initial Dwelling Unit Construction:
In addition to completing the swale in accordance with the original development
plans, the following standards shall be met:
         a.   Implement best management practices during construction to
protect and ensure the longevity of the swale. Examples include, but are not
limited to, prohibiting construction vehicles from trespassing on the swale,
prohibiting construction chemicals (drywall mud, concrete washout, paint,
solvent, etc.) from entering the swale, and prohibiting the storage of
construction materials within the swale.
         b.   Construct three feet (3') wide by six feet (6') long (horizontal)
by six feet (6') deep, drainage windows within the low point of the swale. See
figure 1 of this section.
   FIGURE 1
   DRAINAGE WINDOW
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/34f27a3cdd2d56a1a4c8c121309cde63c8363032/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1569.gif]
 
         c.   At least one drainage window as described above shall be
installed on each property fronting on a city street, with installation of
additional drainage windows as may be required by the public works supervisor.
         d.   Install an underground pressurized irrigation sprinkler system as
follows:
            (1)   The items herein contained are the performance specifications
for the city. These are minimums only and may be increased or altered to fit
particular situations.
            (2)   Irrigation systems within the swale shall conform to the
specifications listed below. Areas specifically addressed are located between
the detached sidewalk and the back of curb.
            (3)   Irrigation within these areas shall be designed and installed
on a lot by lot basis. All swale irrigation shall be on a separate zone from
the remainder of the residence to allow maximum flexibility of watering
schedules.
            (4)   Historically, maximum water loss due to evapotranspiration is
roughly 0.3 inch per day. Areas within the landscape only require the amount
lost to evapotranspiration to be reintroduced to the plant material for plant
survival. The city has established these guidelines as a way to aid the
builder/homeowner in efficiently and effectively irrigating their property.
            (5)   Irrigation pipes installed within the swale shall be a
minimum of eighteen inches (18") below finished surface, or six inches (6")
below frost line, whichever is deeper, and bedded in pea gravel.
            (6)   Sprinkler system shall be designed at a maximum of five (5)
gpm or less per sprinkler set/zone/valve.
            (7)   Applicant shall verify system pressure at each location for
the purpose of verifying water demand relative to system design.
            (8)   System pressures between fifty (50) psi and eighty (80) psi
are acceptable. Pressures below fifty (50) psi or above eighty (80) psi may
require additional appurtenances for proper system function. Prior to
installation, any such appurtenances shall be submitted to the PWS for
examination and approval.
            (9)   All irrigation systems using potable water shall be equipped
with a DCV (double check valve) or a RPBP (reduced pressure backflow
preventer). Systems using only nonpotable water do not require backflow
prevention devices. Such systems shall have absolutely no connection to the
city potable water system.
         e.   Scarify bottom and sides of swale a minimum of four inches (4")
deep prior to fine grading the swale.
         f.   Fine grade the swale to drain toward the drainage window.
         g.   Driveways crossing the swale shall be limited to twenty feet
(20') wide. If greater than twenty feet (20') wide, the applicant shall submit
engineered drawings detailing swale modification as necessary to address
additional impervious area and to maintain original swale design capacity.
      10.   Construction Standards For Swale Modification After Dwelling Unit
Is Constructed: If an applicant desires to modify an existing swale after the
initial dwelling unit is constructed, applicant shall submit engineered
drawings detailing swale modification as necessary to address any additional
impervious area and to maintain original swale design capacity. Modifications
include, but are not limited to, adding an additional approach, widening an
existing approach, etc.
      11.   Maintenance Responsibilities: Lot owners shall be responsible for
light maintenance of adjoining swales. Light maintenance includes removal of
trash, routine mowing, watering, irrigation maintenance/repairs and replanting
grass. The city shall be responsible for heavy maintenance. Heavy maintenance
includes excavating (excluding excavating for sprinkler repair), adding
additional drainage window, repairing drainage window components, adding
additional curb inlets and clearing curb inlets.
      12.   Modified Swale: Any swale that has been modified in any manner such
that it no longer exists as it was when it was engineered, designed,
constructed or installed shall be allowed to remain as is, provided the swale
properly accepts, treats, and temporarily stores storm drainage runoff as
originally intended. If a modified swale does not conform to the original
shape, does not include its original features or does not accept, treat or
temporarily store water as it was designed to do, the city shall have the right
to modify or repair the swale to ensure the swale can perform as it was
originally intended.
      13.   Warranty: All work shall be warranted to be free from defects in
workmanship or materials for a period of one year from the date the work is
accepted by the city, and the permittee shall be responsible for any necessary
maintenance or repair of any such work during the warranty period. In the event
the permittee fails, neglects or refuses to perform any warranty work which has
been brought to the attention of the permittee within the twelve (12) month
period, the city may perform the work and seek reimbursement from the
permittee.
      14.   Modification Or Revocation Of Permit: Any permit issued pursuant to
the provisions of this subsection may be modified or revoked by order of the
PWS in the event the circumstances under which the permit was originally issued
shall have changed to such an extent that it would be in the best interests of
the public and the city. In the event the permittee violates the permit, the
PWS may revoke the permit immediately and without notice.
      15.   Enforcement: Any violation of this subsection shall be a
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition, if it appears that any person has engaged or
is about to engage in any act or practice violating any provision of this
subsection, the city may institute a civil action in the district court to
enjoin any action violating the provisions hereof. Without limiting the
foregoing, the city may seek a judicial action to enforce compliance with this
subsection. If a permittee is violating or if the city has reasonable cause to
believe that a permittee is about to violate a permit, the city may terminate
the permit and issue a stop work order. Also, the city may seek an order, a
permanent or temporary injunction, restraining order, or such other relief as
the city deems appropriate. In the event any such violation arises out of the
refusal or failure or neglect to obtain a required permit or to enter into a
license, easement or other agreement required by this subsection, then, in
addition to the foregoing relief, the city shall be entitled to assess
additional permit fees. In addition to the foregoing, the city shall be
entitled to take any other action and seek any other remedy as may be permitted
by law or in equity. (1984 Code § 6-4-6; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15D-7: STREAM OR DRAINAGE COURSE EASEMENTS:
   A.   The reservation of an easement along any stream or important surface
drainage course located in an area being subdivided may be required by the
planning and zoning commission for the purpose of widening, deepening, sloping,
improving or protecting the stream or drainage course.
   B.   No ditch, pipe or structure for irrigation water or irrigation
wastewater shall be constructed, rerouted or changed in any way unless such
obstruction, rerouting or change has first been approved in writing by the
ditch company officer in charge; provided, however, that where such ditch, pipe
or structure is held in mutual ownership, said approval in writing shall be
obtained from the engineer.
   C.   A copy of such written approval by the ditch company officer and/or the
engineer shall be filed with the construction drawing as provided.
   D.   All existing irrigation ditches or irrigation waste ditches shall be
piped. (1984 Code § 6-4-7; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15D-8: SEWER REQUIREMENTS:
All sewer mains, manholes, appurtenances and connections, if necessary, shall
be provided and installed by the subdivider in accordance with the standards
and specifications of the city and in conformance with the latest edition of
the ISPWC and the rules of the state. Manholes shall be no farther apart than
four hundred feet (400').
   A.   County Roads And State Highways: Where a sewer is to be constructed
across or within the right of way of a county road or state highway, the
contractor shall procure from the proper authority any permits necessary for
such work, and shall pay all fees, charges, special insurance policies, and
furnish a bond, if required, to ensure that all requirements of the county or
state are observed, and the roadway and ditches are restored to as good as
their original condition. All requirements of the county or state authorities
shall be strictly observed.
   B.   Protective Separations: Horizontal and vertical separations between
sanitary sewer lines and potable water lines shall be required by the pertinent
state sanitary utility regulations.
   C.   Materials:
 
Item           Standard Spec., Test, Or Method Designation
               
Plastic pipe         ASTM D-3034 or ASTM F-679
Rubber gaskets       ASTM C-433
 
      1.   General:
         a.   Reference made to ASTM or other standards shall be understood to
mean, unless otherwise noted, the latest revision of said specification or
standard.
         b.   All materials which the contractor proposes to use shall be new
and may be tested in accordance with ASTM standards. If any materials do not
comply with the specifications or are found defective during or after
construction, they shall be removed by the contractor and replaced in a manner
suitable to the engineer and these specifications and plans. The testing or
rejection of materials at any time by the engineer or his representative does
not relieve the contractor from his contractual obligation to comply with the
specifications of this contract and to fully and completely perform all
requirements of his contract.
         c.   The contractor shall be solely responsible to verify and ensure
that all materials used, including those obtained from suppliers and
manufacturers, conform in all respects to the specifications and conditions of
the contract.
      2.   Concrete Pipe: Normally will not be accepted unless called for in
the special provisions, or approved by city engineer.
      3.   Asbestos Cement Pipe: Will not be accepted for sewer mains or
service line.
      4.   PVC Pipe: PVC pipe shall be used, or approved equal if approved by
the city engineer. PVC pipe for sewer mains and laterals shall conform to ASTM-
D 3034 or F-679 with an SDR-35 wall thickness. The pipe shall be the product of
a recognized manufacturer.
      5.   Sanitary Sewer Fittings: All fittings shall be of the same material
and equal strength as the pipe with which they are used.
         a.   Unless otherwise specified, all connections for building laterals
shall be tees. "Inserta" tees are not allowed. Tees shall be capped with an
acceptable type of rubber jointed plug, banded in place in a manner to
withstand the test pressure.
         b.   For all service connections shown on the plans, the fitting shall
be installed and the service lateral extended beyond the boundary of the
easement or right of way while the main sewer pipe is being laid. Air or
hydrostatic tests shall be conducted after installation of required service
lateral connections.
         c.   Service connections to existing concrete mains shall be done by
using a Romac sewer saddle with a four inch (4") stainless steel band or an
equal.
      6.   Manhole Frames And Covers: Manhole lids shall be stamped "sanitary"
for sanitary sewers, and stamped "storm" for storm sewers.
   D.   Bedding Of Sewer Pipe: Shall be done in accordance with the latest
edition of the ISPWC.
   E.   Distribution, Preparation And Handling Of Pipe: Distribution,
preparation and handling of pipe shall be done in accordance with the latest
edition of the ISPWC and in addition to the following items:
      1.   Material shall be distributed on the job no faster than it can be
used to good advantage. In general, no more than one week's supply of material
shall be distributed in advance of laying, unless otherwise approved by the
engineer.
   F.   Laying Of Pipe:
      1.   The contractor shall take the necessary precautions required to
prevent dirt or other material from getting into the pipe during the laying
operation.
      2.   If the pipe cannot be put into the trench and in place without earth
or foreign material entering it, the engineer may require that, before lowering
the pipe into the trench, a heavy tightly woven bag of suitable size be placed
over each end and left there until ready to make the connection.
      3.   At all times, when laying is not in progress, open ends of the pipe
shall be closed by a watertight plug or other approved means. At the close of
the day's work, or whenever the workmen are absent from the job, the end of the
last laid section of the pipe shall be plugged, capped, or otherwise tightly
closed to prevent the entry of foreign material of any nature. The contractor
shall take all precautions necessary to prevent the uplift of the pipe prior to
backfilling the pipe zone.
      4.   At the end of the day's work, the last pipe shall be blocked in such
a manner as may be required to prevent creep during downtime.
   G.   Backfilling: Shall be done in accordance with the latest edition of the
ISPWC and in addition to the following items:
      1.   Backfill Above Pipe Zone: Backfill above the pipe zone shall be one
or more of the following classes as specified in the special specifications or
on the plans. Unless otherwise specified, backfill material will be ordinary
backfill.
      2.   Ordinary Backfill: The excavated material may be pushed into the
trench by mechanical means. Where this method of backfill is allowed, the earth
shall be pushed first onto the slope of the backfill previously placed and
allowed to roll down into the trench. The contractor will not be allowed to
push the backfill material into the open trench. Under no circumstances shall
sharp, heavy pieces of material be allowed to drop directly onto the pipe or
the tamped material around the pipe. All windrowed material over trenches and
the upper twelve inches (12") of all trenches finished level with the
surrounding ground shall be free and clear of all boulders and stones four
inches (4") in diameter and larger, unless otherwise designated in the special
specifications or directed by the engineer. Water settling may be required on
all ordinary backfill.
      3.   Class A Backfill: Wherever trench excavation goes through existing
pavement, sidewalks or concrete slabs, or as noted on the plans, the trench
shall be backfilled to the elevation of the lower surface of the original
pavement or concrete with well graded three-fourths (3/4) minus gravel approved
by the engineer. Gravel backfill shall be mechanically compacted in twelve inch
(12") lifts to ninety five percent (95%) optimum density, or as approved by the
engineer.
      4.   Excess Backfill: Any excess or deficiency of backfill material which
becomes apparent after normal settlement, within the contractor's guarantee
period, shall be the contractor's responsibility and shall be corrected, all at
contractor's expense.
   H.   Seeding: Seeding will not be accepted unless approved by engineer. Sod
will be required in all areas where trenching has damaged grass.
      1.   Preparation Of Sod Bed: The contractor shall provide one-half foot
(1/2') of topsoil and shall proceed with floating and fine grading to final
contours.
      2.   Irrigation And Care: The contractor shall be responsible to make
arrangements to keep sod irrigated to establish initial growth.
   I.   Testing Sewer Lines: Shall be done in accordance with the latest
edition of the ISPWC. (1984 Code § 6-4-8)
10-15D-9: SCHOOLS OR PARKS, STANDARDS GENERALLY:
Whenever the subdivider desires or proposes to reserve an area for schools or
parks, to be so designated on the subdivision plans, such reservations shall
meet standards of the city and/or school district respectively. (1984 Code § 6-
4-9)
10-15D-10: INSPECTOR ON DEVELOPMENT SITE:
The city shall have the right to place an inspector of its own choosing on the
development site, with all expenses to be borne by the developer. (1984 Code §
6-4-10)
10-15D-11: WARRANTY REQUIREMENT:
Developers shall warrant workmanship and materials for one full year from the
time of acceptance by the city. Developers or engineers, at their own expense,
can be required to correct any defects which may exist, for which they are
notified, within one year. Whenever a developer or engineer is required to make
corrections or repairs to any defect, the warranty period shall be extended for
one full year after said repairs or corrections are completed on the repair
work. Prior to final acceptance of improvements, complete record drawings shall
be submitted and approved by the city. (1984 Code § 6-4-11)
10-15D-12: TIME OF COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
The developer shall commence all development as proposed within one year of the
date of approval or all permits issued shall be automatically suspended without
notice. If the improvements are not commenced within that one year period, the
planning and zoning commission may review the plans and specifications for
compliance with existing city standards prior to any new construction and
require compliance with presently existing city standards before allowing
construction. (1984 Code § 6-4-12)
ARTICLE E. MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
SECTION:
10-15E-1: Definitions
10-15E-2: Application Requirements
10-15E-3: Preliminary Plan Requirements
10-15E-4: Phasing Of Park Development
10-15E-5: Preliminary Plan Review And Recommendation By Agencies
10-15E-6: Preliminary Plan; Planning And Zoning Commission Action
10-15E-7: Time Limits
10-15E-8: Final Plan
10-15E-9: Filing, Time Constraints
10-15E-10: Certification By Engineer
10-15E-11: Final Plan; Planning And Zoning Commission Action
10-15E-12: Inspection Authority
10-15E-13: Right Of Entry
10-15E-14: Access To All Lots; Park Management Responsibility
10-15E-15: Park Occupants To Permit Access
10-15E-16: Site Requirements Generally
10-15E-17: Soil And Ground Cover
10-15E-18: Grading And Drainage
10-15E-19: Drainage; Pretreatment Of Drain Water
10-15E-20: Park Areas For Nonresident Uses
10-15E-21: Distance Between Manufactured Homes
10-15E-22: Recreation Area Requirements
10-15E-23: Setbacks, Buffer Strips And Screening Required
10-15E-24: Park Street System And Automobile Parking
10-15E-25: Manufactured Home Stand Pads
10-15E-26: Water Supply, Source And Meter
10-15E-27: Fire Hydrants
10-15E-28: Individual Water Riser Pipes And Connections
10-15E-29: Water, Irrigation System
10-15E-30: Sewage Disposal, Compliance
10-15E-31: Sewer Line Location And Construction
10-15E-32: Individual Sewer Connections
10-15E-33: Sewage Treatment And/Or Discharge
10-15E-34: Plumbing, General Requirements
10-15E-35: Electrical System Requirements
10-15E-36: Electrical Power Distribution Lines
10-15E-37: Individual Electrical Connections
10-15E-38: Grounding Requirements
10-15E-39: Service Buildings And Facilities; Regulations Applicable
10-15E-40: Barbecue Pits, Fireplaces And Stoves
10-15E-41: Refuse; Storage, Collection And Disposal
10-15E-42: Trash Incinerators
10-15E-43: Extermination
10-15E-44: Accumulation Of Debris Prohibited
10-15E-45: Storage Areas, Rodent Harborage Prevention
10-15E-46: Screening Of Openings Required, When
10-15E-47: Control Of Weeds And Other Undergrowth
10-15E-48: Natural Gas System
10-15E-49: Liquefied Petroleum Gas Systems
10-15E-50: Fuel Oil Supply Systems
10-15E-51: Flammable Litter And Rubbish Removal
10-15E-52: Fire Extinguishers
10-15E-53: Permitted Fires, Restrictions
10-15E-54: Conflict Of Ordinances, Higher Standards To Prevail
10-15E-55: Adoption Of NFPA Standard
10-15E-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of this article, or the building official's duly
authorized representative.
DRIVEWAY: A minor private way used by vehicles and pedestrians on a mobile home
lot or used for common access to a small group of lots or facilities.
FINAL PLAN: The authorized plan of a manufactured home park approved by the
planning and zoning commission.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections that, in
the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width and forty (40) body
feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320)
or more square feet, that is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be
used as a dwelling, with or without a permanent foundation, when connected to
the required utilities, and that includes the plumbing, heating, air
conditioning and electrical systems contained therein. This definition
includes, but is not limited to, those structures which have been historically
referred to as mobile homes and trailer houses.
MANUFACTURED HOME ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A building or structure that
is an addition to or supplements the facilities provided in a manufactured
home. It is not a self- contained, separate, habitable building or structure.
Examples are awnings, cabanas, garages, ramadas, storage structures, carports,
windbreaks or porches.
MANUFACTURED HOME LOT OR SPACE: A plot of ground within a manufactured home
park designated for accommodation of one manufactured home and for the
exclusive use of its occupants.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: Any plot of ground upon which two (2) or more
manufactured homes, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes are located and
is owned by an individual, a firm, trust, partnership, public or private
association or corporation.
MANUFACTURED HOME STAND PAD: That part of an individual lot which has been
reserved for the placement of one manufactured home.
PARK MANAGEMENT: The person or persons who owns or has charge, care or control
of the manufactured home park.
PARK STREET: A private way which affords principal means of access to
individual manufactured home lots or auxiliary buildings.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, trust, partnership, public or private
association, or corporation.
PRELIMINARY PLAN: A plan of a manufactured home park prepared for consideration
of the planning and zoning commission, which contains the elements and
requirements as set forth in this article.
PRIVATE STREET: A street or roadway that is on private property, but allows
access to the park and areas within the park. Private streets shall be
maintained by the owner.
SEWER CONNECTION: The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and
appurtenances from the drain outlet of the manufactured home to the inlet of
the corresponding sewer riser pipe of the sewerage system serving the
manufactured home park.
SEWER RISER PIPE: That portion of the sewer lateral which extends vertically to
the ground elevation and terminates at each manufactured home lot.
WATER CONNECTION: The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and
appurtenances from the water riser pipe to the water inlet pipe of the
distribution system within the manufactured home.
WATER RISER PIPE: That portion of the water supply system serving the
manufactured home park which extends vertically to the ground elevation and
terminates at a designated point at each manufactured home lot. (1984 Code § 6-
5-1; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-2: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
No person shall construct, build, enlarge or significantly alter a manufactured
home park until they have made application for a preliminary and final plan and
until the preliminary and final plans have been approved by the planning and
zoning commission. Application for plan approval shall be in writing, signed by
the applicant, accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of
the application, and by payment of the preliminary plan fee as established by
resolution of the City Council and as may be amended from time to time. The
application shall contain:
   A.   Name, email address, and address of the applicant.
   B.   Location and legal description of the proposed manufactured home park.
(1984 Code § 6-5-2; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021; Ord. 712, 2-10-2025)
10-15E-3: PRELIMINARY PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
All preliminary plans shall contain the following:
   A.   The area and dimensions of the tract of land.
   B.   The number, location and size of all manufactured home lots.
   C.   The location and width of roadways and walkways.
   D.   The location of water and sewer lines, riser pipes, electrical cable
and service, and irrigation lines and conduits.
   E.   Plans and specifications of the water supply and refuse and sewer
disposal facilities.
   F.   Plans and specifications of all buildings constructed or to be
constructed within the manufactured home park.
   G.   The location and details of lighting and electrical systems.
   H.   All plans and specifications to indicate distances, depths, setbacks
and separations.
   I.   Double frontage lots backing on streets shall be prohibited from using
exterior roadway for entrance or exit purposes.
   J.   All lot dimensions are to be shown on all lot lines.
   K.   Radii at curbs, at street intersections, at lot corners, should be
rounded with minimum twenty foot (20') radius.
   L.   Exterior boundaries of plan drawings must be tied to at least two (2)
county or city monuments. (1984 Code § 6-5-3; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-4: PHASING OF PARK DEVELOPMENT:
Phasing may be allowed. Phasing shall be laid out in a written agreement,
setting forth the area and what is to be developed. Phasing shall include all
development work, such as roads, water, sewer, drainage and irrigation. The
work shall also include service to all lots and adequate work to allow
development of the next phase. (1984 Code § 6-5-4)
10-15E-5: PRELIMINARY PLAN REVIEW AND RECOMMENDATION BY AGENCIES:
   A.   The zoning administrator may transmit one copy each of the preliminary
plan to the following agencies for review and recommendations and may request
recommendations from such other agencies as he may deem necessary:
   City building official.
   City engineers.
   City of Fruitland public works department.
   Drainage district 5 (if said plan abuts or crosses).
   Farmers Mutual Telephone Company.
   Fire chief.
   Fruitland school district 373.
   Highway district 1.
   Idaho Power Company.
   Idaho transportation department (if said plan abuts).
   Intermountain Gas Company.
   Irrigation district appropriate to area being planned.
   Marathon Pipeline (if said plan abuts or crosses).
   Payette County assessor.
   Postmaster.
   Treasure Valley Classical Academy.
   Williams Northwest pipeline (if said plan abuts or crosses).
   B.   The zoning administrator shall transmit one copy to each city engineer
for review and recommendations. The city engineers’ review fees shall be paid
by the developer. (1984 Code § 6-5-7; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-6: PRELIMINARY PLAN; PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION ACTION:
The planning and zoning commission shall approve, approve conditionally or
disapprove the plan within forty five (45) days of the date submitted with a
complete application. If the preliminary plan is disapproved or approved
conditionally, or approved, the reasons for such action shall be stated in
writing, a copy of which, signed by the zoning administrator, shall be attached
to one copy of the plan and transmitted to the applicant. (Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-7: TIME LIMITS:
Time limits for acting on the preliminary plan, as specified in this section
and section
10-15E-8 of this article, may be extended by mutual consent of the developer
and the planning and zoning commission. (1984 Code § 6-5-9; amd. Ord. 682, 5-
10-2021)
10-15E-8: FINAL PLAN:
   A.   After the approval or conditional approval of the preliminary plan, the
developer may cause the manufactured home park final plan to be prepared in
accordance with the preliminary plan as approved.
   B.   Such final plan, when submitted, shall be accompanied by prints
thereof, as required, and two (2) sets of prints of the plans and complete
construction specifications for all proposed improvements. (1984 Code § 6-5-10;
amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-9: FILING, TIME CONSTRAINTS:
   A.   Filing of the final plan may be made within one year after action by
the planning and zoning commission on the preliminary plan.
   B.   Failure to file a final plan within one year after action by the
planning and zoning commission approving the preliminary plan shall cause all
approvals of the preliminary plan to be voided; provided, however, that upon
application of the developer, the planning and zoning commission may grant
extensions for reasonable cause in one year increments with the understanding
the annual extension be approved by the city engineer, based on the preliminary
plan, and improvements standards are in conformance with the standards in place
at approval time. (1984 Code § 6-5-11; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-10: CERTIFICATION BY ENGINEER:
Upon receipt of the final plan and all other required data as provided for by
this article, the city engineer shall certify the application as complete and
shall affix the date of application acceptance thereon. (1984 Code § 6-5-12;
amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-11: FINAL PLAN; PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION ACTION:
Within sixty (60) days after the date of the meeting at which the final plan is
first considered by the planning and zoning commission, the planning and zoning
commission will approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the final plan
provided, however, that said time for consideration may be extended with the
consent of the developer. (1984 Code § 6-5-14; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-12: INSPECTION AUTHORITY:
The zoning administrator or building official are hereby authorized and
directed to make such inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory
compliance. (1984 Code § 6-5-16; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-13: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The zoning administrator or building official shall have the power to enter at
reasonable times upon any private or public property for the purpose of
inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this
article. (1984 Code § 6-5-17; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-14: ACCESS TO ALL LOTS; PARK MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be the duty of the park management to give the zoning administrator or
building official free access to all lots at reasonable times for the purpose
of inspection. (1984 Code § 6-5-18; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-15: PARK OCCUPANTS TO PERMIT ACCESS:
It shall be the duty of every occupant of a manufactured home park to give the
owner thereof or his agent or employee access to any part of such manufactured
home park at reasonable times for the purpose of making such repairs or
alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with this article. (1984 Code
§ 6-5-19; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-16: SITE REQUIREMENTS GENERALLY:
General requirements shall be that the condition of soil, groundwater level,
drainage and topography shall not create hazards to the property or the health
or safety of the occupants. The site shall not be exposed to objectionable
smoke, noise, odors or other adverse influences. No portion subject to
unpredictable or sudden flooding, subsidence or erosion shall be used for any
purpose which would expose persons or property to hazards. (1984 Code § 6-5-20;
amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-17: SOIL AND GROUND COVER:
Soil and ground cover requirements shall be such that the exposed ground
surfaces in all parts of every manufactured home park shall be paved, or
covered with stone screenings or other solid material, or protected with a
vegetative growth that is capable of preventing soil erosion and of eliminating
objectionable dust. (1984 Code § 6-5-21; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-18: GRADING AND DRAINAGE:
Site drainage requirements shall be that the ground surface in all parts of
every manufactured home park shall be graded and equipped to drain all surface
water in a safe, efficient manner, together with controlling grades and
dimensions of all tile lines, culverts, catch basins, drain inlets, turf, and
gutters and curbs, and final drainage disposal, including any existing
facilities to be used. (1984 Code § 6-5-22; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-19: DRAINAGE; PRETREATMENT OF DRAIN WATER:
Each manufactured home park shall be constructed with an on site engineered
drainage structure, approved by the city, which structure shall pretreat any
drainage water before that water enters any city water drainage system.
   A.   Improvement plans providing for the drainage of stormwater shall
include a drainage plan relating to the draining of the proposed subdivision to
the drainage area of which it is a part; a calculation of the runoff based on
the Idaho transportation department urban storm sewer design for a 100-year
storm event for the watercourses lying within or running through the
manufactured home park as set forth in the standard specifications of the city;
and a design for disposing of runoff from the manufactured home park, including
the size, location and dedication of drainage easements.
   B.   Drainage structures, channel improvements and storm sewer shall be
constructed in accordance with the standard specifications of the city. These
structures, improvements and sewer shall be so constructed to dispose of the
calculated maximum runoff to a point of final discharge or acceptable wasteway.
   C.   All drainage ditches and wasteways, new or existing, shall be piped.
(1984 Code § 6-5-23; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-20: PARK AREAS FOR NONRESIDENT USES:
   A.   No part of any park shall be used for nonresidential purposes, except
such uses that are required for the direct service and well being of park
residents, and for the management and maintenance of the park.
   B.   Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed as prohibiting the
sale of a manufactured home located on a manufactured home stand and connected
to the pertinent utilities. (1984 Code § 6-5-24; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-21: DISTANCE BETWEEN MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   A.   Manufactured homes shall be separated from each other by at least ten
feet (10'); provided, that manufactured homes placed end to end shall have a
clearance of ten feet (10') where opposing rear walls are staggered.
   B.   An accessory structure, such as an awning, cabana, storage cabinet,
carport, windbreak and porch, which has a floor area exceeding twenty five (25)
square feet shall, for purposes of all separation requirements, be considered
to be part of the manufactured home. (1984 Code § 6-5-25; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-
2021)
10-15E-22: RECREATION AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   In all parks accommodating or designed to accommodate twenty five (25)
or more manufactured homes, there shall be one or more recreation, open or
common areas which shall be easily accessible to all park residents.
   B.   The size of such recreation areas shall be based upon a minimum of one
hundred (100) square feet for each lot. No outdoor recreation area shall
contain less than two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet.
   C.   Recreation areas shall be so located as to be free of traffic hazards
and should, where the topography permits, be centrally located. (1984 Code § 6-
5-26; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-23: SETBACKS, BUFFER STRIPS AND SCREENING REQUIRED:
   A.   All manufactured homes shall be located at least eighteen feet (18') in
back of curb from any park property boundary line abutting upon a public street
or highway.
   B.   There shall be a minimum distance of eighteen feet (18') between the
manufactured home stand and abutting public street and a minimum distance
between manufactured homes of at least ten feet (10').
   C.   All manufactured home parks shall be provided with screening, such as
fences or natural growth, along the property boundary line separating the park
and such adjacent nonresidential uses and at least ten feet (10') behind the
curb line of a private street. (See §
10-9-7 for fencing regulations).
   D.   All manufactured homes shall have a front yard setback of at least ten
feet (10'). (1984 Code § 6-5-27; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-24: PARK STREET SYSTEM AND AUTOMOBILE PARKING:
   A.   General Requirements: All manufactured home parks shall be provided
with safe and convenient vehicular access from abutting public streets or roads
to each manufactured home lot. Such access shall be provided by streets or
private streets.
   B.   Park Entrance: Entrances to manufactured home parks shall be designed
to minimize congestion and hazards and allow free movement of traffic on
adjacent streets. No parking shall be permitted on the park entrance street for
a distance of one hundred feet (100') from its point of beginning, unless
approved by the planning and zoning commission.
   C.   Internal Streets: Surfaced roadways shall be of adequate width to
accommodate anticipated traffic, and in any case shall meet the following
minimum requirements:
      1.   All streets, except minor streets, thirty two feet (32'), curb face
to curb face;
      2.   Minor streets, twenty eight feet (28'), curb face to curb face;
      3.   Where dead end streets are provided, a cul-de-sac having a roadway
diameter of at least ninety feet (90'), back of curb to back of curb, shall be
provided;
      4.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles, and no street shall intersect any other street at an angle of
less than eighty degrees (80°).
   D.   Manufactured Home Parking: Each manufactured home space shall contain a
minimum of three thousand two hundred (3,200) square feet and shall be at least
forty feet (40') in width. Each manufactured home shall be placed as to provide
the necessary clearance as provided in this article.
   E.   Off Street Parking: Off street parking areas shall be provided for the
use of park occupants and guests.
      1.   Off street parking shall be provided at the rate of three hundred
fifty (350) square feet of hard surfaced area for each manufactured home lot;
      2.   Off street parking shall be located within a distance of thirty feet
(30') from the manufactured home to be served, unless other vehicular access is
provided.
   F.   Required Illumination Of Park Street Systems: All parks shall be
furnished with lighting units so spaced and equipped with luminaries placed at
such mounting heights, as will provide adequate levels of illumination for the
safe movement of pedestrians and vehicles at night at:
      1.   All parts of the park street systems;
      2.   Potentially hazardous locations, such as major street intersections
and steps or stepped ramps.
   G.   Street Construction: Street construction and design standards shall
conform to minimum standards of city codes, in addition to the following
standards:
      1.   Pavements: All streets shall be provided with an asphalt or concrete
surface which shall be durable and well drained under normal use and weather
conditions. Pavement edges shall be protected to prevent raveling of the
wearing surface and shifting of the pavement base. Street surfaces shall be
maintained free of cracks, holes, and other hazards set forth in this article.
      2.   Grades: Grades shall conform to the minimum standards of this
article. Grades of all streets shall be sufficient to ensure adequate surface
drainage, but shall be more than minimum street grade of three-tenths of one
percent (0.3%) with a maximum grade being seven percent (7%) for secondary and
major streets and ten percent (10%) for local or minor streets. Where the
observance of these standards is impossible, the planning and zoning commission
shall review the situation before an exception may be granted.
      3.   Intersections: Within one hundred feet (100') of an intersection,
streets shall be at approximately right angles; a distance of at least one
hundred twenty five feet (125') shall be maintained between centerlines of
offset intersecting streets; intersections of more than two (2) streets at one
point shall be avoided.
      4.   Curb: Minimum four inch (4") high rolled curb to be constructed of
either asphalt or concrete with three thousand (3,000) psi density.
   H.   Fences; Location, Height And Density: The outer park perimeter fence
shall be solid with a minimum height of six feet (6').
   I.   Measurements Of Height Of Fences: All fences along a roadway will be
measured from and along the sidewalk, or if no sidewalk exists, from and along
the curb. All other fences will be measured from and along the finished grade
of the property along the fence. (Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-25: MANUFACTURED HOME STAND PADS:
   A.   Support And Tie Downs: The area of the manufactured home stand pad
shall be improved to provide adequate support for the placement and tie down of
the manufactured home, thereby securing the superstructure against uplift,
sliding, rotation and overturning.
   B.   Shifting Or Settling: The manufactured home stand pad shall not heave,
shift or settle unevenly under the weight of the manufactured home due to frost
action, inadequate drainage, vibration or other forces acting on the structure.
   C.   Footings And Foundations: Each manufactured home which is placed for
long term occupancy shall be placed on footings and foundation, which footings
and foundation shall comply with the requirements of Idaho Code sections 44-
2201 through 44-2202. (1984 Code § 6-5-29; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-26: WATER SUPPLY, SOURCE AND METER:
The park shall be connected to the city water system and a compound water meter
of adequate size shall be used to meter the water supplied to the park. A
backflow device sufficient for manufactured home parks shall be installed
downstream of the water meter, but prior to any service connection at the
owner’s expense. The backflow device shall be owned and maintained by the park
owner. (1984 Code § 6-5-30; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-27: FIRE HYDRANTS:
Fire hydrants shall be required to maintain safe standards of fire protection
and shall not be more than five hundred feet (500') from any manufactured home
stand pad, service building or other structure in the park, measured along the
centerline of the street. Fire hydrants shall be in accordance with latest
specifications of AWWA. Hydrants to be painted with two (2) coats of red
hydrant enamel and manufactured by Waterous Pacer 100, Mueller Centurion or
Clow Medallian; shall have mechanical joint shoe. (1984 Code § 6-5-31; amd.
Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-28: INDIVIDUAL WATER RISER PIPES AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Individual water riser pipes shall be located within the confined area
of the manufactured home stand pad at a point where the water connection will
approximate a vertical position.
   B.   Water riser pipes shall be installed in accordance with the latest
provisions of the state plumbing code. The pipe shall be at least three-fourths
inch (3/4") unless otherwise specified by the state plumbing bureau. The water
outlet shall be capped when a manufactured home does not occupy the lot.
   C.   Adequate provisions shall be made to prevent freezing of service lines,
valves and riser pipes and to protect risers from heaving and thawing actions
of ground during freezing weather. Surface drainage shall be diverted from the
location of the riser pipe.
   D.   A shutoff valve below the frost line shall be provided near the water
riser pipe on each manufactured home lot. Shutoff valve must have a valve box
placed over them for access.
   E.   Underground stop and waste valves shall not be installed on any water
service. (1984 Code § 6-5-32; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-29: WATER, IRRIGATION SYSTEM:
Every manufactured home park shall install and maintain a system to supply
water to residents for irrigation of lawns and gardens. The source of that
supply shall be from an irrigation company or other water delivery system, if
available, and, if not available, then from a water well. (1984 Code § 6-5-33;
amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-30: SEWAGE DISPOSAL, COMPLIANCE:
All plumbing in the manufactured home park shall comply with state and local
plumbing laws and regulations and must connect to the public sewer of the city
and shall conform to all rules and regulations of the city. (1984 Code § 6-5-
34; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-31: SEWER LINE LOCATION AND CONSTRUCTION:
All sewer lines shall be located in trenches of sufficient depth to be free of
breakage from traffic or other movements, and shall be separated from the park
water supply system at a safe distance. Sewers shall be at a grade which will
ensure a velocity of two feet (2') per second when flowing full. All sewer
lines shall be constructed of materials approved by the city, shall be
adequately vented and shall have watertight joints. (1984 Code § 6-5-35; amd.
Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-32: INDIVIDUAL SEWER CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Each manufactured home stand pad shall be provided with at least a
three inch (3") diameter sewer riser pipe; the sewer riser pipe shall be so
located on each stand pad that the sewer connection to the manufactured home
drain outlet will approximate a vertical position.
   B.   The sewer connection shall have a minimum fall of one-fourth inch (1/
4") per foot. The sewer connection shall consist of one pipeline only, without
any branch fittings. All joints shall be watertight.
   C.   All materials used for sewer connections shall be semirigid, corrosive
resistant, nonabsorbent and durable. The inner surface shall be smooth.
   D.   Provision shall be made for plugging the sewer riser pipe when a
manufactured home does not occupy the lot. Surface drainage shall be diverted
away from the riser. The rim of the riser pipe shall extend at least four
inches (4") above ground elevation. (1984 Code § 6-5-36; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-
2021)
10-15E-33: SEWAGE TREATMENT AND/OR DISCHARGE:
Effluents from sewage or sewage treatment shall not be discharged into any
waters of the state. (1984 Code § 6-5-37; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-34: PLUMBING, GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
All plumbing within the manufactured home park shall comply with state and
local plumbing standards and local regulations and laws, as well as those of
the city. All plumbing within each manufactured home shall conform to the
minimum standards of the state and local regulations and laws. (1984 Code § 6-
5-38; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-35: ELECTRICAL SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS:
Every park shall contain an electrical wiring system consisting of wiring,
fixtures, equipment and appurtenances, which shall be installed and maintained
in accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing such systems.
(1984 Code § 6-5-39; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-36: ELECTRICAL POWER DISTRIBUTION LINES:
Main power lines shall be installed underground and must comply with all local
and state requirements. (1984 Code § 6-5-40; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-37: INDIVIDUAL ELECTRICAL CONNECTIONS:
Individual electrical connections shall conform to the requirements of the
electrical codes of the city and the state. (1984 Code § 6-5-41; amd. Ord. 682,
5-10-2021)
10-15E-38: GROUNDING REQUIREMENTS:
All exposed noncurrent carrying metal parts of manufactured homes and all other
equipment shall be grounded by means of an approved grounding conductor with
branch circuit conductors or other approved method of grounded metallic wiring.
The neutral conductor shall not be used as an equipment ground for manufactured
homes or other equipment. (1984 Code § 6-5-42; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-39: SERVICE BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES; REGULATIONS APPLICABLE:
The requirements of the international fire code and international building code
shall apply to service buildings, recreation buildings and other community
service facilities, such as:
   A.   Management offices, repair shops and storage areas;
   B.   Sanitary facilities;
   C.   Indoor recreation areas;
   D.   Commercial uses supplying essential goods or services for the exclusive
use of park occupants.
   E.   Storage sheds shall not be located closer than five feet (5') to the
main structure, other structures, or the space (lot) line.
   F.   Under no circumstances will it be permissible to allow these buildings
and facilities to be used as temporary or permanent shelters for human
habitation or occupancy. (1984 Code § 6-5-43; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-40: BARBECUE PITS, FIREPLACES AND STOVES:
Cooking shelters, stoves, barbecue pits and fireplaces shall be so located,
constructed, maintained and used as to minimize fire hazards and smoke
nuisance, both on the property on which used and on neighboring property. No
open fire shall be permitted except in facilities provided. No open fire shall
be left unattended. No fuel shall be used, and no material burned which emits
dense smoke or objectionable odors. (1984 Code § 6-5-44; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-
2021)
10-15E-41: REFUSE; STORAGE, COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL:
The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the manufactured home park
shall be so conducted as to create none of the following: health hazards,
rodent harborage, insect breeding areas, accidents, fire hazards or air
pollution. (1984 Code § 6-5-45; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-42: TRASH INCINERATORS:
Trash incinerators shall not be used for the disposal of garbage and trash.
(1984 Code § 6-5-46; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-43: EXTERMINATION:
Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained free of insect and rodent
harborage and infestation. Extermination methods and measures to control
insects and rodents shall conform with requirements of the health authority.
(1984 Code § 6-5-47; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-44: ACCUMULATION OF DEBRIS PROHIBITED:
Parks shall be maintained free of accumulations of debris which may provide
rodent harborage or breeding places for flies, mosquitoes and other pests.
(1984 Code § 6-5-48; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-45: STORAGE AREAS, RODENT HARBORAGE PREVENTION:
Storage areas shall be so maintained as to prevent rodent harborage. Lumber,
pipe and other building material shall be stored at least one foot (1') above
the ground. (1984 Code § 6-5-49; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-46: SCREENING OF OPENINGS REQUIRED, WHEN:
Where the potential for insect and rodent infestation exists, all exterior
openings in or beneath any structure shall be appropriately screened with wire
mesh or other suitable materials. (1984 Code § 6-5-50; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-
2021)
10-15E-47: CONTROL OF WEEDS AND OTHER UNDERGROWTH:
The growth of brush, weeds and grass shall be controlled to prevent harborage
of noxious insects. Parks shall be so maintained as to prevent the growth of
noxious and unsightly weeds, or those which could be injurious to health. Open
areas as well as areas about and under the manufactured home shall be
maintained free of heavy undergrowth of any description. (1984 Code § 6-5-51;
amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-48: NATURAL GAS SYSTEM:
   A.   Natural gas piping systems shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing such systems.
   B.   Each manufactured home lot provided with piped gas shall have an
approved manual shutoff valve installed upstream of the gas outlet. The outlet
shall be equipped with an approved cap to prevent accidental discharge of gas
when the outlet is not in use. (1984 Code § 6-5-52; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-49: LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS SYSTEMS:
   A.   In the event of the use of liquefied petroleum gas systems, they shall
be installed and maintained in accordance with applicable codes and regulations
governing such systems.
   B.   The systems shall be provided with safety devices to relieve excessive
pressures, and shall be arranged so that the discharge terminates at a safe
location.
   C.   The systems shall have at least one accessible means for shutting off
gas. Such means shall be located outside the manufactured homes and shall be
maintained in effective operating condition.
   D.   All LPG piping outside of the manufactured homes shall be well
supported and protected against mechanical injury. Undiluted liquefied
petroleum gas in liquid form shall not be conveyed through piping equipment and
systems in manufactured homes.
   E.   Liquefied petroleum gas containers installed on a manufactured home lot
shall be securely, but not permanently, fastened to prevent accidental
overturning. Such containers shall not be less than five (5), nor more than two
hundred (200) U.S. gallons’ gross capacity.
   F.   No liquefied petroleum gas vessel shall be stored or located inside or
beneath any storage cabinet, carport, manufactured home or any other structure,
unless such installations are approved by the building official. (1984 Code §
6-5-53; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-50: FUEL OIL SUPPLY SYSTEMS:
   A.   In the event of the use of fuel oil supply systems, they shall be
installed and maintained in accordance with applicable codes and regulations
governing such systems.
   B.   All piping from outside fuel storage tanks, or cylinders, to
manufactured homes shall be permanently installed and securely fastened in
place.
   C.   All fuel oil storage tanks or cylinders shall be securely fastened in
place and shall not be located inside or beneath any manufactured home or less
than five feet (5') from any manufactured home exit.
   D.   Storage tanks located in areas subject to traffic shall be protected
against physical damage. (1984 Code § 6-5-54; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-51: FLAMMABLE LITTER AND RUBBISH REMOVAL:
Manufactured home parks shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and other
flammable materials. (1984 Code § 6-5-55; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-52: FIRE EXTINGUISHERS:
Portable fire extinguishers rated for class A, B and C fires shall be kept in
service buildings. Their capacity shall not be less than two and one-half (21/
2) pounds. (1984 Code § 6-5-56; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-53: PERMITTED FIRES, RESTRICTIONS:
Fires shall be allowed only in accordance with section
10-15E-40 of this article. (1984 Code § 6-5-57; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-54: CONFLICT OF ORDINANCES, HIGHER STANDARDS TO PREVAIL:
In any case where a provision of this article is found to be in conflict with a
provision of any other ordinance or code of the city existing on the effective
date of this article, the provision which, in the judgment of the city council,
establishes the higher standard for the promotion and protection of the health
and safety of the people shall prevail. In any case where a provision of this
article is found to be in conflict with a provision of any other ordinance or
code of the city existing on the effective date of this article which
establishes a lower standard for the promotion and protection of the health and
safety of the people, the provisions of this article shall be deemed to
prevail, and such other ordinances or codes are declared to be repealed to the
extent that they may be found in conflict with this article. (1984 Code § 6-5-
59; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-15E-55: ADOPTION OF NFPA STANDARD:
In addition to any other requirements contained herein, all developments
allowed pursuant to this article shall conform to the most current edition of
NFPA 501A, “Manufactured Home Installations”, which is adopted herein and
incorporated herein as if set out in full verbatim. (1984 Code § 6-5-60; amd.
Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
CHAPTER 16
NONRESIDENTIAL LAND SUBDIVISIONS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-16A-1: Purpose
10-16A-2: Applicability
10-16A-3: Hearing Procedure
10-16A-4: Definitions
10-16A-5: Alternatives To Nonresidential Subdivisions
10-16A-6: Variances And Appeals
10-16A-7: Denial Of Building Permit Upon Violation
10-16A-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare of present and future residents of the city, and to bring about
a coordinated and efficient development of the city, as well as the following
items:
      1.   To protect property rights and enhance property values.
      2.   To ensure that public facilities and services are provided to the
people at reasonable cost.
      3.   To ensure the economy and important environmental features of the
city are protected and enhanced.
      4.   To encourage urban and urban type development while avoiding undue
concentration of population and overcrowding of land.
      5.   To ensure that the development of land is commensurate with the
physical characteristics of the land.
      6.   To protect fish, wildlife, and recreation resources while avoiding
undue water and air pollution. (1984 Code § 11-4-1)
   B.   For these reasons, the following regulations of this chapter for
nonresidential subdividing of land within the city are hereby adopted. (1984
Code § 11-4-1; amd. 2014 Code)
10-16A-2: APPLICABILITY:
The regulations of this chapter shall apply to the subdividing of all
nonresidential land within the corporate limits of the city, and the
subdividing of all nonresidential land within the city impact area:
   A.   Every owner proposing a "nonresidential subdivision", as defined in
section
10-16A-4 of this article, shall cause the same to be engineered and surveyed
and a plat and construction plans made thereof, which shall particularly and
accurately describe and set forth all the streets, easements, slopes, grades,
elevations, public grounds, blocks or lots, and other essential information,
and shall record such plat.
   B.   The dividing of land into five (5) or more tracts, lots or parcels for
transfer of ownership or building development.
   C.   The regulations in this chapter shall not apply to any of the
following: (1984 Code § 11-4-2)
      1.   A lot or parcel line adjustment. See section
10-9-11 of this title. (1984 Code § 11-4-2; amd. 2014 Code)
      2.   A land division plan. See chapter 7, article E of this title.
      3.   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent
or a court decree for the distribution of property hereunder.
   D.    Improvements shall be provided subject to the requirements outlined in
Chapter 7, Articles A, B, C, D, F, G, and H, as well as Chapter 15, Article D.
(1984 Code § 11-4-2; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-16A-3: HEARING PROCEDURE:
Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6509, the procedures adopted for the conduct
of hearings are to apply to all hearings held pursuant to this chapter. (1984
Code § 11-4-4)
10-16A-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
CITY ENGINEER: The city civil engineer, city transportation engineer, city
water engineer, and city sewer engineer as appointed by the mayor and confirmed
by the city council.
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interest in land for use by the
public. Land becomes dedicated when accepted by the city council.
NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION: A tract of nonresidential land divided into five
(5) or more lots, parcels or sites.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A preliminary plat of a proposed nonresidential subdivision
of a parcel of land, containing the elements and requirements set forth in this
chapter.
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY (TIS): A study to be completed by a professional engineer
registered in the state of Idaho which identifies, analyzes and provides
recommendations for mitigating the impacts that a proposed development will
have on the surrounding surface transportation system, including existing and
anticipated vehicle and pedestrian facilities.
UTILITIES: The installation of water, sewage, gas, irrigation, cable
television, telecommunication lines or electricity and similar facilities
providing service to and used by the public. (1984 Code § 11-4-4; amd. 2014
Code; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-16A-5: ALTERNATIVES TO NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS:
A land division plan can be utilized to create up to four (4) nonresidential
parcels. See chapter 7, article E of this title. (1984 Code § 11-4-5; amd. Ord.
682, 5-10-2021)
10-16A-6: VARIANCES AND APPEALS:
   A.   Variances: Whenever a tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size or
shape or is surrounded by such developments or unusual conditions that the
strict application of the regulations of this chapter would result in
substantial hardship or inequity, the city council may vary or modify such
requirements so that the subdivider may develop his property in a reasonable
manner, but so at the same time, the public welfare and interest of the city
are protected, the general intent and spirit of said regulations are preserved,
and conformity to achievement of the comprehensive general plan is assured. The
variance procedure shall be as specified in chapter 13 of this title.
   B.   Appeals: The appeal procedure shall be as specified in section
10-2-10 of this title. (1984 Code § 11-4-6; amd. 2014 Code)
10-16A-7: DENIAL OF BUILDING PERMIT UPON VIOLATION:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall not be
entitled to the issuance of any building permits for construction of buildings
or otherwise on the land being subject to nonresidential subdivision under the
provisions of this chapter. (1984 Code § 11-4-7; amd. 2014 Code)
ARTICLE B. PLAT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-16B-1: General Requirements
10-16B-1-1: When Required
10-16B-1-2: Official Filing; Recording Of Sales Required
10-16B-1-3: Filing Fees
10-16B-1-4: Planning And Zoning Commission Review And Inspecting; Charges
10-16B-2: Preliminary Plats
10-16B-2-1: Filing Of Copies
10-16B-2-2: Preparation, Submittal To Planning And Zoning Commission
10-16B-2-3: Review And Recommendations By Agencies
10-16B-2-4: Planning And Zoning Commission Action
10-16B-2-5: Time Limits
10-16B-2-6: Scale, Required Information
10-16B-2-7: Traffic Impact Study Thresholds
10-16B-3: Final Plats
10-16B-3-1: Preparation, Filing, Accompanying Prints
10-16B-3-2: Filing, Time Constraints
10-16B-3-3: Acceptance Of Public Dedications
10-16B-3-4: Scale
10-16B-3-5: Contents
10-16B-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
10-16B-1-1: WHEN REQUIRED:
A plat shall be drawn for each “nonresidential subdivision”, as defined in
section
10-16A-4 of this chapter, of land and submitted to the planning and zoning
commission, as provided in this article. (1984 Code § 11-4A-1-1; amd. Ord. 682,
5-10-2021)
10-16B-1-2: OFFICIAL FILING; RECORDING OF SALES REQUIRED:
   A.   No plat or description of land subdividing shall be filed in the office
of the county recorder until the same has been approved by the planning and
zoning commission in preliminary and final plat form as required in this
article.
   B.   No lots shall be sold from any plat until the plat has been recorded in
the office of the county recorder. (Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-16B-1-3: FILING FEES:
Prior to submitting a preliminary plat, an applicant shall submit a
nonrefundable fee, as established by resolution of the City Council and as may
be amended from time to time, to the city clerk. This fee shall be for mailing
and processing costs and shall be in addition to any other fees or costs,
including professional staff review fees as provided in Title 9, Chapter 5 of
this code. (1984 Code § 11-4A-1-2; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021; Ord. 712, 2-10-
2025)
10-16B-1-4: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION REVIEW AND INSPECTING; CHARGES:
The planning and zoning commission will review the preliminary and final plats
and/or construction drawings for conformance to the standards contained in this
chapter, and will inspect all construction, or inspection may be delegated to a
public works supervisor or other authorized agent. (Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-16B-2: PRELIMINARY PLATS:
10-16B-2-1: FILING OF COPIES:
Any owner desiring to subdivide a piece of land within the city shall file with
the zoning administrator copies of the preliminary plat as required, together
with a letter requesting that the preliminary plat be considered by the
planning and zoning commission. (1984 Code § 11-4A-2-1; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-
2021)
10-16B-2-2: PREPARATION, SUBMITTAL TO PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat and such other supplementary
material as may be required to indicate to the planning and zoning commission
the general objectives of the subdivision. The subdivider shall submit to the
city fifteen (15) copies of the preliminary plat. The subdivider shall also
submit one copy in an eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") size. If the
warrants for a traffic impact study are met with the proposed development, five
(5) copies of the completed and signed traffic impact study shall be submitted
concurrently with the preliminary plat to the planning and zoning commission.
(1984 Code § 11-4A-2-2; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-16B-2-3: REVIEW AND RECOMMENDATIONS BY AGENCIES:
   A.   The zoning administrator may transmit one copy each of the preliminary
plat to the following agencies for review and recommendations, and may request
recommendations from such other agencies as he may deem necessary: (1984 Code §
11-4A-2-3)
   City building official.
   City engineers.
   City of Fruitland public works department.
   Drainage district 5 (if said plat abuts or crosses).
   Farmers Mutual Telephone Company.
   Fire chief.
   Fruitland school district 373.
   Highway district 1.
   Idaho Power Company.
   Idaho transportation department (if said plat abuts).
   Intermountain Gas Company.
   Irrigation district appropriate to area being platted.
   Marathon Pipeline (if said plan abuts or crosses).
   Payette County assessor.
   Postmaster.
   Treasure Valley Classical Academy.
   Williams Northwest pipeline (if said plat abuts or crosses).
   B.   The zoning administrator shall transmit one copy of the preliminary
plat and the traffic impact study, where applicable, to the city engineer for
review and recommendations. The city engineer’s review fees shall be paid by
the subdivider.
   C.   If no written recommendation from any agency listed in subsection A of
this section is received within fifteen (15) days after such notification, the
approval of the preliminary plat by such agency will be considered to be
granted. (1984 Code § 11-4A-2-3; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-16B-2-4: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION ACTION:
The planning and zoning commission shall approve, approve conditionally or
disapprove the preliminary plat within forty five (45) days of the date at
which said completed plat application is first received. If the preliminary
plat is disapproved or approved, or approved conditionally, the reasons for
such action shall be stated in writing, a copy of which, signed by the zoning
administrator, shall be attached to one copy of the preliminary plat and
transmitted to the applicant. (Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-16B-2-5: TIME LIMITS:
The time limits for acting on the preliminary plat, as specified in this
section, may be extended by mutual consent of the subdivider and the planning
and zoning commission, as the case may be. (1984 Code § 11-4A-2-5; amd. Ord.
682, 5-10-2021)
10-16B-2-6: SCALE, REQUIRED INFORMATION:
   A.   Preliminary plats shall be drawn on a twenty four inch by thirty six
inch (24" x 36") sheet size and at a scale of not less than one hundred feet to
the inch (100' = 1"), except that it may be smaller by approval of the city
engineer and zoning administrator, and shall show the following:
      1.   The scale, north point, date, township, range, section and quarter
section of subject parcel;
      2.   The name of the proposed subdivision;
      3.   The name, email address, and address of the owner of record, the
subdivider and engineer, surveyor or person preparing the plat;
      4.   The names, with locations of intersecting boundary lines, of
adjoining subdivisions, and the location of the city limits if falling within
or immediately adjoining the tract;
      5.   The land contours with appropriate vertical intervals referenced to
datum and at intervals acceptable to the city engineer; provided, however, that
where authorized by the city engineer, contour data may be provided in form of
spot elevations at street intersections and in drainage channels;
      6.   The location of existing buildings, water bodies or courses, and the
location of dedicated streets at the point where they adjoin and/or are
immediately adjacent to; provided, that actual measured distance shall not be
required;
      7.   The boundaries of the tract, as determined by a legal survey area of
the tract, the proposed location, right of way width and pavement width of
streets and alleys, the proposed locations and width of easements, proposed lot
lines, the radius of all curves and approximate lot dimensions;
      8.   The existing zoning boundary lines defining the proposed use of all
portions of the subdivision;
      9.   The proposed street names and system of consecutively numbering lots
and blocks;
      10.   The locations, approximate size and proposed use of all land
intended to be dedicated for public use or reserved for the use of all property
owners within the proposed subdivision;
      11.   The location of sanitary and storm sewers, irrigation lines and
facilities, water mains, culverts and other surface and subsurface structures
existing within or immediately adjacent to the proposed subdivision; and the
locations, layout type of any proposed water mains and storage facilities,
sanitary mains and laterals, storm sewers, irrigation lines and facilities,
culverts and drainage structures, street improvements and any other proposed
utilities;
      12.   The location of all drainage structures and the proposed method of
disposing of all runoff from the proposed subdivision, and the location of all
drainage easements relating thereof, whether they are located within or outside
the proposed plat.
   B.   A vicinity map of the proposed subdivision shall accompany the
preliminary plat at an appropriate scale. The vicinity map shall show the
following features within one-half (1/2) mile of the exterior boundary of the
proposed subdivision:
      1.   Names and right of way widths of proposed and existing public
highways, arterials and collector roads;
      2.   City limits;
      3.   Government section lines;
      4.   Named rivers, streams, drainages and canals. (1984 Code § 11-4A-2-6;
amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-16B-2-7: TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY THRESHOLDS:
A traffic impact study (TIS) shall be performed by a professional engineer
licensed in the state and employed by the developer when one or more of the
following apply:
   A.   Full TIS: A full TIS shall be required for any development that will
generate:
      1.   One hundred (100) or more added (new) peak direction trips to or
from the site during the adjacent roadway's peak hours or the development's
peak hours;
      2.   One thousand (1,000) or more added (new) vehicle trips per day;
      3.   The proposed development will add fifteen thousand (15,000) square
feet or more retail space;
      4.   The proposed development will add thirty five thousand (35,000)
square feet or more office space;
      5.   The proposed development will add seventy thousand (70,000) square
feet or more industrial space;
      6.   The proposed development will have a significant impact on a
roadway, as determined by the city transportation engineer.
A full TIS shall be completed in accordance with the city "Traffic Impact Study
Requirements" for any development meeting these thresholds.
   B.   Modified TIS: A modified TIS shall be required for any development that
will generate:
      1.   Fifty (50) to ninety nine (99) added (new) peak direction trips to
or from the site during the adjacent roadway's peak hours or the development's
peak hours;
      2.   Five hundred (500) to nine hundred ninety nine (999) added (new)
vehicle trips per day.
The developer shall meet with the city transportation engineer prior to
completing the modified TIS. The purpose of this meeting will be to identify
the modified requirements for the TIS.
   C.   City Authority To Require: The city reserves the right to require a TIS
for any and all new development or redevelopment, regardless of the thresholds
previously listed. (1984 Code § 11-4A-2-7)
10-16B-3: FINAL PLATS:
10-16B-3-1: PREPARATION, FILING, ACCOMPANYING PRINTS:
   A.   After the approval or conditional approval of the preliminary plat, the
subdivider may cause the subdivision, or any part thereof, to be surveyed and a
final plat prepared in accordance with the preliminary plat as approved.
   B.   The final plat, prepared in accordance with Idaho Code title 50,
chapter 13, and the provisions set forth in this chapter, shall be filed with
the zoning administrator, together with a letter requesting that it be
considered by the planning and zoning commission.
   C.   Such final plat, when submitted, shall be accompanied by prints
thereof, as required, and three (3) sets of prints of the plans and (complete)
construction drawings and specifications for all proposed and required
improvements as required by this chapter. (1984 Code § 11-4A-3-1; amd. Ord.
682, 5-10-2021)
10-16B-3-2: FILING, TIME CONSTRAINTS:
   A.   Filing of the final plat may be made within one year after action by
the planning and zoning commission on the preliminary plat.
   B.   Failure to file a final plat within one year after action by the city
council planning and zoning commission approving the preliminary plat shall
cause all approvals of the preliminary plat to be voided; provided, however,
that upon application of the subdivider, the planning and zoning commission may
grant extensions for reasonable cause in one year increments, with the
understanding the annual extension be approved by the city engineer, based on
the preliminary plat, and improvement standards are in conformance with the
standards in place at approval time. (1984 Code § 11-4A-3-2; amd. Ord. 682, 5-
10-2021)
10-16B-3-3: ACCEPTANCE OF PUBLIC DEDICATIONS:
At the time of approval of the final plat, the city council shall accept offers
of dedication to the public shown thereon and shall, as a condition precedent
to the acceptance of any streets or easements, require that the subdivider
improve the streets and easements in accordance with standards established
under this chapter. (1984 Code § 11-4A-3-7; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-16B-3-4: SCALE:
The final plat shall be drawn at such scale and contain on the front lettering
of such size, including reference to dedication and affidavit of survey, as to
enable the same to be placed upon a single sheet eighteen inches by twenty four
inches (18" x 24") in size, with no part thereof nearer to the edge of said
sheet than one inch (1"), and shall be in full accordance with provisions of
the state law, Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13. The reverse of said sheet shall
not be used for any portion of the drawing but may contain written matter as to
dedication and other information. (1984 Code § 11-4A-3-8; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-
2021)
10-16B-3-5: CONTENTS:
The final plat shall clearly show the following:
   A.   The exterior boundary of the platted tract shall show distance and
bearing ties to the primary control monuments. Primary control points, approved
by the city engineer, or a description and ties to such control points, to
which all dimensions, angles, bearings and similar data on the plat shall be
referenced. Such primary control points must include either a section corner,
quarter section corner or meander corner according to government survey.
   B.   Location and description of monuments.
   C.   Show all tract boundary lines, property lines, lot lines and right of
way lines of streets, easements and other rights of way. Include typical
sections of all streets. Lines shall be labeled with accurate dimensions in
feet and decimals thereof and bearings in degrees, minutes and seconds,
relative to the established basis of bearings. Curves shall be shown with
radii, arc length and chord lengths in feet and decimals thereof; central
angles and chord bearings in degrees, minutes and seconds.
   D.   Names and locations of adjoining subdivisions. Adjoining parcels which
are not subdivisions shall be labeled “unplatted”.
   E.   Name and right of way width of each street or other right of way.
   F.   The location, dimensions and purposes of all easements.
   G.   The blocks numbered consecutively throughout the entire subdivision and
lots numbered consecutively throughout each block, with areas to be excluded
from platting marked “Reserved” or “Not A Part”.
   H.   The outline of any property, other than streets or alleys, by lengths
and bearings, with the area marked “Public” and showing the proposed use.
   I.   A title which shall include the name of the subdivision, name of the
city, county and state, and the location and description of the subdivision
referenced to section, township and range.
   J.   Scale, north arrow. Drawing scale shall be shown by a graphic bar scale
and text indicating the number of feet in an inch on the drawing, i.e., scale:
one inch equals sixty feet (1" = 60'). Also include a “basis of bearing”.
   K.   Location, width and name of all existing or platted streets or other
important features, such as the general outline of the following: existing
buildings, watercourses, power lines, telephone lines, railroad lines, any
existing easements, municipal boundaries, section lines and restrictive
covenants as required or assured. Existing easements shall be labeled with the
recording instrument number found in the county clerk’s office. Restrictive
covenants shall be noted with the recording instrument number found in the
county clerk’s office, or, if no restrictive covenants are filed for the
subdivision, a note stating that:
      No restrictive covenants have been established or adopted for this
subdivision at the time of first recording.
   L.   Certification by a professional land surveyor preparing said plat
certifying the accuracy of the survey and plat shall appear on the plat.
   M.   Certification by the owner, including dedication of all streets, rights
of way and any sites for public use and grant on any existing or proposed
easements.
   N.   Acknowledgment by signature of the county surveyor and signature of the
city engineer.
   O.   Certification and signature of the city clerk verifying that the final
plat complies with state law, Idaho Code title 50, and with this chapter.
   P.   Certification and signature of the zoning administrator verifying city
council approval of the final plat and acceptance of streets, alleys, easements
and public land dedications.
   Q.   Certification and signature of the county treasurer verifying that all
taxes and levies against said property are currently paid, prior to the filing
of said plat, and pursuant to Idaho Code. (1984 Code § 11-4A-3-9; amd. Ord.
682, 5-10-2021)
CHAPTER 17
STREET NAMING AND ADDRESSING
SECTION:
10-17-1: Purpose
10-17-2: Applicability
10-17-3: Definitions
10-17-4: Designations
10-17-5: Street Naming
10-17-6: Street Name Signs
10-17-7: Street Addressing
10-17-8: Physical Address
10-17-9: Administrative Process
10-17-1: PURPOSE:
The city council finds and declares that in order to further implement portions
of the city of Fruitland comprehensive plan and to supplement the zoning and
subdivision ordinances it is necessary to regulate street names and addressing
to provide residents of the city of Fruitland with a uniform and standardized
system of road naming and addressing; to minimize future road name and
addressing conflicts; provide a database for city records and enhanced 911
service and to expedite property identification services. (Ord. 598, 4-13-2015;
amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-17-2: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to all property not currently addressed, fronting on
public and private streets, within the incorporated limits of the city of
Fruitland and to all property hereafter annexed. (Ord. 598, 4-13-2015)
10-17-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the following terms and phrases
as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter designated:
ADDRESS: The street number designation given to the property.
ADDRESS GRID: A system of addressing based upon the point of origin from the
intersection of First Street and Pennsylvania Avenue.
PRIVATE STREET: Any roadway not maintained by the city of Fruitland and
designated by a blue street name sign with white letters.
PUBLIC STREET: Any roadway that is maintained by the city of Fruitland and is
designated by a green street name sign with white letters. (Ord. 598, 4-13-
2015)
10-17-4: DESIGNATIONS:
Designations of streets within the incorporated boundaries of the city of
Fruitland shall be in accordance with the following guidelines, except in the
case of existing and recorded street designations:
   A.   "Street" shall designate streets that have a definite east-west
directional course.
   B.   "Avenue" shall designate a street that runs generally north and south.
   C.   "Lane" shall designate a private street. (Ord. 598, 4-13-2015)
10-17-5: STREET NAMING:
Any new street to be established within the city of Fruitland, public or
private, or any existing unnamed street, public or private shall require a
street name approved by the Fruitland zoning administrator. In the event a
previously named city street needs to be renamed, the city council shall give
final approval to a new name upon recommendation of the new name by the zoning
administrator. In selecting new street names, consideration shall be given to
the following:
   A.   There shall be no duplication of existing names.
   B.   Names of similar pronunciation and/or spelling shall be prohibited
(i.e., Brian Street, Bryan Street).
   C.   Variations of the same name with a different street designation shall
be prohibited (i.e., Maple Street, Maple Avenue).
   D.   No street name shall consist of more than two (2) words or contain more
than fourteen (14) letters.
   E.   No new street shall have more than one name.
   F.   A new street that has less than a one hundred twenty five foot (125')
centerline alignment offset from an existing street shall continue with the
same street name. A new street that has more than a one hundred twenty five
foot (125') centerline alignment offset from an existing street shall have a
new name.
   G.   In the case of newly approved subdivision plats, approved street names
shall be specified on the final map at the time of final plat approval by the
planning and zoning commission.
   H.   If a street accesses three (3) or more properties, it shall be assigned
a street name and the parcels shall be addressed in accordance with this
chapter. (Ord. 598, 4-13-2015; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-17-6: STREET NAME SIGNS:
Street identification signs shall be placed so that they are clearly visible at
intersections. All primary letters, numbers and symbols shall be a minimum of
four inches (4") in height, and shall be reflectorized and contrasting with the
background color. Private street signs shall be designated with white letters
on a blue background and public street signs shall be designated with white
letters on a green background, as noted in section
10-17-3 of this chapter. All sign installations shall be constructed and
installed in accordance with the requirements established by the city of
Fruitland.
   A.   Property owners and homeowners' associations shall be responsible for
placing and maintaining private street signs in accordance with this chapter.
   B.   After the initial installation has been made by the property owners and
the installation has been accepted by the public works supervisor, the city of
Fruitland shall be responsible for maintaining public street signs within the
incorporated limits of the city. (Ord. 598, 4-13-2015; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-
2021)
10-17-7: STREET ADDRESSING:
Addressing along city of Fruitland streets shall be based on the “address grid”
as defined in section
10-17-3 of this chapter with Pennsylvania Avenue being the baseline for
starting the numbering for all streets running east and west and First Street
being the baseline for all streets running north and south. The even numbers
shall appear on the south and east sides of all streets and the odd numbers
shall appear on the north and west sides. Numbering shall be prefixed by the
proper hundred figure to designate its distance in blocks from the baselines,
beginning with one hundred (100) in blocks adjoining the baselines. Address
numbers will run consecutively to the north, south, east and west from the
point of beginning and all addresses shall be defined with a directional letter
(N, S, E, W, NW, NE, SW, SE) preceding the street name, pursuant to the address
grid. Addressing shall conform to the following guidelines:
   A.   A commercial or multi-family structure with one main entrance shall be
assigned one number with the owner of the structure responsible for the
individual numbering of each unit.
   B.   If a building has separate entrances, each serving a separate occupant,
then each entrance shall be assigned an address. In the situation where
multiple floors exist within the same building, each floor shall be numbered,
with one hundred (100) denoting the ground floor and subsequent floors being
numbered consecutively (200, 300, 400, etc.).
   C.   Manufactured homes located in manufactured home parks shall have
individual space numbers. The manufactured homes in the manufactured home park
shall be numbered in accordance with the city address grid system in the same
manner as residential structures. (Ord. 598, 4-13-2015; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-
2021)
10-17-8: PHYSICAL ADDRESS:
Addressing numbers within the city shall conform to the following guidelines:
The numbers shall be figures not less than four inches (4") high, placed in a
conspicuous position on each building and plainly legible from the center of
the street or avenue upon which such building has its principal entrance. If a
structure is more than seventy five feet (75') from the street, located along
arterial streets, or otherwise not clearly visible from the street, its address
shall be posted at the intersection of its driveway and the adjoining street
right of way on a sign no less than four feet (4') nor more than six feet (6')
above the surface of the ground on a substantial maintained support structure
with the numbers being figures not less than six inches (6") high. The view of
the address from the street must be clear, unobstructed and maintained. (Ord.
598, 4-13-2015; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-17-9: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESS:
In the event any person feels the zoning administrator is in error in assigning
an address, that person may appeal the decision to the city council. The zoning
administrator shall have the discretion at any time to refer any disputed or
duplicated road name, addressing issues or controversial road name changes to
the city council for approval or resolution. (Ord. 598, 4-13-2015)
CHAPTER 18
MEDICAL HELIPORT ZONE
SECTION:
10-18-1: Short Title
10-18-2: Definitions
10-18-3: Heliport Zones
10-18-4: Heliport Zone Height Limitations
10-18-5: Use Restrictions
10-18-6: Nonconforming Uses
10-18-7: Permits
10-18-8: Enforcement
10-18-9: Appeals
10-18-10: Penalties
10-18-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the MEDICAL HELIPORT ZONING
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 601, 7-27-2015)
10-18-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
APPROACH/DEPARTURE PATH: The generalized flight track helicopters follow when
landing at or departing from a heliport. A helicopter pilot may deviate from
this optimal flight path in the interest of aircraft safety. The approach/
departure paths may be straight or curved.
APPROACH/DEPARTURE SURFACE: An imaginary surface longitudinally centered on the
approach/departure path, extending upward and outward from the edge of the
final approach and takeoff area (FATO) and at the same slope as the approach
zone height limitation slope set forth in section
10-18-4 of this chapter. The extents and slopes of this imaginary surface are
defined by the federal aviation administration (FAA) in advisory circular AC-
150/5390-2C (4/24/012) which are adopted hereat.
FINAL APPROACH AND TAKEOFF (FATO): A defined area over which the pilot
completes the final phase of the approach to a hover or a landing and from
which the pilot initiates takeoff.
HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION: Any object having a substantial adverse effect upon
the safe and efficient use of the navigable airspace by aircraft, upon the
operation of air navigation facilities, or upon existing or planned airport/
heliport capacity as determined by the FAA.
HEIGHT: For the purpose of determining height limits in all zones set forth in
this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be the as built
elevation of the FATO. See zoning map attached to the ordinance codified herein
for relevant elevation datum.
HELIPORT: The area of land, water, or a structure used or intended to be used
for the landing and takeoff of helicopters, together with appurtenant buildings
and facilities.
HELIPORT IMAGINARY SURFACES: The imaginary planes defined in title 14 CFR part
77, safe, efficient use, and preservation of the navigable airspace, centered
about the FATO and the approach/departure paths, which are used to identify the
objects where notice to and evaluation by the FAA is required. Recommendations
may include realignment of approach/departure paths or removal, lowering,
marking and lighting of objects.
HELIPORT PROTECTION ZONE (HPZ): An area off the end of the FATO and under the
approach/departure path intended to enhance the protection of people and
property on the ground.
MEDICAL HELIPORT: A heliport limited to serving helicopters engaged in air
ambulance, or other hospital related functions. A designated helicopter landing
area located at a hospital or medical facility is a heliport and not a medical
emergency site.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any preexisting structure, object of natural growth, or use
of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an
amendment thereto.
OBSTRUCTION: Any structure, growth, protrusion or other object, including a
mobile object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in section
10-18-4 of this chapter.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, or governmental entity; includes a trustee, a
receiver, an assignee, or a similar representative of any of them.
PRIMARY SURFACE: The area of the primary surface coincides in size and shape
with the designated FATO of a heliport. This surface is a horizontal plane at
the elevation of the established heliport elevation.
STRUCTURE: An object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by
man, including, but without limitation, buildings, towers, cranes, smokestacks,
earth formation and overhead transmission lines.
TOUCHDOWN AND LIFTOFF AREA (TLOF): A load bearing, generally paved area,
normally centered in the FATO, on which a helicopter lands and/or takes off.
TRANSITIONAL SURFACES: An imaginary surface that extends outward at a ninety
degree (90°) angle to the approach/departure path centerline. The extents and
slopes of this imaginary surface are defined by the federal aviation
administration (FAA) in advisory circular AC-150/5390-2C (4/24/012).
TREE: Any object of natural growth. (Ord. 601, 7-27-2015)
10-18-3: HELIPORT ZONES:
In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, there are hereby created
and established certain zones which include all of the land lying beneath the
approach/departure surfaces, transitional surfaces and heliport protection zone
surfaces as they apply to the medical heliport. Such zones are shown on the
medical heliport zoning map, dated April 28, 2015, which is attached to the
ordinance codified herein and made a part thereof. An area located in more than
one of the following zones is considered to be only in the zone with the more
restrictive height limitation. The various zones are hereby established and
defined as follows:
Heliport Approach/Departure Zone: The inner edge of this approach zone
coincides with the width of the FATO (primary surface) and is seventy seven
feet (77') wide. The approach/departure zone expands outward uniformly to a
width of five hundred feet (500') at a horizontal distance of four thousand
feet (4,000') from the primary surface. The surface rises upward at a rate of
8H:1V to an ultimate height of five hundred feet (500') at a horizontal
distance of four thousand feet (4,000') from the primary surface.
Heliport Protection Zone (HPZ): The HPZ is the area under the 8H:1V (sloped 8
feet horizontally to 1 foot vertically) approach/departure surface starting at
the FATO perimeter and extending out for a distance of two hundred eighty feet
(280'). Whenever reasonably possible, the heliport owner shall maintain control
of all properties within the HPZ. Places of public assembly (churches, schools,
hospitals, office buildings, shopping centers and other uses with similar
concentrations of persons, places of public assembly) are discouraged in the
HPZ.
Heliport Transitional Zones: These zones extend outward from the sides of the
primary surface and the heliport approach/departure zones a horizontal distance
of two hundred fifty feet (250') from the primary surface centerline and the
heliport approach/departure zone centerline. The surface rises upward at a rate
of 2H:1V. At a distance of two hundred fifty feet (250') from the primary
surface centerline and heliport approach/departure zone centerline, the height
of the heliport transition zone varies with the height of the heliport
approach/departure zone. (Ord. 601, 7-27-2015)
10-18-4: HELIPORT ZONE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure shall be erected,
altered, or maintained, and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any zone
created by this chapter to a height in excess of the applicable height limit
herein established for such zone. Such applicable height limitations are hereby
established for each of the zones in question as follows:
Heliport Approach Zone: Slopes eight feet (8') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and
extending to a distance of four thousand feet (4,000') along the heliport
approach/departure zone centerline.
Heliport Transitional Zones: Slope two feet (2') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and
the heliport approach zones and extending a distance of two hundred fifty feet
(250') measured horizontally from and at ninety degree (90°) angles to the
primary surface centerline and heliport approach/departure zone centerline.
Excepted Height Limitations: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as
prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure, or growth of any
tree to a height up to thirty five feet (35') above the surface of the land.
(Ord. 601, 7-27-2015)
10-18-5: USE RESTRICTIONS:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of
land within any zone established by this chapter in such a manner as to create
electrical interference with navigational signals or radio communication
between heliport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to distinguish
between airport lights and other lights, result in glare in the eyes of pilots
using the heliport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the heliport, create
bird strike hazards, or in any way endanger or interfere with the landing,
takeoff or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the heliport. (Ord. 601, 7-
27-2015)
10-18-6: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Regulations Not Retroactive: The regulations prescribed by this chapter
shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other change or
alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the
effective date hereof, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of a
nonconforming use. Nothing contained herein shall require any change in the
construction, alteration, or intended use of any structure, the construction or
alteration of which has begun prior to the effective date hereof and is
diligently prosecuted.
   B.   Marking And Lighting: Notwithstanding the preceding provision of this
section, the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is hereby
required to permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such
markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the city of Fruitland to
indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the heliport the
presence of such heliport obstruction. Such markers and lights shall be
installed, operated and maintained at the expense of the city of Fruitland.
(Ord. 601, 7-27-2015)
10-18-7: PERMITS:
   A.   Future Uses: No material change shall be made in the use of land, no
structure shall be erected or otherwise established, and no tree shall be
planted in any zone hereby created unless a permit therefor shall have been
applied for and granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the
purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to
permit it to be determined whether the resulting use, structure, or tree would
conform to the regulations herein prescribed. If such determination is in the
affirmative and the application conforms to all other ordinances, the permit
shall be granted. No permit for a use inconsistent with the provisions of this
chapter shall be granted unless a variance has been approved in accordance with
subsection D of this section.
   B.   Existing Uses: No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an obstruction or permit a nonconforming use,
structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date hereof or any amendments thereto or than it is when the
application for a permit is made.
   C.   Nonconforming Uses Abandoned Or Destroyed: Whenever the zoning
administrator determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been
abandoned or more than fifty percent (50%) torn down, physically deteriorated,
or decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree
to exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning
regulations.
   D.   Variances: Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use property, not in accordance
with the regulations prescribed in this chapter, may apply to the Fruitland
planning and zoning commission for a variance from such regulations. The
application for variance shall be accompanied by a determination from the
federal aviation administration (FAA) as to the effect of the proposal on the
operation of air navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of navigable
airspace. Such variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that a literal
application or enforcement of the regulations will result in unnecessary
hardship and relief granted, will not be contrary to the public interest, will
not create a hazard to air navigation, will do substantial justice, and will be
in accordance with the spirit of this chapter. Additionally, no application for
variance to the requirements of this chapter may be considered by the Fruitland
planning and zoning commission unless a copy of the application has been
furnished to the owner of the heliport for advice as to the aeronautical
effects of the variance. If the owner of the heliport does not respond to the
application within fifteen (15) calendar days after receipt, the Fruitland
planning and zoning commission and the Fruitland city council may make final
decisions on the application without further notice to the owner.
   E.   Obstruction Marking And Lighting: Any permit or variance granted may,
if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this chapter
and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the
owner of the structure or tree in question to install, operate, and maintain,
at the owner's expense, such markings and lights as may be necessary. If deemed
proper by the Fruitland planning and zoning commission, this condition may be
modified to require the owner to permit the city of Fruitland at its own
expense, to install, operate, and maintain the necessary markings and lights.
(Ord. 601, 7-27-2015)
10-18-8: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the city of Fruitland building official/building
inspector to administer and enforce the regulations prescribed herein.
Applications for permits and variances shall be made to the city of Fruitland
zoning administrator upon a form published for that purpose. Applications
required by this chapter to be submitted to the city of Fruitland zoning
administrator shall be promptly considered and granted or denied. An
application for action by the Fruitland planning and zoning commission shall be
forthwith transmitted by the city of Fruitland zoning administrator. (Ord. 601,
7-27-2015)
10-18-9: APPEALS:
Appeals from decisions of the zoning administrator, the Fruitland planning and
zoning commission and the city council may be taken as set out in this code.
(Ord. 601, 7-27-2015)
10-18-10: PENALTIES:
Any violation of this order shall be a misdemeanor punishable in accordance
with the general misdemeanor laws of the state of Idaho. (Ord. 601, 7-27-2015)
CHAPTER 19
OIL AND GAS OPERATIONS
SECTION:
10-19-1: Purpose
10-19-2: Definitions
10-19-3: Zoning Classifications
10-19-4: Permit Requirement
10-19-5: Permit Application
10-19-6: Issuance Of Permit
10-19-7: Site Design And Installation
10-19-8: Oil And Gas Post-Extraction
10-19-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the reasonable development of
land for oil and gas drilling while providing adequate health, safety and
general welfare protections of the City's residents. Oil and gas exploration,
drilling and post- extraction operations involve activities that will impact
the City and its residents. Accordingly, it is necessary and appropriate to
adopt reasonable requirements for oil and gas resource development so that
these resources can be obtained in a manner that minimizes the potential
impacts on the residents of the City. (Ord. 629, 3-12-2018)
10-19-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
ADMINISTRATIVE: A regulatory review and/or action performed by an employee or
contractor of the City and not deemed a legislative or quasi-judicial action.
APPLICANT: Any person, owner, operator, partnership, company, corporation and
its subcontractors and agents who has an interest in real estate for the
purpose of exploring or drilling for, producing, or transporting oil or gas.
DEPARTMENT: The Idaho Department of Lands.
EXTRACTION: Activities necessary for removing natural gas, natural gas liquids,
or oil from underground shale and/or sand formations and bringing it up to
ground level, or any activities, the purpose of which is to remove these
materials from natural pools or reservoirs beneath the earth's surface,
including well drilling, injection, pumping, and including ancillary activities
and facilities necessary for such extraction, without which the extraction
could not occur.
LOCAL STREET: For purposes of this chapter only, a public street or road
designed to provide access to abutting lots and to discourage through traffic.
OIL AND GAS: Means oil or gas or both. "Oil and gas" refers not only to oil and
gas in combination with each other but also generally to oil, gas, casinghead
gas, casinghead gasoline, gas- distillate or other hydrocarbons, or any
combination of combinations thereof, which may be found in or produced from a
common source or supply of oil, oil and gas, or gas-distillate.
OIL AND GAS WELL: A hole drilled into the earth for the purpose of exploring
for or extracting oil, gas, or other hydrocarbon substances.
OPERATOR: The person of record, that is responsible for and actually in charge
and control of drilling, maintaining, operating, pumping or controlling any
well including, without limitation, a unit operator. If the operator, as
defined herein, for any well is not the lessee of any premises affected by the
provisions of this chapter, then such lessee shall also be deemed to be an
operator. In the event there is no oil and gas lease relating to any premises
affected by this chapter, the owner of the fee mineral estate in the premises
shall also be deemed an operator.
POST-EXTRACTION PROCESSING ACTIVITIES: Refers to the handling of oil and gas
after it has been extracted from the earth, more specifically defined as any
and all activity relating to site construction and maintenance for processing
of oil and gas which is not a part of the extraction process, or which occurs
after the oil, gas, produced water, or any other substance or material has been
removed from the ground, including and/or concerning, but not limited to: a)
waste disposal, b) fencing, c) signage, d) lighting, e) venting, f) flaring, g)
vehicle traffic and access, h) noise, i) height restrictions, j) setbacks, k)
disposal wells, l) storage tanks, m) transfer pipelines, n) compression
facilities, o) settling ponds, p) derricks, q) wastewater disposal, and r)
refining facilities.
Post-extraction processing activities include: "gathering facilities" as
defined in Idaho Code section 47-310(10), other facilities, equipment or
improvements used or installed for the gathering, treatment, refining, or other
processing of oil or natural gas or other materials or substances, "processing
facilities" as defined in Idaho Code section 47-310(26), "gas processing
facilities" as defined in IDAPA 20.07.02.23, "pits" as defined in IDAPA
20.07.02.37, and "tank batteries" as defined in IDAPA 20.07.02.51, whether or
not located on a well site (as defined in IDAPA 20.07.02.59). Post- extraction
activities do not include tanks as defined in IDAPA 20.07.02.50 when such tanks
are: a) located on a well site as defined in IDAPA 20.07.02.59 and b) contain
materials used in and necessary for extraction activities.
ROAD REPAIR AGREEMENT: A written agreement between the applicant and the City
obligating the applicant to repair damage, excluding ordinary wear and tear, if
any, to public streets, including but not limited to bridges, caused by
subcontractors or representatives in the performance of drilling or production
of any wells authorized by the City.
STATE: The State of Idaho.
WELL: An oil and gas well or an injection well, including but not limited to
directional drilling wells (for example, any well hole drilled into the
ground).
WELLHEAD: The equipment installed at the surface of the well. (Ord. 629, 3-12-
2018)
10-19-3: ZONING CLASSIFICATIONS:
Subject to the provisions of this chapter, an oil or gas well site shall be
considered a permitted use by right within any zoning district, subject to the
standards listed herein. (Ord. 629, 3-12-2018)
10-19-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENT:
   A.   No oil or gas well site, or an addition or material modification to an
existing oil or gas well site, shall be constructed or located within the City
unless an administrative zoning permit under this chapter has been issued by
the City to the applicant approving the construction or preparation of the site
for oil or gas development.
   B.   Each application shall be submitted with the fee established pursuant
to resolution of the City.
   C.   Any modification to an existing and/or permitted oil or gas well site
that materially alters the size, location, number of wells or accessory
equipment or structures, shall require a modification of the permit under this
chapter. Like-kind replacements shall not require a permit modification.
   D.   Wells that were permitted and constructed prior to the adoption of this
chapter shall not be required to meet the requirements of this chapter. Any
modification to an existing or permitted oil or gas well site that occurs after
the effective date of this chapter and materially alters the size, type,
location, number of wells and other accessory equipment or structures, shall
require compliance with this chapter.
   E.   An oil or gas well permit shall not be required for exploration of oil
or gas. Exploration of oil or gas means activities related to the various
geological and geophysical methods used to detect and determine the existence
and extent of hydrocarbon deposits. The activities related to the search for
oil and gas include without limitation aerial, geological and geophysical
surveys and studies, seismic work, core drilling and the drilling of test
wells.
   F.   If an applicant does not conduct said business for a period of one
year, the administrative zoning permit shall be null and void. Permits issued
under this chapter shall not be transferable to any other applicant, except by
majority vote of the City Council, and the filing of a new application by the
applicant to whom such permit is, or may be, transferred or assigned.
   G.   The operator shall provide a copy of any incident reports or written
complaints submitted to the department, the Idaho Oil and Gas Conservation
Commission, or any other State or Federal agency within fifteen (15) days after
the operator has notice of the existence of such reports or complaints. (Ord.
629, 3-12-2018)
10-19-5: PERMIT APPLICATION:
   A.   The applicant shall provide to the City at the time of permit
application:
      1.   A narrative describing an overview of the project including the
number of acres to be disturbed for development, the number of wells to be
drilled including department permit number(s) for all wells and the location,
number and description of equipment and structures to the extent known. In
addition to the narrative statement, each application shall contain the
following:
         a.   The surface owner’s name, address, email address, and phone
numbers.
         b.   The mineral owner’s name, address, email address, and phone
numbers (if different than the surface owner).
      2.   The address of the oil or gas well site and a legal description of
the parcel as determined by the City and information needed to gain access to
the well site in the event of an emergency.
      3.   The contact information of the individual or individuals primarily
responsible for the operation and activities at the oil or gas well site shall
be provided to the City and all applicable emergency responders as determined
by the City. Such information shall include a phone number where such
individual or individuals can be contacted twenty four (24) hours per day,
three hundred sixty five (365) days a year. Annually, or upon any change of
relevant circumstances, the applicant shall update such information and provide
it to the City and all applicable emergency responders as determined by the
City.
      4.   A scaled site plan of the oil or gas well site showing the drilling
pad, planned access roads, the approximate location of derricks, drilling rigs,
equipment and structures and all permanent improvements to the site and any
post construction surface disturbance in relation to natural resources.
Included in this site plan shall be an area within the development site for
vehicles to locate while gaining access to the oil or gas well site. The only
items that may be stored and vehicles that may be parked on the operation site
are those that are necessary to the everyday operation of the well or
associated facilities and do not constitute a fire hazard.
      5.   A narrative and map describing the planned access routes to the well
sites on public roads including the transportation and delivery of equipment,
machinery, water, chemicals and other materials used in the siting, drilling,
construction, maintenance and operation of the oil or gas well site.
      6.   A statement that the applicant will make the operation's
preparedness, prevention and contingency plan available to the City and all
emergency responders at least thirty (30) days prior to drilling of an oil or
gas well and at least annually thereafter while drilling activities are taking
place at the oil or gas well site. Drilling shall not commence until the City
has approved the plan. The plan must contain the MSDS or similar disclosure for
all chemicals used on site. Such plan must also contain a provision that upon
the discovery of any oil and/or gas leak, spill, and/or emission release, the
City must be notified and all operations must immediately cease until such
equipment has been repaired. After the equipment has been repaired and prior to
operation, operator must submit certification from a licensed and qualified
professional verifying that the equipment has been adequately repaired and the
equipment is safe to return to service. Such certification will be reviewed by
the City Engineer. The City must be notified regarding any modifications to
operations or a change in the use of chemicals.
      7.   An appropriate site orientation and training of the preparedness,
prevention and contingency plan for all applicable emergency responders as
determined by the City will be conducted prior to the commencement of drilling
or operations. The cost and expense of the orientation shall be the sole
responsibility of the applicant.
      8.   A narrative describing the environmental impacts of the proposed
project on the site and surrounding land and measures proposed to protect or
mitigate such impacts shall be provided to the City. A copy of any remediation
and/or mitigation plan filed with the State must be submitted to the City and
approved prior to the commencement of operations.
      9.   The applicant shall provide, prior to drilling, current
documentation of baseline water testing on a minimum of two (2) domestic wells,
down gradient (one may be up gradient if 2 down well gradient wells do not
exist), which wells shall be located within one-fourth (1/4) of a mile of the
well site. Such wells shall be retested at least annually and the results
submitted to the City. If two (2) domestic wells are not found within one-
fourth (1/4) mile, the applicant shall install a monitoring well at the well
site for such testing. The following parameters to be tested, include, but are
not limited to, water temperature, pH, specific conductivity, total dissolved
solids, major ions, trace elements, radiochemical, and organic constituents as
determined by the City Engineer.
      10.   Non-reactive/non-radioactive chemical tracers must be used in all
drilling fluids.
      11.   Automatic emergency shut off valves that can be operated remotely
must be installed on drilling equipment.
      12.   The applicant shall comply with all State and Federal air quality
regulations. The applicant shall report the receipt of any air quality
complaints to the City within ten (10) days.
      13.   The applicant shall submit with application a certificate of
comprehensive general liability insurance in the amount of not less than
fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000.00) per occurrence with an aggregate of
thirty million dollars ($30,000,000.00) and a company authorized to do business
in the State of Idaho shall write the policy. The certificate shall require at
least thirty (30) days' notice to the City prior to termination of coverage for
any reason. The applicant will be required to sign an indemnification provision
with the City. (Ord. 629, 3-12-2018; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
10-19-6: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   Within seven (7) business days after receipt of a permit application,
the City will determine whether the application is complete and advise the
applicant accordingly.
   B.   If the application is complete and fulfills the requirements of this
chapter, the City shall issue a permit within twenty one (21) days following
the date the complete application was submitted.
   C.   If the application is incomplete or does not fulfill the requirements
of this chapter, the City shall return the application to the applicant. After
necessary changes have been made, the City shall follow subsection B of this
section.
   D.   As a condition of permit approval, applicant shall provide all permits
and plans from the department and all other appropriate regulatory agencies
within thirty (30) days of receipt of such permits and plans.
   E.   If temporary housing for well site workers is proposed on the well
site, a plan showing the number and location of the units shall be provided to
the City. Temporary housing plans shall be in compliance with all applicable
City regulations. (Ord. 629, 3-12-2018)
10-19-7: SITE DESIGN AND INSTALLATION:
   A.   Access:
      1.   Vehicular access to a natural gas well, oil well or well pad solely
via a residential street is prohibited unless it can be proven that the only
viable vehicular access to the well site is via the residential route. The use
of collector streets is required, unless no viable alternative exists.
      2.   City adopted standards pertaining to minimum traffic sight distances
for all access points shall be adhered to. A stabilized construction entrance
shall be installed between the site and the access road pursuant to the Idaho
Standards for Public Works Construction.
      3.   Access directly to State roads from a well site may require an Idaho
Transportation Department (ITD) Approach Permit. Prior to initiating any work
at a drill site, the City shall be provided a copy of any required approach
permit.
      4.   Access directly to City local streets shall require a Road Repair
Agreement with the City prior to initiating any work at well site. Operator
shall comply with any generally applicable bonding and permitting requirements
for City roads that are to be used by vehicles for site construction, drilling
activities and site operations. The Road Repair Agreement must be signed by the
operator prior to any operations. The Road Repair Agreement shall cover
permitting for any desired use of the City rights-of-way, requirements for road
revisions such as for safe driveway approaches, and fees and notice regarding
damages or obstructions to City roadways used. The operator may be required by
the Public Works Department to regularly clean excessive mud and debris off of
access roads. The operator may also be required to pay for traffic control
during times of inordinate traffic disturbances that keep people from accessing
their homes and businesses as determined by the Public Works Department.
      5.   No operator shall excavate or construct any lines for the conveyance
of fuel, water, oil, oil and gas or petroleum liquids on, under or through the
streets, alleys or other properties owned by the City without an easement or
right-of-way permit from the City, pursuant to resolution no. 2009-05, as such
may be amended, and then only in strict compliance with other City ordinances
and all requirements of the City's Department of Public Works.
   B.   Height:
      1.   There shall be an exception to the height restrictions contained in
this Code for the temporary placement of drilling rigs, drying tanks, pad
drilling and other accessory uses necessary for the actual time period of
drilling or redrilling of an oil or gas well or pad drilling.
   C.   Setbacks/Location:
      1.   Oil and gas wells shall not be constructed within one thousand two
hundred feet (1,200') of the nearest property line of an existing occupied
structure, domestic water well, canal, ditch or the natural or ordinary high-
water mark of surface waters or within eight hundred feet (800') of a highway.
      2.   Oil and gas wells may be constructed less than one thousand two
hundred feet (1,200') but more than one hundred feet (100') from the nearest
property line, or if located on the property, of an existing occupied structure
or domestic water well if the operator has obtained the express written
permission from the owner of the occupied structure or domestic water well.
      3.   Oil and gas wells shall not be constructed within one thousand two
hundred feet (1,200') of an existing church, school, hospital/medical facility,
or places of assembly.
      4.   Oil and gas wells shall not be constructed within the FEMA special
flood hazard area.
      5.   Recognizing that the specific location of equipment and facilities
is an integral part of the oil and gas development, and as part of the planning
process, operator shall strive to consider the location of its temporary and
permanent operations, where prudent and possible, so as to minimize
interference with the City residents' enjoyment of their property and future
City development activities as authorized by the City's applicable regulations.
   D.   Screening And Fencing:
      1.   Security fencing shall not be required at oil or gas well sites
during the initial drilling, or redrilling operations, as long as manned 24-
hour on-site supervision and security are provided.
      2.   Upon completion of drilling or redrilling in residential, industrial
or commercial zones, security fencing, acceptable to the landowner, the
operator, and the City shall be installed within ten (10) days after the
completion of the well, at the oil or gas well site to secure well heads,
storage tanks, separation facilities, water or liquid impoundment areas, and
other mechanical and production equipment and structures on the oil or gas well
site.
      3.   Security fencing shall be at least six feet (6') in height equipped
with lockable gates at every access point and have vehicular openings no less
than twenty feet (20') wide, pursuant to International Fire Code requirements
for minimum fire lane access. Additional lockable gates used to access oil and
gas well sites by foot may be allowed or required, as necessary. The Fire Chief
shall be provided with a method to access the drill site in the case of an
emergency, preferably by use of the Knox system.
      4.   Warning signs shall be placed on the fencing surrounding the oil or
gas well site providing notice of the potential dangers and the contact
information in case of an emergency. During drilling and hydraulic fracturing,
clearly visible warning signage must be posted on the pad site.
      5.   In construction of oil or gas well sites, the natural surrounding
should be considered and attempts made to preserve existing trees and other
native vegetation. Existing trees and respective root systems should not be
disturbed whenever possible. Re-forestation/re-vegetation of the well site will
be provided by the owner/operator as required by the State Rules Governing Oil
and Gas Conservation.
   E.   Lighting: Lighting at the oil or gas well site, either temporary or
permanent, shall be directed downward and inward toward the activity so as to
minimize glare on public roads and prevent direct illumination of adjacent
properties. Lighting shall be adequate to ensure safety while minimizing the
disturbance to adjacent properties.
   F.   Noise: The City recognizes that oil and gas development is accompanied
by inherent noise. However, the operator shall consider, to the extent
possible, mitigation of noise resulting from the oil or gas well development.
The operator shall comply with the City's noise regulations unless the operator
can prove to the City that such noise regulations prohibit operations.
   G.   Dust Control, Vibrations And Odors:
      1.   To prevent injury or nuisances to persons living and working in the
area surrounding the operation site, the operator shall conduct drilling and
production in a manner that minimizes dust, vibrations, or odors, and in
accordance with industry best practices for drilling and production of gas and
other hydrocarbons.
      2.   The operator shall adopt proven technological improvements in
industry standards for drilling and production of reducing dust, vibration, and
odor.
      3.   If the City determines that the dust, vibrations, or odors related
to the drilling and production use present an unreasonable risk of injury,
operations must cease until such issue is adequately addressed to the
satisfaction of the City. If the City determines that the dust, vibrations, or
odors related to the drilling and production have become a nuisance to persons
living and working in the area, the City shall require the operator to adopt
reasonable methods for reducing the dust, vibrations, and odors. This may
include a requirement to install equipment on vehicles to minimize mud and
debris with construction of access roads for vehicles exiting the site.
      4.   Operator shall control fugitive dust arising from operations.
Operator shall follow dust control methods approved in the dust control plan.
Brine water, sulfur water, water in mixture with any type of hydrocarbon,
including used motor oil may not be used for dust suppression.
      5.   Any unpaved gravel areas shall be covered by a final layer of washed
aggregate.
   H.   Work Hours: Site development, other than initial drilling shall be
conducted only between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
Monday through Friday and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
on Saturday. Truck deliveries of equipment and materials associated with
drilling, drill stem testing, workovers, fracturing, well servicing, site
preparation and other related work conducted on the site shall be limited to
the above same work hour restrictions except in cases of an emergency. The
operator may request an exception to this section for good cause shown.
   I.   Waiver: In the case of an application for permit under this section, a
waiver from an imposed condition(s) shall be granted if the provision is in
operational conflict with chapter 3, title 47 of the Idaho Code or the Rules
Governing Oil and Gas Conservation or if an imposed condition(s) would actually
or operationally prohibit the extraction of oil and gas. The applicant will
have the burden to show there is an actual or operational conflict and the
local and State rules cannot be implemented harmoniously. (Ord. 629, 3-12-2018)
10-19-8: OIL AND GAS POST-EXTRACTION:
   A.   Oil And Gas Post-Extraction:
      1.   Zoning Classifications: Oil or gas post-extraction facilities shall
only be allowed in the Heavy Industrial Zoning District, subject to the
standards listed herein. Such facilities are prohibited in all other zoning
districts.
      2.   Permit Requirement:
         a.   No oil or gas post-extraction facility shall be constructed or
located within the City unless a conditional use permit has been issued to the
applicant approving the construction or preparation of the site for oil or gas
post-extraction activities.
         b.   Each application shall be submitted with the fee established
pursuant to resolution of the City.
         c.   Any modification to an oil and gas post-extraction site that
materially alters the size, location, number of accessory equipment or
structures, shall require a modification of the permit under this ordinance.
Like-kind replacements shall not require a permit modification.
      3.   Permit Application: The applicant shall provide to the City at the
time of permit application:
         a.   A narrative describing an overview of the post-extraction project
including the number of acres to be disturbed for development, the process
proposed for post-extraction, including, compressor stations, dehydration
facilities, tanks, pits or ponds, collection lines, equipment and structures
number and description of equipment and structures to the extent known. In
addition to the narrative statement, each application shall contain the
following:
            (1)   The surface owner’s name, address, email address, and phone
numbers.
            (2)   The mineral owner’s name, address, email address, and phone
numbers (if different than the surface owner).
         b.   The address of the oil or gas post-extraction site and a legal
description of the parcel as determined by the City and information needed to
gain access to the site in the event of an emergency.
         c.   The contact information of the individual or individuals
responsible for the operation and activities at the oil or gas post-extraction
site shall be provided to the City and all applicable emergency responders as
determined by the City. Such information shall include a phone number where
such individual or individuals can be contacted twenty four (24) hours per day,
three hundred sixty five (365) days a year. Annually, or upon any change of
relevant circumstances, the applicant shall update such information and provide
it to the City and all applicable emergency responders as determined by City.
         d.   A scaled site plan of the oil or gas post-extraction site showing
the planned access roads, compressor stations, dehydration facilities, tanks,
pits or ponds, collection lines, equipment and structures and all permanent
improvements to the site and any post construction surface disturbance in
relation to natural resources. Included in this map shall be an area within the
development site for vehicles to locate while gaining access to the oil or gas
post-extraction site.
         e.   A narrative and map describing the planned access routes to the
site on public roads including the transportation and delivery of equipment,
machinery, water, chemicals and other materials used in the post-extraction
operations.
         f.   A statement that the applicant will make the operation's
preparedness, prevention and contingency plan available to the City and all
emergency responders at least thirty (30) days prior to the commencement of
operations and at least annually thereafter while drilling activities are
taking place at the oil or gas well site. Operations shall not commence until
the City has approved the plan. The plan must contain the MSDS or similar
disclosure for all chemicals used on site. Such plan must also contain a
provision that upon the discovery of any oil and/or gas leak, spill, and/or
emission release, the City must be notified and all operations must immediately
cease until such equipment has been repaired. After the equipment has been
repaired and prior to operation, operator must submit certification from a
licensed and qualified professional verifying that the equipment has been
adequately repaired and the equipment is safe to return to service. Such
certification will be reviewed by the City Engineer. The City must be notified
regarding any modifications to operations or a change in the use of chemicals.
         g.   An appropriate site orientation and training of the preparedness,
prevention and contingency plan for all applicable emergency responders as
determined by the City will be conducted prior to the commencement of post-
extraction activities. The cost and expense of the orientation shall be the
sole responsibility of the applicant.
         h.   A narrative describing the environmental impacts of the proposed
project on the site and surrounding land and measures proposed to protect or
mitigate such impacts shall be provided to the City. A copy of any remediation
and/or mitigation plan filed with the State must be submitted to the City and
approved prior to the commencement of operations.
         i.   The applicant shall provide, prior to post-extraction, current
documentation of baseline water testing on a minimum of two (2) domestic wells,
down gradient (1 may be up gradient if 2 down well gradient wells do not
exist), which wells shall be located within one-fourth (1/4) of a mile of the
well site. Such wells shall be retested at least annually and the results
submitted to the City. If two (2) domestic wells are not found within one-
fourth (1/4) mile, the applicant shall install a monitoring well at the well
site for such testing. The following parameters to be tested, include, but are
not limited to, water temperature, pH, specific conductivity, total dissolved
solids, major ions, trace elements, radiochemical, and organic constituents as
determined by the City Engineer.
         j.   Automatic emergency shut off valves that can be operated remotely
must be installed on drilling equipment.
         k.   The applicant shall comply with all State and Federal air quality
regulations. The applicant shall report the receipt of any air quality
complaints to the City within ten (10) days.
         l.   The applicant shall submit with application a certificate of
comprehensive general liability insurance in the amount of not less than
fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000.00) per occurrence with an aggregate of
thirty million dollars ($30,000,000.00) and a company authorized to do business
in the State of Idaho shall write the policy. The certificate shall require at
least thirty (30) days' notice to the City prior to termination of coverage for
any reason. The applicant will be required to sign an indemnification provision
with the City.
      4.   Site Design And Installation:
         a.   Access:
            (1)   Vehicular access to the project site solely via a residential
street is prohibited unless it can be proven that the only viable vehicular
access to the site is via the residential route. The use of collector streets
is required, unless no viable alternative exists.
            (2)   City adopted standards pertaining to minimum traffic sight
distances for all access points shall be adhered to. A stabilized construction
entrance shall be installed between the site and the access road pursuant to
the Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction.
            (3)   Access directly to State roads from a project site may
require an Idaho Transportation Department (ITD) Approach Permit. Prior to
initiating any work at the site, the City shall be provided a copy of any
required approach permit.
            (4)   Access directly to City local streets shall require a Road
Repair Agreement with the City prior to initiating any work at well site.
Operator shall comply with any generally applicable bonding and permitting
requirements for City roads that are to be used by vehicles for site
construction, drilling activities and site operations. The Road Repair
Agreement must be signed by the operator prior to any operations. The Road
Repair Agreement shall cover permitting for any desired use of the City rights-
of-way, requirements for road revisions such as for safe driveway approaches,
and fees and notice regarding damages or obstructions to City roadways used.
The operator may be required by the Public Works Department to regularly clean
excessive mud and debris off of access roads. The operator may also be required
to pay for traffic control during times of inordinate traffic disturbances that
keep people from accessing their homes and businesses as determined by the
Public Works Department.
            (5)   No operator shall excavate or construct any lines for the
conveyance of fuel, water, oil, oil and gas or petroleum liquids on, under or
through the streets, alleys or other properties owned by the City without an
easement or right-of-way permit from the City, pursuant to resolution no. 2009-
05, as such may be amended, and then only in strict compliance with other City
ordinances and all requirements of the City's Department of Public Works.
         b.   Height: No post-extraction facility shall exceed thirty five feet
(35').
         c.   Setbacks/Location:
            (1)   Post-extraction facilities shall not be constructed within:
               (A)   Eight hundred feet (800') from a highway.
               (B)   One thousand five hundred feet (1,500') from the nearest
property line of an existing occupied structure.
               (C)   One thousand five hundred feet (1,500') from a water well,
ditches or canals.
               (D)   Two thousand feet (2,000') from the nearest property line
of an existing church, school, hospital/medical facility, or place of assembly.
            (2)   Recognizing that the specific location of equipment and
facilities is an integral part of the oil and gas development, and as part of
the planning process, operator shall strive to consider the location of its
temporary and permanent operations, where prudent and possible, so as to
minimize interference with City residents' enjoyment of their property and
future development activities as authorized by the City applicable ordinances.
            (3)   Post-extraction facilities shall not be constructed within
the FEMA special flood hazard area.
         d.   Screening And Fencing:
            (1)   Security fencing with materials approved by the City, shall
be installed around post-extraction structures and ponds or pits prior to the
commencement of post-extraction.
            (2)   Security fencing shall be at least six feet (6') in height
equipped with lockable gates at every access point and have vehicular openings
no less than twenty feet (20') wide, pursuant to International Fire Code
requirements for minimum fire lane access. Additional lockable gates used to
access oil and gas well sites by foot may be allowed or required, as necessary.
The Fire Chief shall be provided with a method to access the drill site in the
case of an emergency, preferably by use of the Knox system.
            (3)   Warning signs shall be placed on the fencing surrounding the
oil or gas post-extraction site providing notice of the potential dangers and
the contact information in case of an emergency.
            (4)   In construction of post-extraction sites, the natural
surrounding should be considered and attempts made to preserve existing trees
and other native vegetation. Existing trees and respective root systems should
not be disturbed whenever possible. Re-forestation/re-vegetation of the site
will be provided by the owner/operator as required by Rules Governing Oil and
Gas Conservation.
         e.   Lighting: Lighting at the site, either temporary or permanent,
shall be directed downward and inward toward the activity so as to minimize
glare on public roads and prevent direct illumination of adjacent properties.
Lighting shall be adequate to ensure safety while minimizing the disturbance to
adjacent properties.
         f.   Noise: Post-extraction activities shall comply with the City's
noise regulations.
         g.   Dust Control, Vibrations And Odors:
            (1)   To prevent injury or nuisances to persons living and working
in the area surrounding the operation site, the operator shall conduct
production in a manner that minimizes dust, vibrations, or odors, and in
accordance with industry best practices for production of gas and other
hydrocarbons.
            (2)   The operator shall adopt proven technological improvements in
industry standards for production of reducing dust, vibration, and odor.
            (3)   If the City determines that the dust, vibrations, or odors
related to the drilling and production use present an unreasonable risk of
injury, operations must cease until such issue is adequately addressed to the
satisfaction of the City. If the City determines that the dust, vibrations, or
odors related to the drilling and production have become a nuisance to persons
living and working in the area, the City shall require the operator to adopt
reasonable methods for reducing the dust, vibrations, and odors. This may
include a requirement to install equipment on vehicles to minimize mud and
debris with construction of access roads for vehicles exiting the site.
            (4)   Operator shall control fugitive dust arising from operations.
Operator shall follow dust control methods approved in the dust control plan.
Brine water, sulfur water, water in mixture with any type of hydrocarbon,
including used motor oil may not be used for dust suppression.
            (5)   Any unpaved gravel areas shall be covered by a final layer of
washed aggregate.
         h.   Hours Of Operation: Site development, other than drilling shall
be conducted only between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00)
P.M. Monday through Friday and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00)
P.M. on Saturday. Truck deliveries of equipment and materials associated with
post- extraction, site preparation and other related work conducted on the site
shall be limited to the above same work hour restrictions except in cases of an
emergency.
      5.   Waiver: In the case of an application for permit under this section,
a waiver from an imposed condition(s) shall be granted if the provision is in
operational conflict with chapter 3, title 47 of the Idaho Code or the Rules
Governing Oil and Gas Conservation. The applicant will have the burden to show
there is an actual or operational conflict and the local and State rules cannot
be implemented harmoniously. (Ord. 629, 3-12-2018; amd. Ord. 682, 5-10-2021)
TITLE 11
FLOOD CONTROL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
11-1-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose And Objectives
11-1-2: Definitions
11-1-3: General Provisions
11-1-4: Administration
11-1-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
11-1-6: Variance And Appeal Procedures
11-1-7: Penalties For Violation
11-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES:
   A.   Statutory Authority: The legislature of the state of Idaho in Idaho
Code sections 46-1020 through 46-1024, authorized local government units to
adopt a floodplain map and floodplain management ordinance that identifies
floodplains and that sets forth minimum development requirements in floodplains
that are designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare of
its citizenry.
   B.   Findings Of Fact: The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to
periodic inundation that results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood relief and protection, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
      1.   Local governments have the primary responsibility for planning,
adoption and enforcement of land use regulations to accomplish proper
floodplain management. The adoption of a flood damage prevention ordinance will
serve to promote and protect the health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of city.
      2.   These flood losses are caused by natural forces and by the
cumulative effect of structures located in areas of special flood hazard, which
increase flood heights and velocities, and when such structures are
inadequately anchored, can damage property in other areas. Uses that are
inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood damage
also contribute to the flood loss.
      3.   Flooding is aggravated by the collection of debris upstream of the
many channel obstructions located in the floodplain areas. Such obstructions
include bridges, fences, houses, trees, etc. The accumulation of debris has
resulted in significantly higher water surface elevations upstream from the
obstructions than would otherwise be expected. Obstructions can and tend to
cause flooding to extend beyond anticipated FEMA 100-year flood boundaries at
points of debris accumulation, which cannot be predicted.
      4.   All structures located roughly within the limits of the 500-year
floodplain are subject to inundation, if not directly impacted by the channel
itself, during floods of return frequencies of ten (10) to twenty (20) years.
This is due to the tendency of the channel to change abruptly, during high
water periods, because of the river's characteristics.
      5.   The levees built by private property owners may be considered by
FEMA to be inadequately designed or deteriorated such that they cannot be
classified as permanent structures capable of withstanding a 100-year flood;
and, therefore, may result in higher risk and be included in the area of
special flood hazard.
      6.   Encroachments (i.e., houses, fill, etc.) on floodplains reduce the
flood carrying capacity and increase flood heights, thus increasing flood
hazards beyond the encroachment. With every new structure or other development
since the FEMA 100-year flood boundary was determined, the ability of the
floodplain to function changes.
      7.   The Payette and Snake Rivers and their tributaries and floodplains
in the city are essential to the well being of its citizens as a source of
recreation, fish and wildlife habitat, aesthetic beauty, and a source of
irrigation water as well as other economic and lifestyle values.
      8.   Development adjacent to waterways has had a direct effect on the
natural stream by destroying or greatly altering fish and wildlife habitat and
by unnaturally armoring the banks of the waterways to prevent erosion and
damage to riparian areas, thus resulting in increased risk to manmade
structures.
   C.   Statement Of Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      1.   Protect human life, health and property;
      2.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water
purification and sewage treatment plants, water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in floodplains;
      3.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas;
      4.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      5.   Minimize the need for rescue and emergency services associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      6.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions.
   D.   Objectives: The objectives of this chapter are to reduce flood losses
by implementing the following methods and provisions:
      1.   Require that development that is vulnerable to floods, including
structures and facilities necessary for the general health, safety and welfare
of citizens, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      2.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights,
velocities or erosion;
      3.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage or erosion;
      4.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands;
      5.   Preserve and restore natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which carry and store floodwaters. (1984 Code §
12-1-1)
11-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted according to the meaning they have in common usage:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure on the same lot or parcel as a principal
structure, the use of which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
structure. An insurable building should not be classified as an accessory or
appurtenant structure.
APPEAL: A request for review of the floodplain administrator's interpretation
of provisions of this chapter or request for a variance.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO or AH zone on a community's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet (1 -
3'), and/or where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of
flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be
evident.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Zone designations on FIRMs include the letters A, AE and V. Also known as the
special flood hazard area (SFHA).
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded each year. Also known as the "regulatory flood".
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The water surface elevation during the base flood
in relation to a specified datum. The base flood elevation (BFE) is depicted on
the FIRM to the nearest foot and in the FIS to the nearest 0.1 foot.
BASEMENT: The portion of a structure, including crawl space, with its floor
subgrade (below ground level) on all sides.
BUILDING: See definition of structure.
CRITICAL FACILITY: A facility that is critical for the health and welfare of
the population and is especially important following hazard events. Critical
facilities include essential facilities, transportation systems, lifeline
utility systems, high potential loss facilities and hazardous material
facilities.
DATUM: The vertical datum is a base measurement point (or set of points) from
which all elevations are determined. Historically, that common set of points
has been the National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD29). The vertical
datum currently adopted by the Federal government as a basis for measuring
heights is the North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD88).
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
DIGITAL FIRM (DFIRM): Digital flood insurance rate map. It depicts flood risk
and zones and flood risk information. The DFIRM presents the flood risk
information in a format suitable for electronic mapping applications.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: A structure for which the "start of construction"
commenced before February 15, 1984.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision where the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and final site grading
or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before February 15, 1984.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads.
FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA): The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
FLOOD FRINGE: The portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway covered by
floodwaters during the regulatory flood.
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM): An official map of a community, issued by the
Federal Insurance Administration or U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, where the boundaries of areas of special flood hazard have been
designated as Zone A. The FHBM usually is the initial flood hazard map.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, issued by the
Federal Insurance Administration, delineating the areas of special flood hazard
and/or risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): The official report by the Federal Insurance
Administration evaluating flood hazards and containing flood profiles, floodway
boundaries and water surface elevations of the base flood.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): An elevation that corresponds to the
elevation of the one percent (1%) chance annual flood (base flood), plus any
increase in flood elevation due to floodway encroachment, plus two feet (2') of
freeboard. Therefore, the flood protection elevation for the city of Fruitland
is equal to BFE plus allowed floodway elevation plus two feet (2') freeboard.
FLOODPLAIN 1 : The land that has been or may be covered by floodwaters, or is
surrounded by floodwater and inaccessible, during the occurrence of the
regulatory flood. The riverine floodplain includes the floodway and the flood
fringe.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and
those portions of the floodplain adjoining the channel required to discharge
and store the floodwater or flood flows associated with the regulatory flood.
FREEBOARD: A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
the purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams and the hydrologic
effects of urbanization in a watershed.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY: A facility that cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair facilities. The
term does not include long term storage, manufacture, sales or service
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG): The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed walls of a structure.
Refer to the elevation certificate, FEMA form 81-31, for HAG related to
building elevation information.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: A structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. department of interior) or preliminarily
determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or to a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify
as a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have
been approved by the secretary of the interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that
have been certified either:
1. By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior;
or
2. Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC): An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps, and flood insurance studies. LOMCs are issued in the following
categories:
Conditional Letter Of Map Revision (CLOMR): A formal review and comment by FEMA
as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum national flood
insurance program floodplain management criteria. A CLOMR does not amend or
revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and floodway maps,
or flood insurance studies.
Letter Of Map Amendment (LOMA): A revision based on technical data showing that
a property was incorrectly included in a designated special flood hazard area.
An LOMA amends the current effective flood insurance rate map and establishes
that a specific property is not located in a special flood hazard area.
Letter Of Map Revision (LOMR): A revision based on technical data showing that,
usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood elevations,
floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features. One common type
of LOMR, an LOMR-F, is a determination that a structure or parcel has been
elevated by fill above the base flood elevation and is excluded from the
special flood hazard area.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed according to sound engineering practices, to contain, control, or
divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG): The lowest point of the ground level next to the
structure. Refer to the elevation certificate, FEMA form 81-31, for LAG related
to building elevation information.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement)
used for living purposes, which includes working, storage, cooking and eating,
or recreation, or any combination thereof. This includes any floor that could
be converted to such a use including a basement or crawl space. An unfinished
or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking of vehicles, building
access, or storage, in an area other than a basement, is not considered a
structure's lowest floor. The lowest floor is a determinate for the flood
insurance premium for a building, home or business.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, built on
a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term "manufactured
home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community FIRM are referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: A structure for which the start of construction commenced on
or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle that is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost where the
construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damages
occurred.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
development permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction or improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days
of the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not the alteration affects the external dimensions of a building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of its market value before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the "start of construction"
of the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred
"substantial damage", regardless of the actual amount of repair work performed.
The market value of the structure should be: a) the appraised value of the
structure prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement; or b) in the
case of damage, the value of the structure prior to the damage occurring. The
term does not include either:
   A.   A project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations
of State or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications, which have
been identified by the Local Code Enforcement Official and which are the
minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   B.   Alteration of a historic structure; provided, that the alteration will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief by the Governing Body from a requirement of this
chapter.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the North American Vertical
Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other specified datum) of floods of various magnitudes
and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas. (1984 Code §
12-1-2; amd. Ord. 620, 3-27-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 46-1021.
11-1-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
special flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction of the City. Nothing in this
chapter is intended to allow uses or structures that are otherwise prohibited
by the zoning ordinance.
   B.   Basis For Area Of Special Flood Hazard: The special flood hazard areas
identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in its flood insurance
study (FIS) for City, dated February 15, 1984, with accompanying flood
insurance rate maps (FIRM), are hereby adopted by reference and declared a part
of this chapter. The FIS and the FIRM are on file at the office of the City of
Fruitland, 200 South Whitley Drive, Fruitland, ID 83619. In addition, the best
available information for flood hazard area identification as outlined in
subsection
11-1-4B1c of this chapter shall be the basis for regulation until a new FIRM,
letter of map amendment, or letter of map revision is issued by FEMA that
incorporates data utilized under subsection
11-1-4B1c of this chapter. Maps and historical data depicting the best
available information used as the basis for regulation, including engineering
studies submitted as required in subsection
11-1-4B1c of this chapter, are adopted by reference and declared a part of this
chapter. Said information will also be on file at the offices of City.
   C.   Establishment Of Floodplain Development Permit: A floodplain
development permit shall be required prior to development activities in special
flood hazard areas established in subsection B of this section.
   D.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the Governing Body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
State statutes.
   E.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses
permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This
chapter shall not create liability on the part of the City or by any officer or
employee thereof for flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or
an administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (1984 Code § 12-1-3)
11-1-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Designation Of Floodplain Administrator: The Planning and Zoning
Administrator is hereby appointed as the Floodplain Administrator, who is
responsible for administering and implementing the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Permit Procedures: A floodplain development permit shall be obtained
before any construction or development begins within any area of special flood
hazard established in subsection
11-1-3B of this chapter. This permit shall be for all structures, including
manufactured homes, as set forth in the "definitions", and for all
"development", including fill and other activities, also as set forth in the
"definitions". Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or alteration of
any structure or development, including all such changes to conforming and
nonconforming developments that existed prior to the adoption of this chapter,
also must obtain a floodplain development permit. Application for a floodplain
development permit shall be made to the floodplain administrator on forms
furnished by the administrator or the administrator's designee prior to
starting development activities. In order to complete a permit, information is
required during the application and construction stages. Specifically, the
following information is required:
      1.   Application Stage:
         a.   Plans in duplicate drawn to scale with elevations of the project
area, the nature, location, dimensions of existing and proposed structures,
earthen fill placement, storage of materials or equipment and drainage
facilities;
         b.   Elevation in relation to the flood protection elevation
identified on the effective FIRM of the lowest floor level, including crawl
spaces or basement, of all proposed structures or identified by other flood
protection elevation data as provided under subsection B1c of this section;
         c.   If base flood elevation data or floodway data are not available
from the most current FIS and FIRM, or from a federal or state source, then it
shall be developed independently by the applicant through analysis by a
registered professional engineer;
         d.   If base flood and floodway data are from other than a current
FIRM, and are less restrictive than the current FIRM, the information shall be
submitted to FEMA to obtain a letter of map change before construction occurs
under a floodplain development permit;
         e.   Elevation to which any nonresidential structure will be
floodproofed;
         f.   Design certification from a registered professional engineer or
architect that any proposed nonresidential floodproofed structure will meet the
floodproofing criteria in subsection
11-1-5G1b of this chapter;
         g.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of a proposed development;
         h.   Description of mitigation or maintenance activities within the
altered or relocated portion of all altered or relocated watercourses and
certification by a registered professional engineer that the flood carrying
capacity is not diminished;
         i.   Copies of all required federal and state permits, including
studies and mitigation plans for wetlands;
         j.   The administrator may require additional information if necessary
to determine impacts to special flood hazard areas or to ensure that the
development mitigates such impacts.
      2.   Technical Review: A technical review will be required to evaluate
the technical data that is part of the application. The applicant will pay the
costs of an independent technical review.
      3.   Construction Stage:
         a.   For all new construction and substantial improvements, the permit
holder shall provide to the floodplain administrator an as built certification
of the floor elevation or floodproofing level, using appropriate FEMA elevation
or floodproofing certificate, immediately after the lowest floor or
floodproofing is completed. When floodproofing is utilized for nonresidential
structures, the certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by the same;
         b.   Certificate deficiencies identified by the floodplain
administrator shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately, and prior to
work proceeding. Failure to submit certification or failure to make the
corrections shall be cause for the floodplain administrator to issue a stop
work order for the project.
      4.   Expiration Of Floodplain Development Permit: All floodplain
development permits shall be conditional upon the commencement of work within
one hundred eighty (180) days. A floodplain development permit shall expire one
hundred eighty (180) days after issuance unless the permitted activity has been
substantially begun and thereafter is pursued to completion.
   C.   Duties And Responsibilities Of Administrator: Duties of the floodplain
administrator shall include, but shall not be limited to:
      1.   Review all floodplain development permit applications to assure that
the permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      2.   Review proposed development to assure that necessary permits have
been received from governmental agencies from which approval is required by
federal or state law, including section 404 of the federal water pollution
control act amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334; the endangered species act of
1973, 16 USC 1531-1544; and state of Idaho stream channel alteration permits,
Idaho Code title 42, chapter 38, require that copies of such permits be
provided and maintained on file. However, the administrator's review in no way
alters the responsibility of the developer to obtain all necessary permits.
      3.   Obtain and record from the applicant, the actual elevation in
relation to the vertical datum on the effective FIRM, or highest adjacent
grade, of the lowest floor level, including basement, of all new construction
or substantially improved structures.
      4.   Obtain and record from the applicant, the actual elevation, in
relation to the vertical datum on the effective FIRM to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed.
      5.   When floodproofing is utilized for a structure, the floodplain
administrator shall obtain certification of design criteria from a registered
professional engineer or architect.
      6.   Where interpretation is needed of the exact location of boundaries
of the areas of special flood hazard, including regulatory floodway (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions) the floodplain administrator shall make the
interpretation. Any person contesting the location of the boundary shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this
chapter.
      7.   Ensure that all records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter
shall be maintained in the office of the city clerk or his/her designee and
shall be open for public inspection.
      8.   Issue or deny development permits.
   D.   Fees And Deposits: Any fees for the floodplain development permit shall
be set by resolution of the city council. (1984 Code § 12-1-4)
11-1-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   Subdivision Standards: No new subdivisions shall be permitted within a
flood hazard area.
   B.   Construction Standards: In the areas of special flood hazard, not lying
within a floodway, developments, including fill, new construction and
substantial improvements, shall require certification from a registered
professional engineer that such developments shall not result in an increase in
base flood elevations greater than one foot (1'). The cumulative impacts of
such proposed developments when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface of the base flood
more than one foot (1') at any point within the floodplain of the city of
Fruitland. In addition the following provisions are required:
      1.   New construction and substantial improvements of an existing
structure, including a structure that has been substantially damaged, shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
      2.   New construction and substantial improvements of an existing
structure, including a structure that has been substantially damaged, shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      3.   New construction or substantial improvements of an existing
structure, including a structure that has been substantially damaged, shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      4.   All new construction or substantial improvements of an existing
structure, including a structure that has been substantially damaged, that
includes a fully enclosed area located below the lowest floor formed by the
foundation and other exterior walls shall be designed to be an unfinished or
flood resistant enclosure. The enclosure shall be designed to equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the automatic entry
and exit of floodwater. Designs for complying with this requirement must be
certified by a licensed professional engineer or architect or meet the
following minimum criteria:
         a.   Provide a minimum of two (2) openings:
            (1)   With a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
            (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
(1') above the higher of the exterior or interior grade or floor immediately
below the opening;
            (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwater in both directions without manual intervention.
         b.   To comply with the "lowest floor" criteria of this chapter, the
unfinished or flood resistant enclosure shall only be used for parking of
vehicles, limited storage of maintenance equipment used in connection with the
premises, or entry to the elevated area.
         c.   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
         d.   For crawl space foundation types, construction must follow the
guidelines in FEMA TB 11-01, crawl space construction for structures located in
special flood hazard areas, national flood insurance program interim guidance,
specifically:
            (1)   Below grade crawl spaces are prohibited at sites where the
velocity of floodwaters exceed five feet (5') per second;
            (2)   Interior grade of the crawl space below the BFE must not be
more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent exterior grade (LAG);
            (3)   Height of the below grade crawl space, measured from the
lowest interior grade of the crawl space to the bottom of the floor joist must
not exceed four feet (4') at any point;
            (4)   Contain an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawl space.
      5.   All heating and air conditioning equipment and components, all
electrical, ventilation, plumbing, and other facilities shall be designed and/
or elevated to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during flooding.
      6.   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or to eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      7.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or to eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      8.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid functional impairment, or contamination from them, during flooding.
      9.   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure
that is not compliant with the provisions of this chapter, shall be undertaken
only if the nonconformity is minimal in order to meet health and safety
standards.
   C.   Manufactured Home Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard where
the flood protection elevation is established, these standards for manufactured
homes and recreational vehicles that are an allowed use under the zoning
ordinance shall apply:
      1.   Manufactured homes placed or substantially improved:
         a.   On individual lots or parcels.
         b.   In new or substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions.
         c.   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions, or on a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision
where a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as the result of a
flood, must have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the flood
protection elevation.
      2.   Manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision may be elevated so that either:
         a.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated to the
flood protection elevation, or one foot (1') above the level of the base flood
elevation, whichever is higher.
         b.   The manufactured home chassis is elevated and supported by
reinforced piers (or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent
strength) of no less than thirty six inches (36") above the highest adjacent
grade.
      3.   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to, and consistent with, applicable state requirements.
      4.   Manufactured homes placed on solid perimeter walls shall meet the
flood vent requirements in subsection B4 of this section.
   D.   Accessory Structures: Relief from the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for an accessory structure containing no more than two
hundred (200) square feet. Such a structure must meet the following standards:
      1.   It shall not be used for human habitation;
      2.   It shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
      3.   It shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      4.   It shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      5.   Services such as electrical and heating equipment shall be elevated
or floodproofed to or above the flood protection elevation;
      6.   It shall meet the opening requirements of subsection B4 of this
section.
   E.   Recreational Vehicle Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard,
recreational vehicles must either:
      1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days;
      2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or
jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices, and have no permanently attached structures or addition;
or
      3.   The recreational vehicle must meet all the requirements for "new
construction", including the anchoring and elevation requirements.
   F.   Floodway Standards: In areas where the floodway has not been
established, the applicant shall be required to establish the data and obtain
approval through FEMA prior to filing for a floodplain development permit. The
following provisions shall apply in a floodway:
      1.   A project in the regulatory floodway must undergo an encroachment
review to determine its effect on flood flows. An encroachment analysis must
include:
         a.   Determination and documentation that the filling, grading or
construction of a structure will not obstruct flood flows and will not cause an
increase in flood heights upstream or adjacent to the project site;
         b.   Determination and documentation that grading, excavation, channel
improvements, bridge and culvert replacements that remove an obstruction, do
not cause increases in downstream flood flows;
         c.   Certification and documentation by a licensed professional
engineer that the project will not result in a rise in flood heights;
         d.   The administrator may make the encroachment determination for
minor projects, such as projects that do not increase the natural grade (e.g.,
paving a driveway or parking lot at existing grade, open fences and small
isolated obstructions such as a mailbox or utility pole).
      2.   Upon demonstrating that there are no alternatives, the applicant may
propose an encroachment in the floodway that will cause an increase in the base
flood elevation in excess of the allowable level; provided, that the applicant
obtain a conditional letter of map revision from FEMA before the development
can be approved and permitted.
   G.   Standards For Special Flood Hazard Areas: In areas where the BFE or the
floodway has not been established, the applicant shall be required to establish
the data and obtain approval through FEMA prior to filing for a floodplain
development permit.
      1.   In areas designated A1-30, AE, AH, AO and A, the following
provisions are required:
         a.   New Residential Construction And Substantial Improvements: Where
base flood elevation data are available, new construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structure or manufactured home shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, constructed at or above the community's flood
protection elevation. If solid foundation perimeter walls are used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the construction standards in
subsection B4 of this section.
         b.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction or the substantial
improvement of any nonresidential structure located in zones A1-30, AE, or AH
must be floodproofed if the new construction or improvement is not elevated.
The structure and attendant utility and sanitary facilities, must be designed
to be watertight to the flood protection elevation or to one foot (1') above
the base flood elevation, whichever is higher, with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water, and structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of
buoyancy. A licensed professional engineer or architect must certify that the
design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of
practice for meeting these provisions, and shall provide certification to the
administrator.
         c.   Places Where Floodway Not Determined: Where the floodway has not
been determined, no new construction, substantial improvements or other
development (including fill) shall be permitted in zones A1-30 and AE on the
effective FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot (1') at any point within the community. Applicants of
proposed projects that increase the base flood elevation more than one foot
(1') are required to obtain and submit to the floodplain administrator, a
conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) preconstruction.
         d.   Building Setback: There shall be a building setback of seventy
five feet (75') from the floodway line.
         e.   Postconstruction Application: Postconstruction, the applicant
must apply to FEMA for a letter of map revision for changes to the flood hazard
map proposed in the CLOMR.
         f.   Drainage Paths: In AH and AO zones, drainage paths shall be
provided to guide floodwater around and away from proposed and existing
structures.
   H.   Alteration Of A Watercourse: A watercourse is considered altered when
any change occurs within its banks.
      1.   The bankfull flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse shall not be diminished. Prior to issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a description of the
extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development and submit certification by a registered professional
engineer that the bankfull flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not
be diminished.
      2.   Adjacent communities, the U.S. army corps of engineers and the Idaho
department of water resources stream channel alteration program must be
notified prior to alteration or relocation of a watercourse. Evidence of
notification must be submitted to the floodplain administrator and to the
federal emergency management agency.
      3.   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the necessary
maintenance for the altered or relocated portion of the watercourse so that the
flood carrying capacity will not be diminished.
      4.   The applicant shall meet the requirements to submit technical data
in subsection I of this section when an alteration of a watercourse results in
the relocation or elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the
placement of culverts.
   I.   Requirement To Submit New Technical Data:
      1.   Development Proposals: For all development proposals that impact
floodway delineations or base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that
technical data reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six (6)
months of the date such information becomes available. These development
proposals include:
         a.   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         b.   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
         c.   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts;
      2.   Submittal In Proper Format; Fees: It is the responsibility of the
applicant to have technical data prepared in a format required for a
conditional letter of map revision or letter of map revision and submitted to
FEMA. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall be the
responsibility of the applicant.
      3.   Flood Studies:
         a.   The study shall be performed using the U.S. army corps of
engineers hydrologic engineering center's HEC-2, HEC-RAS (river analysis
system), or equivalent programs to calculate water surface elevations.
         b.   The study report shall include field survey data and relevant
bench marks used as bases of calculations as cross sections, stream profile and
plan showing cross section locations.
         c.   The study report shall attach HEC-2, HEC-RAS, or equivalent input
and output reports as appendices.
         d.   Any floodway or floodplain modification shall not be effective
until approved by FEMA.
         e.   The study shall include a reach of stream extending beyond the
property boundaries of the development upstream and downstream not less than
twice the average width of floodway on or adjacent to the development property.
   J.   Fill:
      1.   Fill shall be placed using good engineering practices to ensure that
it is reasonably safe from flooding. Fill areas may be protected by retaining
walls, pursuant to subsection B of this section. The height of retaining walls
shall not exceed the height of the fill. Retaining walls shall be constructed
of durable or permanent materials, which are attractive earth tone or natural
colored material, and screened to blend with the floodplain vegetation.
Retaining walls shall be constructed and reinforced according to the
preengineered design standards and for the retaining wall system used or, if
not preengineered, shall require some reinforcement for walls above two feet
(2') in height and, if greater than four feet (4') in height, shall require
structural design parameters capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy, as certified by a registered professional
engineer. Retaining walls may not be built in areas that have not been filled.
   K.   Preexisting Nonconforming Developments: A development that predates the
adoption of this chapter, but which is not in conformity with the provisions of
this chapter, may be continued, subject to the following conditions:
      1.   No such use or structure shall be expanded, enlarged or altered in
any way, which increases its nonconformity unless a variance is approved.
      2.   If any nonconforming use or structure is substantially damaged it
shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
   L.   Exempt Buildings: The only structures that shall be exempt from the
engineering requirements outlined in this chapter are hay barns that meet all
of the following standards:
      1.   Are open on all four (4) sides;
      2.   Are placed upon natural grade;
      3.   Are constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage;
      4.   Are not proposed to reside within the floodway;
      5.   Are not used for storage of materials that are flammable, noxious,
toxic or otherwise injurious to persons or property if transported by
floodwaters. (1984 Code § 12-1-5)
11-1-6: VARIANCE AND APPEAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Variance Procedure:
      1.   An application for a variance must be submitted to the city clerk on
the form provided by the clerk and include, at a minimum, the same information
required for a development permit and an explanation for the basis for the
variance request.
      2.   Upon receipt of a completed application for a variance, the variance
request will be set for public hearing at the next city council meeting in
which time is available for the matter to be heard.
      3.   Prior to the public hearing, notice of the hearing will be published
in the official newspaper of the county at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing. In addition to the newspaper publication, written notice shall be
provided to all adjoining property owners.
      4.   The burden to show that the variance is warranted and meets the
criteria set out herein is on the applicant.
   B.   Criteria For Variances:
      1.   In judging and acting upon variance applications, the city council
shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and
         a.   The potential danger that materials may be swept onto other lands
possibly resulting in the injury of others;
         b.   The potential danger to life and property due to flooding or
erosion damage;
         c.   The susceptibility of the proposed development and its contents,
if any, to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         d.   The importance of the services and benefits of proposed
commercial and residential developments to the community;
         e.   The necessity that certain types of facilities have a waterfront
location;
         f.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use,
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         g.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated land use or development;
         h.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program of that area;
         i.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         j.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action and
floating debris, if applicable, expected at the site based on the best
available information; and
         k.   The costs of providing government services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
      2.   Generally, the only condition under which a variance from the
elevation standard may be issued is for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a small or irregularly shaped lot contiguous to
and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level. As the lot size increases the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
      3.   Variances shall not be issued within a designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      4.   Variances may be considered for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
      5.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      6.   Variances shall not be issued because of mere economic financial
hardship along, or because of inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical
handicaps, personal preferences, or the disapproval or preference of neighbors.
      7.   Variances shall not be issued to avoid a more expensive development
alternative, or simply to avoid building in a nonpreferred location on a
parcel, or solely to avoid utilization of a parcel in a manner different from
that originally intended.
      8.   Variances may be issued upon:
         a.   A showing by the applicant of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws and ordinances;
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing state, federal and local laws or ordinances;
         d.   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief, while maintaining the goals and
objectives of the ordinance and minimum standards for participation in the
national flood insurance program.
      9.   Variances may be issued for nonresidential buildings in very limited
circumstances to allow a lesser degree of floodproofing than watertight or dry
floodproofing, where it can be determined that such action will have low damage
potential, complies with all other variance criteria, and otherwise complies
with all provisions of subsection
11-1-5B of this chapter.
   C.   Variance Decision: The decision to either grant or deny a variance
shall be in writing and shall set forth the reasons for such approval or
denial. If the variance is granted, the property owner shall be put on notice
along with the written decision that the permitted building will have its
lowest floor below the flood protection elevation and that the cost of flood
insurance likely will be commensurate with the increased flood damage risk.
   D.   Appeals: The city council shall hear and decide appeals from the
interpretations of the administrator.
      1.   An appeal must be filed with the city clerk within fifteen (15) days
of the date of any permit denial or interpretation of the administrator.
Failure to timely file an appeal shall be considered a failure to exhaust the
administrative remedies. The appeal must set out the interpretation of the
administrator and a narrative setting forth the facts relied upon by the
appellant and the appellant's claim regarding the error in the interpretation.
      2.   Upon receipt of a completed appeal, the appeal will be scheduled for
the next available council meeting to be heard. The city council shall consider
all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, including subsection B1 of this section.
   E.   Appeal Decision: The city council decision on an appeal shall be in
writing and set out the facts, technical information and the legal basis for
the decision.
   F.   No Work Order: Construction, development or substantial improvement, as
proposed in any permit application, shall not be permitted while an appeal is
still outstanding. (1984 Code § 12-1-6)
11-1-7: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
   A.   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
altered unless in full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations. (1984 Code § 12-1-7)
   B.   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day the violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking
such other lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(1984 Code § 12-1-7; amd. 2014 Code)
